22-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Hassan reports 14 new COVID-19 positive cases; Mandya 3 new infections||The huge influx of migrants returning to these districts is the reason for the spike in positive cases.  Out of 14 cases reported from Hassan, nine are male and five are female. All three positive cases from Mandya are male.  With these new cases, the tally of Mandya stands at 204 and that of Hassan is 80. It may be mentioned that Hassan remained a green zone and had returned to normalcy until the migrants started returning in hordes to their respective villages and towns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-hassan-reports-14-new-covid-19-positive-cases-mandya-3-new-infections-840643.html
22-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Normalcy yet to return in Chikkamagaluru district||Though business activities have commenced with the relaxation of lockdown, the business is yet to pick up in the district.  Autorickshaws and taxis have started operating normally. However, the business is still dull. The income is much less than what they used to earn before the announcement of the lockdown. Auto and taxi drivers wait eagerly for customers at the auto and taxi stand.  "Only a few who have remained stranded and those who wish to return to their native for emergency hire vehicles. Who will understand our problem?" asks Chikkamagaluru Taxi Drivers Owners' Association President Kumar. "I used to earn Rs 500 to Rs 600 per day before the lockdown. Now I earn only Rs 100. Even after waiting from morning till evening, not even two customers have come," said Ramanna, an auto driver from Basavanahalli.  Tea vendors, paan stalls, streetside vendors and pushcart vendors have also been pushed to hardship.  Rathnamma, a streetside eatery owner said, "I used to earn an average of Rs 1,500 per day. There was good business for Vada, Pakoda and other eatables. I have earned only Rs 250 for the last two days. Will it be sufficient to live?"  A tea vendor, Razak, said, "I used to sell at least 60 cups of tea daily. Now, it has come down to 20. The business is dull and yet to pick up."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/normalcy-yet-to-return-in-chikkamagaluru-district-840680.html
22-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Mysuru safe; close watch on travellers'||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that Mysuru district is safe. “While travellers from other states are under institutional quarantine, travellers from Mandya are closely watched,” he said. The minister was speaking to reporters, after laying foundation stone to road development work at Vijayanagar, under Chamaraja Assembly segment in the city on Friday. Covid-19 is under control in the district and the district administration has taken all measures to contain the spread of infection. The authorities concerned are monitoring the people entering from other states and also from Mandya, he said. The minister said that the police are on high alert and are watching the people in mufti. “I will urge Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa not to remove check-posts between Mandya and Mysuru for another few days. The Covid-19 cases are on a rise in Mandya and the chances of spreading to Mysuru is high. Thus, all possible measures will be taken to contain the spread of the infection,” he said. When asked about reopening of Jubilant Generics he said that he is not aware about it and learnt through media reports. The government has taken all measures to ensure social distance among people while travelling in KSRTC buses and trains. The passengers are scanned before boarding and are directed to maintain social distance and to wear masks. The state government has allowed marriage ceremonies on Sundays. But, not more than 50 people can participate in the programme. The marriage parties should ensure all precautionary measures during the event, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-safe-close-watch-on-travellers-840799.html
22-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Head constable, CDPO test positive for Covid||The spurt of Covid-19 cases in the state and across the country, during Lockdown 4.0, has affected the officials on duty, creating panic among the people. The frontline workers, Corona Warriors, deputed on Covid duty, contracting virus is a shocker to the Mandya administration, which is already facing a challenge of migrants from Maharashtra. As these officers have come in contact with several others, tracing their contacts and quarantining them is an arduous task for the authorities. A head constable, deputed on security at a quarantine centre in KR Pet town, tested positive for Covid on Thursday. Similarly, a Child Development Protection Officer (CDPO), who was deputed as in-charge of containment zones in Malavalli town, has also tested positive. The huge influx of migrants from Maharashtra, entering the district, has become a nightmare for the district administration. The number of positive cases are on the rise, every day. The positive cases of the head constable and the CDPO is a cause of concern, as they had come in contact with several officials, while on duty. The town and rural police stations on the same premises in KR Pet have been closed for four days, as the head constable would have visited the premises earlier. The police personnel at both the stations have also been quarantined. The police stations will function temporarily at Kikkeri station. The premises would be sprayed with disinfectants and sanitised. The head constable has been shifted to the designated Covid hospital in Mandya, according to Superintendent of Police K Parashuram. Meanwhile, the officials and Anganwadi workers, who were working with the CDPO are under anxiety. The officer had participated in a video conference along with his colleagues. The Health department had organised a medical screening camp for the officials and had collected their blood and throat swab samples. The results on Wednesday night confirmed that the person tested positive. However, the source of contact is not known. The official was commuting every day from Mysuru to Malavalli, it is said. The CDPO is also shifted to the designated Covid hospital in Mandya. The list of his primary and secondary contacts are being prepared, and will be quarantined, say Health department personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/head-constable-cdpo-test-positive-for-covid-840800.html
22-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||BJP MP, Minister extort bureaucrats for money||Malur legislator K Y Nanje Gowda on Friday alleged the BJP MP and Minister were extorting commission every month from bureaucrats in the district. Without mentioning names of MP S Muniswamy and Excise Minister H Nagesh, he said that the some leaders from the BJP won due to a wave. They were blackmailing the bureaucrats in the district. They were extorting money from the bureaucrats every month. “The BJP minister and MP have fixed percentage for the bureaucrats every month, besides threatening them. The bureaucrats have surrendered to those who won due to a wave,” he said. Gowda sought the MP to take the Congress party legislators into confidence. He would release documents in the next three days and stage protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/bjp-mp-minister-extort-bureaucrats-for-money-840766.html
22-05-2020||National||Timely case identification, proper clinical management reason for low mortality rate: Govt||The mortality rate in COVID-19 cases in India is 3.06 per cent as against the global rate of 6.65, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, even as the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,435 and the number of cases to 1,12,359 in the country. The ministry credited the efforts towards timely case identification and proper clinical management for the low mortality rate. An analysis of the deaths show 64 per cent of the fatalities in males and the remaining 36 per cent in females, it said. Follow live updates on coronavirus here The ministry said the period of lockdown has been gainfully utilised to ramp up the health infrastructure, with around 3,027 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals and 7,013 care centres being readied across the country to fight the disease. The announcement came after some media reports questioned the country's preparedness to deal with the highly infectious disease. "There are reports in a section of the media about some decisions of the government regarding the lockdown implementation and response to COVID-19 management. The period of the lockdown has been gainfully utilised to ramp up the health infrastructure in the country," the ministry said. As on date, 45,299 people have recovered from the coronavirus, taking the country's recovery rate to 40.32 per cent, it said. More than 2.81 lakh isolation beds, 31,250 ICU beds and 1,09,888 oxygen supported beds have already been identified in dedicated COVID-19 hospitals and health centres. Also, 6,50,930 isolation beds have been readied in COVID-19 care centres, the ministry said. Providing an age distribution of the fatalities, the ministry said 0.5 per cent of deaths have been reported in the less than 15 years age group, 2.5 per cent between 15 and 30 years, 11.4 per cent in those aged between 30 and 45, 35.1per cent between 45-60 years and 50.5 per cent fatalities among people aged above 60 years. Further, 73 per cent of the deaths had underlying co-morbidities. Elderly people (above 60 years of age) and people having co-morbidities are identified as high risk groups for COVID-19. Meanwhile, the ICMR said that for every positive COVID-19 test more than 20 negative tests have been done, asserting there has been a 1,000-fold increase in the quantum of tests per day in the last two months. A total of 25,12,388 samples had been tested by 9 am of May 20, and the testing capacity has been scaled up to 1 lakh tests per day, it said. Starting with less than 100 COVID-19 tests per day just two months ago, a 1,000-fold increase in just 60 days was made possible by dedicated teams from research institutions, medical colleges, testing laboratories, ministries, airlines and postal services working together, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said in a statement. It is advised that community awareness on COVID-19 is an important intervention for prevention for spread of this disease, the ministry said as it stressed on the need to focus on personal hygiene, hand hygiene, and respiratory etiquettes and environmental sanitation. Face covers and masks should be used in public places and physical distancing should be followed, large gatherings should be avoided, individuals in high risk groups should stay at home except for essential and health purposes, it said. The central government has supplied 65 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) coveralls and 101.07 lakh N95 masks to the states, the ministry said. "Nearly 3 lakh PPE coveralls and N95 masks each are now being manufactured per day by domestic producers. These were not produced in the country earlier," it said. Also, in a "Guidance note for immunisation services during and post COVID outbreak", the ministry said birth dose vaccinations at health facilities would continue irrespective of the categorisation of zones amid the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the document, an area exiting a containment or a buffer zone category can start facility-based and outreach immunization activities only after a minimum gap of 14 days. In the last 24 hours since Wednesday morning, an increase of 132 deaths and 5,609 cases was registered, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 63,624, while 45,299 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. "Thus, around 40.32 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. Of the total 3,435 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 1,390 fatalities. It is followed by Gujarat at 749 deaths, Madhya Pradesh at 267, West Bengal at 253, Delhi at 176, Rajasthan at 147, Uttar Pradesh at 127,Tamil Nadu at 87 and Andhra Pradesh at 53. The death toll reached 41 in Karnataka, 40 in Telangana and 38 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 18 fatalities due to the disease and Haryana 14, while Bihar has registered 10 deaths and Odisha six. Kerala and Assam have reported four deaths each so far. Jharkhand, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh each have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities, while Meghalaya and Uttarakhand have reported one fatality each, according to the data provided by the health ministry. According to the ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, the existence of multiple disorders in the same person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/timely-case-identification-proper-clinical-management-reason-for-low-mortality-rate-govt-840479.html
22-05-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir govt brought home 83,334 residents: official||The Jammu and Kashmir government has brought home over 83,000 residents, including students, in 23 special trains, three flights and scores of buses, an official said on Thursday. It brought home 63,109 state residents from other states and UTs through the Lakhanpur border with Punjab, and 19,724 people in special trains to Jammu and Udhampur railway stations. Also, 501 people, including students, have been flown back from other countries in special flights, he said. So far, eight trains have reached Jammu with 7,273 passengers while 12,451 passengers have reached Udhampur in 15 special trains, he said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-brought-home-83334-residents-official-840497.html
22-05-2020||National||AIIMS doctors planning to study how long coronavirus can survive in dead bodies||AIIMS doctors are contemplating autopsy of a COVID-19 victim to study how long the coronavirus can survive in a dead body and if it can transmit the infection, the Delhi hospital's forensic chief said on Thursday. The study will also help ascertain how the virus affects the organs, Dr Sudhir Gupta said. An informed consent will be obtained from the legal heirs of the deceased for it, he said adding that many more departments like pathology and microbiology would be involved in the study.  "It is going to be a first-of-its-kind exercise and thus has to be planned meticulously. It will help us understand how the virus behaves in the body and the way it affects the organs. Also, it will help us assess how long the novel coronavirus can survive in a dead body," Dr Gupta explained. On Tuesday, the apex health research body ICMR said COVID-19 is a respiratory infection and mainly spread through aerosols. As per the available scientific literature till now, the survival of virus gradually decreases with time in a dead body but there is no specific time limit to declare the body non-infective.  So, it is advisable to adopt precautions and non-invasive autopsy technique, it stated. Non-invasive autopsy technique as described in ICMR guidelines should be used, if at all required, to prevent the risk of spreading the infection to mortuary staff, police personnel and contamination of mortuary surfaces. "If autopsy surgeon feels that he will not be able to conclude cause of death or any other related issue without dissection, then he can proceed with minimal invasive/limited internal dissection. "However, the dissection has to be performed keeping in mind that the conduction of autopsy is a high risk procedure which is potentially as hazardous as any other procedure performed on the body of a COVID-19 patient," the guidelines said. The Indian Council of Medical Research said limited studies have been conducted on postmortem samples of patients who died due to COVID-19. Most of the pathological studies are in consensus with the clinical features and clinical course of the disease in general. But the disease also gives pathological damages to organs like heart, liver, kidney, brain, blood vessels and other organs, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-doctors-planning-to-study-how-long-coronavirus-can-survive-in-dead-bodies-840502.html
22-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 22, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-22-2020-edition-840507.html
22-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 22||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,24,335 as of May 22.     States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 3,711 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 42,298 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-22-840508.html
22-05-2020||National||DH Toon | Civil Aviation Ministry releases new rules for domestic flights||Travelling by flight? Then be prepared to go without food Keen on air travel? Then be prepared to go without food for the duration of the flight and fewer loo breaks. A day after announcing the resumption of domestic flights, the Civil Aviation Ministry on Thursday released guidelines for air travel, that include a cap of air fares and an advice to pregnant women, persons with ailments and the elderly to avoid travel if possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-civil-aviation-ministry-releases-new-rules-for-domestic-flights-840513.html
22-05-2020||National||India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 1.18 lakh, death toll rises to 3,583: MoHFW||The country has recorded the biggest single-day spike of 6,088 COVID-19 cases, while the death toll due to the virus has climbed to 3,583, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The number of coronavirus cases now stands at 1,18,447 in the country. There has been an increase of 148 deaths and 6,088 cases since Thursday 8 am, according to the Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 66,330, while 48,533 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.  "Thus, around 40.97 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total confirmed cases includes foreigners. Of the 148 deaths reported since Thursday morning, 64 were in Maharashtra, 24 in Gujarat, 18 from Delhi, 11 from Uttar Pradesh, seven from Tamil Nadu, six from West Bengal, five from Telangana, four from Rajasthan, three from Madhya Pradesh, two from Jammu and Kashmir and one each from Bihar, Odisha, Haryana and Punjab. The death toll reached 45 in Telangana, 41 in Karnataka and 39 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 20 fatalities due to the disease, Haryana has 15 deaths while Bihar has registered 11 and Odisha seven deaths.Kerala and Assam have reported four deaths each so far. Jharkhand, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh each have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities each, while Meghalaya and Uttarakhand have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data.  More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, the ministry said.         The highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 41,642 followed by Tamil Nadu at 13,967, Gujarat at 12,905, Delhi at 11,659 Rajasthan at 6,227, Madhya Pradesh at 5,981 and Uttar Pradesh at 5,515, according to the health ministry data updated in the morning. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 3,197 in West Bengal, 2,647 in Andhra Pradesh and 2,028 in Punjab. It has risen to 1,982 in Bihar, 1,699 in Telangana, 1,605 in Karnataka,1,449 in Jammu and Kashmir and 1,10 in Odisha. Haryana has reported 1,031 coronavirus infection cases so far while Kerala has 690 cases. A total of 290 people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 217 in Chandigarh. Assam has reported 203 cases, Tripura has 173, Himachal Pradesh has 152, Uttarakhand has 146, Chhattisgarh has 128, and Goa has registered 52 cases so far. Ladakh has reported 44 COVID-19 cases, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 33 infections.   Manipur has 25 cases, Puducherry has registered 20 cases and Meghalaya has 14 cases. Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Dadar and Nagar Haveli have reported a case each till how. "1,620 cases are being reassigned to states," the ministry said on its website, adding, "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR." State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-climbed-to-118-lakh-death-toll-rises-to-3583-mohfw-840540.html
22-05-2020||National||Cyclone Amphan considered even more destructive than Cyclone Aila: UN||Cyclone Amphan, which has killed 77 people and left thousands homeless in West Bengal, is now considered even more destructive than Cyclone Aila which slammed southern Bangladesh and eastern India in 2009, the UN has said. Cyclone Amphan, the strongest to hit the region in nearly two decades, made landfall on Wednesday evening. It has battered several parts of the state, washing away bridges and swamping low-lying areas. Seven districts badly hit are South 24 Paraganas, North 24 Paraganas, East Medinipur, West Medinipur, Howrah, Hooghly and Kolkata, with damage also reported in the district of Birbhum. "The UN Country Team in India reported that Cyclone Amphan, which caused widespread damage around Calcutta is now considered even more destructive than Cyclone Aila, which slammed the region in May 2009," the UN said in a news report. Power and telecommunications have been affected across the cyclone-affected districts and North and South 24 Parganas are facing water scarcity. Massive damage is also expected to standing crops and plantations. The UN report said that while fires have maimed transformers and telecommunications in Kolkata, uprooted trees and damaged electric poles have caused power cuts. Several roads have been blocked, shops damaged, and streets waterlogged from the heavy rainfall during high tide. Embankment breaches have occurred throughout the state while water inundation and wind have damaged Kolkata airport. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will travel to West Bengal and Odisha on Friday to take stock of the situation in the wake of Cyclone Amphan, the Prime Minister's Office tweeted. "He will conduct aerial surveys and take part in review meetings, where aspects of relief and rehabilitation will be discussed," it said. The world organisation said UN humanitarians and partners were working hard to assist the people of Bangladesh and India suffering from the impact of the cyclone, which made landfall on Wednesday, wreaking havoc, causing high tidal surges, flooding and embankments to collapse. Currently, the National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Fund, Kolkata police, fire services and West Bengal state police are undertaking relief and restoration efforts. The state and district-level Interagency Group coordination mechanism has been activated in West Bengal. The UN's children's agency UNICEF, which is closely monitoring the situation with state departments, expressed concern that the COVID-19 could deepen the cyclone's humanitarian consequences in both the countries. UN Spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said that around 10 million people in Bangladesh were impacted by the cyclone, with half a million families potentially having lost their homes. UNICEF has said that at least 19 million children in parts of Bangladesh and India are at imminent risk from flash flooding, storm surges and heavy rain as Cyclone Amphan made landfall. West Bengal, "home to more than 50 million people, including over 16 million children, is expected to take a direct hit from the powerful storm," the UN agency had said in a statement Wednesday. UNICEF said it was also very concerned that the COVID-19 could deepen the humanitarian consequences of Cyclone Amphan in both countries. Evacuees who have moved to crowded temporary shelters would be especially vulnerable to the spread of respiratory diseases like COVID-19, as well as other infections. Bangladesh has shifted over 20 lakh people to storm shelters and deployed the military to deal with the powerful cyclone. Leading global storm tracker AccuWeather on Tuesday described Amphan as the first super cyclone in the Bay of Bengal since 1999.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-amphan-considered-even-more-destructive-than-cyclone-aila-un-840558.html
22-05-2020||National||Two girls found murdered in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli, police forms teams to crack case||Police said they have formed four teams to ascertain the identity of the girls whose bodies were found in a sugarcane field in Shamli district and nab the accused, officials said. The bodies of the girls, aged 20 to 22 years, with injury marks were found in the sugarcane filed in Jaganpur village under Kairana police station limits on Wednesday, Station House Officer Yashpal Dhama said. Four police teams under Circle Officer Pradeep Singh have been formed to crack the case, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-girls-found-murdered-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-police-forms-teams-to-crack-case-840565.html
22-05-2020||National||On scale of 10, chance of India touring Australia is 9, says CA CEO Roberts||There is a 9 out of 10 chance that India will make the trip Down Under for a four-Test series later this year, Cricket Australia chief executive Kevin Roberts said trying to downplay the uncertainty triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. CA is currently under lot of financial stress and is desperate to have the India series, scheduled in which will fill its coffers with AUD 300 million from broadcast rights after body had to cut costs due to the pandemic. The series is scheduled between October and January 2021. "I guess there's no such thing as certainty in today's world so I can't say 10 (out of 10), but I'm going to say nine out of 10," Roberts told News Corp. "With the variable being, who would know whether we can have crowds … I'd be really surprised if we can't get the Indian tour away. "But I wouldn't, hand on heart suggest we'll have full crowds from the start. We'll just have to see how that goes," the under-pressure chief executive said. However, when it comes to away tours, Roberts wants a bio-secure environment which might prompt Cricket Australia to explore options of sending a team for a white ball series in England. But before that, the CA would wait and watch how the Pakistan and the West Indies tours of England pan out in terms of health safety measures. "I think there's some chance we could send a team over," Roberts said. "Obviously we won't jeopardise the safety of the players, but the best test of that is that the West Indian and Pakistan tours of England before we're due to tour. We hope they go off without a hitch," Roberts said. While the India tour is a lucrative one, it is unlikely that Australia would host Afghanistan for a one-off Test, which is not a part of the World Test Championship schedule. The chances of T20 World Cup in Australia are also looking dim in the prevailing circumstances as it could either be shifted to 2021 while India hosts its edition in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-scale-of-10-chance-of-india-touring-australia-is-9-says-ca-ceo-roberts-840582.html
22-05-2020||National||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan all set to take charge as WHO Executive Board chairman||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who is at the forefront of India's battle against COVID-19, will take charge as the chairman of the 34-member WHO Executive Board on Friday, officials said. Vardhan would succeed Dr Hiroki Nakatani from Japan. The proposal to appoint India's nominee to the executive board was signed by the 194-nation World Health Assembly on Tuesday. Last year, WHO's South-East Asia group had unanimously decided to elect India's nominee to the executive board for a three-year-term beginning May. The chairman's post is held by rotation for one year among regional groups and it was decided last year that India's nominee would be the Executive Board chairman for the first year starting Friday. It is not a full-time assignment and the minister will just be required to chair the Executive Board's meetings, an official said. The Executive Board comprises 34 individuals, technically qualified in the field of health, each one designated by a member-state elected to do so by the World Health Assembly. Member States are elected for three-year terms. The board meets at least twice a year and the main meeting is normally in January, with a second shorter meeting in May, immediately after the Health Assembly. The main functions of the executive board are to give effect to the decisions and policies of the Health Assembly, to advise it and generally to facilitate its work. Addressing the 73rd World Health Assembly via video conferencing on Monday, Vardhan had said India took all the necessary steps well in time to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. He had asserted that the country has done well in dealing with the disease and is confident of doing better in the months to come.  India is set to take over the chairmanship of the Executive Board amid growing calls, including by US President Donald Trump, to investigate how the coronavirus originated in China's Wuhan city and subsequent action by Beijing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-minister-harsh-vardhan-all-set-to-take-charge-as-who-executive-board-chairman-840593.html
22-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Ramzan in the time of COVID-19 and kala-azar prevention||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, Ahmed Shariff talks to Prof. Syam Sunder on dealing with the kala-azar disease during a pandemic. DH journalist Muttiur-Rahman Siddiqui talks about marking Ramzan in the shadow of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-ramzan-in-the-time-of-covid-19-and-kala-azar-prevention-840594.html
22-05-2020||National||Pakistan Army violates ceasefire along LoC in J&K||The Pakistan Army resorted to heavy shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch and Rajouri districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. Reports said early in the morning, Pakistan Army violated the ceasefire in Krishna Ghati sector of Poonch and then in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said that at about 3:30 am, the Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and mortar shells along the LoC in the Krishna Ghati sector. “Again, at about 7:20 am, the Pakistan army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation in Nowshera sector of Rajouri,” he said and added that the Indian Army is retaliating befittingly to the unprovoked firing. There has been a huge surge in ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir this year with 1547 instances reported till May 15. Pakistani troops had made the highest number of ceasefire violations since 2003 along the J&K border in 2019, amounting to over 3,200 instances or an average of nine such violations daily. The government of India, led by the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, had entered into a border ceasefire agreement with Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir on November 26, 2003. However, according to officials, shelling and firing by Pakistani troops since last year is so heavy that it has virtually made the 2003 truce redundant. An official in the security grid said that the ceasefire violations are expected to increase in the coming months as summer is the peak infiltration period from across the LoC in J&K. He said besides helping infiltration, Pakistani troops repeatedly target forward posts and villages along the LoC and the international border (IB) to create a fear psychosis among the people. India shares a 3,323-km long border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the LoC fall in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-army-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jk-840597.html
22-05-2020||National||Maharashtra: Pune hospital to use new drug for COVID-19 treatment||At least 25 COVID-19 patients, who are in a semi-critical condition at Pune's government-run Sassoon General Hospital, will be administered tocilizumab, a drug which has proven effective in treating the infection, an official said on Friday. The new drug, an injection which costs around Rs 20,000, will be given to 25 patients in the first phase and depending on the results, the Pune Municipal Corporation will decide on its further use, municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said. A special task force of specialist doctors, set up under the chairmanship of Dr D B Kadam, recommended tocilizumab for COVID-19 patients in case their condition worsens, he said. "After the ethical team gave approval for the use of tocilizumab, we started procuring it for 25 patients in the first phase," Gaikwad said. The civic body had received protocols for using the drug. "Tocilizumab was administered to an anganwadi worker, admitted to Bharti Hospital in a critical condition, who made a remarkable recovery," he said. Civic hospitals in Mumbai were also using the drug to treat COVID-19 patients and it has given good results, he said. The task force has recommended the use of the drug in patients below 50 years of age, those with evidence of cytokine storm, requiring oxygen and having persistent fever.  Pune district, the second worst-hit from coronavirus in Maharashtra after Mumbai, has so far reported 4,809 cases, including 242 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-pune-hospital-to-use-new-drug-for-covid-19-treatment-840615.html
22-05-2020||National||Indian Railways ferried 31 lakh migrants on board 2,317 Shramik Special trains since May 1||The Railways has ferried over 31 lakh migrant workers on board 2,317 Shramik Special trains since May 1, almost seven lakh more than the initial projection of 24 lakh, according to official data. The initial estimation of migrant workers to be transported back to their home towns were based on details provided by various state governments to the zonal offices of the Railways in late April when it was deciding on protocols to run the special trains, officials said. However, the national transporter said that it does not have current details of the total numbers of stranded migrant labourers who want to return to their homes and are operating trains based on the requirements of the states. The Shramik Special trains are being operated primarily on the requests of the states which want to send the migrant workers to their home states. The Railways is bearing 85 per cent of the total cost of running each of the trains while the share of the states is 15 per cent. "The Railways is spending an estimated Rs 80 lakh on each of these trains on an average," an official told PTI. The coronavirus lockdown has had a devastating impact on the economy as well as on the livelihoods of lakhs of migrant workers. The lockdown had shone the spotlight on the miseries of the migrant workers whose journeys on foot from several urban centres to their villages hundreds of kilometres away had grabbed headlines for almost the last two months. There were incidents of many of them being killed in road accidents. A number of migrant labourers were even killed by a speeding train after they fell asleep on the tracks. According to the official data with the Railways, provided to it by the states in April-end, the Western Railways, which covers states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, received requests to ferry around seven lakh migrant workers to states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Assam, Haryana and Odisha. The Southern Railways, which operates in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Puducherry, received a list of 11.4 lakh migrants to be ferried back to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Assam, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Similarly, the Central Railways received requests to ferry 2.94 lakh migrant workers while the Northern Railways was approached to transport 2.84 lakh. The South Central Railways received requests to ferry 1.86 lakh workers. "As of now, we do not have a consolidated data on how many of these workers want to go home," said another Railway official. "In fact, we have already surpassed the estimations that the state governments have given us of stranded people. The Railways has the capacity to run up to 300 trains daily if needed," he said. The Railway is currently operating 15 pairs of special trains since May 12 on Rajdhani routes, in addition to the Shramik Special trains. It will also operate 100 pairs of special mail/express trains from June 1. "We will continue to run these migrant special trains as long as we receive requests from states," said a Railway official. Out of the 31 lakh migrant workers who returned to their homes travelling by Shramik Express trains, around 12 lakh came back to Uttar Pradesh, over seven lakh to Bihar and more than one lakh each to Jharkhand and Rajasthan, according to the Railways. Officials also said that the Railways is getting requests from states like Bihar and West Bengal where people want to return to cities where they were working.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-ferried-31-lakh-migrants-on-board-2317-shramik-special-trains-since-may-1-840624.html
22-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Govt allows certain categories of Overseas Citizens of India cardholders to visit India||The central government on Friday allowed certain categories of Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cardholders, who are stranded abroad, to come to the country. According to a Ministry of Home Affairs order, those allowed to travel to India include OCI cardholders who wish to come to the country on account of family emergencies. Minor children born to Indian nationals abroad and holding OCI cards, couples where one spouse is an OCI cardholder and the other is an Indian national and they have a permanent residence in India, and university students who are OCI cardholders (not legally minors) but whose parents are Indian citizens living in India were also allowed to visit the country. The government is currently undertaking a special operation under the name of 'Vande Bharat Mission' to bring back stranded Indians from abroad. A nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic. It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17. The lockdown has now been extended till May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-govt-allows-certain-categories-of-overseas-citizens-of-india-cardholders-to-visit-india-840627.html
22-05-2020||National||COVID-19 throwing new challenges for authorities in Kashmir||With nearly 400 people testing positive for COVID-19 and eight deaths due to the deadly virus in a week, the coronavirus pandemic is throwing up new challenges for health authorities in Kashmir. From doctors and paramedics to patients admitted to hospitals for routine procedures and from pregnant ladies to policemen, the fresh positive cases have worried health authorities, given the fact that the deadly virus curve had flattened in the previous two weeks. On May 16 and 18, the region reported above 100 daily positive cases while on Thursday J&K saw 59 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total confirmed cases of viral illness to 1449 here. Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, nodal officer for COVID-19, says people returning from outside J&K in recent days are testing positive for the infection which has led to a surge in the infection cases. However, a doctor at Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar wishing anonymity said that Kashmir was staring at the COVID-19 peak. “The region has witnessed 20 deaths despite the fact that the health infrastructure has so-far not been overstretched. If positive cases continue to surge, the death rate would go up,” he told DH. The doctors in Kashmir have been barred by the authorities to speak against the government’s efforts to combat the pandemic on social media, or to the press. He said the death of three expecting mothers earlier this month in southern Kashmir’s Anantnag district is another worry. “More than a dozen pregnant ladies were tested positive for the infection on a single day on May 16. This is baffling,” the doctor added.  An official at the directorate of health services said at least 31 cases of pregnant women testing positive for coronavirus have been reported across the Valley. Most of them have visited hospitals, maximising chances of the spread of the infection. Another worry for the authorities is medics and para-medics bearing the brunt of the novel disease. On May 18, five doctors tested positive for COVID-19 in Srinagar hospitals. Over a dozen doctors, three nurses and five healthcare workers have been infected with the virus in J&K so-far. A senior medico at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar said J&K’s response to the pandemic would largely depend on the safety of doctors. “If we can’t protect our doctors, half the battle is already lost,” he said.     The doctor also criticized the decision-making role of bureaucrats in the fight against COIVID-19 pandemic. “Doctors and not bureaucrats should be part of the decision-making as far as management of COVID-19 patients is concerned. However, unfortunately, it is bureaucrats who are calling the shots,” he rued. The other worry is policemen testing positive for COVID-19. While 78 positive cases were reported from district police lines in Anantnag this week another 21 were tested positive in neighbouring Kulgam district on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-throwing-new-challenges-for-authorities-in-kashmir-840629.html
22-05-2020||National||SC orders reopening of lawyers' chambers in premises on odd-even basis||Almost two months after the lawyers' chambers were locked due to COVID-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court has come out with good news for advocates saying now they can access their offices in the premises from 10 AM to 4 PM on alternate weekdays based on the odd-even scheme. The apex court has been hearing only urgent cases through video-conferencing during the lockdown from March 25 and had ordered sealing of lawyers' chambers inside the premises on the evening of March 24.  The top court, after taking note of recent representations of lawyers' bodies, Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) and the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (SCAORA), on Thursday decided to come out with fresh guidelines on entry of persons into Lawyers' Chamber Blocks here.  “To avoid over-crowding inside the Lawyers Chamber Blocks, in terms of the prescribed social-distancing norms, the SCBA and SCAORA may jointly prepare and circulate plan detailing the 'Odd-Even' Chamber Numbers of every Block, which would alternately open on Weekdays (Monday to Saturday) indicating therein the maximum number of persons who may access any Chamber at any point of time,” the circular said. “The Lawyers Chamber Blocks would follow the timings 10 AM to 4 PM (Monday to Friday, except holidays) and 10 AM to 2 PM (Saturday, except holidays), followed by sanitisation of the Blocks; on Sundays and holidays, the Blocks will remain closed for deep cleaning and sanitization,” the apex court said. Making wearing of masks mandatory for all entrants, the apex court said only the member lawyers and their staff can be allowed entry into the chambers blocks on “production of proximity card or letter of authority” and they will have to undergo thermal-screening. The circular asked the SCBA and SCAORA to arrange for the thermal screening and filling up of self-declaration forms by all the entrants and made clear that the entrants who are found symptomatic during the thermal screening shall be denied entry into the Blocks.  “The Supreme Court shall refuse entry into any Block on non-compliance of the condition,” the circular said, adding that it would be mandatory to use “stairs while coming downstairs” from lawyers' chambers. There will be a “single-entry point” to every chambers' block fitted with hand-sanitizer machine provided by the apex court registry and manned by the SCBA or SCAORA authorised personnel, it said. “The SCBA/SCAORA may inform the Members (lawyers) and their staff that operation of air-conditioning machines in chambers may raise health-concerns in the prevalent pandemic-situation,” it said. Recently, the apex court decided to postpone its summer vacation by five weeks and declared that it would remain functional from May 18 to June 19. The top court said that it will hear all cases via video and audio links between May 18 and June 19 and its ''1881'' helpline to assist advocates and litigants in e-filing and virtual hearing would remain functional from 10 AM to 5 PM under supervision of senior officers during the week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-reopening-of-lawyers-chambers-in-premises-on-odd-even-basis-840635.html
22-05-2020||National||Amphan: PM Narendra Modi arrives in Odisha for aerial survey||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday arrived at the Biju Patnaik International Airport here to undertake an aerial survey of four cyclone-ravaged districts in Odisha. The prime minister was received by Odisha Governor Ganeshi lal, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Pratap Sarangi, Chief Secretary A K Tripathy, DGP Anhay and others at the airport. Senior BJP leaders were also present there. There was no flower bouquet and hand shake by leaders at the airport as they apparently adhered to social distancing norms in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The prime minister, accompanied by the Odisha governor and the chief minister, left for the aerial survey by a special air force chopper. He is scheduled to fly over the districts of Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore adjoining West Bengal, sources said. Union ministers Pradhan and Sarangi flew in a separate chopper for the survey. After his return from the aerial survey, Modi is scheduled to review the cyclone situation and measures taken for restoration and relief in the affected areas. Cyclone Amphan, which rolled past the Odisha coast and made a landfall in the Sunderbans on Wednesday, has caused damage to houses, power infrastructure, agricultural crops and horticulture sector in four coastal districts and parts of northern Mayurbhanj. Modi is expected to conduct the aerial survey for over an hour. Earlier, Modi conducted an aerial survey of cyclone-hit areas of West Bengal and took stock of the situation in the neighbouring state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amphan-pm-narendra-modi-arrives-in-odisha-for-aerial-survey-840637.html
22-05-2020||National||Five more test positive, Uttarakhand COVID-19 tally reaches 151||Five people tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand on Friday, bringing the number of cases to 151 in the state, according to a state health department bulletin. Three fresh cases were reported from Dehradun and two from Udham Singh Nagar district, the bulletin said. A total of 56 patients have so far recovered from the infection, leaving 94 active COVID-19 cases in the state, it said. One coronavirus patient had died some weeks ago at AIIMS, Rishikesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-more-test-positive-uttarakhand-covid-19-tally-reaches-151-840655.html
22-05-2020||National||Different Ramzan for different folks: Mosques shut, poor Muslims struggle for food in COVID-19 lockdown||The month of Ramzan has come as a boon, says Shabana. Not because it’s a holy month or because it leads up to Eid but because her children don’t ask her for three meals a day when they are fasting.   The distraught mother, a part-time domestic worker in south Delhi, echoes thousands of devout Muslims scrambling to feed their families in an extended lockdown that has rendered them jobless and on the verge of penury.    A large number of daily wage workers, including rickshaw pullers and construction labourers, and their families depend on neighbourhood mosques for their two main meals during Ramzan – sehri, the pre-dawn meal at the beginning of a day of fasting, and iftaar, at the end of day.   But with mosques shut, they are left to fend for themselves, underscoring once again the magnitude of the crisis of unemployment and poverty triggered by the lockdown, which began on March 25 to stem the spread of the coronavirus.   Many continued to fast through Ramzan, which is nearing its end, hoping their prayers will help them pull through difficult times and looking at the fasting month as a blessing in disguise as they don’t have to arrange for three meals a day.   "Ramzan is a boon in such difficult times as my children fast and don't ask for three meals in a day," said 28-year-old Shabana, who goes by only one name.   Her husband is stranded in Jharkhand and she lives in the Johri Farm locality in Okhla with her out-of-work brother and two children -- a 12-year-old son and a 10-year-old daughter.   "I was employed in three homes, but my employers asked me not to come once the lockdown began. Only one of them has paid me for these last two months when I was not working," she told PTI.   "At least, during Ramzan, I just have to arrange for two meals. For sehri, we just make do with tea. And for iftaar, we manage with whatever little food we can arrange,” she added.   "I can't bear to see my children's faces when they go out during iftaar time and return dejected seeing others buying delicious food which we can't afford," she said.   Shabana is not alone in her misery.   Sitara, a 40-year-old out-of-work domestic help in Noor Nagar, said all her four children fast during Ramzan. If Shabana and her family manage with tea during sehri, her children and she just drink water.   Iftaar is also about just making do.   "Earlier, during Ramzan, my children would go for evening (Maghrib) prayers and have iftaar at the mosque. But with mosques closed, there is just dal-roti or potato for iftaar," she told PTI.    Sitara said some of her previous employers have contacted her to get back to work but it will take some time as she injured her leg while rushing for free 'puri-aaloo' being distributed in her neighbourhood.   The closing of mosques has not only hit the community iftaar made available with the people in the neighbourhood sending food contributions, but also made it difficult for charity organisations to reach out to the poor to help them in these difficult times.   Maulana Arshad Madani, president of the prominent Muslim organisation Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, said his organisation has activated the vast network of madrassas in the country and is reaching out to homes with food and financial help through them.   "People from all classes, including daily wagers and the poor, would have iftaar in mosques. But they are closed this Ramzan and a major challenge has been to identify and reach out to people those in need," he told PTI.   "We have reached out to many providing financial assistance as well as food for iftaar and sehri, but obviously, many would have been left out. With so many losing their livelihood during lockdown, they would be suffering untold hardships," Madani said.    The stories of hardship are many and distressing.   Like that of 13-year-old Rehan, a vegetable seller, who keeps ‘rozas’ (the Ramzan dawn to dusk fast) not knowing whether he will manage a proper iftaar or have to manage by eating the tomatoes he has been selling all day.   Pushing his vegetable cart with one hand and holding his physically disabled younger brother Ayaan’s hand with the other, the teen sells tomatoes in the bylanes of Okhla Vihar and nearby Noor Nagar.   "I am the sole bread earner of my family as my father passed away and I live with my mother, two sisters and my brother. Earlier, my brother and I used to have iftaar at mosques but that is not an option this time," he told PTI.   "Sometimes, the houses where we are selling vegetables offer us iftaar meals, but mostly we just eat some of the tomatoes we are selling," he said with a wry smile on his face, sounding wiser beyond his years.   Mohammad Shaukat, an out-of-work carpenter who stays with his wife, four children  and mother in an Okhla Vihar shack, has borrowed Rs 2,000 from a money lender so the sehri and iftaar meals can be managed.   Recounting the travails of the family, his mother Khairunissa, who washed utensils for a living, said her son lost his job and so did she as several housing societies banned the entry of house maids amid the coronavirus outbreak.   "I make iftaari from whatever is available as the borrowed money is also running out fast. We just pray for Allah to bail us out in this time… our fasting will bear fruit. We stay alive on this hope," she said tearfully.   Yasmeen Bano, her next door neighbour, has also borrowed money.   "I have borrowed Rs 1,000 as there were no rations in the house and my four daughters were hungry. They are too small to fast, but I keep all the rozas. I just eat the iftaar meal in a day and save the rest for my children. We live by the day. I don't know whether I will have food tomorrow or not," she said.   Ramzan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar during which Muslims refrain from eating and drinking from dawn to dusk and end their fast in the evening.    The month is in its fourth week now and Eid will be celebrated on May 24 or 25, depending on the sighting of the moon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/different-ramzan-for-different-folks-mosques-shut-poor-muslims-struggle-for-food-in-covid-19-lockdown-840660.html
22-05-2020||National||INS Sunayna returns to port after anti-piracy deployment||INS Sunayna, an offshore patrol vessel of the Indian Navy, successfully completed her anti-piracy deployment in the Gulf of Aden and arrived here early Friday morning, a Defence spokesman said. The ship, based under the Southern Naval Command here, had to sustain herself without entering any port for 80 days due to COVID-19 pandemic, he said. She was fuelled and resupplied by tankers of the Indian Navy and US Navy, the spokesman said. "Such an unbroken and sustained deployment at sea speaks of very high crew proficiency and morale of the ship", he said. The ship was received by senior officers of the Southern Naval Command, who welcomed the crew back home and congratulated the ship on her sterling performance. INS Sunayna is the second Saryu-class patrol vessel of the Indian Navy, designed and constructed indigenously by the Goa Shipyard Limited. It is designed to undertake fleet support operations, coastal and offshore patrolling, ocean surveillance and monitoring of sea lines of communications and offshore assets and escort duties. Earlier, in June 2018 she was deployed to Yemen's Socotra island as part of "Operation Nistar", an Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR) mission to evacuate Indian nationals from cyclone hit Socotra islands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-sunayna-returns-to-port-after-anti-piracy-deployment-840663.html
22-05-2020||National||Dalai Lama writes to Naveen Patnaik, Mamata Banerjee; expresses sympathy for cyclone Amphan victims||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama has written to Mamata Banerjee and Naveen Patnaik, chief ministers of West Bengal and Odisha respectively, expressing his sympathy for the loss of lives and property in the two states ravaged by cyclone Amphan. In his letters to the two chief ministers, the Buddhist leader said he is making a donation from the Dalai Lama Trust for the relief and rebuilding efforts "as a mark of solidarity with the people of West Bengal and Odisha." However, the amount of donation was not mentioned in the statement issued by his office on Thursday. "This morning His Holiness the Dalai Lama wrote to Mamata Banerjee and Naveen Patnaik, the Chief Ministers of West Bengal and Odisha respectively to express his sadness over the loss of life, the devastation of property, as well as the hardship caused to so many people due to Cyclone Amphan," said the statement on Thursday. Cyclone Amphan has claimed 77 lives in West Bengal and Banerjee said the state suffered losses to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore because of it. There has been no confirmation of any loss of human life in Odisha due to the cyclone, though it affected nearly 45 lakh people and damaged a large number of houses in the coastal districts. The Dalai Lama also conveyed his condolences to the families who have lost loved ones, and to all those affected by the storm. "I appreciate the prior preparations that were made to respond to this natural disaster, and the efforts that are underway to provide relief and assistance to those affected," the Dalai Lama wrote to each chief ministers. To the West Bengal chief minister, he said, "In addition to our profound respect for India as a sacred land, which has also been home to many Tibetans over the last 61 years, we have a special regard for Bengal" mainly because of two great personalities who hailed from it. They are great philosopher and dialectician Shantarakshita, who established the first Tibetan Buddhist monastery in Tibet in the 8th century CE, and Dipankara Atisha, who revived the practice of Buddhism in the 11th century, the Dalai Lama said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalai-lama-writes-to-naveen-patnaik-mamata-banerjee-expresses-sympathy-for-cyclone-amphan-victims-840664.html
22-05-2020||National||Healthcare workers hold black ribbon protest against new quarantine guidelines||Healthcare workers at several Central and city government hospitals sported black arm bands on Friday to protest the government's decision to end the need for their quarantine after COVID-19 duty unless there has been any form of high-risk exposure.  Several hospitals in the last few days have asked their healthcare workers staying in hotels during the quarantine period to vacate rooms immediately failing which the charges paid for their overstay would be deducted from their salaries. As per the Union health ministry guidelines issued on May 15, healthcare workers serving in COVID-19 areas do not need to undergo quarantine unless there has been violation in the use of PPE or any other form of high-risk exposure or they have symptoms suggestive of coronavirus infection.  However, healthcare workers on the frontline have raised objections to the new guidelines.  The Federation of Resident Doctors' Association (FORDA) has called for the black ribbon protest to demand proper quarantine and testing for all healthcare workers on COVID-19 duty.   The FORDA had also written to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan seeking a revision of the guidelines stating the virus has an incubation period of 2-14 days following exposure and there are multiple instances of doctors testing positive for the disease following a second test or subsequently after that.  "Under the current situation, at least 7-day quarantine, along with adequate testing of all doctors, after COVID-19 duty is necessary in order to prevent spread of infection among colleagues and their family members,” FORDA president Dr Shivaji Dev Barman said. "So far there has been no response from the authorities," Dr Barman said.  Delhi's Lady Hardinge Medical College had issued a circular on Thursday stating hotel facility during post-duty period days in COVID and suspected COVID zones provided to healthcare workers is hereby withdrawn and "the occupants are directed to please vacate their rooms immediately.   "If any overstay is noticed, charges paid for the overstay will have to be recovered from their salaries,” the circular said. There is no change in the instructions related to the HCWs, who are presently working with COVID-19 facilities and hotel accommodation will be available to those still on COVID-19 duties at the hospital, it said.  A similar circular was issued by the RML hospital administration also.  Meanwhile, the LNJP Hospital authorities, which had issued an order telling all quarantined healthcare workers to vacate hotels and other lodging facilities given to them, said the decision was on Thursday "put in abeyance" for a week, sources said. A sources said, "The RDA of the Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) submitted a representation to the hospital authorities, raising infeasibilities in complying with the order, like spreading infection to their family if healthcare workers leave the quarantine facility before the 14-day period". Previously, all healthcare personnel doing COVID-19 duty had to work for 14 days and it was then followed by 2 week quarantine to ensure they don't spread the infection to anyone else.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-workers-hold-black-ribbon-protest-against-new-quarantine-guidelines-840668.html
22-05-2020||National||Senior railway official tests positive for coronavirus; third case at Rail Bhavan||A senior officer working in Rail Bhavan tested COVID-19 positive, becoming third such case at Ministry of Railway headquarters here. The officer, who was working on the restructuring of the Railway Protection Force, attended office at  Rail Bhawan till May 13. The officer normal course of work also involves dealing with people from the Secretary's branch. One of senior-level officer, who worked with her and some of her junior staff have been asked to home quarantine for 14 days.  Earlier, after a Rail Protection Force (RPF)  staff working in Rail Bhavan tested positive, Rail Bhan was closed for two days for sanitisation. A few days later a langur handler,  working in Rail Bhavan under a contractor to driving out monkeys,  was tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-railway-official-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-third-case-at-rail-bhavan-840670.html
22-05-2020||National||Lockdown leads to cleaner water bodies; minister says time to 'introspect', make India water-secured||As the water bodies across the country have become cleaner during the nationwide lockdown, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Friday said this is a time to introspect and work towards making India a water-secured nation. With the country under lockdown for about two months to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus, air and water pollution levels have come down as most industries, except those into production of essential goods, were shut and people stayed home after offices were closed. This resulted in almost all water bodies in the country becoming cleaner. "During the lockdown period, everyone noticed that the rivers have become cleaner. There are three reasons for water pollution -- sewage, industrial effluents and human interactions," Shekhawat said during a virtual CII water summit. Out of these, industry and the human interactions were closed due to the lockdown, resulting in cleaner water bodies, according to the minister, who urged everyone to introspect and "works towards making India a water secure nation". He further said that during the lockdown period, as per the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, samples of Ganga water were taken to study how much pollution is contributed through industrial effluents, which can be used for future planning. Sharing his experience of a rafting expedition done last year from Devprayag to Rishikesh, the minister said that the water in that stretch of 90-odd kilometres was clean and even potable. "We are confident that by the next Kumbh mela, we would have cleaned the river water till Haridwar. But, during our study we realised that it is the sewage which is a major cause of water pollution," he added. "The government has undertaken creation and maintenance of sewage treatment infrastructure under hybrid annuity based (model) and in the coming future, under the national river conservation directorate, we will undertake work on other five basins. But the ultimate result will come from jan andolan (mass movement), awareness and behavioural change," Shekhawat said. He further said the government is doing its part, but then the industry will also have to support. "Also, since water is a state subject, and various states are taking various initiatives, we will have to collectively work towards the goal of a water secured nation. Also, we need to figure out how we can conserve, harvest and judiciously use water. "Since agriculture, which uses nearly 89 per cent of water, is also a state subject, the governments will have to consider what to grow, how much to grow and for whom to grow," the minister added. He said that the Haryana government has taken steps in that direction, and other states should also follow such a model.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-leads-to-cleaner-water-bodies-minister-says-time-to-introspect-make-india-water-secured-840671.html
22-05-2020||National||Tamil Nadu not in favour of resumption of flight service from May 25||With the spike in coronavirus cases weighing heavily upon it, the Tamil Nadu government is not in favour of restarting domestic air services connecting cities in the state till this month-end and might take up the matter with the Centre, an official said on Friday. As the union civil aviation ministry gears up to resume the services from Monday, Tamil Nadu wants the plans deferred for now. Officials in the State Secretariat said that the stand taken by Chief Minister K Palaniswami against resumption of regular air services till May 31 remains. "The government may take up the issue with the Centre," an official told PTI. The immediate concern of the government is to screen all the passengers arriving to the state and keep track of the infected, if any. The sheer volume of passengers at the airports would make the health machinery concentrate more on the inbound visitors, officials said. Since the last ten days, the state health department detected 66 positive cases among returnees from abroad by flights and other states by trains. They were all quarantined. As per the government guidelines on COVID-19 prevention and management, all entering the state should be scanned for the virus and if found to have symptoms, would be taken to government facilities for treatment. Those who don't show symptoms would be home quarantined. During his interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video conferencing on May 11, Palaniswami had pitched against restarting air and rail services in Tamil Nadu till May end. He had cited the increase in COVID-19 cases in the state to back his demand that both rail and air services should not be resumed till May 31, 2020. Tamil Nadu has so far reported 13,967 cases of COVID 19, one of the highest in the country. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had on Wednesday said domestic passenger flight services will resume from May 25 in a calibrated manner. All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended in the country since March 25, when the Modi government imposed a lockdown to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. Meanwhile, an official at the airport here said the schedule of passenger flights that will arrive here after resumption of domestic air services was yet to be received. Officials are gearing up for operations at the airport here which has only handled cargo services since the lockdown was enforced on March 25, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-not-in-favour-of-resumption-of-flight-service-from-may-25-840674.html
22-05-2020||National||22 opposition parties call upon Centre to declare Cyclone Amphan as national calamity||Twenty-two opposition parties urged the Centre on Friday to immediately declare the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan in Odisha and West Bengal as a national calamity and called for substantially helping the states in facing the impact of the disaster. The leaders of the 22 parties, who met through video-conferencing, passed a resolution in this regard and said relief and rehabilitation should be the topmost priority at this juncture. "We, the opposition parties extend our sympathy and support to the governments and people of West Bengal and Odisha in meeting the impact of the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan," the resolution said. It said a natural calamity like Cyclone Amphan has come as a double blow amid the coronavirus pandemic, breaking the spirits of people. "Opposition Parties, therefore, urge the central government to immediately declare this as a national calamity and substantially help the states in facing the impact of this disaster," the resolution said. The meeting of opposition parties called by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi was attended by the leaders of the TMC, NCP, DMK and Left parties, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-opposition-parties-call-upon-centre-to-declare-cyclone-amphan-as-national-calamity-840676.html
22-05-2020||National||COVID-19 cases surge in Delhi, 660 new cases and 14 deaths||COVID-19 cases are on the surge in the national capital with Friday reporting 660 fresh cases, the highest jump for a single day, and 14 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 12,319 and toll to 208. Since May 19, Delhi has been recording more than 500 cases a day. On Thursday, Delhi recorded 571 cases while on May 20, it was 534 cases and on May 19, 500 cases. In the past four days, the capital has reported 2,265 cases while May alone accounted for 8,800 or 71.43% of total cases. According to the latest medical bulletin, 5,897 people have recovered so far since Delhi reported its first COVID-19 case on March 2. At present, 6,214 people are still under treatment with 2,881 with mild symptoms in home isolation.  A total of 1.60 lakh samples have been tested so far, including 5,870 fresh samples. On May 14, Delhi had reported 472 cases, the previous highest for a single day while on May 15, 425 cases were recorded while on May 16, it was 438 and 422 on May 17. On May 18, the cases were 299.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-surge-in-delhi-660-new-cases-and-14-deaths-840682.html
22-05-2020||National||HC seeks Centre's reply on early hearing plea in violence at Jamia over CAA||The Delhi High Court Friday sought response of the Centre on a plea for early hearing on a petition seeking setting up of a judicial commission to look into the violence of Jamia Millia Islamia University protests against the Citizenship (amendment) Act (CAA) last December. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, which conducted the hearing through video conferencing, asked the government and Delhi Police to file their reply to the plea and listed the matter for further hearing on June 5. The application has sought preponement of hearing of the petition which is fixed for July. The application was filed in a pending petition by advocate and petitioner Nabila Hasan in which she has sought action against the police for brutally attacking the petitioners, students and residents of Jamia Millia Islamia and against the ruthless, and excessive use of force and aggress unleashed by police and paramilitary forces on students within the university. The plea, filed through advocate Sneha Mukherjee, said the government imposed complete lockdown across the country on March 24 due to the spread of coronavirus during which movement of people is restricted, however, several students from the university have been called to the police station and crime branch. It said the students are made to sit there for hours in the name of investigation being conducted by the police and “the harassment of the students at the hand of the Delhi Police has not stopped even with the current situations in the country”. The high court had earlier issued notice to the Centre, AAP government and police on the petition and sought their responses. Besides, various other petitions were also filed, including by lawyers, students of JMI, residents of Okhla where the university is located and the Imam of Jama Masjid mosque opposite Parliament House, and they sought action including medical treatment and compensation for the students and registration of FIRs against the erring police officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-centres-reply-on-early-hearing-plea-in-violence-at-jamia-over-caa-840687.html
22-05-2020||National||BJP, MVA cross swords over Coronavirus||Donning black face-masks and jackets, the opposition BJP on Friday (May 22) undertook the 'Maharashtra-bachao' agitation to protest against the Uddhav Thackeray government's alleged failure in handling the COVID-19 crisis. They also demanded a Rs 50,000 crore package for farmers, labourers, workers of the unorganised sector. The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi constituents shot back saying that it was treason. While Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis led the protest in Mumbai along with the city unit chief Mangal Prabhat Lodha,  state BJP President Chandrakant Patil spearheaded the charge in Kolhapur. Fadnavis said that Maharashtra has 30 percent of all patients and 40 percent of all coronavirus deaths in the country, the MVA has been unsuccessful in tackling the crisis. “The hospitals are full, there are no ambulances available, there is no food in quarantine centres, private hospitals are charging exorbitant amounts due to which the common people are unable to afford COVID-19 treatment… But the government has done nothing despite the seriousness of the crisis,” he said. The opposition party's charge at the hour of the crisis has not gone down well within the MVA allies.  Lashing out at BJP,  Uddhav Thackeray's son and state Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray said: "Absolutely shameful, what lust for power politics can make leaders do. Making kids stand in the heat, with their masks lowered, not covering the face for a political protest when we need to keep them safe and indoors. Corona ko bhul gaye, politics pyaara hai."NCP leaders used hashtag "MaharashtradrohiBJP" to hit out at Fadnanis-Patil-led team. "Think once before holding black (placards) in hand, whether you are insulting doctors, policemen and health workers who are working round the clock for Maharashtra! Whether you are committing treason with Maharashtra?," Water Resources Minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil tweeted.  Housing Minister and NCP leader Jitendra Awhad, too, attacked the BJP for playing dirty politics. State Congress President and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said: "Instead of rushing to Raj Bhavan regularly,  they should rush to people and help."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mva-cross-swords-over-coronavirus-840693.html
22-05-2020||National||It's only a pause, more steps to come to deal with COVID-19 crisis: Anurag Thakur||The government has only taken a pause and more measures will be announced in the days to come to help sectors hit by the coronavirus outbreak and also to make India ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur said. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the government has taken several steps to mitigate the hardships of the people due to lockdown and support growth, Thakur told PTI in an interview. Only this Sunday, he said, the government on the direction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a comprehensive economic package of Rs 20.97 lakh crore to support the economy hit hard by COVID-19. "We came first with the ease of compliance. The second was for the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package (Rs 1.70 lakh crore) and the third was this stimulus package of Rs 20.97 lakh crore. This can't be the end," he said while sharing details of a series of announcements. "The announcements have taken a pause and the action will continue," the minister said when asked whether the government was expected to come out with more measures to deal with the current economic crisis following the coronavirus outbreak. Emphasising that the Modi government is sensitive to the needs of people and businesses, he said, the ministry is taking the inputs from various sectors. "Tourism is a very very important sector for us. Hospitality is an important sector for us. Civil Aviation is an important sector for us. In a country like India where they contribute to the GDP, not only GDP but millions of jobs have been provided through these sectors. We are very open about these sectors, and others if any have been left out. "But let me say here also many will also fall into other categories which have been benefited. Some will benefit from the series of announcements made for the MSME sector. Small hotels which fall into this category can take advantage of the announcement made in the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package," he said. Stressing that economic reform is a continuous process, the minister said, "I'll say the year 2020 will be known as the year of reforms.” In bold reforms aimed at boosting the sagging economy, the government last week announced several reforms including a slew of measures for the agriculture sector, defence manufacturing, civil aviation and mining sector. "The long-pending demand for the change of definition of MSME, taking farmers out of the clutches of the Essential Commodities Act and the APMC Act have been seen as historic steps. Opening up of the coal mining and mineral sector at the same time has been a very positive step towards self-reliance," he said. "Apart from that opening up of the space sector is not a small reform. Permitting foreign investors to own up to a 74 per cent stake in defence manufacturing ventures under the automatic route, from the current 49 per cent limit is another big bold move," he said. Also, the list of weapons that cannot be imported will be expanded to give Make in India a boost and cut down the import bill and improve export potential. Rebutting the criticism that the government has not done enough to push demand, the minister said that the central government has transferred funds directly to the needy, whether it was fund transfer to 20.5 crore Jan Dhan account holders or 2.2 crore national security assistance programme beneficiaries, or 9 crore farmers. Besides, he said, the Modi government has undertaken several other measures which will directly benefit the needy people. These include distribution of free ration to about 80 crore people, gas cylinders under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana etc. The government, the minister said, has announced a series of measures to help the MSME sector which employs the highest number of people (about 12 crores) after agriculture. Among other things, the government has made a provision of Rs 3 lakh crore of collateral-free loan for the MSME sector. "I think this is going to give a boost to the MSME sector," the minister said, adding it will help in protecting jobs and there would be no more layoffs. At the same time, the minister said, the money in the hands of people will go a long way in boosting aggregate demand in the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/its-only-a-pause-more-steps-to-come-to-deal-with-covid-19-crisis-anurag-thakur-840695.html
22-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Indian Railways to use 60% of its idle isolation coaches to operate Shramik Special trains||With an increase in demand for non-AC coaches,  the Indian Railways has decided to reconfigure some of its COVID-19 isolation coaches and use it for Shramik Special trains. The Railway Board on May 21 in its letter to all Zones asked them to convert 60%  COVID-19 isolation coaches as normal coaches so that same can use for Shramik Special trains. The Indian Railway converted 5231 non AC sleeper and General coaches as COVID-19 coaches to supplement hospital isolation beds. The railways also identified 215 major stations across the country for its deployment and asked the states to utilise it to treat the mild and very mid-COVID patient.  Since no states have come forward to utilise it, the Railway Board has decided to convert around 3,100 coaches as normal and deploy it for Shramik Special trains as there is a huge demand for non-AC coaches. However around 2131 coaches will remain as isolation coaches and will be given to states as and when they demand, said an official in the railways. In one week, the railways may have to reconfigure around 3100 coaches. The railways had spent around Rs 2 lakh to convert each coach as COVID coaches mainly for modified toilets and putting curtains. While reconfiguration, it has to refix middle berth in second class sleeper coaches.  There is huge demand for Shramik Special trains as the railways started operating nearly 300 trains per day ferrying migrant workers. So far railways operated 2,317 Shramik Special trains,  ferrying over 30 lakh migrant workers and other stranded people to their home states. After suspending passengers train services, the Indian Railways utilised its manpower to fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Apartment from converting coaches into isolation coaches,  many of its workshops have produced PPE kits, sanitisers and other hospital materials. The railways also kept its hospital ready for treat COVID-19 patients and deployed its doctors and other hospital staff for the task.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-railways-to-use-60-of-its-idle-isolation-coaches-to-operate-shramik-special-trains-840701.html
22-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Maharashtra govt takes over private hospitals||As the COVID-19 pandemic compounded in Maharashtra with over 41,000 cases and weeks away from a big spike in June-July,  the administration is taking over 80 per cent beds in private hospitals and nursing homes. Over the last fortnight, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the private hospitals' body,  the Association of Hospitals,   were in regular discussions on this issue.Later, it was decided to be done at the state level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-maharashtra-govt-takes-over-private-hospitals-840702.html
22-05-2020||National||Centre, states to incur Rs 12k cr revenue loss in FY21 on lower coal, mineral consumption: Report||The Centre and key mineral producing states are likely to incur a revenue loss of up to Rs 12,000 crore in FY21 due to lower coal and mineral consumption during the coronavirus lockdown, a report said on Friday. "As per our estimates, the top five mineral producing states are likely to see an impact of around Rs 3,000-3,500 crore in all, due to decline in offtake of minerals (other than coal). "Correspondingly, just from these 5 states (Odisha, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka) the Central government is also expected to lose Rs 1,000-1,500 crore - as its share of taxes such as NMET, CGST and Corporate tax - due to fall in mineral sales (excluding coal) in these 5 states," KPMG in India said in its thought paper titled 'Impact of COVID-19 on the mining sector in India'. With regard to coal producing states, it said "the overall losses incurred by all the state governments combined is estimated to be around Rs 4,500 - 5,000 crore. And the overall loss that the central government would be facing in FY21 is estimated to be around Rs 1,800 - 2,000 crore."  "This excludes losses on account of lower revenue generated from explosives, OTR tyres, bulk logistics, value addition, mining related services, etc," it added. Falling demand as a result of the nationwide lockdown, decreased consumption and supply chain issues have forced the miners to either run at significantly lower capacity utilisation, or close operations temporarily, it said. "As an immediate consequence of this subdued production from mines is fall in revenues from mining sector for the governments," it said. "Considering the scenario at the end-use consumption side, reduced construction activities is likely to lead to a reduction in the consumption of steel and cement in FY21, thereby affecting the production of iron ore and limestone respectively. "Similarly, slowdown in manufacturing activities in the industrial sector is likely to impact coal fired power generation, thereby hitting the production of, and royalties and taxes from, thermal coal," it said. The demand for several other minerals might also be hit, it said. It further said the government's plan to auction new coal and mineral blocks is likely to get delayed due to COVID-19. "COVID-19 is likely to delay operationalisation of recently auctioned iron ore mines. Moreover, weak demand from key end-use segments like power, steel, cement, etc. and distressed condition of company financials may dampen the response in the proposed auction of coal and mineral blocks," it said. "Apart from health, at the core of the recovery process from COVID-19 lies employment and revenue generation for central and state governments. "Mining addresses those needs strongly, hence there is understandable emphasis on opening up the sector. The discontinuity caused by COVID-19 provides the opportunity to deal with longstanding problems in the sector and unshackle its development," said Anish De, Partner and Head - Energy and Natural Resources, KPMG in India. "Even before COVID-19, India's mining sector was getting hemorrhaged by multiple regulatory, social, and environmental challenges. This was affecting our Melt in India and Make in India intent and weakening our strategic sectors. "PM has recently called upon the nation to be self-reliant. It will not happen with incremental changes. Fundamental changes in exploration, resource allocation, infrastructure development and mining operations have to happen. The window of opportunity for that is narrow and it is open now," Niladri Bhattacharjee, Partner - Mining & Metals, KPMG in India said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-states-to-incur-rs-12k-cr-revenue-loss-in-fy21-on-lower-coal-mineral-consumption-report-840703.html
22-05-2020||National||Wary of Priyanka, SP, BSP keep 'political distance' from opposition meet||A hyperactive Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra may have been behind the decision of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and BSP- the two key political players in Uttar Pradesh- to keep away from the opposition meet on Friday. According to the sources in the SP and BSP here, the two parties did not want to be seen ''playing second fiddle'' to Congress, which was ''not much politically relevant'' in the state. Sources said that both SP president Akhilesh Yadav and BSP supremo Mayawati were wary of Priyanka's efforts to strengthen the Congress in the politically crucial state. Priyanka has been on the forefront in taking on the BJP on different issues, including the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the massacre of tribals in Sonebhadra as well as during the migrant workers' crisis. The two parties find themselves pushed to the corner by a hyperactive Priyanka in the state. The Congress leader has been trying to bring back the 'brahmins, Dalits' and the Muslims to her party fold after taking charge of the state last year. While the 'Dalits' formed the core vote bank of Mayawati, the SP considered the Muslims to be its main supporters.  ''We can not take part in any opposition meeting if it is chaired by the Congress, which is eyeing our core vote bank in UP,'' remarked a senior SP leader while speaking DH here on Friday. Mayawati has, in fact, been quite vocal in her criticism of the Congress. She criticised Priyanka for what she alleged ''indulging'' in politics over migrant workers' plight. ''Priyanka Gandhi should have arranged buses for migrant workers in Punjab and Rajasthan instead of offering buses to ferry migrant workers home in UP,'' she had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wary-of-priyanka-sp-bsp-keep-political-distance-from-opposition-meet-840713.html
22-05-2020||National||14-29 lakh COVID-19 cases averted due to lockdown, 37,000-78,000 lives saved: Govt||Amid rising political criticism of the lockdown, Modi government’s top healthcare adviser on Friday claimed the nationwide restrictions had averted an estimated 37,000-78,000 deaths and 14-29 lakh cases of COVID-19. The claims came on a day when India witnessed the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases – 6,088, taking the total confirmed cases to 1,18,447. The death toll too increased by 148 to touch 3583. A separate DH COVID-19 Tracker put the total number of cases at 1,24,305 and the death toll at 3,704 at 8:30 p.m. on Friday. Presenting the assessment of the first two phases of lockdown, V K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Ayog, the restrictions had stalled the speed at which the virus was spreading through the country. “On April 3, we had 22.6% new cases per day, the behaviour of the virus was exponential. But after April 4, there was a clear slowing down and it has now settled at 5.5%,” he said. The government’s strong defence of the lockdown came on a day when leaders of 22 political parties, at a meeting convened by Congress President Sonia Gandhi, questioned the government’s decision for lockdown, contending that the approach had delivered diminishing returns. Addressing a press conference Paul along with Praveen Shrivastava, Secretary, Ministry of Statistics, Planning and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) shared the outcomes of projections on the spread of the virus in India made by independent experts using publicly available data.  “Broad ranges covering the estimates of lockdown impact by multiple models we got done show that we averted 14 lakh to 29 lakh cases and 37,000 to 78,000 deaths,” Shrivastava said. He presented the findings of the Boston Consulting Group, Public Health Foundation of India, two different groups of independent economists and MOSPI-Indian Statistical Institute. Paul said the lockdown had helped confine the virus outbreak to limited areas in few states and cities. “80% of the active cases are in five states or 60% of the cases are confined to five cities,” he said adding that the numbers also held true for deaths due to COVID-19. However, Paul cautioned that though the lockdown was being relaxed gradually there was a need to be cautious. “We cannot afford to relax. The virus is around and we have to take the measures we know will prevent it from growing,” he said, underscoring the need to continue physical distancing, wearing masks, caring for the elderly and maintaining a high degree of personal hygiene. “India has changed its behaviour and must now sustain the change,” Paul said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-29-lakh-covid-19-cases-averted-due-to-lockdown-37000-78000-lives-saved-govt-840716.html
22-05-2020||National||SC asks Centre to reply to plea for permanent CAT bench in J&K||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to respond within four weeks to a plea for setting up a permanent bench of Central Administrative Tribunal in Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the Union government and Jammu and Kashmir administration to a writ petition jointly filed by Asheesh Singh Kotwal and Shiv Kumar. The petitioners sought a direction for quashing a notification issued on April 29 by the department of personnel and training conferring jurisdiction of CAT, Chandigarh overall service matters of the employees of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. They claimed that the notification was violative of fundamental rights of citizens as it denied access of justice to all, coupled with the right to equity to litigants facing administrative inaction and outreach by the government. After the change in the status of Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019, a total of five lakh employees of the erstwhile state are now treated as central government staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-reply-to-plea-for-permanent-cat-bench-in-jk-840717.html
22-05-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on failure to make available hard copies of laws passed in Parliament||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a plea to frame guidelines for regulating the publication of hard copies of all Acts of Parliament, rules, notification, and Ordinances at a reasonable price. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a response from the Union Law Ministry's legislative department wing and others on a petition filed by Arpit Bhargava, alleging blatant laxity on their parts in ensuring dissemination of knowledge about central Acts, rules, etc being the copyright owner. The petitioner led by advocate Prashant Bhushan challenged the validity of the Delhi High Court's order of November 14, 2019 that had dismissed the PIL in the matter. He contended that the right to know under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution extended to ensuring the availability of authentic, accurate and reasonably priced hard copies of all Acts of Parliament, rules, notifications, regulations, etc along with amendments from time to time for public at large. The petitioner also maintained that since the government was the copyright owner of all laws passed by Parliament, publishing of hard copies of the bare Acts by private parties, that too at higher prices, constituted infringement of copyright in terms of Section 52(1)(q) of the Copyright Act, 1957. Relying upon an RTI response, the petitioner said, "no proper budget, infrastructure, and the channel has been developed in this regard and the will to give meaningful effect to the fundamental right to know is completely missing." The petitioner contended that the High Court failed to appreciate that the loss to the public at large was not only due to high prices charged by private publishers but also due to inaccurate and non-authentic reproduction of Acts, rules, notifications, regulations, etc by them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-failure-to-make-available-hard-copies-of-laws-passed-in-parliament-840719.html
22-05-2020||National||Tamil Nadu govt promulgates ordinance to take over Jayalalithaa’s residence||Veda Nilayam, the magnificent bungalow of late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in upscale Poes Garden in Chennai and a powerful address in the state for nearly three decades, will finally be converted into a memorial for her. The Tamil Nadu government on Friday morning announced that Governor Banwarilal Purohit has promulgated an ordinance to temporarily take possession of the iconic residence and to establish ‘Puratchi Thalaivi’ Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation to enable converting the bungalow into a memorial for the AIADMK leader. The foundation will be headed by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, and his deputy O Panneerselvam and Minister for Information and Publicity ‘Kadambur’ Raju as members. Director of Information and Public Relations will serve as the Member Secretary of the foundation. A permanent place in TN history Veda Nilayam has a permanent place in Tamil Nadu’s political history for it served as a power center from 1987 to 2016 – entering the lane where the bungalow is located was nothing short of a pilgrimage for lakhs of AIADMK cadres who adulated Jayalalithaa as Amma (mother). With the bungalow now being converted into a memorial, the sprawling mansion will welcome lakhs of people to give a glimpse of the late chief minister’s opulent lifestyle. The Poes Garden residence of Jayalalithaa was at the center of a political controversy after the AIADMK split in 2017 with O Panneerselvam’s rebellion against interim general secretary V K Sasikala. Panneerselvam was the first to demand that the bungalow be converted into a memorial for his late leader in February 2017 immediately after his rebellion. And, the announcement that the bungalow will be converted into a memorial for Jayalalithaa by Palaniswami on August 17, 2017, was an integral part of the compromise arrived between him and Panneerselvam for the merger of his faction with the AIADMK. The government is constructing another memorial for Jayalalithaa on the Marina beach where she was buried. The bungalow, whose value is over Rs 100 crore as on date, was purchased by Jayalalithaa’s mother Sandhya in the late 1960s and the former chief minister lived there till September 22, 2016, before she was wheeled into the Apollo Hospitals, where she breathed her last 75 days later on December 5. Acquiring the bungalow In an official release, the government said it decided to transfer all the immovable and movable properties of Veda Nilayam, which are in “a state of disuse” for more than three years, to the Government for its upkeep until the acquisition process is complete. “Hence, the Governor of Tamil Nadu Thiru Banwarilal Purohit has promulgated an Ordinance to temporarily take possession of 'Veda Nilayam' and movable items therein to the State Government and to establish “Puratchi Thalaivi Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation” for making long term arrangements to convert “Veda Nilayam‟ as a Memorial,” the statement said. It added that an administrative sanction was given by the Tamil Development and Information Department on 5.10.2017 for the acquisition of 'Veda Nilayam' while the action was initiated to acquire the land and building, and preliminary notification was published on 28.6.2019 and thereafter a declaration on 6.5.2020. ‘Veda Nilayam was another mother to Jayalalithaa’ Jayalalithaa was meticulous in maintaining the bungalow like it was the dwelling of royalty and Veda Nilayam was “another mother” to her, senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh, who had met the late chief minister for several interviews at the residence, told DH. “Jayalalithaa was very emotionally attached to the Poes Garden residence. She felt protected inside the four walls of the house and the bungalow was another mother to her. Jayalalithaa had herself mentioned more than once that she had very sad memories of waiting for her mother who used to come late after her shooting,” Singh said. For Jayalalithaa, Veda Nilayam was everything, he added. “She had a bungalow in Siruthavur near Chennai and another in the Nilgiris. But Jayalalithaa’s heart was always in Poes Garden,” Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-govt-promulgates-ordinance-to-take-over-jayalalithaa-s-residence-840725.html
22-05-2020||National||SpiceJet opens booking for domestic flights amid coronavirus lockdown||No-frills carrier SpiceJet on Friday announced the opening of booking for its domestic flights as it resumes operations with a little over 200 daily flights to 41 destinations after a hiatus of almost two months. Operations of commercial passenger flights were suspended from March 25 in the wake of COVID-19 and subsequent lockdown. The government on Thursday allowed airlines to operate passenger flights from May 25. Spicejet in a release said that to start with, the airline will operate flights to 41 domestic destinations operating an average 204 daily and 1,431 weekly flights with a slew of in-flight and on-ground modifications in line with the global best practices and government SOPs to minimise human contact and ensure safe travel for its passengers.  "I am happy to announce the resumption of our passenger operations from May 25 after a two month-long lockdown-imposed hiatus. We will strictly adhere to social distancing norms and SOPs laid down by the Government. Flying was and remains the safest mode of public transport, " said Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, SpiceJet.   Prior to the suspension of all commercial passenger service on March 25, SpiceJet had been operating over 600 daily flights to 54 domestic and nine overseas destinations. These flights included 49 daily services on the Udan routes. The airline said it has implemented cleaning procedures on all its aircraft in addition to disinfecting customer touch points and surfaces before every flight. Stating that all of its aircraft now have synthetic leather seats, it claimed these non-porous seats don't allow the virus (COVID-19) to penetrate inside them and can be easily wiped off compared to standard fabric seats. It also said that crew members and ground services personnel will undergo a detailed health check-up and will be wearing protective gears, adding the airline has decided to temporarily suspend food and beverage services on all its flights. SpiceJet will reduce the number of people in its airport coaches by 50 per cent and has made web check-in mandatory thereby avoiding queues at airports as part of the social distancing norms, it said.  Besides, passengers will be allowed only one hand baggage and one check-in luggage (not more than 20 kg) which will have to be added during the web check-in process. Passengers will be encouraged to self-scan boarding passes and can also travel with their mobile boarding passes, SpiceJet added. Among other safety measures, wearing a mask and downloading the Aarogya Setu App will be mandatory for passengers while a temperature check will be done before entering the terminal building and only passengers with a green status on the Aarogya Setu App will be allowed, it said.  According to the release, passengers are advised to arrive at least three hours prior to departure as the check-in and luggage drop counters will be closed 60 minutes before the departure time and boarding gates will close 20 mins before departure time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spicejet-opens-booking-for-domestic-flights-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-840730.html
22-05-2020||National||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan takes charge as WHO Executive Board chairman||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who is at the forefront of India's battle against COVID-19 pandemic, took charge as the chairman of the 34-member WHO Executive Board on Friday, officials said. Vardhan, who succeeded Dr Hiroki Nakatani from Japan, offered his condolences at the loss of lives due to the coronavirus pandemic across the globe.  In his remarks after being elected as the chairman of the WHO executive board, he also said a strengthening of global partnerships and a shared response was needed to deal with the current crisis caused by the pandemic. The proposal to appoint India's nominee to the executive board was signed by the 194-nation World Health Assembly on Tuesday. Last year, WHO's South-East Asia group had unanimously decided to elect India's nominee to the executive board for a three-year-term beginning May. The chairman's post is held by rotation for one year among regional groups and it was decided last year that India's nominee would be the Executive Board chairman for the first year starting Friday. It is not a full-time assignment and the minister will just be required to chair the Executive Board's meetings, an official said. The Executive Board comprises 34 individuals, technically qualified in the field of health, each one designated by a member-state elected to do so by the World Health Assembly. Member States are elected for three-year terms.  The board meets at least twice a year and the main meeting is normally in January, with a second shorter meeting in May, immediately after the Health Assembly. The main functions of the executive board are to give effect to the decisions and policies of the Health Assembly, to advise it and generally to facilitate its work. Addressing the 73rd World Health Assembly via video conferencing on Monday, Vardhan had said India took all necessary steps well in time to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. He had asserted that the country has done well in dealing with the disease and is confident of doing better in the months to come. Towards the end of his speech, Vardhan also initiated a standing ovation by the board for all the 'Covid warriors' across the globe. India takes over the chairmanship of the Executive Board amid growing calls, including by US President Donald Trump, to investigate how the coronavirus originated in China's Wuhan city and subsequent action by Beijing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-takes-charge-as-who-executive-board-chairman-840735.html
22-05-2020||National||Nature will provide us solutions: Prakash Javadekar on International Biodiversity Day||"Nature will provide us solutions", said Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday in a virtual celebration of International Biodiversity Day, noting that India was ready to share its experiences and best practices with nations interested in improving their biodiversity. In his address through video conference, Javadekar said India has the finest biodiversity in the world and a robust system against poaching of species. Stressing on this year's theme, Javadekar stressed that solutions are in nature and therefore, protecting the nature is very important especially in the context of COVID-19 as it shields from various catastrophes, including zoonotic diseases. "Nature will provide the solutions. This is our message to the world on International Biodiversity Day," he said, adding that India welcomes those countries which are interested in improving their biodiversity, and is ready to share the experiences and best practices with them. The minister, however, stressed on the need to limit consumption and promote a sustainable lifestyle. "We cannot consume endlessly. We have to restrict our consumption," he said. Speaking about pollination, Javadekar said that with the pesticides, the bees and insects which used to pollinate have vanished. "India is reviving beekeeping culture. Bees pollinate, collect honey and serve the nature," he said. The minister launched several initiatives, including United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Campaign on Illegal Trafficking of Endangered Species: 'Not all Animals Migrate by Choice'. Illegal trade in wildlife carries the risk of spreading dangerous pandemics. The campaign 'Not all Animals Migrate by Choice', launched by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, with UNEP, seeks to address these environmental challenges, to raise awareness, and to advocate solutions, the minister said. "I am launching UNEP endangered species campaign. Fortunately, we have a robust system of anti-poaching activities. Year after year there are less incidents of poaching because of our vigil. Therefore, India has the finest biodiversity with 70 per cent of world's population of tigers, 30,000 elephants, 3,000 single-horned rhinos and thousands of dolphins and many other species," he said. The minister also launched the National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Biodiversity Samrakshan Internship Programme which proposes to engage 20 students with postgraduate degrees for a period of one year through an open, transparent, online competitive process. A webinar series on Biodiversity Conservation and Biological Diversity Act, 2002 was also launched along with the WWF Model Conference of Parties (MCoP), an initiative to engage in conversations around impact of humanity's footprint on biodiversity and also the importance of sustenance of biodiversity, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nature-will-provide-us-solutions-prakash-javadekar-on-international-biodiversity-day-840737.html
22-05-2020||National||Nine human bodies found in a well shocks Telangana||The finding of nine dead bodies, two of them migrant workers from Bihar, from a well, has shocked the locals and police of Warangal on Friday (May 22). Six persons – including a three-year-old boy - are from a single family of Md Maqsood (55) who settled in Telangana over two decades back, migrating from West Bengal. The Maqsood family – wife Nisha (48), two sons – Shabad (21), Sohail (18), and daughter Bushra (22) were living in a compound of a gunny bags unit at Gorrekunta village, under Geesukonda police station limits, near Warangal town. Two others – Sriram (21) and Shyam – are from Bihar, also living in the same compound, while Shakeel (30) who lives nearby and said to be a family friend of Maqsood is also from West Bengal. Four bodies were found on Thursday and five more recovered on Friday from a big abandoned well near their residence. No injuries were found on the dead bodies. Maqsood and others were working in the gunny bag unit since December. “The unit owner had interacted with them on Wednesday (May 20) and left. On Thursday (May 21) when he returned, no one could be found on the premises and he informed the police. Later dead bodies were found floating in a big well adjacent to the unit. We are probing if this is suicide or murder. A post-mortem would reveal the cause of death,” said Dr V Ravinder, commissioner of police. Bushra, daughter of Maqsood, has reportedly separated from her husband and is living with her father's family with her three-year-old kid. Police have registered a case and are probing the reasons for the deaths, while suspecting an illicit affair too, TV reports claimed. Special teams are formed to solve the case at the earliest. Telangana ministers Errabelli Dayakar Rao and Satyavathi Rathod visited the site. Rathod said that a thorough investigation would reveal the culprits who would be punished accordingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-human-bodies-found-in-a-well-shocks-telangana-840754.html
22-05-2020||National||HC orders inspection of night shelter at AIIMS after 22 persons tested COVID-19 positive||The Delhi High Court Friday ordered immediate inspection of a night shelter, managed by Delhi Government's DUSIB, at AIIMS where 22 persons have tested positive for COVID 19 and directed the Delhi Chief Secretary to examine the situation and take corrective measures without any delay. The high court also wondered when the night shelter run by DUSIB (Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board) was within the AIIMS premises, why they were shifted to far off hospitals like Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital run by the Delhi Government. “Since, the two patients and others who were found positive on Covid testing - which are 22 in number, were all occupying the night shelter which falls within the AIIMS premises, we are at loss to understand as to why they were not taken to the AIIMS Covid facility and why they have been shifted to far off hospitals. “On this aspect, we call upon the Principal Secretary, Health, Delhi government, the concerned Director of DUSIB, and the authorised officer of AIIMS to file their respective affidavits, explaining as to why the said persons were not accommodated at the Covid facility at AIIMS itself, particularly when the patients were, even otherwise, receiving non-Covid treatment at AIIMS itself,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar, which conducted the hearing through video conferencing, said. The bench was informed by social worker Rachna Malik that there is no potable drinking water facility at the night shelter and the toilet facility at the night shelter is inadequate and highly filthy, and not properly maintained due to lack of sufficient water. However, this was disputed by the DUSIB's counsel who said the toilets of the night shelter are separate and they are regularly maintained and whenever there is choking of the toilets, it is attended by the authorities. Another aspect raised by Malik was that there was no monitoring of persons who visit the night shelter and a register should be maintained in this regard. However, DUSIB's counsel said that the night shelter cannot be accessed by any outsider and there is monitoring of persons who come there and their particulars are maintained. Keeping in view the different versions, the bench directed that a local inspection be conducted during the day itself without any delay and it should be videographed and statement of those occupying the night shelter be recorded. “We direct that today's order be placed before the Chief Secretary, Delhi government, and after examining the report that may be prepared after today's visit, including the videograph, we direct him to examine the position with regard to the manner in which the night shelter at AIIMS is being managed by DUSIB, and to undertake all corrective measures, as are called for, without any delay,” the bench said.  The high court asked the Delhi Government, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and social activist Rachna Malik to file status reports and listed the matter on May 27. During the course of hearing, the high court was informed that two patients, who had been visiting Jan Kalyan Hospital at Karol Bagh for their treatment, that is, dialysis process, were found Covid positive. This followed testing of 51 occupants of the night shelter, even though the number of persons occupying the night shelter was 105 as on May 19 and 93 as on May 21. The high court was hearing two petitions raising grievances of about hundred out-station patients and their attendants. In the PIL filed by Karan Seth, he has sought to address the grievance of about hundred out-station patients and their attendants, who were earlier being provided treatment for several ailments at the AIIMS which allegedly stopped treating them after COVID-19 outbreak. Another PIL was filed by Malik seeking direction that some arrangement should be made so that patients who are residing in rain baseras (night shelter) at AIIMS. These patients had come to AIIMS to receive treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-orders-inspection-of-night-shelter-at-aiims-after-22-persons-tested-covid-19-positive-840757.html
22-05-2020||National||NDMC doctor tests COVID-19 positive, dispensary sealed||A doctor at a New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) dispensary tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday following which the premises of the health facility was sealed, officials said. "A senior doctor at the NDMC HQ - Palika Kendra Dispensary took a COVID-19 test and was found positive today. She lives in the NDMC area and has been put under home quarantine with family members,” a senior NDMC official said. As per protocol, contact tracing is going on and the dispensary has been sealed, the official said. Twenty people are employed with the dispensary, including five doctors. The doctor is the third NDMC employee, to test positive for the diseases. Earlier, a sanitation worker and an engineer had tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ndmc-doctor-tests-covid-19-positive-dispensary-sealed-840759.html
22-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Airlines start bookings for domestic routes||A day after the government announced guidelines for air travel, airline operators on Friday welcomed passengers on board announcing bookings for the resumption of domestic flights from May 25 and special measures for ensuring cleanliness inside the aircraft. Air India, IndiGo, SpiceJet, Air Vistara announced bookings on the truncated domestic schedule beginning Monday, two months after the government suspended air travel to battle the Covid-19 outbreak. Airlines also assured passengers that they can redeem their credit shells while booking tickets for journeys from Monday. Air Vistara announced that it would operate flights connecting 24 cities across the country. IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta wrote an email to all travellers reassuring them that that airline was taking all precautions to keep the Covid-19 threat at bay. “We look forward to welcoming you onboard our very own lean, clean flying machine,” Dutta said.  Vistara welcomed the decision to resume domestic flights. “Aviation is a growth engine for the economy and resumption of air travel will give great impetus to the government’s overall efforts in helping the country eventually return to normalcy," Vistara CEO Leslie Thng said. “We have started bookings for domestic flights. #FlyTheNewNormal,” Air India said on its Twitter handle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-airlines-start-bookings-for-domestic-routes-840764.html
22-05-2020||National||NDRF reports first COVID-19 case; 43 fresh infections in CAPFs||An official of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been found positive for coronavirus, the first case such being detected in the federal contingency force, officials said on Friday. They said the sub-Inspector rank official was on leave and had gone to a doctor for some dental treatment, following which his COVID-19 test was done. The NDRF official has been admitted to an isolation ward in the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) Referral hospital in Greater Noida on Thursday. The official is posted in the headquarters of the force here and was on deputation from the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), they said. The NDRF, raised in 2006, is a 12-battalion strong force of the central government for disaster response and its over 40 teams are currently deployed in Odisha and West Bengal for relief and rescue works in the wake of cyclone 'Amphan'. The CAPFs, which comprises CRPF, ITBP, BSF, CISF and SSB, reported 43 fresh cases since Thursday. The Border Security Force (BSF) reported 24 fresh cases on Friday, out of which seven personnel are posted at the headquarters of the about 2.5-personnel strong paramilitary in Delhi. "All the fresh cases have been reported from Delhi and they work in various establishments of the force." "These personnel were the primary or secondary contacts of earlier detected positive staffers and were not working in the office and were already in quarantine," a BSF spokesperson said. As and when test results are coming, they are either being detected positive or negative for COVID-19, he said. The Pakistan and Bangladesh borders guarding force has a total 108 active cases, while 277 of its troops have recovered. The airports guarding force Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) also reported 13 fresh cases with four reported from its unit deployed to guard the Bokaro steel plant in Jharkhand. The about 1.62-lakh personnel strength force has a total of 100 active coronavirus cases while 71 have recovered from the disease.   The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), country's largest with 3.25 lakh personnel, reported five fresh cases and its overall active cases tally is 125 personnel. A total of 213 CRPF personnel have recovered till now. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police, tasked to guard the 3,488 km Line of Actual  Control with China, had one fresh case, taking its total active cases tally to 105. A total of 82 of its personnel have recovered till now. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), guarding the open Indian fronts with Nepal and Bhutan, has 30 active cases. A personnel of the elite counter-terrorist force, NSG, has also been infected with the disease early this month. The five CAPFs, National Security Guard (NSG) and the NDRF work under the command of the union home ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ndrf-reports-first-covid-19-case-43-fresh-infections-in-capfs-840767.html
22-05-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi condoles loss of lives in Pak plane crash||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday condoled the loss of lives in a plane crash in Pakistan. "I'm sorry to hear about the air crash in Pakistan in which many lives have been lost. News of survivors is a ray of hope and I pray that there are many miraculous stories of survival tonight. My deepest condolences to the families of those who have perished," he said on Twitter. I’m sorry to hear about the air crash in Pakistan in which many lives have been lost. News of survivors is a ray of hope & I pray that there are many miraculous stories of survival tonight. My deepest condolences to the families of those who have perished. Many people are feared dead after a Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) plane with 107 people on board crashed into a densely populated residential area near the Jinnah International Airport here on Friday. Flight PK-8303 from Lahore was about to land in Karachi when it crashed at the Jinnah Garden area near Model Colony in Malir, just a minute before its landing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-pak-plane-crash-840768.html
22-05-2020||National||Beekeeping to play key role in doubling farmers income by 2024: Narendra Singh Tomar||Amid rise in honey exports, beekeeping will play a key role in achieving the goal of doubling farmers' income by 2024, according to Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. India is among the world's top five honey producers. The country's honey production and exports have risen more than two-folds compared to the level in 2005-06, he said. Tomar stressed on the need to promote beekeeping while addressing a webinar organised by the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) on Thursday, an official statement said. As part of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package to those affected by COVID-19 lockdown, the government has set aside Rs 500 crore to promote beekeeping businesses. Stating that the government is giving beekeeping training, Tomar said the National Bee Board has created four modules to impart training as part of the National Beekeeping and Honey Mission (NBHM) and 30 lakh farmers have been trained in beekeeping. They are also being financially supported by the government. Besides, the government has launched 'Honey Mission' as part of 'Sweet Revolution' which has four components. Even small and marginal farmers can adopt beekeeping since investment is low and returns high, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beekeeping-to-play-key-role-in-doubling-farmers-income-by-2024-narendra-singh-tomar-840769.html
22-05-2020||National||I&B ministry considering raising air time for advertisements to 12 minutes: Prakash Javadekar||Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday said the ministry was considering raising advertisements' air time on community radio to 12 minutes from the present seven minutes to bring the medium on par with TV channels. He was addressing listeners of community radio stations in a unique simultaneous broadcast. His address was broadcast in two equal slots between 7 pm and 7.30 pm. Terming community radio stations "agents of change", the Union minister said they reach out to millions of people every day, and that the ministry will come out with a plan to increase the number of such stations soon. Currently, 290 community radio stations are operational across the country. In his address, he also touched on the key demand of community radio stations to broadcast news on their channels.  Javadekar assured that he will consider allowing news broadcast on community radio the same way it is done on FM channels.  He prodded such stations to play key role in combating the menace of fake news by taking note of such news in circulation and verify it through local sources to act on it. He invited stations to share it with All India Radio also so that the reach of the truth can be amplified.  The I&B ministry has created a Fact Check Cell under PIB and the community radio can complement the role of Fact Check Cell, he added. Javadekar said while 75 per cent of the expenditure during setting-up of community radio stations is borne by the ministry, daily operations are looked after by the station.  Community radio stations are allowed seven minutes per hour for advertisements while the same is 12 minutes for TV channels, he pointed out, adding that he was eager to give equal time to all radio stations so that there is no need for them to seek funds and that local advertisements can be relayed more on community stations. Exhorting people to keep up their fight against coronavirus, the minister said "we will drive it away the way we have driven away other diseases". He appealed to people to stay home as much as possible, frequently wash hands, wear face mask in public and follow social distancing.  Speaking on the dilemma between the challenges of social distancing and economic activity, he re-iterated the mantra of "Jaan Bhi Jahaan Bhi" and said while restrictions are continuing in containment zones, economic activities have started in green zones.  Javadekar said the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package recently unveiled by the government was a comprehensive package which included reforms for various sectors, including agriculture and industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ib-ministry-considering-raising-air-time-for-advertisements-to-12-minutes-prakash-javadekar-840776.html
22-05-2020||National||Opposition disconnected from people, doing negative politics: Javadekar||Accusing the opposition of "double speak", the BJP on Friday slammed it as well as Congress president Sonia Gandhi for their criticism of the Narendra Modi government over its handling of the coronavirus crisis, saying they have become "disconnected" from people and "speaking out of frustration". Senior BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar alleged the opposition was doing negative politics when it should have projected a united face in combating COVID-19. "The opposition is displaying negative politics. It is indulging in hypocrisy and double speak. These parties earlier asked why the lockdown was not being extended and now they are asking why you are doing so," he told reporters. Non-BJP ruled states like West Bengal first did not use Shramik trains as much as they should have and now the Congress is doing politics by sending very few buses, he said, in an apparent reference to the opposition party's proposal to send buses to Uttar Pradesh to ferry migrants. Hitting out at Sonia Gandhi for her criticism of the government' Rs 20 lakh crore economic package, Javadekar said the Centre had earlier given Rs 1.70 lakh crore cash to the poor and has also hiked the MNREGA budget to over Rs 1 lakh crore. "These parties have become disconnected with people and are speaking out of frustration. People are very much with Prime Minister Narendra Modi whose efforts to combat the coronavirus has drawn accolades from world leaders. The situation in India is much better for a country of its population," he said. BJP spokesperson G V L Narasimha Rao also hit back at the Congress after Sonia Gandhi slammed the government, claiming that it has abandoned any pretence of being democratic and forgotten the spirit of federalism. He accused the Congress of playing "cynical" politics over the COVID-19 crisis and said its president Sonia Gandhi and her "family" have "indulged in drama" at the time of a national catastrophe. The government's Rs 20 lakh crore package and its details have turned to be a "cruel joke" on the country, Gandhi said at a meeting of opposition parties. Hitting back, the BJP said it is the Congress president and her daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who have "played cruel jokes and cynical politics on migrant workers". "They did nothing for migrant workers except the mother-daughter duo making some grand announcements. Except indulging in drama and petty politics at a time of national crisis, Sonia and her family did nothing to contribute to nation's united fight against the pandemic," Rao said in a statement. "Never before have a principal opposition party indulged in such cynical politics and the Congress will pay a political price for playing negative politics," the Rajya Sabha MP claimed. Congress-ruled state governments have shown utter lack of sensitivity towards the migrants and refused to allow their own citizens to use Shramik special trains, he alleged. "The whole world is appreciative of our handling of the COVID-19 crisis and the lockdown strategy in controlling the spread of the pandemic in India. Sonia Gandhi is perhaps regretting why India didn't turn out to be like her native Italy," Rao said. Only today, he noted, a study by the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) showed how India averted 20 lakh cases and up to 78,000 deaths by imposing the lockdown timely and implementing it effectively. Every relaxation, like inter-state travel of migrants on Shramik special trains or of bringing home Indians stranded abroad by Vande Bharat evacuation flights, has been allowed with elaborate Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), to be strictly followed by all state governments, Rao said. The strategy to exit the lockdown has been designed in a very thoughtful and systematic manner, he added. The BJP leader said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership in successfully controlling the COVID-19 challenge has been praised by world leaders. "The Gandhi family is unable to digest the fact that PM Modi has emerged as truly a global leader and his image has surpassed that of every leader from its dynasty," he claimed. Addressing a meeting of 22 opposition parties convened through video-conferencing to discuss the situation arising out of the coronavirus pandemic, Sonia Gandhi alleged that the government is uncertain about the criteria for enforcing lockdowns and has no exit strategy it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-disconnected-from-people-doing-negative-politics-javadekar-840784.html
22-05-2020||National||When home is under a flyover and life’s belongings fit on a cycle||They walked, the parents, wife and children a cluster on the move while he wheeled a cycle with jerry cans and bundles loaded on – and his 12-year-old differently abled daughter cradled in a cloth sack tied to the side. Earlier this week, as the lockdown was extended for the fourth time, Mukesh Kumar decided Delhi was no longer the place for him or his family and they would head to their village in Unnao, Uttar Pradesh, even if it meant walking every step of the 500 km distance. It was a precarious existence -- dependent on his livelihood repairing tin trunks and iron buckets -- to begin with. And with no work coming his way, starvation lay ahead.  So, the family of nine, Mukesh, his parents, wife and five children, the youngest less than a year old, set out from their ‘home’ under a flyover in Palam in southwest Delhi on the long walk to their village. While he pushed the cycle, the others walked alongside, some holding bags, others unwieldy bundles on their heads, some barefeet as they walked on the hot tarred road under a scorching sun and others wearing flimsy footwear. Komal, his physically challenged daughter, could not walk or sit so she was put into a cloth sack strapped to the cycle. And that’s when PTI photojournalist Arun Sharma captured them, his lens mirroring both their determination to forge on ahead and their desperate situation. But their journey was cut short at Ghazipur near the Uttar Pradesh border and the family was sent back. "We were stopped at Ghazipur along with others. I decided to return to Palam since I had no money," Mukesh told PTI. The family lived in a hutment in Palam village but it was demolished about three years ago, and settled down under a flyover. And that’s the ‘home’ they returned to, now biding their time along with dozens of others, entirely dependent on charity for food. "I did not earn much even before lockdown but now work has completely dried up and my family is completely at the mercy of the good hearted people who occasionally provide us food and ration. We at least have our home in Unnao," Mukesh, who is in his 30s, said. Sitting next to him, his father Munnilal said his life has come full circle. He came to Delhi in search of work and now wants to return to Unnao because there is no life or livelihood in the big city.  He worked in a teashop for a while, as a construction labourer and then helping his son. The city didn’t do much for him then, and even now, he said. "There is nothing for us here now. Life was tough earlier but now there is no way but to go back home," Munnilal said. With no money or any other resource at his disposal, Mukesh has no idea how he will take his family back to Unnao. "I have heard the government is sending people to their homes in buses and trains," Mukesh said. Armed with nothing but a basic mobile phone, he has no idea of how the online registration process for sending migrants to their homes through Shramik Special trains works. "I do not know anything about it," Mukesh said, showing his phone. Taking each day as it comes, he is now waiting for the lockdown to be relaxed. And maybe earn some money to take his family home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-home-is-under-a-flyover-and-life-s-belongings-fit-on-a-cycle-840789.html
22-05-2020||National||Parliament functioning and oversight should be restored with immediate effect: Opposition parties||Leaders of 22 opposition parties on Friday accused the Centre of “unabashedly” usurping powers of states and demanded restoration of Parliament functioning and oversight with immediate effect. The opposition parties also demanded immediate reversal of all unilateral policy decisions, especially on the changes in labour laws. The leaders, who attended a meeting of opposition parties convened by the Congress through video conferencing, discussed the current situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown induced by it. They put forth an 11-point charter of demands for the Centre at the virtual meeting. The parties also accused the central government of having failed in discharging its responsibilities in a timely, effective and sensitive manner during the pandemic. "The Union government has unabashedly usurped powers vested in states thus undermining the constitutionally guaranteed federal democracy," a statement issued jointly by the 22 opposition parties said. The opposition parties also demanded from the Centre direct cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month to families outside the Income Tax bracket for six months and said Rs 10,000 should be given to them immediately along with free ration. They also demanded that the Centre provide free transportation for migrant workers to their native places amid the lockdown, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. In view of the lockdown, he said the opposition parties have also demanded that the Centre immediately provide a financial package for states, besides a clear and meaningful economic strategy focused on revival and poverty alleviation instead of propaganda. The parties in the statement said the Rs 20 lakh crore package and its contents mislead the people of India. "We demand that the government present a revised and comprehensive package that will be a true fiscal stimulus in order to stimulate demand in the economy," the statement said. "The 22 parties represent over 60 to 70 per cent of the country's population and hoped the prime minister and the government would take a positive view of their demands," Surjewala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-functioning-and-oversight-should-be-restored-with-immediate-effect-opposition-parties-840792.html
22-05-2020||National||FM meets PSU bank chiefs, prods them to implement 'Aatmanirbhar' relief package||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday held a review meeting with CEOs of public sector banks (PSBs) and asked them to implement the mega 'Aatmanirbhar' relief package to revive the COVID-hit economy. The meeting via video conferencing took place in the backdrop of the Rs 21 lakh crore stimulus package announcement and the Reserve Bank coming out with fresh measures, including interest rate cuts.  The Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday gave its nod for many of the schemes announced as part of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' package to prop up the economy reeling under the COVID-19 crisis. "Finance Minister Smt.@nsitharaman chairing the review meeting, through VC, with the chief executives of PSBs today to review the readiness of banks in implementing 'Aatmanirbhar' relief package," the Finance Ministry said in a tweet. "To operationalise the announcements made by Hon'ble FM @nsitharaman ji under #AatmanirbharBharat, review meeting through VC was held with all PSBs. Everyone aligned on the need for quickly addressing the needs of MSMEs & other customers. Operational details to be released soon," the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance, said in a tweet. The finance minister has emphasised on the quick disbursal of additional loans to MSMEs, to simplify process, formats and documentation, Indian Bank managing director Padmaja Chunduru said after the meeting. Since the Union Cabinet has already given approval to various schemes announced under the package, operational guidelines have been issued to banks. The most important among them is the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) worth Rs 3-lakh crore for MSMEs hit hard by the coronavirus crisis.  The 100 per cent guarantee scheme at the concessional rate of 9.25 per cent was the second-biggest component of the Rs 20 lakh crore comprehensive package announced by Sitharaman last week. Currently, the rate of interest on loans given by banks to the MSME sector varies from Rs 9.5 per cent to 17 per cent, depending on the risk perception. The MSME sector is considered as the backbone of country's economy as the sector contributes over 28 per cent of the GDP and more than 40 per cent of exports, while creating employment for about 11 crore people, second highest after agriculture. The scheme is expected to benefit 45 lakh MSME units. Other scheme to help the stressed MSME sector also included Rs 20,000 crore subordinate debt for stressed or loan defaulting MSMEs, which could benefit 2 lakh such businesses. A fund of funds for MSME is also being created, which will infuse Rs 50,000 crore equity in MSMEs with growth potential. After the meeting, Central Bank of India managing director and CEO Pallav Mohapatra said the finance minister took stock of the situation and reviewed the progress of various schemes. "All the banks are very-very optimistic about the schemes that have been announced in the recent past by the government to support the economy. State-run banks sanction in the COVID-19 period is more than the corresponding period last year, which was a normal year," he said. "Loans worth over Rs 6.68 lakh crore were sanctioned by PSBs during March 1 - May 19 for 59.79 lakh accounts from MSME, Retail, Agriculture & Corporate sectors. A steady increase in credit availability for each of these vital sectors" the finance ministry had tweeted earlier in the day. "Public Sector Banks sanctioned over Rs 1.07 lakh crore as emergency credit lines & working capital enhancements in the period March 20 to May 19, with Rs 25,527 crore of this amount already being availed by customers," it said. Later, in an interview with DD News, the finance minister said the meeting with the public sector banks was "very good". She commended the work done by the public sector banks for the implementation of the Rs 1.70 lakh crore PM Garib Kalyan Yojana, which was an announcement made within two days after the lockdown was announced. "I must give credit to the public sector banks for having done a splendid job in implementing PM Garib Kalyan Yojana. So now with that same spirit this (Rs 20 lakh crore) package we have come up with, a partial guarantee, full guarantee for all enterprises... which banks will have to do. I was very reassured that the banks spoke in a very positive way," she said. On the credit guarantee scheme, Mohapatra said the government’s commitment is for the entire Rs 3 lakh crore. "The commitment on the government under this Rs 3 lakh crore collateral free loans is 100 per cent.” During deliberations, Indian Bank's Chunduru said, "Banks decided to focus also on Tier Ii and Tier III towns in all states to ensure needy MSMEs get the succour. CEOs of PSBs welcomed the Rs 3 lakh crore fully guaranteed loan component to MSMEs and assured the FM that all eligible units will get these loans promptly." Central Bank's Mohapatra said, "Risk aversion, to a great extent, has gone. No actions are being taken for any commercial decision going wrong because of other reasons." The meeting also took stock of interest rate transmission to borrowers by banks and progress on moratorium on loan repayments. The RBI has increased the moratorium on loan repayment by another three months till August 2020 to provide relief to borrowers whose income has been hit due to the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-meets-psu-bank-chiefs-prods-them-to-implement-aatmanirbhar-relief-package-840794.html
22-05-2020||National||SC allows ED to attach assets of JP Morgan after it identifies Rs 187 crore as proceeds of crime||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed Enforcement Directorate (ED) to attach properties of JP Morgan, which was engaged in transactions with the now-defunct Amrapali Group to allegedly siphon off home buyers money in violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) and FDI norms. The ED told the top court that it has prima facie identified Rs 187 Crores in the accounts of JP Morgan, as proceeds of crime under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and it needs permission to attach its properties to recover the same. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit, which took up the matter through video conferencing, granted the permission to the ED to attach the properties of the multi-national firm, a senior lawyer associated with the case said. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, appearing for ED told the bench that the probe agency has so far prima facie identified Rs 187 crore in the accounts of JP Morgan, which according to them are proceeds of crime under the anti-money laundering law. He said that the top court had on December 2, last year restrained the agency from attaching any properties and therefore now it needs permission to attach them, in order to move ahead as per law. Meanwhile, the top court asked Additional Solicitor General Vikramjeet Banerjee to seek instructions on providing Rs 500 crore as loan to NBCC for completing the stalled projects of the embattled real estate firm Amrapali, as there is no private player involved in it. Banerjee told the bench that a meeting is scheduled in finance ministry on the issue and he would inform the concerned authorities of the views expressed by the court. He said that the suggestions given by court appointed receiver, senior advocate R Venkataramani, are being looked into by the State Bank of India for relaxing the guidelines for disbursing of loan. The bench said that government has to take care of the funding as there are no private players involved in this and these stalled projects are stuck due to lack of funding. It said that these unsold inventories also have money stuck and if they are completed and sold, they may fetch a considerable amount. The bench said that funding through SBI Cap under government’s stress funding is concerned, a relaxed policy can be issued for Amrapali projects. The top court said that it would take up the matter next week and asked Banerjee to seek instructions on possible funding of stalled projects. On January 13, top court had orally asked the ED to attach Indian properties of JP Morgan after the probe agency said that it had prima facie found violations of FEMA norms by the US-based JP Morgan and that a complaint in this regard was lodged. It had also allowed the ED to take into custody the defunct group's CMD, Anil Kumar Sharma, and two other directors, Shiv Priya and Ajay Kumar, who are behind bars on the top court's order, for interrogation as regards alleged money-laundering offences. According to the share subscription agreement between JP Morgan and Amrapali Group, the US-based firm had invested Rs 85 crore on October 20, 2010 to have a preferential claim on profits in the ratio of 75 per cent to JP Morgan and 25 per cent to the promoters of Amrapali Homes Project Private Limited and Ultra Home. Later, the same number of shares was bought back from JP Morgan for Rs 140 crore by two companies -- M/s Neelkanth and M/s Rudraksha -- owned by a peon and an office boy of Amrapali's statutory auditor Anil Mittal. On December 2 last year, the ED had informed the top court that it had prima facie found evidence of violation of FEMA by the multi-national firm and recorded the statements of the country head of the company with regard to dealings with the Amrapali Group. The apex court had then directed the ED that the investigation should be carried out impartially, properly and expeditiously within a period of three months. On July 23 last year, the top court had cracked its whip on errant builders for breaching the trust of home buyers, ordered cancellation of Amrapali Group's registration under real estate law RERA and ousted it from its prime properties in the NCR by nixing the land leases. It had ordered a probe by the ED into allegations of money laundering and to look into the charge of FEMA violation by JP Morgan. "The money of the home buyers has been diverted. The directors diverted the money by the creation of dummy companies, realising professional fees, creating bogus bills, selling flats at an undervalued price, payment of excessive brokerage etc. They obtained investment from JP Morgan in violation of FEMA and FDI norms," the top court had said. It had said the equity shares of the group were purchased at an exorbitant price to suit the requirements of JP Morgan and the Amrapali Zodiac Developers Pvt Ltd had diverted home buyers' funds. "The shares were overvalued for making payments to JP Morgan. It was adopted as a device for siphoning off the money of the home buyers to foreign countries," the top court had said as it accepted the reports of forensic auditors. It had also noted that the shares of Amrapali Zodiac from JP Morgan were ultimately purchased for Rs 140 crore by M/s Neelkanth and M/s Rudraksha, shell companies owned by a peon and an office boy respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-ed-to-attach-assets-of-jp-morgan-after-it-identifies-rs-187-crore-as-proceeds-of-crime-840798.html
22-05-2020||National||Over 66 lakh Indians made intra-state travels from April 30 to May 12: Govt sources||Over 66 lakh Indians made intra-state travels from April 30 to May 12, reflecting the large number of people reaching their homes during the period, government sources said on Friday. The details emerged in the midst of heart-rending stories of thousands of migrant labourers struggling to return home from their places of work due to the coronavirus lockdown. The sources said a total of 27.15 lakh Indians moved from one state to another between April 30 and May 6, while the number for the period from May 7-12 was 39.71 lakh.  The Union government as well as states made arrangements to transport lakhs of migrant workers to their home states after the lockdown shone the spotlight on their miseries to return home. The government is providing transportation by road and railways to the people, the sources said. They asserted that the numbers show that a large number has moved to their destinations. Increasing transportation and addition of air services from May 25 will further improve mobility, the sources said. People should not create panic and are advised to plan their movements for their destinations accordingly, the sources said. The advice to people to not panic comes amid easing of restrictions with limited rail and air travel set to resume. The Railways on Wednesday issued a list of 100 pairs of trains that it will operate from June 1, putting in operation popular trains such as Durontos, Sampark Krantis, Jan Shatabdis and Poorva Express.  This is the second slew of special passenger services that marked the Railways graded restoration of its trains which were suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Railways has ferried over 31 lakh migrant workers on board 2,317 Shramik Special trains since May 1, almost seven lakh more than the initial projection of 24 lakh, according to official data. Also, after a two-month hiatus, one-third of the scheduled domestic flights would be flying from Monday after the airlines adhere to the government-prescribed limits on airfares categorised in seven bands based on flight duration. The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days. It was then extended till May 3 and again till May 17. The lockdown has now been extended till May 31. Hundreds of thousands of migrant labourers have been struggling to get home, with fortunate ones managing a seat in a bus or train, while many others have been just walking home, traveling hundreds of kilometers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-66-lakh-indians-made-intra-state-travels-from-april-30-to-may-12-govt-sources-840801.html
22-05-2020||National||India records highest rise in COVID-19 cases at 6,088; tally reaches 1.18 lakh, death toll at 3,583||India on Friday recorded the highest increase in COVID-19 cases with 6,088 fresh infections taking the total confirmed cases to 1,18,447. According to the health ministry, the death toll too increased by 148 to touch 3,583. A separate DH COVID-19 Tracker put the total number of cases at 1,24,305 and the death toll at 3,704 at 8:30 p.m. on Friday. As per the Union Health Ministry data, India has reported more than 5,000 cases for the past three consecutive days. Among the total cases at present, about 66,330 are active, while 48,534 individuals have successfully recovered. However, according to the government, the spread of COVID-19 has been confined to limited areas in states and cities. “80% of the active cases are in five states or 60% of the cases are confined to five cities,” V K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog, told reporters. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh account for 80% of the total COVID-19 cases across the country. In terms of cities, Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Thane account for 60% of the total cases in the country, while Pune, Indore, Kolkata, Hyderabad, and Aurangabad account for another 10% cases.  As much as 80% of COVID-19 deaths have been reported from five states – Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Delhi. Another 15% of deaths are reported from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-highest-rise-in-covid-19-cases-at-6088-tally-reaches-118-lakh-death-toll-at-3583-840802.html
22-05-2020||National||PIL filed in SC for mandatory sanction before lodging FIR against journos||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for laying down guidelines for mandatory sanction before registration of FIRs against journalists in order to ensure that they were not subjected to vexatious and malicious prosecution for their news reports. Following recent lodging of FIRs against Republic TV's Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami in Maharashtra and other states and similar action against Zee News Editor Sudhir Chaudhary in Kerala, an advocate, Ghanshyam Upadhyay filed the PIL in the top court. The petition filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain asked the court to ensure that no FIR was filed against journalists unless a sanction was received from the statutory body, Press Council of India or any other judicial authority. This was to "ensure that the press/ media, which is the fourth pillar of democracy, is not subjected to suppression and oppression and their voice is not silenced by entangling them in false, frivolous, vexatious and malicious prosecution under the garb of investigation."  This would also allow no stifling of genuine prosecution, the plea said, adding that the Constitution under Article 19(l)(a) guaranteed to all citizens of freedom of speech and expression, in which freedom of Press or media was implicit, against arbitrary invasion by the State. The petitioner contended that citizens of the country were entitled to receive complete, uncut and truthful information, analysis, especially concerning issues affecting and impacting sovereignty and integrity of India.  "Certain elements in the society averse to free flow of such unbiased, truthful, complete, uncut information take recourse to entangle journalists engaged in providing such vital and crucial information to the public at large by frivolous and vexatious criminal prosecution," he said. The petitioner also said there were mushrooming of small time newspapers and news channels all over the country at local level, with extremely doubtful credentials, so the guidelines issued by this court should be made applicable only for those organisations with a particular number of circulations or viewership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-mandatory-sanction-before-lodging-fir-against-journos-840805.html
22-05-2020||National||Gujarat govt denies benefit to 22.50 lakh unregistered migrant workers||The crisis of stranded migrant workers following the lockdown for containing coronavirus cases has brought to the fore the violation of labour laws like never before in Gujarat. On the issue of not charging migrant workers travelling back home, the state government has said that under the provision only 7,512 workers have been found registered and only they are applicable for the benefits, while there are a whopping 22.5 lakh unregistered workmen who can't be given the same assistance as per the law. The state government has said this in a report filed in the high court on Friday in response to several litigations including suo motu public interest litigation initiated by the court and civil society members following media reports of crisis pertaining to COVID-19 treatment and mass migration of workers, among other issues. The government has found this information over the one-and-a-half-month of exercise initiated to find the workmen for sending them to their parent states after scores of violent incidents were reported in Surat, Ahmedabad and other cities.  "This is the first time that such a report on gross violation of labour laws has come out in public. It means that the labour department is not functioning at all to safeguard the interest of workers. It also unravels how a large number of employers in every sector be it textile or construction sector are following the labour laws. We have been saying this since the beginning of this crisis and we are sure that there are over 10 lakh more such unregistered workmen who are still stranded," said advocate Anand Yagnik who has filed the petition raising issues such as travelling allowance and displacement allowance to be provided to the workers, among others benefits. The report further says, "In addition to provisions of the Interstate Migrant Workers Act, 1979, it is pertinent to note that transportation charges for migrant workers are being collected by the Railways that has issued rate charges for a journey between different stations. Travelling arrangements are made at district level where many NGOs and civil society organisations have been involved to facilitate the transportation of migrant workers including the charges notified by the Railways."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govt-denies-benefit-to-2250-lakh-unregistered-migrant-workers-840808.html
22-05-2020||National||Come out with COVID-19 lockdown exit strategy: Oppn to PM Modi||Questioning Narendra Modi government's strategy to counter COVID-19 pandemic, 22 Opposition parties on Friday came out with an 11-point charter demanding a "clear" exit strategy from lockdown and junking the "misleading" Rs 20 lakh crore package for a new one that reflects "true fiscal stimulus". The 4:25 hour-long meeting chaired by Congress President Sonia Gandhi also felt that the Centre failed in providing a "timely, effective and sensitive" response to COVID-19 and advised the government that it was no time to indulge in "showmanship nor one-upmanship". The leaders restricted themselves to discussing Modi government's COVID-19 handling and kept issues like Jammu and Kashmir and attempts of communal polarisation for discussion later but said the BJP government has “unabashedly usurped” powers vested in the States besides avoiding Parliamentary scrutiny. A decision on the next meeting has not been taken but sources said an informal core group consisting top leaders of Congress, CPI(M), RJD, NCP and DMK have been formed to take forward the decisions of the meeting. This group would discuss the modality of the next move. Besides Sonia, those who attended the meeting included former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, Chief Ministers Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra), Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal) and Hemant Soren (Jharkhand), NCP chief Sharad Yadav, DMK chief MK Stalin and CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury.  The BJP came under severe criticism during the meeting with Thackeray coming down heavily on the BJP saying it is "easy to do politics but difficult to show light at the end of a tunnel". He also expressed his apprehensions about migrant workers' movement to their home states, saying the cases are likely to spread to rural areas. A senior Opposition leader said Thackeray took a very vocal anti-BJP stand. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav also took a similar stand during his intervention when he said the Opposition should not lose an opportunity to "advertise" the saffron party's failure. In her opening remarks, Sonia was also very critical of the government saying it has turned its economic package into a "cruel joke" by embarking on a "wild adventure of so-called reforms, including a grand clearance sale" of Public Sector Undertakings and repeal of labour law.   This was the first meeting of top Opposition leaders since the national lockdown that was put in place from March 25 but some sheen was taken away by the absence of BSP and Samajwadi Party while AAP was not invited. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said one should ask these parties why they did not attend and whether they were in agreement with the demands raised. National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, who was attending such his first such meeting after his release from detention since August, said the pandemic has hit Kashmir hard but people of India has forgotten them, according to sources. He also said the government should not curb democratic rights in the name of a pandemic. In its charter of demands, the Opposition parties wanted Rs 7,500 per month to all families outside Income Tax bracket for six months with an immediate transfer of Rs 10,000, free food grains to the needy population for six months, 200 days MNREGA work and free transportation of migrant workers. The government should "present a clear and meaningful economic strategy focused on revival and poverty alleviation instead of propaganda. The Rs 20 lakh crore package and its contents mislead the people of India. We demand that the government present a revised and comprehensive package that will be a true fiscal stimulus in order to stimulate demand in the economy", a joint statement said. Raising questions about the official COVID-19 data, they also demanded that accurate and relevant information on COVID-19 infections and goalposts vis-a-vis testing, infrastructure and containing spread should be provided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/come-out-with-covid-19-lockdown-exit-strategy-oppn-to-pm-modi-840818.html
22-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi condoles death of PIA passengers in crash in Pakistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the death of the passengers of the ill-fated Pakistan International Airlines aircraft in a crash at Karachi in the neighbouring country. "Deeply saddened by the loss of life due to a plane crash in Pakistan. Our condolences to the families of the deceased, and wishing a speedy recovery to those injured,” Modi posted on Twitter.  The Airbus A320 aircraft of the PIA was on its way from Lahore to Karachi, with 91 passengers and a seven-member crew onboard. It crashed in a residential area just before landing at the Karachi Airport. A banker has so far been confirmed to have survived the crash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-condoles-death-of-pia-passengers-in-crash-in-pakistan-840845.html
22-05-2020||National||Never said coronavirus cases will be zero by particular date, apologise for misconception: V K Paul||The government never said the coronavirus cases will be zero by a particular date, NITI Aayog member V K Paul said on Friday and apologised for any misconception on the matter. Responding to a question at the Health Ministry press briefing, Paul said the graph presented previously by him was based on mathematical data and there was "no mention of zero word on the graph".  "Even I never said the cases would be zero by a particular date," he told reporters. "We showed you factual information and no claim was made. I apologise for the misconception and it was not what was meant to be conveyed," he added. In April, Paul made a presentation at a Health Ministry briefing in which he explained how the lockdown helped curtail the spread of the virus. In one of the slides, the curve showed active cases plummeting to zero by May 16. On Friday, Paul said lockdown was a special effort but it cannot go on for unlimited time.  "Normalcy must return and there is also the question of the livelihoods of people. Lockdown cannot go on forever. It was meant for a purpose and it achieved the purpose to a very large extent. Now it is very important that we exhibit our behaviour in a manner that creates difficulties for the virus," he said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,583 and the cases climbed to 1,18,447 in India, according to the Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/never-said-coronavirus-cases-will-be-zero-by-particular-date-apologise-for-misconception-v-k-paul-840846.html
22-05-2020||National||Congress leader Sanjay Jha tests positive for COVID-19||Congress leader and spokesperson Sanjay Jha on Friday said he has tested positive for COVID-19 and will be under home quarantine for over a week as he is asymptomatic. He also urged people not to underestimate transmission risks. I have tested positive for Covid_19 . As I am asymptomatic I am in home quarantine for the next 10-12 days. Please don’t underestimate transmission risks, we are all vulnerable. Do take care all. "I have tested positive for Covid-19. As I am asymptomatic I am in home quarantine for the next 10-12 days. Please don't underestimate transmission risks, we are all vulnerable. Do take care all," Jha said in a tweet. His post came on a day when India recorded its biggest single-day surge of 6,088 COVID-19 cases, taking the nationwide tally to 1,18,447.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-sanjay-jha-tests-positive-for-covid-19-840868.html
22-05-2020||National Politics||Anti-govt protest amid coronavirus pandemic will boomerang on BJP: Shiv Sena says in mouthpiece 'Saamana'||The ruling Shiv Sena on Friday said the Maharashtra BJP's agitation against the Uddhav Thackeray-led government during the COVID-19 pandemic will boomerang on the opposition party. An editorial in the party mouthpiece 'Saamana' slammed state BJP president Chandrakant Patil for comparing the Maha Vikas Aghadi government's handling of the pandemic with Kerala's model.  "Looks like Patil hasn't studied the Kerala model. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan doesn't follow Centre's guidelines and feels participating in video-conference meetings with Prime Minister Modi was a waste of time," the editorial claimed. Instead of protesting in Maharashtra, Patil and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis should instead stage their agitation in Kerala, the Marathi daily stated, taking a dig at the two senior BJP leaders. There was a health emergency in the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi was helming the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, the publication said. "If the opposition feels for the state and has any suggestions about fighting the pandemic, they should discuss it with the Chief Minister. Is the opposition party ashamed to do so or has it lost its self-confidence?" it questioned. The editorial also highlighted the fact that although COVID-19 cases in the state were rising by the day, most of the patients were also recovering from the infection. "If 10,000 patients have recovered, what does that indicate?" the editorial asked, citing the progress the state had made in fighting the virus. The editorial went on to ridicule the BJP's 'Maharashtra Bachao' agitation, saying it was time to save the state from the opposition party. Whatever issues the state BJP has raised was in the Central government's jurisdiction and the Chief Minister should send a delegation led by Fadnavis to the Centre with a list of demands from the state, the editorial suggested. The BJP has been critical of the Shiv Sena-led government over its handling of the coronavirus crisis in the state, which has so far recorded 41,642 cases. The BJP has asked its workers to hold black placards and wear masks of the same colour while registeringtheir protest on Friday without violating social distancing norms. Indecisiveness and strategic errors of the Maharashtra government have aggravated the COVID-19 crisis in the state, Fadnavis said on Thursday and accused Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray of over dependence on bureaucracy as he is "scared" of taking initiatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anti-govt-protest-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-will-boomerang-on-bjp-shiv-sena-says-in-mouthpiece-saamana-840576.html
22-05-2020||National Politics||Mamata, Priyanka should shun political drama over COVID-19 : MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Advising Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to shun political drama over COVID-19, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Friday they should instead become part of 'team India' to fight the pandemic as an united force. "These people (opposition leaders) have to only put blame on the Centre for anything. They indulge in theatrics ('unhe sirf natak karna hai'). There should not be any political drama at least during coronavirus pandemic-like situations,” he told PTI in an interview. Chouhan hit out at Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, accusing her of "doing drama" by offering buses to the Uttar Pradesh administration for ferrying the migrants. The Congress and the Uttar Pradesh were locked in a political battle after Priyanka Gandhi Vadra told the state's Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath that her party had made available 1,000 buses to ferry migrants to their homes. The UP government has claimed that a list of 1,000 buses had registration numbers of autorickshaws, cars and trucks. Chouhan said the Chief Minister of West Bengal has reportedly raised questions on issuance of various advisories by the Centre. "The Centre has been issuing advisories to ensure safety and security of the people of this country. Advisories have come to my state as well. But they (Banerjee and Priyanka) only want to do 'natak' (drama)," he said. Mamata Banerjee has accused the Centre of playing politics and dubbed the exercise of national lockdown "poorly" planned. "If we want to save the people of this country from this coronavirus pandemic, then the Centre has to issue advisories or send teams to assess the situation or take other measures. All should welcome it," Chouhan said.  He said chief ministers of all the states should be united and be part of "team India" to fight the pandemic. "Team India is not only the cabinet of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. All the chief ministers, irrespective of the state and political party they belong to, are part of team India. They (opposition leaders and CMs) should consider themselves as part of team India and fight coronavirus," Chouhan said. He said, Prime Minister Modi has always respected the federal structure of the country "but this creates problem to opposition leaders". Chouhan said there has never been a prime minister in this country who has spoken not once but five times with the chief ministers of the states over the crisis posed by the virus. "Other than this, whenever we call the prime minister over phone, he is available to us. Have you seen a prime minister like this? Not only me, whosoever chief minister has called him, he has always promptly responded to all such calls. He always talks to us, discusses things and gives us suggestions," Chouhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-priyanka-should-shun-political-drama-over-covid-19-mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-840596.html
22-05-2020||National Politics||Cyclone Amphan: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal offers help to Chief Ministers of West Bengal, Odisha||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday expressed solidarity with cyclone-hit West Bengal and Odisha, and offered help to the chief ministers of the two states. The extremely severe cyclonic storm left at least 77 people dead in West Bengal and rendered thousands homeless.It also wreaked havoc in Odisha, damaging power and telecom infrastructure in several coastal districts In a tweet, Kejriwal said, "Dear @MamataOfficial didi, on behalf of the people of Delhi, I extend our full support and solidarity with you and the people of West Bengal in the wake of the destruction caused by #CycloneAmphan. Kindly let us know if we could help in any manner in this hour of crisis".  In another tweet, Kejriwal also expressed solidarity with Odisha and offered help to the state chief minister Naveen Patnaik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cyclone-amphan-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-offers-help-to-chief-ministers-of-west-bengal-odisha-840608.html
22-05-2020||National Politics||Govt on wild adventure of grand clearance of sale of PSUs: Sonia Gandhi||Accusing the Narendra Modi dispensation of not having an exit strategy from the COVID-19 lockdown, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the government had turned its economic package into a "cruel joke" by embarking on a "wild adventure of so-called reforms, including a grand clearance sale" of Public Sector Undertakings and a repeal of labour law. Addressing Opposition leaders during a video conference, she said it was worrisome some that the Centre has no solutions to people's problem while it still remained uncertain about the criteria for the lockdown imposed in the country. "A number of renowned economists are predicting that 2020-21 will end with negative growth of up to minus 5%. The consequences will be catastrophic. That the present government has no solutions is worrying but that it has no empathy or compassion for the poor and vulnerable is heartbreaking," she said. The government has also "abandoned any pretence of being a democratic government" and all power is now "concentrated in one office", the Prime Minister's Office, she told the meeting attended by leaders of 22 Opposition parties, including West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, her Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray and CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury. "The spirit of Federalism which is an integral part of our Constitution is all but forgotten.  There is no indication either if the two Houses of Parliament or the Standing Committees will be summoned to meet," she said.     She said the whole Opposition offered full support to the government when the lockdown was imposed with barely four-hour notice. "The initial optimism of the Prime Minister that the war against the virus would conclude in 21 days has turned out to be misplaced. It seems that the virus is here to stay until a vaccine is found. I am also of the view that the government was uncertain about the criteria for lockdowns, nor does it have an exit strategy. Successive lockdowns have yielded diminishing returns. The government also stumbled badly on the testing strategy and the import of test kits. Meanwhile, the pandemic continues to take its toll," she said. She said the defining image of the pandemic has been the "lakhs of migrant workers, many with children, walking hundreds of kilometres, without money, food or medicines, desperate to reach their home states".  Sonia alleged that those who have been "cruelly ignored" by the government also include 13 crore families in the bottom half of the population like tenant farmers and landless agricultural workers,  the laid off or retrenched workers and employees, shopkeepers and the self-employed,5.8 crore out of the 6.3 crore MSMEs and organized industries. The appeal to transfer cash to the poor, free grain, transportation of migrant workers fell on deaf ears, she added. She said the country was facing an economic crisis even before the first COVID-19 case was identified and "demonetisation and a hasty and flaw GST were amongst its main causes".   "The economic downturn began in 2017-18.  Seven quarters of declining GDP growth was no ordinary event; it was unprecedented.  Yet, the government carried on with its misguided policies and incompetent governance," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-on-wild-adventure-of-grand-clearance-of-sale-of-psus-sonia-gandhi-840675.html
22-05-2020||National Politics||No time for showmanship, Opposition wants PM Modi to consult them: Sharad Pawar||Opposition parties want Prime Minister Narendra Modi to have dialogue with them about the the measures to tackle the coronavirus outbreak and also "activate" parliamentary standing committees, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Friday. In a series of tweets after a video conference of leaders of 22 opposition parties, Pawar said they believed that this was not the time for "showmanship or oneupmanship". "We have decided to appeal to the@PMOIndia to immediately reach out to, and engage in a dialogue with all political parties in a systematic manner, listen seriously to the suggestions that we have to make...refrain from using the crisis for personal political gain, activate Parliamentary institutions like Standing Committees and be genuine in helping the states financially and otherwise," Pawar said. "The like-minded political parties are collectively going to raise a 10-point demand to the Central Government to implement immediately," he added. During the meeting, he called for consultations with industrialists and experts to increase imports, exports and inland shipping, the NCP chief said. "New policies for encouraging industrial growth should be incorporated to attract new investment in the states. To increase imports, exports and inland shipping, consultations should be held with industrialists, entrepreneurs and expert officials in the field," he said. State governments are relaxing lockdown norms but factories can not easily resume operations as workers have left for their homes, Pawar pointed out, calling for a strategy to bring them back. Lockdown has disrupted transport services, and steps should be taken to gradually restore road transport within the states and plan resumption of air and rail service, he said. "The number of students will decline for the next academic year due to Covid-19 lockdown. Some educational institutions are likely to collapse or close down due to financial losses. A study group or committee should be appointed to take timely measures," the former Union minister said. Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and CPI's D Raja were among those who took part in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-time-for-showmanship-opposition-wants-pm-modi-to-consult-them-sharad-pawar-840739.html
22-05-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi is a 'good actor', should move to Mumbai: UP BJP MLA||Controversial BJP MLA Surendra Singh on Friday said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is a “good actor” and should quit politics and move to Mumbai, home of the Bollywood film industry. Launching a scathing attack on the Congress, he further asked people to maintain “distancing of votes” from the party just like they are following social distancing norms due to the COVID-19 outbreak. “We have to save the nation from Congress. People of the country need to maintain distancing of votes from the Congress,” the BJP MLA from Bairiya told newspersons here. Replying to a question on Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya, Singh referred to the temple-mosque disputes in Mathura and Varanasi and said “similar action” needs to be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-is-a-good-actor-should-move-to-mumbai-up-bjp-mla-840748.html
22-05-2020||National Politics||Congress playing cynical politics at time of national crisis: BJP||Accusing the Congress of playing "cynical" politics over the COVID-19 crisis, the BJP said on Friday the opposition party's president Sonia Gandhi and her "family" have "indulged in drama" at the time of a national catastrophe. BJP spokesperson G V L Narasimha Rao hit back at the Congress after Sonia Gandhi slammed the Narendra Modi government, claiming that it has abandoned any pretence of being democratic and forgotten the spirit of federalism.   The government's Rs 20 lakh crore package and its details have turned to be a "cruel joke" on the country, Gandhi said at a meeting of opposition parties. Hitting back, the BJP said it is the Congress president and her daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who have "played cruel jokes and cynical politics on migrant workers".  "They did nothing for migrant workers except the mother-daughter duo making some grand announcements. Except indulging in drama and petty politics at a time of national crisis, Sonia and her family did nothing to contribute to nation's united fight against the pandemic," Rao said in a statement.  "Never before have a principal opposition party indulged in such cynical politics and the Congress will pay a political price for playing negative politics," the Rajya Sabha MP claimed. Congress-ruled state governments have shown utter lack of sensitivity towards the migrants and refused to allow their own citizens to use Shramik special trains, he alleged.  "The whole world is appreciative of our handling of the COVID-19 crisis and the lockdown strategy in controlling the spread of the pandemic in India. Sonia Gandhi is perhaps regretting why India didn't turn out to be like her native Italy," Rao said.  Only today, he noted, a study by the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) showed how India averted 20 lakh cases and up to 78,000 deaths by imposing the lockdown timely and implementing it effectively.  Every relaxation, like inter-state travel of migrants on Shramik special trains or of bringing home Indians stranded abroad by Vande Bharat evacuation flights, has been allowed with elaborate Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), to be strictly followed by all state governments, Rao said.  The strategy to exit the lockdown has been designed in a very thoughtful and systematic manner, he added.  The BJP leader said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership in successfully controlling the COVID-19 challenge has been praised by world leaders.  "The Gandhi family is unable to digest the fact that PM Modi has emerged as truly a global leader and his image has surpassed that of every leader from its dynasty," he claimed. Addressing a meeting of 22 opposition parties convened through video-conferencing to discuss the situation arising out of the coronavirus pandemic, Sonia Gandhi alleged that the government is uncertain about the criteria for enforcing lockdowns and has no exit strategy it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-playing-cynical-politics-at-time-of-national-crisis-bjp-840760.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out in slum area in West Delhi, over 200 shanties gutted||A fire broke out in a slum area in West Delhi's Kirti Nagar and over 200 shanties were gutted in the blaze, officials said on Friday. A call about the blaze at the China Bhati area behind Kirti Nagar police station was received around 11.20 pm Thursday, following which thirty fire tenders were rushed to the place, Delhi Fire Service officials said. The fire was brought under control by 2.55 am, they added Over 200 shanties were gutted in the blaze but no casualty was reported, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-slum-area-in-west-delhi-over-200-shanties-gutted-840549.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Pakistani troops shell LoC areas in twin sectors of Poonch, Rajouri||The Pakistan Army on Friday shelled forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch and Rajouri districts, drawing retaliation from the Indian Army, a defence spokesperson said. "At about 0720 hours today, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms along LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district", the spokesperson said. The cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports were received, the official said. However, there was no immediate report of any casualty during the Pakistani shelling. Pakistani troops also shelled areas along the LoC in Poonch sector. "About 0330 hours today, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms & shelling with mortars along LoC in Krishna Ghati Sector of district Poonch", the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-shell-loc-areas-in-twin-sectors-of-poonch-rajouri-840552.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||15-year-old girl abducted, raped by three youths in Uttar Pradesh||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped by three youths in the Purkazi area here, police said on Friday. The girl was picked up from her house by the three accused and taken to a secluded place where she was raped, Station House Officer Subhash Gautam said. The incident came to light on Thursday when the girl came back to home and narrated her ordeal to the parents, he said. A case under relevant sections of law has been registered against the accused, Gautam said. In another incident, two youths were arrested on Thursday for allegedly sexually harassing a 14-year-old girl when she has gone to relieve herself in the fields, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-year-old-girl-abducted-raped-by-three-youths-in-uttar-pradesh-840554.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||76 more test coronavirus positive in Indore; tally up to 2850||As many as 76 more people tested positive for coronavirus in Indore in the last 24 hours, taking up the number of such cases to 2,850, an official said on Friday. The COVID-19 toll in the district, the worst-hit from coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh, rose to 109 after two more patients, a 70-year-old woman and a 65-year old woman, died during treatment at a private hospital here, Indore's Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. Both the victims were also suffering from diabetes and other diseases, the official said. With 76 more people testing positive for the disease in the last 24 hours, Indore's tally has now gone up to 2,850, he said. He said 1,280 patients of COVID-19 in the district have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. Meanwhile, Indores Divisional Commissioner Akash Tripathi has directed Health Department officials to investigate all cases of death of COVID-19 patients in the district and prepare an audit report. The disease outbreak was first reported in the district on March 24, when four people had tested positive for the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/76-more-test-coronavirus-positive-in-indore-tally-up-to-2850-840567.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC, district courts functioning restricted till May 31 amid coronavirus lockdown||Restrictions on the functioning of the Delhi High Court and district courts will remain in place till May 31 in view of COVID-19 and only urgent matters will be heard. Earlier the restrictions were in place till May 23. The Administrative and General Supervision Committee of the High Court, headed by Chief Justice D N Patel, decided that restrictions would be in place till May 31 and that urgent matters would continue to be heard by video conferencing. "...the functioning of the High Court of Delhi shall continue to remain suspended till May 31 on same terms," the administrative order said. The mentioning of urgent matters is being done through the web link which is available from 9 am to 10.30 am on all working days.   The order said all the cases listed in the high court, including before the registrars and joint registrars, from May 26 to 30 have been adjourned to corresponding dates between July 21 and July 25 respectively. The matters listed in the district courts during this period will also be adjourned and the information will be uploaded on their website, the order said. Till now, there were two division benches and 10 single benches to hear urgent matters through video conferencing. To ensure more urgent matters are taken up, it has been decided that from Friday all the judges of the high court would sit everyday to take up important cases via videoconference. The Delhi High Court and the lower courts together took up 20,726 urgent matters during the COVID-19 lockdown from March 24 to May 19. There are presently seven division benches and 19 single-judge benches in the high court.   Earlier, the high court had on March 25 restricted its and district courts' functioning till April 14. It was then extended to May 3, May 17 and subsequently till May 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-district-courts-functioning-restricted-till-may-31-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-840571.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||NCP attacks BJP over its protest during COVID-19 crisis||As the BJP protested failure of the Uddhav Thackeray government in containing the novel coronavirus spread, the ruling NCP on Friday asked the opposition party whether it is insulting COVID-19 warriors and committing "treason" with Maharashtra. NCP leaders used the hashtag 'MaharashtradrohiBJP' (Maharashtra treacherous BJP) to hit out at the opposition party, which has been critical of the Shiv Sena-led government over its handling of the coronavirus crisis in the state, which has so far recorded 41,642 cases. The Maharashtra BJP has asked its workers to hold black placards and wear masks of the same colour while registering their protest on Friday without violating social distancing norms. Think once before holding black (placards) in hand, whether you are insulting doctors, policemen and health workers who are working round the clock for Maharashtra! Whether you are committing treason with Maharashtra?, Maharashtra Minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil tweeted. Maharashtra Housing Minister and NCP leader Jitendra Awhad, too, attacked the BJP for playing dirty politics when the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is battling COVID-19 with full vigour. He charged the BJP with creating confusion among the people while the coronavirus is being combated. People will never accept the BJPs dirty politics. Rather they will condemn it and teach a lesson to the BJP! Awhad said on the micro-blogging site using the hashtag as Patil. Without naming the BJP, Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde accused it of not being honest with Maharashtra by protesting at a time when the state is tackling the disease valiantly. Maharashtra will never forget the treachery committed with its soil, he said on Twitter. The Sharad Pawar-led NCP is a key constituent in the Sena-headed government in the state.  Indecisiveness and strategic errors of the Maharashtra government have aggravated the COVID-19 crisis in the state, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said on Thursday and accused Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray of over dependence on bureaucracy as he is "scared" of taking initiatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncp-attacks-bjp-over-its-protest-during-covid-19-crisis-840580.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||UP govt clears Rs 36 lakh bill footed by Rajasthan govt for return of students from Kota||A day after the Congress-led Rajasthan government sent a bill of over Rs 36 lakh for facilitating the return of stranded students of Uttar Pradesh from Kota, the Yogi Adityanath government cleared the dues on Friday, an official said. Amid the controversy over Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi's offer to provide 1,000 buses to ferry migrant labourers in Uttar Pradesh, the Rajasthan government had on Thursday sent a bill of Rs 36.36 lakh for sending Kota students back home in Uttar Pradesh amid the lockdown. "In mid-April, the Uttar Pradesh government had decided to bring students of UP stranded in Kota due to lockdown back home. Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses were deployed for bringing them back, but the number of students there was more than our estimate and we needed additional buses," UPSRTC Managing Director Raj Shekhar said. "The buses of Rajasthan Roadways available in Kota were used for ferrying students till Agra and Mathura. The bill for the same was raised by the Rajasthan Roadways which has been cleared by the UPSRTC," he said. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's media advisor Mritunjay Kumar had strongly condemned the demand of Rs 36 lakh, saying it only showed the "inhuman face" of the Rajasthan government. In April, thousands of students from Uttar Pradesh who were preparing for various competitive examinations in the coaching hub of Kota in Rajasthan were brought back to their homes in buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-clears-rs-36-lakh-bill-footed-by-rajasthan-govt-for-return-of-students-from-kota-840592.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court notice to Centre on plea for banning Zoom app over cybersecurity concerns||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre in a PIL seeking a ban on Zoom App for official and personal purposes by the public until appropriate legislation was put in place to ensure adequate cybersecurity. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy asked the Union government to respond to the petition filed by a homemaker and a part-time tutor, Harsh Chugh, within four weeks. In her plea, she claimed that Zoom was reported to have a bug that can be abused intentionally to leak information of users to third parties. The app used for video and audio conferencing, meetings, chats and webinars has falsely claimed calls are end-to-end encrypted when they are not, she said. The petitioner said during the times when the world was under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic forcing millions of people to stay home since March 2020,  Zoom suddenly became the video meeting service of choice for the people worldwide. The daily meeting participants on the platform surged from 10 million in December, 2019 to 200 million in March 2020 as revealed by the CEO of the app, Eric S Yuan. However, it is important to realise how Zoom consistently violates its duty to implement and maintain reasonable security practices. There have been reports on how it misled consumers about the security benefits of the product.  The CEO of the company has already apologised publically and has accepted the app to be faulty in terms of providing a secure environment digitally which was against the norms of cybersecurity. It was also routing traffic through China, where the internet was heavily monitored by the government. Still, the Union government has not taken any steps to protect the general public and has not banned the offending software, though it was violative of rights to privacy, she pointed out. The continued use of this App was only making the users vulnerable and prone to cyber threats. Due to various privacy and security concerns, various organisations and governments have banned the use of Zoom App, namely Australian Defence Force Berkeley, California (public school use), Canada (Federal government use that requires secure communications), Clark County, Nevada (public school use), German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Google, NASA, New York City (public school use), Singapore Ministry of Education, Smart Communications, SpaceX, Taiwan (government use), United Kingdom Ministry of Defence, United States Senate, the petitioner said. "There have been concerns about what now is being called ‘zoombombing’ where an unauthorized person or stranger joins a Zoom meeting/chat session and causes disorder by saying offensive things and even photobombing the meeting by sharing pornographic and/or hate images," her plea claimed. On April 12, 2020, The Cyber Coordination Committee of the Ministry of Home Affairs also issued a public advisory as to how this app was unsafe and laid out certain steps to take care of while using the said app. The subsequent advisory stated that the platform was not for use by government officers for official purposes. Besides, the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), India’s nodal cybersecurity, agency, has also warned Zoom users of cyber risks and that the Zoom app is prone to cyber-attacks, her plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-banning-zoom-app-over-cybersecurity-concerns-840601.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh records 16 fresh COVID-19 cases; tally reaches 148||At least 16 more people, mostly migrant labourers, tested positive for COVID-19 in Chhattisgarh on Friday, taking the state's tally to 148, a health official here said. Of the 16 new cases, 12 were reported from Korba district, three from Kanker district and one was reported from Bemetara district, the official said. The infected patients from Korba were migrant labourers, who had recently returned to their home district from different parts of the country, and were kept in a quarantine centre in Darri police station area, he said. With the detection of 16 new cases, the state's COVID-19 count has gone up to 148, of which 89 were active cases and 59 patients had recovered, he said. The state has not recorded a single COVID-19 death so far, he added. Chhattisgarh COVID-19 figures are as follows: positive cases-148, new cases-16, deaths-0, discharged-59, active cases-89, people tested so far-45,522.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-records-16-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-148-840602.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 death toll in Delhi climbs to 208, highest spike of 660 cases take total to over 12,000||The coronavirus death toll in Delhi has mounted to 208, while 660 fresh cases of COVID-19 infection have been reported on Friday, the highest single-day spike here, taking the total in the city to 12,319, authorities said. The previous highest spike in fresh cases -- 571 -- was recorded on May 21. This is the first time in Delhi that over 600 COVID-19 cases have been reported in a day. Thursday was the third consecutive day, when 500 or more fresh cases were recorded in a day in the national capital. In a bulletin issued on Friday, the Delhi Health Department said, the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 208, and the total number of cases mounted to 12,319. It, however, added the cumulative death figures refers to fatalities where primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals. On Thursday, the the total number of cases stood at 11,659, including 194 deaths.  With 660 fresh cases, the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi has climbed to 12,319.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-death-toll-in-delhi-climbs-to-208-highest-spike-of-660-cases-take-total-to-over-12000-840605.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court adjourns hearing on plea by sacked BSF Jawan whose nomination against Modi got rejected||The Supreme Court Friday adjourned by two weeks the hearing on sacked BSF Jawan Tej Bahadur's plea challenging the Allahabad High Court verdict which had dismissed his election petition against the poll panel's decision to reject his nomination papers for contesting against Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, conducting hearing through video conferencing, perused the letter circulated by Bahadur’s counsel seeking adjournment of four weeks and said that the matter will be listed for hearing after two weeks. Senior advocates Harish Salve and Satyapal Jain, appeared for the respondent (Modi), who has been arrayed as party by Bahadur. He said the high court on December 6 last year dismissed his election petition on the ground of no locus and observed that he is neither a registered voter nor the resident of the Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency. He said he challenged rejection of his nomination paper by the returning officer and the High Court committed grave error by dismissing the plea because it has not considered the law laid down by the top court that when any person has filed his nomination in any constituency and his candidature has been rejected by the Returning Officer then he has locus to file Election Petition on sole ground of his rejection order. “In a nut-shell the factual matrix of the case is that on the directions of the Returning officer, the nomination of the appellant to the elections was wrongly rejected for not being presented in a prescribed manner and rejected the nomination/candidature of the Appellant for the Election of the 17th Lok Sabha from 77th Parliamentary Constituency (Varanasi), U.P. to be held in April – May 2019”, his plea said. Bahadur said he has sought a declaration that the election of respondent (Narendra Modi) be declared as void and the order passed by the returning officer dated May 1, 2019, rejecting his nomination be set aside. He said the high court failed to appreciate that the nomination letter of the appellant has been rejected by the district Election Officer by going against the intention of the legal provisions and by misusing the provisions mentioned in the sections 9 and 33(3) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. “Because the High Court failed to appreciate that the reply dated April 30, 2019 attached along with the Service Termination Order dated April 19, 2017 and reply/attached oath letter submitted to the District Election Officer, this fact was well established that the sections 9 and 33(3) do not apply on that case, but the District Election Officer/Election Officer who was also the district magistrate, misused his post and position and cancelled the nomination letter of the appellant on May 1, 2019,” his plea said. On May 9, last year, the top court had rejected his plea by which he has challenged the Election Commission's decision to reject his nomination papers from Varanasi Lok Sabha seat. The top court had said that it does not find any grounds to entertain the plea. Bahadur had then moved the top court challenging the decision of Returning Officer (RO) to reject his nomination papers from Varanasi Lok Sabha seat, saying it was intended to "give walkover" to PM Modi. The Returning Officer on May 1 last year had rejected the nomination papers of Bahadur, a Samajwadi Party candidate, who was dismissed from BSF in 2017 after he posted a video online complaining about the quality of food served to the troops. The poll panel official held that Bahadur failed to furnish a certificate as mandated under the Representation of Peoples (RP) Act to the effect that he has not been "dismissed for corruption or disloyalty to the state".   The Samajwadi Party had initially fielded Shalini Yadav as its candidate to contest against PM Modi but later nominated the sacked BSF jawan as it candidate. While rejecting the nomination papers of Bahadur, the Returning Officer had observed that "the nomination paper is not accompanied by certificate issued in the prescribed manner by the Election Commission to the effect that he has not been dismissed for corruption or disloyalty to the state".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-adjourns-hearing-on-plea-by-sacked-bsf-jawan-whose-nomination-against-modi-got-rejected-840606.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Bomb threat against Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, police register FIR||Police have registered an FIR after receiving a WhatsApp message threatening to kill Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The sender used objectionable language against Adityanath in the message sent on police headquarter's WhatsApp number, calling him a threat to particular community, a senior police officer said. The unknown sender threatened to blow him up with a bomb, the officer said. Senior officers were informed when the message was received around Thursday midnight. An FIR was lodged at the city’s Gomti Nagar police station. Police are investigating if this was an act of mischief or a conspiracy, the official said. They are looking into the call details of the number from which the message was sent, he said. An arrest in the case is likely to take place soon, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bomb-threat-against-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-police-register-fir-840607.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||SC to take up sacked BSF constable plea on rejection of election petition against Modi after 2 weeks||The Supreme Court on Friday decided to take up after two weeks a plea by Tej Bahadur, a sacked BSF constable, against the Allahabad High Court's order that had dismissed his election petition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  Tej Bahadur's nomination papers as the Samajwadi Party candidate in Varanasi constituency in 2019 Lok Sabha polls were rejected. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy adjourned the matter on a letter issued by the petitioner, requesting to put the matter for consideration after four weeks. The court, however, preferred to defer it by two weeks only. Senior advocates Harish Salve and Satyapal Jain appeared for Modi and others. Tej Bahadur challenged the validity of the High Court's judgement of December 6, 2019. The High Court has dismissed his election petition as having no locus and further said that he was neither a registered voter nor the resident of Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency. In a special leave petition, he contended that his nomination papers were rejected by the returning officer under "illegitimate pressure" from the BJP.  "The officer acted in an arbitrary manner and the High Court also committed a grave error by ignoring the fact when any person filed nomination in a constituency and his candidature has been rejected, then he has locus to file election petition," his plea contended. The petitioner sought a direction to set aside the rejection of his nomination papers on May 1, 2019 and action against the returning officer for misuse of his official powers.  The petitioner was sacked from the BSF after a video, in which he showed the alleged poor quality of foods served to jawans, went viral on social media networking sites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-take-up-sacked-bsf-constable-plea-on-rejection-of-election-petition-against-modi-after-2-weeks-840623.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||AAP govt obligated to provide protected environment to senior citizens living near health workers: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has said the AAP government and the municipal corporations are obligated to provide protected environment to senior citizens and other residents living near buildings occupied by health workers and directed the authorities to carry out sanitization and fumigation in such areas to assuage people's fears. Justice Asha Menon issued the direction on a plea by a senior citizen seeking to stop a house near his residence, in south Delhi, being used as a guest house for health workers as the occupants were allegedly not adhering to hygiene measures. The senior citizen, Anil Dhalla, told the court that he was living with five others of his age group, who also suffer from 'co-morbidities' and therefore, they were anxious about their health and well-being as measures relating to hygiene were not being adhered to by the occupants of the guest house. The court said no one has the right to ask for removal of resident health workers from their neighbourhood "because of an unrealistic fear of COVID-19...but respondent No.1 (Delhi government) and respondent No.2 (south Delhi municipal corporation) cannot escape their obligation to provide a protected environment to the senior citizens and other residents adjacent to such buildings which are occupied by the health workers".  It directed them "to take all action, such as fumigation and sanitization, similar to the measures as are being adopted for Containment/Buffer Zones, in the area in question and may also adopt the practice/ protocol in other zone/areas where health workers are residing, which would also assuage the fears of other residents in the same locality, that they may be exposed to greater risk of infection". The court directed that an action taken report be filed before the next date of hearing on May 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-govt-obligated-to-provide-protected-environment-to-senior-citizens-living-near-health-workers-delhi-hc-840634.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Row over transporting migrants: Rajasthan minister demands that Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath be booked||Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Friday accused the UP government of doing petty politics over the issue of buses for migrants, while another state minister demanded that Yogi Adityanath be booked for allegedly defying the Centre's orders on plying of vehicles. Rajasthan Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the UP chief minister first gave clearance for entry of buses but later created "hurdles" by saying that permit and fitness of buses was not valid.  He said that UP chief minister should be booked for allegedly defying the Centre's order which had said that documents such as license, permit and fitness of vehicles will not be checked till June 30 Speaking to reporters here, Pilot also slammed the Centre for "not making any concrete nationwide policy" for transport of migrant workers. "Taking help doesn't diminish someone's stature. UP government did politics and blamed Congress. We condemn it. Congress had made arrangement of buses for the migrant workers when there was no help from the Centre," Pilot said. He said that it is not justified that a ruling party blames the Opposition and that too for extending a helping hand.  Pilot said creating unnecessary hurdles, arresting people and registering FIR shows a "narrow mindset", which is regrettable.  Amid a war of words between Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and the UP government over buses for migrant workers, the Adityanath government had said that the Rajasthan government gave a bill of over Rs 36 lakh for providing buses to ferry students from Kota. The UP government said on Friday that it has cleared the dues. The UP chief minister's media advisor Mritunjay Kumar had strongly condemned the demand of Rs 36 lakh, saying it only showed the "inhuman face" of the Rajasthan government. In April, thousands of students from Uttar Pradesh who were preparing for various competitive examinations in the coaching hub of Kota in Rajasthan were brought back to their homes in buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/row-over-transporting-migrants-rajasthan-minister-demands-that-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-be-booked-840645.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh court sentences man to death for killing 6 people||A local court here has awarded death sentence to a person in connection with the murder of six members of a family seven years ago over a property dispute. Suresh Chand Yadav and his five family members were killed while they were sleeping on the night of May 26, 2012 in Pilkhar village here and a case had been lodged against his younger brother, Ram Pratap, alias Tillu, additional district government counsel D K Tiwari said. Additional sessions judge Vijay Kumar had pronounced Ram Pratap guilty on March 21 and awarded him a death sentence on Thursday, he said. The accused had sold his land to gamble and was eying his brother's property, Tiwari added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-court-sentences-man-to-death-for-killing-6-people-840677.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||China initiates process of sharing hydrological data for Sutlej, 10 days before scheduled date||Nearly 10 days before its scheduled date, China has initiated the process of sharing hydrological data for the Sutlej river with India, an annual practice during the monsoon which is crucial for generating information on floods in north India, officials said on Friday. According to an agreement signed between the two countries, China shares hydrological data of the Bramhaputra and Sutlej rivers with India from May 15 and June 1, respectively, until the end of October. For the Sutlej river, known as Langqen Zangbod in China, data is shared from a station at Tsada, the officials said. The river, a major tributary of the Indus, originates in Tibet and enters India through Himachal Pradesh. This year, China initiated the process on May 18-19, nearly 10 days before the actual date, the officials added. The development comes amid the recent face-offs between the armies of the two countries at the eastern and northern borders of India. On Thursday, India had said that the Chinese military was hindering normal patrolling by its troops along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and Sikkim. It also strongly refuted China's contention that the escalating tension between the two armies was triggered by trespassing of Indian forces across the Chinese side. Around 250 Indian and Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in Pangong Tso area in Eastern Ladakh on May 5. Four days later, there was a similar face-off near Naku La Pass in North Sikkim. The data is crucial for India for generating flood-related information in north and northeast India, the officials said. Prior to the sharing of data, both sides check whether the existing data sharing systems are working fine. Accordingly, China sends a test mail with data that has to be acknowledged by India, signifying that the communication line is working fine. But this usually happens two to three days before the actual data sharing begins, the officials said. Data sharing for the Brahmaputra river started from May 15. In 2017, China had stopped sharing the data citing that the hydrological data gathering sites were washed away due to floods. It also coincided with the 73-day Doklam stand-off between the two neighbours that took place during the peak monsoon period. It resumed sharing data from 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/china-initiates-process-of-sharing-hydrological-data-for-sutlej-10-days-before-scheduled-date-840678.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown: Civic officer suspended for holding marriage anniversary party||A civic officer in Madhya Pradesh's Indore has been suspended for celebrating his marriage anniversary by organising a party at an assembly hall here despite the ongoing coronavirus-induced lockdown and curfew, an official said on Friday. Commissioner of the Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) Pratibha Pal suspended zonal officer Chetan Patil in this connection, the official said. According to the official, the civic administration took cognisance of a video of the party organised recently by Patil at an assembly hall in Vijay Nagar locality to celebrate his marriage anniversary without any permission amid the ongoing curfew.  During the party, the social distancing norms were reportedly violated, he said. The official said that the municipal commissioner had issued a show-cause notice to Patil. However, as she did not find his reply satisfactory, a departmental inquiry was launched. The purported video shared on social media, which claimed to be of the party organised by Patil, shows people involved in singing and dancing in violation of social distancing norms. Indore is one the worst-hit districts in the country in terms of the number of coronavirus positive cases. On Friday, the number of patients in the district rose to 2,850, of whom 109 have died so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-civic-officer-suspended-for-holding-marriage-anniversary-party-840694.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||HC lays down parameters on dealing with suspension of rent payment by tenants due to COVID-19||In a significant decision, the Delhi High Court has laid down broad parameters for dealing with the issue of suspension of payment of rent by tenants owing to 'force majeure' conditions like the COVID-19 lockdown crisis. Justice Prathiba M Singh, laid down the parameters while rejecting some Khan Market tenants' plea seeking suspension of rent payment as they were unable to use the premises due to the COVID-19 pandemic, saying they were not willing to vacate the shop despite an eviction order against them. "The question as to whether the lockdown would entitle tenants to claim waiver or exemption from payment of rent or suspension of rent, is bound to arise in thousands of cases across the country.  "Though there can be no standard rule that can be prescribed to address these cases, some broad parameters can be kept under consideration, in order to determine the manner in which the issues that arise can be resolved." the judge said. Laying down the parameters, Justice Singh said where there are agreements between a landlord and tenant which contain a 'force majeure' clause, providing for some sort of waiver or suspension of rent, only then the tenant could claim the same.  "The force majeure clause in the contract could also be a contingency under the Contract Act which may allow the tenant to claim that the contract has become void and surrender the premises. However, if the tenant wishes to retain the premises and there is no clause giving any respite to the tenant, the rent or the monthly charges would be payable," the high court said. Justice Singh said 'force majeure' is defined by Black's Law Dictionary as “an event or effect that can be neither anticipated nor controlled” and according to a normal dictionary, “The term includes both acts of nature (e.g. floods and hurricanes) and acts of people (e.g. riots, strikes and wars)”. The order said that impossibility of performance, as provided under the Contract law, "would not apply to a lease agreement and other similarly situated contracts". The high court said in the absence of contracts or contractual stipulations the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (TPA) would govern tenancies and leases and for a lessee to seek protection under the TPA, "there has to be complete destruction of the property, which is permanent in nature due to the force majeure event".  "Until and unless there is a complete destruction of the property, the TPA cannot be invoked, the court said and added that in the instant case. "temporary non-use of premises due to the lockdown which was announced due to the COVID-19 outbreak cannot be construed as rendering the lease void under the TPA. The tenant cannot also avoid payment of rent..". The high court said that in the instant case, the Contract Act would not apply as there was no 'force majeure' clause in the lease deed and TPA too would not be applicable as they were no longer lessees as there was an eviction order against them. It said only the Delhi Rent Control Act would apply to them and in the instant case, the Khan Market tenants' application is liable to be rejected as while seeking suspension of rent on the basis of a force majeure event, they do not intend to surrender the tenanted premises.  "While holding that suspension of rent is not permissible in these facts, some postponement or relaxation in the schedule of payment can be granted owing to the lockdown," the court said and directed that the use and occupation charges for the month of March, 2020 shall be paid on or before May 30 2020 and for the months of April, 2020 and May, 2020 by June 25, 2020.  "From June 2020 onwards, the payment shall be strictly as per the interim order dated September 25, 2017. Subject to these payments being made, the interim order already granted shall continue. If there is any default in payment, the interim order dated September 25, 2017 would be operational. The said interim order is very clear i.e., if there is any non-payment, the decree would be liable to be executed," the high court said. The September 25, 2017 interim order had come on the appeal of the tenants challenging the September 18, 2017 decision of the Rent Control Tribunal upholding the March 18, 2017 order of the Rent Controller directing them to vacate the store. The March 18, 2017 eviction order had come on the plea of the landlord, a dentist, who had given the premises on rent back in Februrary 1975 for Rs 300 via a lease deed. Following the outbreak of COVID-19, an application for suspension of rent was moved, during the lockdown period.  In the application, the tenants had taken the stand that due to the lockdown, there has been complete disruption of all business activities, including theirs. They claimed that the circumstances are force majeure and beyond their control and therefore, they are entitled to waiver of the monthly payment as directed in the interim order of September 25, 2017, or some partial relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-lays-down-parameters-on-dealing-with-suspension-of-rent-payment-by-tenants-due-to-covid-19-840721.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||NHRC issues notice to Uttar Pradesh govt in connection with Auraiya accident||The NHRC has sent a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government over reports that bodies of victims in the recent Auraiya road accident and those injured were being carried in the same vehicle by authorities, officials said on Friday. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in a statement said it has observed that it is indeed "unethical and inhuman on the part of authorities" to put the dead bodies in the same vehicle in which the injured migrant labourers were asked to travel. "Reportedly, 26 migrant labourers lost their lives and more than 30 suffered injuries in a fatal accident when two trucks, one coming from Punjab and the other from Rajasthan, collided on a highway in Auraiya district of Uttar Pradesh,” it said. Later, as photographs of “the dead and the injured in the same truck went viral on social media, authorities sensing outrage, transferred the dead bodies in ambulances” at Allahabad, the NHRC said. The injured persons suffered not only physical injuries but were also under tremendous trauma from the accident. In that painful condition, they were forced to sit in the same vehicle where the bodies of those killed in the accident were kept, the statement said. The public servants "failed to deal with the situation sensibly and acted in a cruel manner violating the right to dignity of the poor labourers," it observed. The NHRC said, the notice has been issued to the state's chief secretary and he has been asked to submit a detailed report within four weeks. The report is expected to be comprehensive, giving details of the action taken against the delinquent officers and relief or rehabilitation provided to the victim migrant labourers and their families by the state authorities, it added. The commission would also like to know about the health status of the injured migrant labourers and status of their medical treatment, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhrc-issues-notice-to-uttar-pradesh-govt-in-connection-with-auraiya-accident-840729.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 relief material being 'diverted' to open market in Punjab: SAD chief||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday alleged that a large quantity of foodgrain, which was part of the relief material sent by the Centre in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, was being "diverted" to the open market by some Congress leaders in Punjab. The opposition leader sought a CBI probe into the matter and said he has brought the issue to the notice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  "A large amount of wheat and pulses sent by the Centre for 1.40 crore Punjabis found its way to the open market via Congress leaders," Badal was quoted as saying in an official statement. Badal said "it was shocking that migrant labourers slept hungry in Punjab, but the state government allowed the diversion of wheat and pulses to Congress leaders who in turn sold the stocks in the open market". He claimed that the food stock was meant for half of the state's population but it did not reach even 10 per cent of the people. "The magnitude of the fraud is mind boggling. All Congressmen responsible for this crime should be brought to book immediately," he alleged.  The Shiromani Akali Dal chief also alleged that the liquor mafia in league with some Congress leaders and legislators had caused a loss of Rs 5,600 crore to the state exchequer by allowing liquor from distilleries without payment of excise duty on the same. He further alleged that several distilleries supplied extra neutral alcohol to some Congress leaders for running illegal liquor bottling plants. On Punjab Pradesh Congress president Sunil Jakhar's reported claim that the SAD should bring a resolution in the Assembly to ban liquor in the state, Badal said the Congress party had an absolute majority in the Vidhan Sabha and it could easily do this on its own.  Badal on Friday sent 50,000 quintals of wheat to the Golden Temple in Amritsar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-relief-material-being-diverted-to-open-market-in-punjab-sad-chief-840755.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Resolve pending pension cases, Delhi minister tells WCD, Social Welfare depts||Delhi minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Friday directed the Women and Child Development (WCD) and the Social Welfare (SW) departments to review the pendency of pension cases and resolve the issues fast. Gautam, who holds the charge of both the departments, held a review meeting here on the status of all ongoing welfare schemes.   In view of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, the departments have been experiencing difficulty in the implementation of various schemes which has led to the pendency, an official statement said. "It has come to my notice that a lot of grievances related to pensions are unresolved. "I have directed the WCD and the SW departments to review the pendency and resolve them on a fast-track basis. Clear instructions are given that if grievances are not timely addressed and resolved, the departments will take strict action against the officers concerned," Gautam said. The minister also reviewed the status of all programmes under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS). Special focus was also laid on the status of vaccination programmes for children and the distribution of nutritional supplements to the beneficiaries under ICDS, the statement said.  "Our mission is to eradicate malnourishment in children by strengthening the primary healthcare system through the anganwadis. We aim to provide nutritious food to the children by adding more nutritional supplements like peanuts and sprouted grams," he said. In the meeting, he praised the work done by the departmental staff during the lockdown.  "Our staff, who worked day and night to provide relief to the people in Delhi, are our 'corona warriors'. The WCD Department has been providing milk packets, nutritious biscuits and food supplements to children. Our staff went beyond their call of duty to help people in Delhi during this lockdown," Gautam added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/resolve-pending-pension-cases-delhi-minister-tells-wcd-social-welfare-depts-840785.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court directs registrar to file report on number of sexual offence cases heard without victim's say||The Delhi High Court Friday directed the Registrar General to file an urgent report on the number of sexual offences cases dealt with by the trial courts where bail pleas were heard without hearing the complainant. Justice Prathiba M Singh, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, said a detailed report be filed after collecting data from the district judges of Delhi. The high court has said that victims of sexual offences have an obligatory say in the hearing of bail pleas of accused and ordered re-circulation of practice directions on it. The high court was informed that trial courts are violating the directions earlier issued by the high court by passing bail orders without adhering to mandatory requirement of issuance of notice to the complainant or authorised person on the bail plea of accused of sexual offences. “It is deemed appropriate that an urgent report be called from the Registrar General, as to the number of such matters which have been dealt with by the criminal/POCSO courts without notice to the complainant and the number of matters in which the complainant was not present or not heard before disposal of bail applications. “A detailed report be filed with this court after collecting the data from the various District Judges of all the District Courts in Delhi. The Practice Directions ought to be completely adhered to, as they are meant to ensure that the complainants'/victims' rights are adequately safeguarded,” the judge said. The high court was hearing a plea by the mother of a minor rape victim challenging the interim bail granted to the accused by a trial court without giving them a hearing or notice. Advocate Tara Narula, representing the victim, said the trial court's order granting interim bail to the accused on May 5 was passed in a routine manner and was not only bad in law but it also suffered from procedural lapse on the part of the sessions court. She said the order was passed without issuance of notice to the complainant of FIR and denied the opportunity of hearing.  The counsel said there are more than 80 cases which have been heard in this manner by the trial courts. The high court was informed by the counsel for the accused that his interim bail should not be cancelled as his wife is unwell. It said that his wife's medical report be placed before it within a week and listed the matter for June 4. The victim's counsel submitted that with effect from April 21, 2018 there was an amendment in the law by which it has been mandated that the presence of the informant or any person authorised, shall be obligatory at the time of hearing of the application for bail to the person, accused of sexual offences. Earlier, the high court had said, “Since it is submitted by the counsel for the petitioner that number of courts are not following the above directions, let the Registrar General of this court once again circulate the Practice Directions” of September 24, 2019 and high court's orders of November 25, 2019 and January 27 this year to all the District and Session Judges in Delhi. The District and Sessions Judges will bring the directions to the notice of the criminal courts dealing with matters of sexual offences under the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act under their respective jurisdiction, the high court had said. The high court, in its last year's orders, directed circulating the practice directions on it among the district judges and later, the directions were extended to the cases lodged under the POCSO Act. Narula submitted that a direction was issued to the District Judges, National Commission for Protection of Children Rights (NCPCR) and State Commission for Protection of Children Rights (SCPCR) to strictly comply with the same. The high court was informed by the lawyer that the victim and her family live in the vicinity of the accused and enlarging him on interim bail is a threat to their lives. The high court said the victim's police protection shall continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-directs-registrar-to-file-report-on-number-of-sexual-offence-cases-heard-without-victims-say-840804.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||People with confirmed air, rail ticket won't need additional pass to go to Delhi: Noida Police||People from Noida and Greater Noida with a confirmed flight or train ticket will not require any “pass” to travel to Delhi, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said on Friday. The decision has been taken in view of resumption of passenger flights and rail services in the coming days, the police said. At present the Noida-Delhi border is sealed for movement except for essential services and people having passes issued by the district administration. “The central government has decided to resume some domestic flights from May 25 and some train services from June 1 for which online bookings have also resumed,” Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Ashutosh Dwivedi said. “Hence, all police personnel will ensure that all such people having confirmed flight or train tickets are permitted to travel to the airport or railway stations. These people do not require any other 'pass' for their movement,” Dwivedi said in an order.  Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the administration had in April sealed the Noida-Delhi border for movement except for some exempted services. The move, officials had said, was aimed at combating COVID-19 transmission as several of the coronavirus cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar could be traced to Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-with-confirmed-air-rail-ticket-wont-need-additional-pass-to-go-to-delhi-noida-police-840807.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Centre should strengthen locust warning organisation in Rajasthan: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has demanded that the central government to strengthen the locust warning organisation in the state. The demand comes in view of the locust attack in the state’s frontier districts that border Pakistan. Gehlot was discussing locust control with collectors of these districts, locust warning organisations and agriculture department officials through video conference. He said that after almost three decades of continuous attack of locusts, it has become necessary to strengthen the locust warning organisation in the state. The chief minister said that due to the outbreak of locusts, farmers had suffered a big loss last year. This year, the attack of locusts is expected to be more intense than before. Gehlot said that he had apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the matter in a video conference earlier. Since the work of a locust warning organization is under the Centre, it should strengthen it and provide necessary resources, he said. The chief minister said this time locust swarms have moved from the border districts to Ajmer, Jaipur, Karauli, Tonk, Dausa, Sawai Madhopur and other districts so new ways to control them are required. State Agriculture Minister Lalchand Kataria said that after entering the Pakistani border in the state on April 11, small swarms of locusts have also reached other districts. He said about 50,000 hectare area has been affected by them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-should-strengthen-locust-warning-organisation-in-rajasthan-ashok-gehlot-840814.html
22-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab witnesses spurt in wheat stubble burning incidents||Punjab has witnessed a spurt in wheat stubble burning incidents with the number of fire incidents surpassing 11,000 during April 15 to May 22 period, officials said on Friday. According to satellite data provided by Ludhiana-based Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, 11,844 wheat stubble burning incidents have been reported in the state. The figure of fire incidents in the corresponding period of 2018 and 2019 was 10,993 and 10,114 respectively, the data showed. The state on Friday reported 431 wheat straw burning incidents which was also in excess of 98 and 330 incidents reported on the same day in 2018 and 2019 respectively, according to the data. The number of fire incidents continued to rise despite the Chief Minister Amarinder Singh this month had appealed farmers to desist from stubble burning. The chief minister in his appeal this month had asked farmers not to burn wheat stubble. "It is a respiratory disease and stubble burning will affect recovery of COVID-19 patients. It will even affect lungs of children making them prone to the infection," Chief Minister had then said in his message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-witnesses-spurt-in-wheat-stubble-burning-incidents-840831.html
22-05-2020||Opinion||COVID-19: What if some of us are already immune?||COVID-19 has devastated some countries, such as the UK and the USA, but so far seems to have relatively spared other countries, including India. Why? This is so puzzling and many answers have been offered. Perhaps different countries are in different stages of the disease, and that’s why the numbers are so different. Perhaps different countries are testing citizens using different methods and at different rates, and so it’s an artifact of under-detection. Perhaps different countries are defining and reporting cases and deaths differently, and so it’s an artifact of how records are being generated. Perhaps it has to do with the efficiency of containment strategies employed by different countries. Perhaps it has to do with people in some countries being generally younger than those in other countries; we do know that COVID-19 hits the elderly hard. Yet another suggestion is that countries that have a universal BCG birth vaccination policy seem to be protected, but a recent Israeli study suggests that this is not so. A related puzzle is that some people exposed to SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease, don’t fall ill at all, while others experience only mild symptoms, and still, others have the full-blown disease and may even die. So here is an almost absurd thought: Is it possible that some of us are already immune to the disease, and that this may explain the two puzzles stated above? On the face of it, this seems impossible. SARS-CoV-2 is a novel coronavirus, which means that nobody was exposed to it before it burst on the scene in Wuhan, China, late last year. So nobody could already be immune against it. Then, if this is so, how did blood cells of people in the USA, identified from samples drawn in 2015-2018, show an immune response against SARS-CoV-2 proteins? Remember, people in the USA in 2015-2018 could not possibly have been exposed to a virus that first appeared in China in late 2019. The study was conducted at the Center for Infectious Disease and Vaccine Research, La Jolla Institute for Immunology, and the University of California at San Diego, California, USA. The investigators examined blood samples obtained from 20 COVID-19 outpatients who were recovering from the disease, and who hence had an immune response against the disease.  The investigators found that important immune cells in the blood of these patients, called CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes, could recognize several SARS-CoV-2 proteins. These included the spike protein, which gives the virus its distinctive appearance but also included proteins called M, N, and others. Now here is the strange bit. The authors of this study also examined blood specimens drawn between 2015 and 2018 from 20 healthy American donors. Surprise. About 40-60 per cent of the healthy donor blood samples had CD4+ cells that were reactive against the different SARS-CoV-2 non-spike and spike proteins. Since these healthy donors could not possibly have been exposed to the virus before the pandemic, where did their immunity come from? One possibility is cross-immunity. There are four coronaviruses that cause the common cold in humans. It is possible that the cells that are reactive against common cold coronavirus proteins may be cross-reactive against SARS-CoV-2 proteins.  It is very tempting to speculate that this may explain why some people, and even some geographical territories, are less vulnerable to COVID-19 than others; perhaps pre-existing immunity against common cold coronaviruses may be an explanation. This would be wonderful news if true. However, we cannot be certain that it is true. We cannot know whether people are truly immune to COVID-19 if they have these cross-immune CD4+ cells. We will only know if we can compare blood samples of persons before and after they are exposed to SARS-CoV-2, and then see who gets the disease and who does not. Conducting such a study would be rather tricky. The hope arising from this study notwithstanding, readers must remember that, even in India, people are contracting COVID-19 and are dying from it. It is therefore important to stay with the basics: Using a mask, practicing social distancing, and sanitising hands and surfaces. On an important parting note, most of the COVID-19 vaccines under development target the spike protein with a view to amplify the CD4+ response against this protein. However, given that T cells in convalescent blood samples additionally target other SARS-CoV-2 proteins, it may be desirable to include other antigens in the vaccine, as well. (Dr Chittaranjan Andrade is Dean, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-what-if-some-of-us-are-already-immune-840584.html
22-05-2020||Opinion||Helping Indian civil aviation take flight once again||The Indian civil aviation industry, although the third-largest domestic civil aviation market in the world, is plagued with policy and economic issues. Most of the existing operators are barely breaking even. Additionally, the shortage of a skilled aviation workforce results in expat hiring at higher wages, minimising the profit margins. Further, high taxation on the already overpriced aviation turbine fuel (ATF), combined with the price-sensitive Indian market, pushes airlines into deep losses and makes it unsustainable for them to operate in the long run. Problems galore The economic havoc brought on by the pandemic and the resultant lockdown has dealt a severe blow to the cash reserves of the Indian aviation industry because of grounded aircrafts, benched staff, ticket liabilities and cash burn, pushing many airlines to the very limits of their liquidity. Multiple private carriers in India have reported salary cuts and fired high paid expat personnel to save cash reserves. Industry experts contemplate large-scale unemployment due to a decline of 70 per cent domestic air traffic globally and around 50 per cent in India’s case. Further, the Indian aviation industry needs an infusion of at least $1 billion in the short term. Time taken for overall recovery is anticipated to range from six months to two years and domestic air travel will revive earlier than the international segments. IATA impact assessments project airlines to burn $61 billion cash reserves by the end of Q2 of 2020. Therefore, to survive this crisis, operators need significant cash reserves for the next two quarters.  Also, since long-haul flight operations are a function of both customer demand as well as governmental travel restrictions, carriers with efficient domestic operations are more likely to pull through. The current crisis may result in fewer aircrafts because of grounding of fuel-inefficient fleets and the survival of fewer airlines. Further, given that the penetration of Covid-19 cases in per capita terms is comparatively lower in Asian countries, a quicker and V-shaped recovery is projected in intra-Asia aviation operations. Immediate concerns The 9/11 terrorist attack led to massive screening drives on airports across the world, which survives to this day. The ongoing global health emergency is sure to cast its spell on passenger throughput. However, if passenger health screenings are made mandatory, the industry will be enormously hit. It would entail formulation of a uniform set of guidelines by international regulators, which travellers must understand as necessary for their well-being and help allay traveller fears in the post lockdown world.  Going forward, a major chunk of funds with the aviation industry, which were set aside to digitise operations, would be unavailable for the foreseeable future. This means that the industry is likely to suffer from ‘innovation hang’ on the customer side from both airlines and airport segments. It is now imperative for the air operators to strategically define their innovation operations. As COVID-19 has made social distancing the norm, guidelines issued by the central ministry will result in better utilisation of the existing digital infrastructure as passengers are mandated to use e-boarding pass as well as certify their COVID-19 status on the Aarogya Setu app. With the government announcing a cap on airfare, normal profits of private carriers are expected to take another blow.  Case for immediate reforms The civil aviation sector in India was already distressed and required major reforms for sustainability. The current scenario makes these reforms indispensable. The airline industry has been actively pushing to bring ATF under the GST framework. Though the government is working on provisions for the same, it is high time that this is sped up for low-cost carriers to remain operational. The regulators may also allow for weekly or periodic revision in ATF prices, so that domestic carriers can leverage international price collapse and reduce their operational costs.  A robust aviation sector demands exploration of PPP models in Tier I/II cities, reduction in airport charges and overflight fees, tax relief to airline operators, deferment of GST payment for airlines and development of the MRO industry.  Further, skilling and training of a higher number of aviation personnel is urgently needed to reduce dependency on expat hiring. Besides, for attracting foreign direct investment to the domestic civil aviation sector, the government should evolve an efficient mechanism for leasing out aircrafts to international operators. Around the world, fiscal measures have been adopted to offset the losses occurring in various sectors of the global economy. India should also support its distressed sectors by providing special aid packages to help them revive sooner than later.  As the aviation sector finds itself in quicksand, this is a crucial moment when the public sector needs to step in to support, heal and restructure the lifeblood of connectivity, which holds promise for long-run economic growth. Overlooking aviation, a business that is the least forgiving of mistakes, is a potentially expensive proposition.  Tanvi Bramhe and Veenu Singh are YP at Development Monitoring and Evaluation Office (DMEO), NITI Aayog. The views expressed are personal. The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/helping-indian-civil-aviation-take-flight-once-again-840669.html
22-05-2020||South||If Nairobi hit the headlines in India, it's Vincent Ferrer behind it||A video clip of Alba Flores aka Nairobi of Money Heist donning rural Indian attire and speaking Telugu has been charming the Netflix’s crime-drama aficionados, for the past few days on social media. What is remarkable is the person’s life based on which the movie – Vincente Ferrer (2013) – is made, in which Flores, a Spanish actress who played the much-loved robber character Nairobi, portrayed the role of Shamira, an Anantapuram woman. Born in 1920 in Barcelona, Vincent Ferrer took part in the Spanish civil war. Later, as a Jesuit missionary, he came to India in 1952 and worked in Maharashtra. In 1969, he distanced himself from the Christian order and moved to Anantapuram, the most backward district of AP. Over the next four decades, Ferrer helped change the lives of lakhs of people from disadvantaged communities. The Rural Development Trust he set up works in the fields of education, health, housing, environment, sustainable livelihoods etc., executing projects aimed at eliminating poverty. Ferrer’s statues dot Anantapuram villages and his portraits are found in many households. RDT activities are at present centred in around 3700 villages of Anantapuram and Kurnool districts. Three hospitals RDT runs at Bathalapalli, Kalyanadurgam and Kanekal provide over nine lakh consultations a year at a nominal cost. In this time of Covid-19, RDT has focused its efforts and resources on aiding people directly and indirectly affected by the virus. RDT Bathalapalli Hospital, designated as a Covid-19 hospital, is serving as a reference centre in Anantapuram district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/if-nairobi-hit-the-headlines-in-india-its-vincent-ferrer-behind-it-840488.html
22-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu promulgates ordinance to take over Jayalalithaa’s residence||Veda Nilayam, the magnificent bungalow of late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in upscale Poes Garden here and a powerful address in the state for nearly three decades, will be converted into a memorial for her. The Tamil Nadu government on Friday morning announced that Governor Banwarilal Purohit has promulgated an ordinance to temporarily take possession of the iconic residence and to establish ‘Puratchi Thalaivi’ Dr J Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation to enable converting the bungalow into a memorial for the AIADMK leader. The foundation will be headed by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, and his deputy O Panneerselvam and Minister for Information and Publicity ‘Kadambur’ Raju as members. Director of Information and Public Relations will serve as the Member Secretary of the foundation. A permanent place in TN history Veda Nilayam will have a permanent place in Tamil Nadu’s political history for it served as the centre of power from 1987 to 2016 – entering the lane where the bungalow is located was nothing short of a pilgrimage for lakhs of AIADMK cadres who adulated Jayalalithaa as Amma (mother). With the bungalow now being converted into a memorial, the sprawling mansion will welcome lakhs of people to give a glimpse of the late chief minister’s opulent lifestyle. The Poes Garden residence of Jayalalithaa was at the centre of a political controversy after the AIADMK split in 2017 with O Panneerselvam’s rebellion against interim general secretary V K Sasikala. Panneerselvam was the first to demand that the bungalow be converted into a memorial for his late leader in February 2017 immediately after his rebellion. The announcement that the bungalow will be converted into a memorial for Jayalalithaa by Palaniswami on August 17, 2017, was an integral part of the compromise arrived between him and Panneerselvam for the merger of his faction with the AIADMK. The government is constructing another memorial for Jayalalithaa on Marina Beach where she was buried. The bungalow, whose value is over Rs 100 crore as on date, was purchased by Jayalalithaa’s mother Sandhya in the late 1960s and the former chief minister lived there till September 22, 2016, before she was wheeled into the Apollo Hospitals, where she breathed her last, 75 days later on December 5. Acquiring the bungalow In an official release, the government said it decided to transfer all the immovable and movable properties of Veda Nilayam to the Government for its upkeep until the acquisition process is complete. “Hence, the Governor of Tamil Nadu Thiru Banwarilal Purohit has promulgated an ordinance to temporarily take possession of 'Veda Nilayam' and movable items therein to the State Government and to establish 'Puratchi Thalaivi Dr J Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation' for making long term arrangements to convert 'Veda Nilayam' as a Memorial,” the statement said. It added that an administrative sanction was given by the Tamil Development and Information Department on 5.10.2017 for the acquisition of 'Veda Nilayam', while the action was initiated to acquire the land and building, and preliminary notification was published on 28.6.2019 and thereafter a declaration on 6.5.2020. ‘Veda Nilayam was another mother to Jayalalithaa’ Jayalalithaa was meticulous in maintaining the bungalow like it was the dwelling of royalty and 'Veda Nilayam' was “another mother” to her, senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh, who had met the late chief minister for several interviews at her residence, told DH. “Jayalalithaa was very emotionally attached to the Poes Garden residence. She felt protected inside the four walls of the house and the bungalow was another mother to her. Jayalalithaa had herself mentioned more than once that she had very sad memories of waiting for her mother who used to come late after her shooting,” Singh said. For Jayalalithaa, 'Veda Nilayam' was everything, he added. “She had a bungalow in Siruthavur near Chennai and another in the Nilgiris. But Jayalalithaa’s heart was always in Poes Garden,” Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-promulgates-ordinance-to-take-over-jayalalithaa-s-residence-840551.html
22-05-2020||South||1 COVID-19 death, 62 fresh cases reported in Andhra Pradesh; toll at 55||With 62 fresh infections, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh surged to 2,667 while one death was reported, taking the toll in the state to 55, the health department said on Friday. The lone death was reported in Krishna district. Of the fresh cases in the past 24 hours ending 9 AM on Friday, 18 were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, the health department bulletin said. Samples of 8,415 people were tested and 51 have been discharged from various hospitals after treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,731. The number of active patients are now 728. Cumulative positive cases from other states stood at 153 with 128 active cases, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1-covid-19-death-62-fresh-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-toll-at-55-840575.html
22-05-2020||South||Autorickshaws across Tamil Nadu barring Chennai can ply from 7 am to 7 pm starting May 23: Govt||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday allowed auto and cycle-rickshaws to ply across the state, except here, from May 23 with conditions including a cap on passengers. Vehicles in the Chennai city corporation police limit areas will not be allowed to ply, while those in containment zones also cannot run, a government release said. In rest of the areas in the state, both auto and cycle-rickshaws can ply from 7 am to 7 pm, it said. Besides the driver, there should be only one passenger in the vehicle, which should also be sprayed with disinfectants three times a day, the government said. Further, both occupants of the vehicle must wear face masks and hand sanitizers must be made available in the vehicle for the passengers, while the drivers should regularly wash their hands using soap, it said. The release said the government was announcing various relaxations to the ongoing coronavirus-induced lockdown, factoring in both the spread of the contagion as well as people's livelihood. The government has already allowed relaxations including the opening of shops and resumption of manufacturing and construction activities among others with considerable restrictions in place to prevent any possible spread of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/autorickshaws-across-tamil-nadu-barring-chennai-can-ply-from-7-am-to-7-pm-starting-may-23-govt-840599.html
22-05-2020||South||Dravidian leader V P Duraisamy joins BJP, says you can protect India if you accept BJP s ideology||Dravidian leader and former deputy speaker of Tamil Nadu Assembly V P Duraisamy, who was stripped off his deputy general secretary's post from the DMK on Thursday, joined the BJP on Friday. He joined the saffron party in the presence of state BJP president L Murugan and senior leader L Ganesan at Kamalalayam, the BJP state headquarters. Indicating that India was in "safe hands" with the BJP, he said "you can protect the country if you accept the BJP's ideology." On Thursday, DMK President M K Stalin removed Duraisamy as the party's deputy general secretary, days after the latter met Murugan on a "courtesy call." On Friday, Duraisamy said he chose to tread a different path. "When those in the DMK deviate from the core ideology from which the movement emerged, what's wrong if I quit (the DMK). My path is different," he told reporters and added that he continued to be a politician and not an opportunist. He wholeheartedly accepted the BJP's policies. He said he had joined the DMK following a request from the then-president and former chief minister, the late M Karunanidhi. Prior to Duraisamy, in December 2014, former Union minister D Napoleon joined the BJP in the presence of party president Amit Shah in Chennai, after quitting the DMK. Actor Radharavi, suspended from DMK last year for his comments against a leading south Indian female actor, had also later joined the BJP, before a brief stint in the AIADMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dravidian-leader-v-p-duraisamy-joins-bjp-says-you-can-protect-india-if-you-accept-bjp-s-ideology-840600.html
22-05-2020||South||AP High Court orders CBI probe into Vizag doctor's manhandling||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has on Friday ordered a CBI probe into an incident where a suspended government doctor was allegedly manhandled by the Visakhapatnam police. The court has asked to book the policemen involved and sought a report within eight weeks. Last Saturday, Dr K Sudhakar created a ruckus on a busy road in Visakhapatnam in an inebriated condition. In videos that went viral on social media, the physician was seen abusing the passersby from his car’s driving seat. Prancing on the road later blocking the traffic, he used expletives on the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Dr Sudhakar, an anaesthetician at the Narsipatnam area hospital, was suspended in April by the Jaganmohan Reddy government for reportedly making false accusations that COVID-19 protective gear is not made available at the hospital for the health workers. Though police said that Dr Sudhakar was uncontrollable, behaved rudely and even smashed one of their mobile phones, the visuals of the bare-chested doctor pinned to the road, his hands tied back and later bundled away in an autorickshaw to a government hospital created a furore. A traffic cop who hit him with a baton was suspended. Opposition leader Chandrababu Naidu criticized the Reddy government as being vengeful towards a physician, who is also a Dalit. After police filed charges under IPC sections 353 (assaulting or forcefully deterring public servants from discharging duties) and 427 (mischief causing damage), Dr Sudhakar was shifted to Visakhapatnam government mental hospital and is under treatment for acute and transient psychosis. A TDP leader and former Payakaraopeta MLA Vangalapudi Anitha wrote to the AP high court and stated that the doctor has injury marks on his body. The court which took up the matter suo moto had ordered the Visakhapatnam sessions court judge to record the doctor’s statement which was taken on Thursday. The Friday order is based on the statement. Dr Sudhakar a TDP man, says YSRCP Stating the whole episode as an attack on Dalit community and the doctor fraternity, Naidu called for action against the guilty. The TDP also blamed “the government’s retributive acts as leading to the doctor’s mental condition.” The ruling YSRCP reacted by stating Dr Sudhakar as a TDP man. YSRCP leaders including Bapatla MP Nandigam Suresh slammed Naidu “for making Dalits like Dr Sudhakar puppets to boost his political mileage.” Suresh said that Dr Sudhakar has been a hardcore TDP supporter and even expected to contest from Payakaraopeta assembly constituency on TDP ticket in 2019. “The doctor’s mental condition is quite unstable and there were such incidents in the past, involving Dr Sudhakar. Before raising allegations against the government, he should understand the motives of Naidu using him as a pawn,” the YSRCP leader said. YSRCP also alleged that Dr Sudhakar is close to former TDP minister from Visakhapatnam Ch Ayyana Patrudu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-high-court-orders-cbi-probe-into-vizag-doctors-manhandling-840626.html
22-05-2020||South||When Google Maps led to a family discord||Google Maps might bring a smile on the faces of millions of people as it guides them to navigate unknown routes without much difficulty, but not certainly for R Chandrashekar. The owner of a fancy store in Mayiladuthurai in Nagapattinam district has filed a complaint with police seeking action against the technology giant for “causing trouble” in his family life. The 49-year-old man’s grievance is that his wife had been tracking his movement using Google Maps, which “falsely shows” that he had visited certain locations where he had never been. Google Maps, according to Chandrashekar, is giving him “sleepless nights” as his wife believes the mobile application than anyone else. Armed with a two-page complaint, the man went to the Mayiladuthurai police station and submitted the letter to Inspector of Police K Singaravelu, who told DH on Friday that he has asked both the husband and wife to come for counselling. “We have not registered an FIR. I have asked the couple to come to the police station for counselling. We hope that counselling will solve the issue,” an amused Singaravelu said. In his complaint, Chandrasekhar claimed his wife had been picking up fights regularly over his visiting certain places for the past few months. “Google Maps has been causing a lot of problems in my marriage. My wife keeps checking the timeline on the app installed on my phone every day after I come from the fancy store. Google Maps falsely shows the locations where I had never been. When I explain this, my wife does not believe it. She does not believe me the way she does Google,” Chandrashekar told DH. The last straw was on May 20 when the wife countered Chandrashekar with the Google Maps app that showed that he has visited a locality in Mayiladuthurai town which he did not. “The location is three km away from my fancy store and I never went there. But since Google said so, my wife blindly believed it. Unable to bear the sufferings, I filed a police complaint,” Chandrashekar said. In the complaint, the man also alleged that his wife has not stopped believing Google Maps despite being advised by friends and family members to “trust me.” “Google is causing me troubles and is a hindrance to my family life,” Chandrashekar said in his complaint, seeking compensation from the technology giant for “my sufferings.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/when-google-maps-led-to-a-family-discord-840722.html
22-05-2020||South||Spike in COVID-19 cases in Kerala, 42 fresh cases including 21 returnees from Maharashtra; tally now 732||In the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases in Kerala so far, 42 people, including 21 returnees from Maharashtra, have tested positive for the virus on Friday, taking the infection tally to 732 while over 80,000 are under observation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Besides the 21 people who had returned to the state from Maharashtra testing positive, the other cases include one each from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and 17 from abroad and two from the state, Vijayan told reporters here. Two people were cured and discharged from hospitals today.  A 73-year-old woman from Chavakkad in Thrissur, who had come from Maharashtra, died due to the infection on Thursday, taking the COVID-19 death toll to four in the state. Among the fresh cases, Kannur reported 12, Kasaragod seven, Kozhikode and Palakkad five each, Thrissur and Malapuramfour each, Kottayam two, Kollam, Pathnamthitta and Wayanad one case each. In Kannur, one person had been infected through contact and in Kozhikode a health worker tested positive for the virus.  With this, the COVID-19 tally in the state has climbed to 732, while 216 are presently under treatment, Vijayan said. Over 84,000 people are under observation, a majority at homes and institutions, while 609 are in various hospitals, including 162 admitted on Friday. So far 51,000 samples have been sent for testing, of which 49,535 have returned negative, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-42-fresh-cases-including-21-returnees-from-maharashtra-tally-now-732-840726.html
22-05-2020||South||TN not in favour of resumption of air services from May 25||Tamil Nadu government is understood to have asked the Centre to reconsider resuming domestic air services to and from airports in the state from May 25. It has asked the Centre to wait till May 31 for resuming air traffic from airports in the state. Sources said the government has expressed its inability to find quarantine facilities for passengers coming by aircraft and hence it has asked the Centre to put off the measure by the end of May. So far, the state has had 10 aircraft landing in two airports carrying passengers stranded in various countries and 62 of them have tested positive. Besides, 584 people, who arrived from various states across the country through trains and their own vehicles, have tested positive for COVID-19. Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar had on Thursday said handling passengers who come from abroad and other states is a major challenge for the state which is battling over 14,700 Coronavirus cases. The state government has been asking the Centre not to resume regular air and train services to and from Chennai, which has over 9,000 cases, till May 31. Sources at the Chennai airport said they were prepared to resume air services from May 25. “We understand that the Tamil Nadu government is against the resumption of air services to and from Chennai. But we have no official confirmation on this count. Nevertheless, we are ready to resume operations at the airport,” a senior official said.  Meanwhile, the state government allowed autos across the state, except in Chennai Police limits, to ply from 7 am to 7 pm from Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-not-in-favour-of-resumption-of-air-services-from-may-25-840733.html
22-05-2020||South||Tirupati "laddu" subsidised sales to start in Andhra Pradesh from May 25||The famous "Tirupati laddu", the sacred 'prasad' of the ancient nearby hill temple of Lord Venkateswara, will be available for purchase by devotees at subsidised price in the headquarters of all 13 districts in Andhra Pradesh from Monday. About 10,000 laddus would be made available at the marriage halls or information centres of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which administers the cash-rich temple at Tirumala, in the district headquarter towns or cities, a temple official said on Friday. The 'laddu', which is priced at Rs 50 each, would be sold at Rs 25 "as a token of gift" to the devotees during the COVID-19 lockdown period, he told PTI here. Fresh stock would be transported from the holy hills a day before the exsiting inventory is exhausted at the respective places, he added. Entry of devotees to the more than 2,000-year old temple, that used to draw thousands from across the country every day during normal times, has been barred since March 20 to check the spread of the deadly coronavirus. The devotees of Lord Venkateswara in Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad could also be able to receive the 'laddus' at subsidised price soon. TTD authorities were perusing the matter with respective state governments for their nod in view of COVID-19 lockdown, the temple official added. Those who wished to purchase large quantity of laddus for free distribution among other devotees can contacttoll-free numbers - 18004254141 or "mailto:tmlbulkladdus@gmail.com", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupati-laddu-subsidised-sales-to-start-in-andhra-pradesh-from-may-25-840763.html
22-05-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh eyes Chinese pie; Constitutes task force to attract investments||Anticipating that India would emerge as an alternative hub to China for investments in the backdrop of COVID-19 outbreak, the Andhra Pradesh government has constituted a task force panel to attract companies to the state. The task force will be headed by Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Minister for Industries and IT while senior bureaucrats are members. "Economic issues and supply chain constraints caused by COVID-19 has resulted in many countries to rethink their investments in China," a Government Order issued on Thursday said. Reports indicate that the US, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Vietnam, Singapore among others are likely to diversify their supply chains from China and India could emerge as an alternative investment destination for doing business. "Further, this Task Force will continue to act as a forum for attracting investments on a long term basis, as well, into the State," it said. The task force will meet once every month to review the progress of investment proposals received and examine the special package of incentives requested by the investors and get it processed in accordance with the policy of the government, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-eyes-chinese-pie-constitutes-task-force-to-attract-investments-840778.html
22-05-2020||South||Kerala: Postponed exams of 10th, plus-two to be held from May 26||The examinations of the 10th standard and the plus-two students will commence in Kerala from May 26, its Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The exams were postponed due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The students reaching Kerala from other states will have to undergo 14-day quarantine and special arrangements will be made for them to attend the exams. Separate seating arrangementswill be made for students coming from containment zones and those who have family members under home quarantine,Vijayan told reporters here. Masks will be given to each student and all the teachers will have to wear masks and gloves. The answer-sheets will be kept at the examination centres for seven days and the fire force will disinfect the schools after the exam. "The state government will purchase over 5,000 IR thermometers for thermal screening. In case any student displays any symptoms of coronavirus, the medical team will attend to them. The students will be provided transportation to the exam centre too," he said. The local self-government institutions, education department, fire force, police and transport ministry will work together for conducting the exam, Vijayan said. At least 10,920 students have applied for centre change and the question papers will be distributed accordingly. Necessary permission has been received to conduct the exams in the Gulf regions too, he said. The chief minister said all districts now have conflict resolution centres. Till now, 340 complaints have been received and 254 matters resolved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-postponed-exams-of-10th-plus-two-to-be-held-from-may-26-840803.html
22-05-2020||South||Kerala CM Vijayan backs resumption of domestic flights||Virtually backing resumption of domestic air services, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Friday that all those who reach the state by such flights will have to undergo 14 days quarantine as per the lockdown protocol but exempted people coming for business needs from this. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had on Wednesday announced that domestic passenger flight services will resume from May 25 in a calibrated manner. "Some business executives may visit the state for a meeting or something and we cannot demand 14 days quarantine for them," Vijayan said, adding that necessary healthprecautions will be taken in their case. Earlier in the day, state health minister K K Shailaja had said domestic flyers arriving in Kerala must undergo strict home quarantine as per the lockdown guidelines, in view of increasing COVID-19 cases in the state. "There is no change in that. Most people will be coming from the major hotspots of the country," she said. In the highest single day spike in COVID-19 cases in Kerala so far, 42 people, including 21 returnees from Maharashtra, tested positive for the virus today, taking the infection tally to 732 while over 80,000 are under observation.  Kerala had reported its fourth fatality on Thursday night after a 73-year-old woman, who had travelled from Maharashtra to Thrissur, along with her son in a taxi,died. The last rites of the woman were held this morning following COVID-19 protocol. Vijayan pointed out that the increase in cases were not due to relaxations in lockdown curbs, but because many Keralites from abroad and other states were returning. However, the state cannot close the door on its own people, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-vijayan-backs-resumption-of-domestic-flights-840861.html
22-05-2020||State||COVID-19: 105 new cases in Karnataka, active cases breach 1,000 mark||Once again crossing the century mark, Karnataka reported 105 new cases of coronavirus, taking the total number of infections in the state to 1,710, the health department said on Friday. Most of the fresh cases are returnees from other states, with a majority of them from neighbouring Maharashtra. With a spike in infections, the number of active cases in the state has crossed the 1000 mark. With 41 deaths and 588 discharges, there are 1,080 active COVID-19 cases in the state, the department said in its mid-day bulletin. Among the 105 new cases, about 84 are returnees from neighbouring Maharashtra, two each from Telangana and Delhi, and one from Jharkhand. Remaining cases are contacts of patients earlier tested positive, from various containment zones, with history of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and SARI. Contact of at least two cases are under tracing. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Chikkaballapura accounted for 45, followed by 14 in Hassan, eight in Tumakuru; six in Bidar, five each from Bengaluru urban and Chikkamagaluru; four in Bengaluru rural, three each from Mandya, Haveri and Davangere. Two cases each were reported from Dharwad and Vijayapura while one each from Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada, Bagalkote, Belagavi and Chitradurga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-105-new-cases-in-karnataka-active-cases-breach-1000-mark-840632.html
22-05-2020||State||24 persons booked under EDO for entering Dharwad without informing||The District Administration has decided to book cases against 24 people, under the provisions of Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 (EDO,) for entering Dharwad district without informing the district administration. In the intervening night of May 21, the district administration picked up 35 people, including 24 from urban areas of Hubballi and Dharwad, and nine people from rural areas of Dharwad district who had registered to return to Dharwad but did not report to the administration. Of them, 24 were found to have violated the rules, while remaining nine had not made the onward journey to return to Dharwad. All were subjected to medical tests and later sent to quarantine. As on May 22, more than 3,000 people ‘stranded’ in other States had registered themselves in Seva Sindhu to return to Dharwad. However, only 1,855 returned to District via official channels, including Shramik trains, buses, and private vehicles. All those who returned were tested at University of Agriculture Science (UAS), Dharwad and sent to institutional quarantine either at government facilities or private hotels. Missing link There was a missing link of 1,200 people.  The district administration through its tracking system traced the contact details of the people who had applied to return but had not reported to the district administration. The administration fished out these 35 cases and decided to bookcases against the 24 erring people. Speaking to DH, Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan said, “people should realise that the institutional quarantine and testing are being done for the good of the returnees and their family. They should have informed the administration about their arrival,” she added. She said, by hiding their arrival, these people have risked the lives of not only their family but also others in the society. Taking their offence into consideration, the administration has decided to file cases under the stringent provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. “Today, Dharwad’s number of cases is less because of the strict contact tracing and quarantining those returning from other States. All the recent cases that were reported in Dharwad are of returnees,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/24-persons-booked-under-edo-for-entering-dharwad-without-informing-840849.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||TV channel CEO held for murder||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police have arrested a 28-year-old regional TV channel chief executive officer (CEO) in connection with the murder of Machohalli Gram Panchayat member Lakshminarayan (43) in Bengaluru Rural on April 15, 2019. Mohan Kumar MN, the accused from Machohalli village, was at large after Lakshminarayan was killed by a gang of more than eight persons at Madanayakanahalli, said deputy commissioner of police (Crime - 2) Ravi Kumar.  At the time of the murder, Mohan was MD of regional channel  JTV. At present, he is CEO of TV 6. The property dispute resulted in the murder, said thepolice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tv-channel-ceo-held-for-murder-840480.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No bar on Sunday marriages: govt||The BS Yediyurappa administration has clarified that marriages that were previously scheduled to be held on May 24 and May 31 - Sundays - will be exempted from the total lockdown.  The government issued this clarification on Thursday following petitions by citizens which sought to know if they could go ahead with marriages that were scheduledon Sundays.  Under Lockdown 4.0, Karnataka has decided to enforce a total lockdown on May 24 and May 31 - Sundays - by suspending all relaxation, including public transport services and closure of shops. Only essential services will be allowed while a curfew will be in effect the whole day to restrict the movement of people.  “Marriage events that were already scheduled will be considered as a special case,” Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority member-secretary TK Anil Kumar said in the clarification. “Deputy commissioners have been told that marriages can be permitted by ensuring social distancing, capping the number of guests at 50 and strict compliance with all other guidelines.” In an advisory that was issued previously, the Department of Health & Family Welfare said that marriages can be held in a “suitable public place with good natural ventilation (no air condition).”  No person from a containment zone will be allowed to attend the event, and persons aged above 65 years, pregnant women and children below 10 years are not permitted.  Besides prohibition on consumption of alcohol, the advisory said paan, gutka and tobacco will not be allowed.  Face masks are compulsory and all persons should maintain a physical distance of more than one metre. The venue shall be clean and hygienic, with a prohibition on spitting in public places. A nodal person should be identified to oversee the arrangements, the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-bar-on-sunday-marriages-govt-840481.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||B’luru-Mysuru train service from today||With Indian Railways gradually resuming inter-district passenger train services, the train service between Mysuru and Bengaluru will start from Friday. The first inter-district passenger service from Bengaluru will arrive at Mysuru at 12.30 pm on Friday. The train will depart to Bengaluru at 1.45 pm. The passenger train services were suspended on March 22 in the wake of the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Mysuru Railway station is all geared up for the resumption of train services. Divisional railway manager Aparna Garg and other divisional officers conducted a preliminary inspection to ensure a high level of hygiene, cleanliness and security. The passengers will be thermally screened and hand sanitised before boarding train at Mysuru. Social distancing will also be ensured. The incoming rake will also be disinfected and sanitised before boarding, according to the authorities. District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar, MP Pratap Simha inspected the arrangements at Mysuru Railway station, on Thursday. Online ticket  All passengers have to book tickets online through IRCTC website. The booking is open. The advanced reservation period is seven days. Confirmed ticket passengers alone shall be allowed to enter the platform. Passengers have to take precautionary measures such as wearing of masks and should reach the boarding station 90 minutes in advance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-luru-mysuru-train-service-from-today-840482.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru-Mysuru train service set to resume from Friday||With Indian Railways gradually resuming inter-district passenger train services, the train service between Mysuru and Bengaluru will start from Friday. The first inter-district passenger service from Bengaluru will arrive at Mysuru at 12.30 pm on Friday. The train will depart to Bengaluru at 1.45 pm. The passenger train services were suspended on March 22 in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Mysuru Railway station is all geared up for the resumption of train services. Divisional railway manager Aparna Garg and other divisional officers conducted a preliminary inspection to ensure a high level of hygiene, cleanliness and security. The passengers will be thermally screened and hand sanitised before boarding train at Mysuru. Social distancing will also be ensured. The incoming rake will also be disinfected and sanitised before boarding, according to the authorities. District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar, MP Pratap Simha inspected the arrangements at Mysuru Railway station, on Thursday. Online ticket  All passengers have to book tickets online through IRCTC website. The booking is open. The advanced reservation period is seven days. Confirmed ticket passengers alone shall be allowed to enter the platform. Passengers have to take precautionary measures such as wearing of masks and should reach the boarding station 90 minutes in advance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-mysuru-train-service-set-to-resume-from-friday-840484.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC orders Rs 7.64-cr relief to M’luru air crash victim’s family||The Supreme Court has awarded a whopping Rs 7.64 crore compensation to the family members of a 45-year old man who got killed in the crash of Air India Express Flight 812 from Dubai, in Mangaluru on May 22, 2010. A total of 158 people of the 166 passengers on board perished in the accident. On a plea by Triveni Kodkany, wife of deceased Mahendra Kodkany, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Ajay Rastogi disagreed with the reasonings of the NCDRC, on making a deduction from the salary of the victim while calculating the compensation. The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) had granted the wife, daughter and son of the deceased Rs 7.35 crore as compensation.  The top court has now directed Air India to pay them the enhanced amount along with 9% interest per annum. Kodkany was an expat and employed as the regional director for the Middle Eastern Region with GTL Overseas (Middle East) FZ-LLC, a UAE-based company.  In its judgement, the top court said bifurcation of the salary of the deceased into diverse heads may be made by the employer for a variety of reasons.  However, in a claim for compensation arising out of the death of the employee, the income has to be assessed on the basis of the entitlement of the employee, it said.  The court noted that Kodkany was a confirmed employee entitled to adequate weightage in terms of determination of compensation in the event of untimely demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-orders-rs-764-cr-relief-to-m-luru-air-crash-victim-s-family-840486.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt allows Nanjangud pharma firm to resume operations||Pharmaceutical firm Jubilant Generics, which had turned Nanjangud in Mysuru district into a Covid-19 hotspot, will resume manufacturing of drugs as the state government accorded clearance for its operations. The company had sought permission to restart the operations after its parent company Jubilant Life Sciences tied up with the US drug firm Gilead to manufacture and sell Remdesivir, which is considered to be a frontline drug to treat Covid-19. “The work on modification of the plant to supply the product has to begin immediately to manufacture Remdesivir. In view of this extreme urgency, it is critical to resume and normalise operations at the Jubilant Generics, Nanjangud plant immediately,” a letter to the government by the company read. The company noted that it also manufactured critical medicines like Azithromycin, Losartan, Valsartan, Irbesartan, Carbamazepine, Oxcarbazepine. “Jubilant also manufactures Azithromycin Dihydrate and Azithromycin Monohydrate that are used as the first line of treatment for COVID-19,” it said. When contacted, Nanjangud MLA B Harshavardhan confirmed that the government has permitted the resumption of operations which are likely to commence in a few days. All industrial activities have started and the Jubilant factory in Nanjangud, which was shut due to Covid-19, has been permitted to resume work, officials informed Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa during a review meeting on Thursday.  The company also stressed that preventive measures in line with the Ministry of Home Affairs’ guidelines and protocols will be followed, adding that detailed sanitising work was carried out by a professional agency.  The manufacturing of Remdesivir, Azithromycin and the supply of other drugs to people with the shortest possible time will save countless lives. In order to fight this global menace and in the interest of the people of the state of Karnataka and the country the plant needs to start full operations immediately, the letter added. A person (52) employed at the Jubilant Generics was identified as the source of infection of Nanjangud Cluster spreading novel coronavirus to 76 people, of which 48 were primary contacts, 24 secondary and two tertiary contacts. The state government instituted a probe under IAS officer Harsh Gupta in April to unravel the source of infection of the Nanjangud cluster. However, on May 2, he submitted an incomplete report to the government citing lack of cooperation from some departments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-allows-nanjangud-pharma-firm-to-resume-operations-840499.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka govt will bear ‘Shramik’ train travel cost, says CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka will bear the travel cost of migrant workers and stranded persons who want to return to their homes through Shramik special trains till May 31, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has announced.  “The government has considered the plea of migrant workers who were unable to bear the travel expenditure to go back to their hometown. The government considers migrant workers, who have come from far-flung parts of our country, as our own people and it is my firm belief that they too must be supported by the state,” Yediyurappa said in a tweet Friday.  “Therefore, Karnataka government will bear the cost of travel of migrant workers and stranded persons to their respective states by Shramik trains up to 31st May,” he said. At present, the Shramik trains are run on an 85:15 cost-sharing ratio, with the states having to bear 15% of the cost, which the travellers have been made to pay in several cases.  The Indian Railways has operated 1,565 Shramik special trains since May 1 and ferried over 20 lakh migrants back home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-govt-will-bear-shramik-train-travel-cost-says-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-840616.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Panchayat election: Poll panel weighs options as Cong attacks BJP||The State Election Commission (SEC) on Friday (May 22) sought suggestions from all deputy commissioners on whether or not elections should be held for gram panchayats whose term will end soon, even as the issue has become a political hot potato. By June-July, the term of all 6,025 gram panchayats will end. The ruling BJP has asked the SEC to postpone the elections due to the COVID-19 crisis, which has angered the Opposition Congress. The government is also toying with the idea of nominating pro-BJP people as members of administrative committees that will take control of the gram panchayats. The SEC has pointed out that besides having to conduct elections, it will also have to prepare fresh voters lists and a new reservation roster as per a recent amendment to the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act. Plus, it noted that district and taluk officials were busy with the COVID-19 crisis. Gram panchayats are the first in the self-governance strata and gaining control of all 6,000 of them can alter local political equations at the grassroots. With the Opposition breathing down its neck, it is said that the BJP may consider appointing bureaucrats as administrators so as to insulate itself from political attacks for nominating party people as administrative committees. “Administrative committees to the gram panchayats can be appointed only when it is not possible to conduct elections or when no members get elected even after two elections,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who led a Congress delegation to the SEC on Friday, explained. “But we are not facing any such situation now, so administrative committees cannot be appointed,” he said. “The SEC’s inaction towards initiating the electoral process, to replace the outgoing gram panchayat members, is unconstitutional and also violates the provisions of Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act,” Siddaramaiah said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar said gram panchayat elections are fought without any parties or their symbols. “Why are they out to destroy democracy by appointing BJP workers to panchayats? You can’t saffronise the panchayat raj system. We will fight this,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panchayat-election-poll-panel-weighs-options-as-cong-attacks-bjp-840770.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||122 passengers travel between B’luru-Mysuru||About 122 passengers travelled between Mysuru and Bengaluru on Friday after South Western Railway (SWR) resumed train service. The train service resumed after about two months. While 59 passengers travelled from Mysuru, 63 passengers travelled from Bengaluru. Reservation counters in Mysuru division will be reopened in phases for advance bookings. The counters in Mysuru, Davanagere, Shivamogga Town and Hassan will be operational from June 1. Refund facility for tickets booked during the lockdown would begin from May 25 from these counters, according to Divisional Commercial Manager Priya Shetty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/122-passengers-travel-between-b-luru-mysuru-840819.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Night bus service soon: Minister||Transport Minister Laxman Savadi on Friday said night bus service had resumed at several parts of the state and soon the same would be extended across the state. "The Centre will release a fresh set of guidelines on May 30. Based on it, we will take a decision on extending night bus service," Savadi said during his visit to Hosapete central bus stand.  The private bus service will start in the next two to three days. The operators are allowed to hike ticket fares up to 15%, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/night-bus-service-soon-minister-840820.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No COVID-19 duty for cops aged above 55 years in Karnataka||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said that the government would not deputy police officials aged above 55 years for COVID-19 duties. “Some policemen have contracted novel coronavirus. It has been decided to restrict those aged above 55 years for duties at their police stations only,” he told reporters. The Home department had taken measures to ensure safety of the policemen. They would be assigned duties in shifts. Weekly offs would be given once a week or once in 10 days, he said. Bommai said that the government would soon decide on shutting down KR Pet and some police stations as two policemen attached to KR Pet police station and one from Pulikeshi Nagar (Bengaluru) had contracted the virus. Travel history of the three policemen would be traced. The Home minister did not buy claims of illegal entry of people from neighboring states.  A large number of people from Tamil Nadu entered Karnataka after liquor outlets reopened. Special teams had been formed to restrict the illegal entry of people, he said.  “Karnataka doesn’t face the threat of community transmission of the virus as those entering the states from outside are under institutional quarantine. Over 30,000 people have returned to various districts. A large number of people are still in Maharashtra. People from other states were allowed only after mandatory institutional quarantine ,” he said. On the permission to Nanjangud-based Pharmaceutical firm Jubilant Generics to resume operations, he said that the Health department wrote to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which issued guidelines. An inspection would be conducted before the operations resumed at the company. Of 92 COVID-19 cases in Mysuru district, 74 were linked to the company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-covid-19-duty-for-cops-aged-above-55-years-in-karnataka-840821.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Restaurants pass on parcel charges to customers, and they feel the pinch||Offering only takeaway services, local joints have hiked prices to include parceling charges and customers, left without a choice, are paying them. A cup of coffee at a darshini comes with an additional Rs 2, as many of them charge Rs 14 to Rs 16 to include the money spent on the parceling material. While parcel charges are nothing new, they are particularly pinching the customers during the financial crises triggered by the pandemic. Restaurants have also hiked prices for other dishes anywhere between Rs 20 to Rs 40. “Offices have resumed from Monday, but the canteens are not operating,” said an employee with a private firm in Central Bengaluru. “We have no option and are dependent on the nearby hotels, which are charging extra for takeout meals.” Karnataka Hoteliers’ Association president Chandrashekar Hebbar said the parceling costs money to the restaurants that are also operating in a loss. “We provide the cup and a lid to cover it,” he explained as a reason for the additional charge. “This will be reversed once we receive permission from the government for dine-in services.” Friday deadline The association had given the government three days to decide whether to allow dine-in services and that ended on Thursday. Association members said they would meet the chief minister on Friday and decide on withdrawing the takeaway services. “When we met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday, he sought three days’ time (to decide on allowing dine-in services),” Hebbar told DH. “If the government refuses permission for dine-in, we will withdraw the parcel services and close down hotels across Karnataka.” When the government has allowed small eateries and roadside pushcarts, why should it not allow dining at around 50,000 hotels in the state, Hebbar asked. “We will ensure social distancing by revising the seating arrangements. Despite this, if the government fails to consider our pleas, we cannot bear the financial loss just by operating parcel services,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/restaurants-pass-on-parcel-charges-to-customers-and-they-feel-the-pinch-840822.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Docs rejoin 3-yr-old's leg after freak accident||When timely medical help was hard to come by during the earlier phase of the lockdown, doctors at Sparsh Hospital here have helped a three-year-old girl from Andhra Pradesh to stand on her own after she was on the verge of losing her leg in a freak accident.  On May 1, the child was playing on a swing at her home in the remote village of Naayanavenapalli, Singamanamala Mandalam, Anantapur district. Even as her father was mowing the grass with a sharp machete near the swing, she accidentally slipped and fell on the machete, injuring her legs. She suffered a near-total amputation of her left leg just below the knee joint. The distraught father rushed the girl to Bengaluru, 320 km away. A team of orthopaedics and plastic surgeons at Sparsh Hospital successfully performed the reconstructive surgery on the leg. In big relief to the family, the child has now been shifted out of the paediatric ICU.  According to the doctors, in cases like this one, the amputated part should be wrapped with a moist cloth, sealed in a plastic bag and put in a mixture of ice and water. The part should not be in contact with ice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/docs-rejoin-3-yr-olds-leg-after-freak-accident-840823.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid curbs: BMTC daily ridership falls steeply||The road to normality is fraught with multiple challenges for the BMTC, with officials saying enforcing Covid-19 restrictions is of primary concern now rather than achieving the revenue target.  On Tuesday, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) resumed operations with about 2,000 buses and saw a revenue of Rs 63 lakh, while facing complaints about its costly and compulsory daily bus pass rule.  However, officials said they were operating with a fine balance and that allowing cash transactions would disturb the arrangement. “We know that reducing the pass fare will bring more people to the buses. We are working on the modalities for the same. The daily pass cost Rs 70 earlier, too. We introduced the weekly pass for Rs 300 to help the poor people who travel regularly,” said C Shikha, managing director, BMTC.  Even before the pandemic struck, the financial condition of the city transporter had worsened due to rising fuel prices and operation costs. Its cumulative losses had crossed Rs 800 crorlast year.  Shikha noted that the corporation was operating under restrictions of Lockdown 4.0 and not focusing on revenue. “Starting normal operations will not help contain the pandemic, but we will run 3,000 buses from Monday onwards. Our focus at this point is on social-distancing measures rather than revenue,” she said. As the number of buses was increased to 2,500 on Wednesday, the revenue increased to Rs 83 lakh. The numbers are far off the mark of the Rs 3.5-crore average daily revenue clocked during the pre-pandemic days.  An official in the operations asked people to refrain from unnecessary travel. “People need to show responsibility and avoid travelling as much as possible. Drivers and conductors are putting themselves on the frontline. The essential sector workers and the poor are travelling due to a lack of other options. Others should avoid the buses for now,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-curbs-bmtc-daily-ridership-falls-steeply-840824.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Heat wave likely to sweep over North Karnataka||An intense heatwave is likely to sweep over North-interior Karnataka region in the weekend even as the state is gradually returning to normalcy following the relaxation of the lockdown rules. According to the forecast by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), parts of North-Interior Karnataka are likely to resemble a boiling cauldron with mercury levels hovering around 44 to 46-degree centigrade in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, Bagalkot and Ballari districts. Based on the IMD’s forecast, scientists at the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell (KSNDMC) told DH that the temperature will increase by more than 3-degree centigrade than the normal day temperature during the two days of heatwave period. “Only if the temperature level rises above 3 degree Centigrade from the normal days, a heatwave alert is issued. While the heatwave is expected to sweep over the Kalyana Karnataka region, subsequently the same is expected to move downwards over parts of South-interior Karnataka,” a scientist clarified. The IMD and KSNDMC officials have appealed to the public across North Karnataka districts to stay indoors during the daytime and not to venture out. “It is advisable that people shall defer their field activities and stay indoors besides constantly hydrating themselves to safeguard from the sweltering heat,” an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heat-wave-likely-to-sweep-over-north-karnataka-840827.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kidwai hospital set to test 3k Covid samples per day||Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology (KMIO) had ordered a German technology machine called High Five for its molecular Oncology Department much before the Covid-19 pandemic started and it will now come in handy to ramp up testing of the dreaded disease. KMIO director Dr C Ramchandra said, "The German technology machine also uses the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique that is being used for testing Covid-19 samples. Previously, we would mount 374 samples at a time and would run it two to three times a day. So, we could run about 600-1,000 samples. Now, we can mount 700 samples at a time and can add 1,500-2,000 samples to our current testing capacity."  The institute paid Rs 70 lakh for the machine. "We decided to help people tide over this crisis. So, instead of using it only for Molecular Oncology for just three months, we will use it for Covid-19 testing. This will help in speeding up testing and easing the backlog of samples," Dr Ramchandra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kidwai-hospital-set-to-test-3k-covid-samples-per-day-840828.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Panchayat election: Poll panel weighs options as Cong attack BJP||The State Election Commission (SEC) on Friday sought suggestions from all deputy commissioners on whether or not elections should be held for gram panchayats whose term will end soon, even as the issue has become a political hot potato.  By June-July, the term of all 6,025 gram panchayats will end. The ruling BJP has asked the SEC to postpone the elections due to the Covid-19 crisis, which has angered the Opposition Congress.  The government is also toying with the idea of nominating pro-BJP people as members of administrative committees that will take control of the gram panchayats.  The SEC has pointed out that besides having to conduct elections, it will also have to prepare fresh voters lists and a new reservation roster as per a recent amendment to the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act. Plus, it noted that district and taluk officials were busy with the Covid-19 crisis.  Gram panchayats are the first in the self-governance strata and gaining control of all 6,000 of them can alter local political equations at the grassroots. With the Opposition breathing down its neck, it is said that the BJP may consider appointing bureaucrats as administrators so as to insulate itself from political attacks for nominating party people as administrative committees.  “Administrative committees to the gram panchayats can be appointed only when it is not possible to conduct elections or when no members get elected even after two elections,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who led a Congress delegation to the SEC on Friday, explained. “But we are not facing any such situation now, so administrative committees cannot be appointed,” he said. “The SEC’s inaction towards initiating the electoral process, to replace the outgoing gram panchayat members, is unconstitutional and also violates the provisions of Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act,” Siddaramaiah said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said gram panchayat elections are fought without any parties or their symbols. “Why are they out to destroy democracy by appointing BJP workers to panchayats? You can’t saffronise the Panchayat Raj system. We will fight this,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panchayat-election-poll-panel-weighs-options-as-cong-attack-bjp-840829.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||430 random tests done, but no positive case in Padarayanapura||A week after municipal officials began the second phase of random testing in Padarayanapura to determine the extent of the Covid-19 outbreak, they did not reveal extensive infestation. Since the mass testing began on May 14, the BBMP had used 430 of 500 swab kits, but did not get a positive result. “This does not necessarily mean there is no infection in the ward,” a senior BBMP official said. Data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare has revealed that there are 61 cases as of Thursday evening in Padarayanapura’s containment zone. This makes up 23.6% of the total cases in Bengaluru. All 11 cases reported in the ward are known contacts of previously infected people. Tests in fringe areas Another official pointed out that 216 original random sampling in the beginning of May had revealed seven positive cases, as all the tests have been conducted at the core of the containment zone. But the second phase of the random testing has been limited to people in the fringe areas of the containment zone. Chamarajpet MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan clarified that the testing had been prioritised for pregnant women and senior citizens. “Ninety pregnant women have been tested so far and the balance is largely of senior citizens,” he said. The MLA could not confirm whether all of them lived in the fringes of the containment zone. Dr Manoranjan Hegde, BBMP health officer, west zone, said the testing will soon extend into the inner areas of the containment zone. He pointed out that the results are awaited on 240 of the 430 used tests. About 190 tests have been done up to Monday, including 11 on the first day of the programme. No tests were done on Sunday. So far, all the tests have come out negative. Eighty-six tests were done on Tuesday, while 39 were done on Wednesday and 115 on Thursday. “Results of these tests are still pending,” Dr Hegde said. “But it is likely that they are all negative. We would be informed if otherwise.” The Palike is expected to receive 500 more test kits on Friday, the health official said. Khan was hopeful that 150 tests could be conducted on Friday. “Among these, over 130 will be senior citizens above the age of 60, while eight will be pregnant women,”he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/430-random-tests-done-but-no-positive-case-in-padarayanapura-840830.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Three FIRs against ACP, inspectors on bribery charge||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has registered three FIRs against CCB Assistant Commissioner of Police Prabhushankar M and inspectors Ajay R M and Niranjan Kumar, who have been suspended over corruption charges.  The officers are accused of receiving huge kickbacks from tobacco dealers to let them operate during the earlier period of the lockdown when it was illegal to sell all kinds of tobacco products. The incident came to light after two tobacco dealers complained to City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao.  Deputy Commissioners of Police Kuldeep Kumar R Jain (Crime 1) and Ravikumar K P (Crime 2) were then tasked with conducting an internal inquiry, which established that the accusations were right. The police subsequently raided the officers and recovered about Rs 30 lakh from them before they went absconding.  Fake masks case  The three officers are also accused of taking bribes from a shopkeeper named Suresh, whom they had raided for selling fake N95 masks. While a case was registered against Suresh at the Banaswadi police station after the raid, the officers allegedly promised to absolve him of the accusation in exchange for money. The cases in the tobacco extortion were registered at the Cottonpet police station.  The FIRs were registered on the written orders of state police chief Praveen Sood, said a senior police officer. While Prabhushankar and Ajay are named in all the three FIRs, Kumar is listed in just one. “We will soon summon them for questioning,” the officer added.  Curiously, Prabhushankar has already obtained anticipatory bail in the extortion cases registered at the Cottonpet police station, which are being probed by Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) B Ramesh. The inspectors are yet to get bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-firs-against-acp-inspectors-on-bribery-charge-840832.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to set up Covid-19 task force in rural, urban areas||In a bid to decentralise Covid-19 tracing and treatment, the government plans to set up task forces in urban and rural areas. At the rural level, each village and in urban areas every ward will be considered as a unit. The structure of these task forces will be revealed in the next two days, said Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar at a presser here. "The head of the zilla panchayat will be considered the chief executive officer of the task force in rural areas. They will ascertain who should get tested and treated," Sudhakar said. In urban areas, where the BBMP and other city municipal corporations exist, each ward will be treated as a unit, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-set-up-covid-19-task-force-in-rural-urban-areas-840834.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown: MCom graduate works as MGNREGA daily wage worker||An MCom graduate of the University of Mysore (UoM) has taken up work as a daily wage worker under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) to support her family at Doddapura village in T Narsipur taluk due to the lockdown. Geetha is working as a daily-wager for 14 days. “My father died recently and my mother is aged. The younger sister is physically challenged. The past two months were difficult, due to the lockdown. Thus, I am working as a daily-wage worker,” she said. “Earlier also, I have worked on farmlands. I am ready to do any work. I am proud about MGNERAGA work also. But we don't get work under the MGNREG Act regularly. Thus, it is difficult to sustain,” she said. “I passed MCom with first class. Later, I tried for a job at various places. Finally, I registered under MGNREGA. We have 17 guntas of farmland. We have to repay loans availed for my elder sister’s wedding,” she said. Gram panchayat development officer M Rajasekharamurthy said, “I have brought Geetha’s issue to the notice of CEO of Zilla Panchayat. District In-charge Minister S T Somasekhar has asked Geetha to meet him once the lockdown is lifted.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-mcom-graduate-works-as-mgnrega-daily-wage-worker-840837.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Online classes still a dream for Tribal students||Even though the state government has ordered the education institutions to conduct online classes, students in tribal areas in the district are deprived of the facility. The network coverage is so bad that people get mobile phone connectivity with a great difficulty. Under this condition, conducting online class is a mirage. The students from the tribal hamlets said they could not attend a single online class, owing to network issues. Online classes are being conducted for Class 10, PU and degree students. Forget about the online classes, there is no basic facilities such as housing and electricity in most of the tribal hamlets such as Bombuhadi, Brahmagiri Colony and Reshmehadlu, situated near Nagarahole forest. They opined that the online classes were not helping the children from the already under-privileged families.  Most of the children help their parents, who are daily wagers, to support the family. Due to this, high school teachers conducted classes for these students during nights, in the month of December last year, to prepare for Class X annual examinations. Some students also stayed in hostels. But, as hostels and residential schools have been converted into quarantine centres in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown, the students are sent to their homes. Children, who study in the high schools of Kutta, Srimangala, Hudikeri, Bekkesodluru, Balele, Titimati, Palibetta and Maldare regions, are not even familiar with the idea of online classes. Timmaraju, a teacher at Balele Vijayalakshmi PU College, said that the government had announced the examination dates for Class 10. But, the students cannot be reached to convey the information. Even if they are intimated, there is no guarantee that they would appear for the examination, he said. Children in Basaveshwara tribal hamlet are used to do their home work in front of the fireplace in kitchen, as there is no power connection in the hamlet. The condition of children in other tribal hamlets in the district is no different. Timma, head of the tribal hamlet, lamented that there is absolutely no facility for children in the hamlet to prepare for Class 10 final exams. The parents are not willing to send their children to the examination centres as wild elephant menace is on rise. Earlier, students used to stay in the hostels and would go to schools to attend the examination, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/online-classes-still-a-dream-for-tribal-students-840839.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: BS Yediyurappa asks officials to hire more doctors, increase beds||In a move to prepare for a possible deeper crisis with COVOD-19 cases rising, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday directed officials to hire doctors without waiting for government's permission.  This directive came at a meeting with the ministers in charge of the Mandya and Chikkaballapur districts and senior officials to discuss the COVID-19 situation.  According to sources, Yediyurappa asked officials to be prepared for a deeper crisis. Even retired doctors can be hired, the CM said, urging officials to pay them competitive salaries. "First hire doctors and then send the files," he said. These doctors would be in service until the crisis passes. That apart, he also asked officials to increase the number of beds in all hospitals by at least 50.  While observing that the cases were increasing with people outside the state entering Karnataka, he asked officials to ensure that nobody from other states entered the state border until May 31.  Meanwhile, officials also impressed upon the CM to create a separate section for management of the pandemic by appointing a secretary-rank official. Since ministers and officials of different departments have been roped into dousing the COVID-19 crisis, all other works are pending, officials pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-bs-yediyurappa-asks-officials-to-hire-more-doctors-increase-beds-840840.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka gets Rs 201 cr for disaster mitigation||The Centre has given Karnataka Rs 201.8 crore under a new State Disaster Mitigation Fund that will be used to make relief operations ready in the event of another flooding this monsoon, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said Friday.  According to the minister, the government has information that the monsoon this time will be normal, unlike the unprecedented onelast year.  “Unlike last time, when we got Rs 336 crore, the Centre has earmarked Rs 1,054 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), of which Rs 395 crore has come. The new component this time is the State Disaster Mitigation Fund of Rs 201.8 crore, which we will use to prepare for rehabilitation, hospital and other things required,” he said. “This time, experts have said that the monsoon will be normal,” Ashoka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gets-rs-201-cr-for-disaster-mitigation-840841.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: Karnataka okays extra work hours at factories||Workers in all of Karnataka's factories will have to give more hours at work as the state government on Friday exempted those establishments coming under the Factories Act from sticking to prescribed weekly and daily work hours. In a notification, the government has allowed factories to make employees work for ten hours a day, and sixty hours in a week. There is no exemption, however, from having to pay workers extra wage for overtime. At present, Section 51 of the Factories Act limits working hours to 48 hours per week, and Section 54 keeps it at a maximum of nine hours per day. The exemption will be valid till August 21, 2020.  The decision was met with stern opposition by trade union leaders, who called it "a unilateral decision" but Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar defended it.  Speaking to DH, Hebbar said that the notification will be placed before the next Cabinet meeting for a post-facto approval. "This has been done in five other states to help industries tide over the economic crisis caused by the COVID-19 lockdown," he said.   Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) opposed it, threatening to hit the streets in protest. "In many tri-party meetings between labourers, factory owners and the government, nobody had sought an extension of working hours. The chief minister did not consult the workers before this unilateral decision," CITU state president S Varalakshmi said. Another leader Meenakshi Sundaram said that the order would aggravate the exploitation of workers in factories and also reduce employment opportunities due to increased working hours of existing employees. "The companies are looking at layoffs as there is no production. Increasing working hours won't help anybody," he said. Hebbar defended the decision saying that the order was essential to ensure the factories continue production. "Extra hours is not a permanent feature. It is temporary and will be revised when the economy picks speed," he said. The Karnataka Employers' Association, in its petition to the CM, had sought 12-hour work daily with four hours of overtime with a single wage. It has also sought relaxation from provisions under the Industrial Disputes Act, which require industrial establishments employing 100 or more workmen to seek government permission to layoff, retrench employees or close itself down among other amendments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-okays-extra-work-hours-at-factories-840842.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Intra-state rail service evokes lukewarm response on Day One||The special trains to Belagavi and Mysuru from Bengaluru received a lukewarm response on Friday after the railways resumed intra-state service after a gap of nearly two months. The first train, KSR Bengaluru-Belagavi Tri-Weekly Special (02059) to Belagavi left Bengaluru at 8 am on Friday. Muniyammal, cleaning staff and Nabi Ahamed, pointsman flagged off the train. However, only 338 passengers had reserved tickets for the train, which can carry about 1,400 passengers. Of them, only 176 boarded from Bengaluru. The train will run thrice a week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, the South Western Railway said in a release.  In the return direction, the train (02060) will leave Belagavi at 8 am on Saturday. It will run on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The fare has been fixed at Rs 274. People reluctant In what seemed people’s reluctance to travel in trains during Covid-19, the second train (06503) of the day left Bengaluru to Mysuru at 8.29 am carrying only 63 passengers. In the return direction, the train (06504) left Mysuru at 1.45 pm with just 57 passengers. The train service between the two cities will continue every day. All the four trains will not run on Sunday due to lockdown restrictions, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/intra-state-rail-service-evokes-lukewarm-response-on-day-one-840843.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC students in containment zones to write exams in supplementary||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education which announced fresh time table for SSLC examinations has now said that "students residing in containment zones will not be allowed to write exams!" However, these students will be allowed to appear for supplementary examinations as fresh candidates. Normally supplementary examinations are conducted as second chance for failed candidates to clear subjects. But this has created confusion among parents and students who are preparing for exams. Following the department's announcement, several students and parents felt, "What if the areas declared as safe zones report Covid-19 positive cases later on, after the clearance of a few subjects by the students." Meanwhile, a few officials of the department opine that looking at the spike in cases, it is still a big challenge to conduct the SSLC examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-students-in-containment-zones-to-write-exams-in-supplementary-840847.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, AICTE affiliation renewal goes online||It is online affiliation renewal for engineering colleges across nation for 2020-21 academic year as the All Indian Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has asked the colleges to submit applications online. Once the colleges submit applications online for renewal of affiliation, an expert committee will allot a slot for online verification. “The expert committee will not physically visit the colleges this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The college managements have to fulfill all the requirements prescribed by the Council,” said a member from Karnataka who is on expert panel of AICTE. However, the colleges will have to submit an affidavit stating that the information provided by them is true to their knowledge and if the authority finds any foul play, the affiliation could be withdrawn. “The online affiliation process will be done through webinar. The college management representatives along with the principal have to be present in the meeting along with documents,” explained a member of the expert committee. The documents submitted by the colleges will be uploaded on AICTE portal and objections will be invited. If anyone finds that the documents submitted by the institutions are fake, they can file an objection. The AICTE will make arrangements for physical visit, once situation comes to normalcy, themember said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-aicte-affiliation-renewal-goes-online-840848.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt orders schools not to organise trips even after lockdown||The schools across the state have been directed not to organise any tours or trips for children even after the reopening of the schools post lockdown or relaxation of the restrictions. In a circular, Director for Secondary Education said, "No school is allowed to conduct trips even after the reopening of the schools considering the safety of children in wake of COVID-19 pandemic until further orders from government."  The pandemic has pushed the education institutions into an unprecedented uncertainty. Along with officials and parents, teachers and education institutions are worried about the future. The government has recently announced new time tables for conducting the SSLC examinations with several restrictions. However, a big question mark is hanging over the commencement of the next academic year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-orders-schools-not-to-organise-trips-even-after-lockdown-840852.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Appoint professionals to Covid task force, experts urge CM||Top Bengaluru academicians have urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to nominate technocrats and experienced civil society representatives as advisors to the state emergency task force. Writing to the chief minister, the experts, including historian Ramachandra Guha, honorary emeritus scientist at CSIR Fourth Paradigm Institute Vinod Gaur and IISc professor T V Ramachandra have asked the government to ensure it regularly disseminates the committee’s decisions and details of how it implemented and utilised the economic stimulus fund. “Currently, no details are available regarding the constitution of the state committee/task force to address and manage the Covid-19 lockdown andpost-lockdown situation,” they noted in the letter. Listing out a series of positives, the experts said they were "gratified" about the “efficient disbursal of emergency food relief” and no incidents of mass starvations were reported in the state. “We are also appreciative of the fact that the Government of Karnataka has made every effort to disseminate information about Covid-19 and undertake measures to control the spread of the pandemic,” it said. But the experts were concerned that the continuing pandemic-induced emergency may be used to rush through policies that might require careful deliberation. They urged the government to avoid making sweeping changes. "If Karnataka is to retain its reputation and edge as a progressive and forward- looking state, the government needs to rise to the occasion during this emergency."  “Only humane, just, and democratic governance can ensure that this crisis does not become a humanitarian catastrophe. As representatives of an academic community that is deeply concerned about some of the recent events," the letter — signed by over 18 experts — further added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/appoint-professionals-to-covid-task-force-experts-urge-cm-840853.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Common board to conduct SSLC/PUC exams in 2021||A common board will conduct the annual examination for SSLC and second-year pre-university for 2021. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Friday briefed Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa about the change during a review meeting on Friday. “Preparations have been started for merger of PUC and SSLC boards and a single examination board will be set up soon,” said Suresh Kumar. This is one of the long-pending demands of Department of Primary and Secondary Education. After a detailed study and considering the fact that most of the states have common examination board for PUC and SSLC examinations, the department has decided to set up a common examination board. According to officials, merging SSLC and PUC board and conducting board exams under common entity will be cost effective. Every year over 8.50 lakh candidates take up SSLC exams and over 6 lakh appear for second yearPUC exams. An expert committee constituted to finalise a dedicated education policy for the state has been asked to provide importance to children of migrant labourers and run-away kids. “We have already taken necessary measures to frame guidelines to bring such kids to main stream and expert committee is working on it,” said Suresh Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/common-board-to-conduct-sslc/puc-exams-in-2021-840856.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Shyamala Bhave continued family’s illustrious legacy||Shyamala Bhave, who died at 76 on Friday, hailed from a family that evangelised Hindustani classical music in Bengaluru. Her illustrious father Govind Bhave, one of three prime disciples of the great D V Paluskar, began to teach the art in a city that was a stronghold of another classical form: Carnatic music. Shyamala’s great-grandfather Pandit Vishnudas Bhave was a pioneer of Marathi theatre, her father Vithal Vishnu Bhave a painter and photographer, and her mother Lakshmi a classical dancer. Their house was frequented by several distinguished Kannada writers, including Da Ra Bendre, who would give her a poem every day during his stay in Bengaluru. She had to compose a tune for it by the end of the day. Saraswati Sangeeta Vidyalaya, the school Govind Bhave set up in Seshadripuram, is 90 years ago. Shyamala learnt from him and continued his legacy, singing, composing, teaching andrecording. She was also drawn to Carnatic music, and learnt it from V Doreswamy, A Subbarao and Kurudii Venkannachar. Eventually, she became a rare musician who could sing both classical forms, and even perform single-person jugalbandis. Shyamala was a popular name on All India Radio, singing a variety of classical and non-classicalgenres. The vocalist had suffered stroke two years ago. She was recently discharged from a private hospital as she did not respond to the treatment. The mortal remains were kept at Saraswati Sangeet Vidyalaya in Seshadripuram for some time to facilitate the public to pay their tribute. Final rites were conducted at the Chamarajept burial ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shyamala-bhave-continued-family-s-illustrious-legacy-840857.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Man commits suicide fearing quarantine||A 40-year-old man, who had consumed pesticide fearing that he would be quarantined, passed away at a private hospital on Friday. Tukaram Lamani, a resident of Chikkur in Mudhol taluk, had consumed the pesticide on May 15, said the Lokapur police. He had returned from Ratnagiri in Maharastra attending a work for three months. As the Asha workers visited his house and collected data, he was afraid that they would quarantine him and consumed the pesticide to commit suicide, added the police. A case has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/man-commits-suicide-fearing-quarantine-840858.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM BSY asks officials to hire more doctors, increase beds||In a move to prepare for a possible deeper crisis with COVID-19 cases rising, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday directed officials to hire doctors without waiting for government's permission.  The directive came at a meeting with the ministers in charge of Mandya and Chikkaballapur districts and senior officials to discuss the COVID-19 situation.  According to sources, Yediyurappa asked officials to be prepared for a deeper crisis. Even retired doctors can be hired, the CM said, urging officials to pay them competitive salaries. "First hire doctors and then send the files," he said. These doctors would be in service until the crisis passes. That apart, he also asked officials to increase the number of beds in all hospitals by at least 50. While observing that the cases were increasing with people outside the state entering Karnataka, he asked officials to ensure that nobody from other states entered the state border until May 31.  Meanwhile, officials also impressed upon the CM to create a separate section for management of the pandemic by appointing a secretary-rank official. Since ministers and officials of different departments have been roped into dousing the Covid crisis, all other works are pending, officials pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bsy-asks-officials-to-hire-more-doctors-increase-beds-840859.html
22-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||In single-day record, Karnataka tests 12.2k samples||Karnataka on Friday (May 22) registered the highest number of samples tested for Covid-19 in a single day at 12,229. The state has, so far, tested 1,86,526 samples.  Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, also in-charge of Covid-19 briefings, said, “A total of 12,229 samples were tested today (May 22), which we were expecting this quantum of testing only by the end of the month.”  The state recorded as many as 138 new cases on Friday. Of which, 111 are with a travel history to Maharashtra with Chikkaballapur district alone reporting a good 47 cases. The minister said, among those who returned from Maharashtra since April 24, only 526 were registered on Seva Sindhu. “Of 1,700 patients, who’ve tested positive, till date (May 22), 763 are contacts of positive patients,” the minister said adding that Aarogya Setu app helped in detecting 31 positive patients in the state. So far, 1,035 international passengers have arrived in Karnataka by eight flights. Of which, one has tested positive for the virus. As many as 355 international passengers have opted for paid-quarantine at five-star hotels, 450 chose three-star hotels while 156 picked budget hotels. A total of 57 have been sent for home-quarantine. The minister said that, according to the Ministry of Civil Aviation, domestic flights would be allowed from Monday with one-third seating capacity. “There are discussions about what should be done for businessmen, who come only for a day’s visit to the state. Will they be placed under 14-day institutional quarantine? A decision will be taken tonight and a note will be issued,” saidKumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-single-day-record-karnataka-tests-122k-samples-840867.html
22-05-2020||West||23 more test COVID-19 positive in Nashik district; tally at 890||With 23 more persons testing positive for coronavirus, the tally in Nashik district of Maharashtra has gone up to 890, officials said on Friday. These included 11 from Malegaon town and eight from Nashik city. The remaining four patients are from outside the district but they are undergoing treatment here, according to an official statement issued by the local administration. All new reports came late Thursday night. With these fresh cases, the COVID-19 tally in the north Maharashtra district has gone up to 890, the statement said.  As many as 684 of the total cases were reported from Malegaon alone, 59 from Nashik city and 111 from other parts of the district. There are 36 patients from outside the district who are receiving treatment in hospitals here, the statement said.  The number of recovered patients stands at 654 - 504 of them in Malegaon, it said. As many as 46 people have succumbed to the coronavirus disease in the district till date. Of these, 43 deaths were reported from Malegaon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/23-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-nashik-district-tally-at-890-840553.html
22-05-2020||West||Woman cop praised for cremating unclaimed bodies amid lockdown||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh praised a woman police personnel for performing the last rites of four deceased persons, whose bodies were unclaimed bodies during the COVID-19 lockdown in Mumbai. Taking to Twitter on Thursday night, the minister said police naik Sandhya Sheelvant had performed the last rites of four deceased persons in one day and her dedication to her duty was admirable. While some of the deceased were destitutes, one of them had tested positive for COVID-19 and his relatives could not claim the body. Sheelvant, who is attached to the Shahu Nagar police station in central Mumbai, is responsible for registration of cases of accidental deaths in the area and has to collect unclaimed bodies, send them for post-mortem, trace kin of the deceased and dispose of bodies that remain unclaimed. In wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown, bodies of destitutes were left unclaimed and kin of some COVID-19 patients were scared of contracting the infection, Sheelvant said. "It is my duty to dispose of unclaimed bodies and I am not scared of them. I collect blood samples of the deceased and even transport their viscera to forensic labs to ascertain the cause of deaths," she said. Mortuaries were stretched to their limits because of the pandemic and many don't have space to store bodies, which then have to be disposed of at the earliest, she said. "Since the lockdown, we have performed last rites of six deceased persons, whose bodies were unclaimed," said Sheelvant, adding that social responsibility trumps fear in these testing times. Incidentally, Shahu Nagar police station lost one of its young police officers to COVID-19, but it has not deterred Sheelvant from performing her duty. A mother two, Sheelvant says working in these conditions would not have been possible without the support of her husband and in-laws. "I am able to do my best at work because of the support of my family and my seniors at the police station," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-cop-praised-for-cremating-unclaimed-bodies-amid-lockdown-840556.html
22-05-2020||West||Maharashtra fixes price cap on pvt hospitals treating coronavirus cases||The Maharashtra government has come out with three slabs on per day charges on the treatment of COVID-19 patients in private and charitable hospitals and also decided to regulate rates for 80 per cent of the operational bed capacity in these medical facilities. Non-government health care providers in Maharashtra have been asked to accommodate maximum number of patients with 80 per cent of the operational bed capacity to be regulated by rates sanctioned by the government. Fresh guidelines issued by the state government on Thursday said the fee regulation decision applies to both isolation and non-isolation beds in private and charitable hospitals. This means 80 per cent of beds in isolation and non- isolation wards available with any healthcare provider will be regulated by the state government/municipal commissioner/ district collector. Healthcare providers may charge their own rates to the remaining 20 per cent beds, according to a government notification. There will be no difference in quality of treatment in 80 per cent and 20 per cent categories, it said. For COVID-19 patients, there will be three rate slabs on per day basis - Rs 4,000, Rs7,500 and Rs 9,000 - based on the category of wards they have been admitted in, said the notification. For non-COVID patients, hospitals which have agreements with insurance companies will follow the rate of lowest slab irrespective of the category of beds occupied by the patient, it said. If there isno agreement between the two sides, hospitals will follow slab-wise rates depending on beds in hospitals, the notification said. The guidelines will be in force till August 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-fixes-price-cap-on-pvt-hospitals-treating-coronavirus-cases-840561.html
22-05-2020||West||No evidence to show COVID-19 spreads through corpses: Bombay High Court||The Bombay High Court on Friday said the Mumbai civic corporation has power to designate any cemetery or burial ground for disposal of bodies of COVID-19 victims and noted there was no scientific study to show that the novel coronavirus spreads through cadavers. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S S Shinde made the observations while dismissing a bunch of petitions challenging an April 9 circular issued by the BMC designating 20 burial grounds and cemeteries here for disposing of bodies of persons who died due to COVID-19. The court noted that the circular issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was in consonance with law and the civic agency had all authority and power to designate burial grounds and cemeteries to dispose of bodies of such patients. The bench added the corporation and other authorities concerned shall have to follow the guidelines prescribed by the Government of India and the World Health Organisation (WHO) for safe disposal of bodies infected with COVID-19. There is no scientific data to show that COVID-19 can spread through a dead body, the bench said while dismissing the petitions. On one petition filed by a suburban Bandra resident, Pradeep Gandhy, challenging the BMC's decision to bury COVID- 19 infected bodies at the Bandra Kabrastan (burial ground), the court said this was a fit case to impose exemplary cost on the petitioner but it was refraining from doing so considering the ongoing pandemic. The BMC had earlier this week told the court in an affidavit that the coronavirus does not spread through corpses and that it was scrupulously following the guidelines prescribed for disposal of such bodies. Advocate Pratap Nimbalkar, appearing for Bandra Kabrastantrustees, had also opposed Gandhy's plea and argued that due diligence is carried out before disposing of bodies and the petitioners have not set out any scientific reasoning to show the virus spreads through dead bodies.  Nimbalkar had cited a March 15 notification issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on guidelines on COVID-19 dead body management which say that transmission of the viral infection is through droplets. The notification says that there is unlikely to be an increased risk of COVID-19 infection from a dead body to anyone if standard precautions are followed while disposal, Nimbalkar had argued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-evidence-to-show-covid-19-spreads-through-corpses-bombay-high-court-840595.html
22-05-2020||West||Fire at chemical factory in Pune||Fire broke out at a chemical factory in Pune district on Friday, an official said. The fire broke out at Kusum Chemicals unit in Kurkumbh industrial area, the official said. Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-chemical-factory-in-pune-840609.html
22-05-2020||West||3 promise 23 migrants Shramik special seats, take cash; held in Maharashtra||Three people were arrested in Navi Mumbai on Friday for allegedly cheating migrants labourers by promising them seats in the Shramik Special ferrying stranded people during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, police said The three, identified as Hassan Sayyed, hawker Raghavendra Gupta and fruit-seller Irfan Mahigir, duped nine labourers from Wadghar near here and 14 from Mandangad in Ratnagiri, who had reached Panvel railway station on foot to board a train leaving for Bihar on Friday, Inspector Ajaykumar Landge of Panvel police station said. "They collected money from the 23 people and asked them to wait as they made arrangements on the train. However, police managed to spot the 23 people and also ensured they got seats on the train leaving for Bihar. A sum of Rs 3,000 was seized from the three arrested accused," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-promise-23-migrants-shramik-special-seats-take-cash-held-in-maharashtra-840710.html
22-05-2020||West||Mumbai-MMR COVID-19 toll goes beyond 1,000||The COVID-19 toll in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR)  crossed the 1,000-mark on Friday.  The death toll in the Mumbai-MMR area now stands at 1,027 while the total positive cases at 34,107. Of these Mumbai,  the financial capital of India, accounts for 909 deaths and 27,251 cases. On Friday, a total of 63 deaths and fresh 2,940 cases were reported. This has taken the progressive total to 1,517 deaths and 44,582 cases.  The total number of patients who have recovered are 12,583,  of which 857 were discharged in the last 24 hours. If one looks at the MMR data,  there is a rise in numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-mmr-covid-19-toll-goes-beyond-1000-840747.html
22-05-2020||West||HC refuses to stay order declaring Nagpur as COVID-19 red zone||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Friday refused to stay a notification issued by the civic body, declaring Nagpur as a COVID-19 red zone and putting the city under lockdown on par with Mumbai and Pune. A division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar was hearing two petitions filed by Darpan Sales Corporation and Sai Collection challenging Nagpur municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe's notification dated May 4 that declared the city as a COVID-19 red zone.  The petitioners claimed that the civic commissioner did not have the power or authority to pass such an order when the state government has already demarcated zones. The civic body's advocate S M Puranik on Friday informed the court that Mundhe had on May 21 issued another notification declaring Nagpur as red zone till May 31 when the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown is slated to end. The bench held that unless the notification issued by the Nagpur civic body is declared to be unconstitutional it is not possible for the court to grant stay on the same. The court directed for the petition to be posted for hearing in June. As per the Maharashtra government's new guidelines issued early this week, Nagpur was not in red zone.  The petitioners said they were deprived of their livelihoods because of the civic body's action of putting the entire city under lockdown on par with Mumbai, Pune and Malegaon regions. According to the petitioners, the state government had earlier in May issued directions and guidelines permitting shops in orange and green zones in the state to remain open with a few restrictions. However, the Nagpur civic chief issued a notification declaring Nagpur as red zone because of which only shops selling essential commodities and medicines can remain open. The petitioners sought for the civic body's notification of May 4 to be quashed and set aside and by way of interim relief, for its implementation to be stayed pending hearing of the plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-refuses-to-stay-order-declaring-nagpur-as-covid-19-red-zone-840750.html
22-05-2020||West||Mumbai: DHFL promoters Wadhawans' ED custody extended till May 27||A special court here on Friday sent DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, arrested in connection with a money-laundering probe against Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and others, to further ED custody till May 27. The duo, arrested earlier this month under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), was produced in court on Friday at the end of their previous remand. The Enforcement Directorate sought further custody of the Wadhawans, stating the two were not cooperating with the probe, and that there were voluminous documents with which it wanted to confront them. Accepting ED's plea, the court extended their custody till May 27. The Wadhawan brothers, also being probed by ED in another money laundering case linked to gangster late Iqbal Mirchi, were summoned by the agency multiple times in the Yes Bank case but they had cited the ongoing coronavirus-induced lockdown to skip the summons. The ED has accused Kapoor, his family members, and others of laundering "proceeds of crime" worth Rs 4,300 crore by receiving kickbacks in lieu of extending big loans through their bank that later allegedly turned non-performing assets. Five vehicles of the Wadhawan brothers were seized by the ED in April after they and their family members were reported to have traveled to Mahabaleshwar from Lonavala in Maharashtra during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-dhfl-promoters-wadhawans-ed-custody-extended-till-may-27-840751.html
22-05-2020||West||Resolve issue to conduct final year exams: Maharashtra Governor||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari today asked Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to resolve the issue of conduct of final year examination of students of universities in Maharashtra ‘without any further delay in the larger interest of students’. “Not conducting the final year examinations by the Universities amounts to a breach of the UGC guidelines”, he wrote in a letter to the Chief Minister. Taking strong objection to the letter written by Minister of Higher and Technical Education Uday Samant to UGC recommending cancellation of final year examination of students, the Governor asked the Chief Minister to issue suitable instructions to the Minister for his ‘unwarranted intervention’ which according to him was in ‘violation of UGC guidelines and also the relevant provisions of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’.   The Governor has stated that he was not apprised by the Minister in the matter before recommending the cancellation of final year examination to the UGC. The Governor noted that as per provisions of the relevant Universities Act, Universities have the power and duties to hold examinations and confer degrees upon successful students.  He noted that it would not be ‘ethical or appropriate’ to award degrees to final year students without conducting their examinations, which results in a violation of the provisions of the Universities’ Act.   The Governor observed that receiving degrees by students without undertaking any kind of examinations would have an adverse impact on their higher studies, gradation and employability. The Governor pointed out that the Ministry of Home Affairs has granted exemption from lockdown measures to the State Education Boards / CBSE / ICSE etc to conduct Standard X and XII examinations. He further noted that the UGC has also issued guidelines on lockdown measures covering important dimensions related to examinations, academic calendar, etc for adoption by the Universities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/resolve-issue-to-conduct-final-year-exams-maharashtra-governor-840762.html
22-05-2020||West||53 new coronavirus cases in Dharavi, one death||The number of coronavirus cases in the Dharavi area of Mumbai increased to 1,478 as 53 new patients were found on Friday, while death toll reached 57 with one more person dying, a civic official said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said that 15 positive cases which included a nine years old girl were found in Matunga Labour Camp within Dharavi since Thursday evening. Dharavi, known as the largest slum sprawl of Asia, has a population of over 6.5 lakh living in an area spread over 2.5 sqkm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/53-new-coronavirus-cases-in-dharavi-one-death-840765.html
