23-05-2020||Comment||‘Bhakts’ and their reality||The ‘bhakts’ are a new breed of followers, mainly of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, not so much of his party, the BJP, who are neither well-versed in the ideology of the RSS nor have attended its ‘Shakha’ in their teens. They are called bhakts, because of their uncritical acceptance of information received on digital media as gospel truths. This cult following has been created and sustained by social media tools such as WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter. Some TV news anchors and channels -- we all know who and which ones they are -- and even some print publications greatly contribute to the belief system or the ‘worldview’ of the bhakts. This worldview does not arise out of a clear set of facts or even widely held notions of history because these media agencies create their own ‘alternate reality based on alternate facts.’  At the time of US President Donald Trump’s inauguration in January 2017, when the print media questioned the ‘photoshopped’ images of massive crowds attending the swearing-in ceremony, his senior adviser Kellyanne Conway declared famously “We have our own set of facts”. Though the New York Times tried its best to tell her that facts don’t belong to anyone and they are independent of our personal predilections, Trump and his team stuck to projecting their own set of facts that became an alternate reality for his followers. The alternate reality not only shields them from inconvenient truths but creates a comforting narrative that all is well with the world, if only you watch the right TV channels and stick to your own WhatsApp and Facebook groups. With Trump himself declaring CNN and BBC as ‘Fake News’ channels, it became clear to his followers as to what news channels to avoid. Fox News became the only channel to trust. But such an exercise was pioneered not in the US but in India, 2013-14 onwards, with the rise of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. They brought in Amit Malviya, an ex-banker, to head the party’s IT cell, and gave it a huge budget and unlimited sway over the minds of millions of Indians. Malviya is assisted by a team of about 150 employees, apparently pretty well-paid. These 150 are helped by about 20,000 party workers at the state and district levels, whose job it is to transmit any message or meme created by the IT cell and ensure that it goes viral. Fake Facebook pages (including several pages on the Indian Army and even pages purporting to be of Muslim clerics talking about the Quran), creating millions of fake followers for their leaders, WhatsApp groups spreading fake news and paid Twitter handles and filling them all up with false and malicious content is par for the course  for those creating their own alternate reality. Some of the broad themes of the alternate reality of the Modi cult are that “great developments have taken place in India only after Modi became PM” and that “the main obstacles to faster development are the opposition parties led by Congress, which does not want a  powerful India.” ‘Congi’, ‘Commie’, ‘Leftist’, ‘Liberal’ are all dirty words in the bhakts’ dictionary.  First, the IT cell became the mouthpiece of the party in propagating the virtues of all policies of the government or actions of the Prime Minister. Second, it began to project former PM Nehru and his family as responsible for all the ills and evils of the country and Modi as working to remove the evils of the past 70 years. Third, the ‘Golden Age’ of India was in its mythological past when all the modern-day inventions – from nuclear bombs to the internet -- had either been thought of or had actually been made. Modi himself stated that Lord Ganesha was the first example of plastic surgery done in India thousands of years ago. Similar is the belief that cow urine is a cure for cancer. The problem with this alternate reality is not only the promotion of ill-conceived hostility towards other leaders of our polity, including those who fought for our freedom, but also a push back to an irrational belief system based on superstition and ignorance. Once you cultivate an unscientific temper in the target audience, it becomes easier to push in more untruths and irrationalities.  What is being systematically attempted is a dumbing down of our intellect. This is the milieu in which murderous attacks on intellectuals and rationalists become possible. Recall the targeted assassinations of three well-known rationalists -- Narendra Dhabolkar in August 2013, Govind Pansare in February 2015 and M M Kalburgi in August 2015. Recall that scores of twitter handles, many of the more vicious ones followed by no less than PM Modi himself, celebrated the murder of Gauri Lankesh.     Some of the egregious examples of WhatsApp ‘facts’ are that Pandit Nehru was actually a Muslim, an illegitimate son of Motilal Nehru born to a Muslim woman, and that he was responsible for the Partition of India; that Nathuram Godse was a great nationalist and patriot just as Mahatma Gandhi was, a moral equivalence of utterly bizarre proportions that equates the Mahatma with his murderer.  While everyone is free to believe what he likes, those beliefs should be based on certain evidence-based facts and on generally agreed notions of history. The notions of alternate reality are creating dangerous fissures in society and are meant to create disharmony and disaffection among communities. So much so that the polarisation in our society today is not only between the majority and minority communities but between family members and friends who are on either side of the divide created by fake news and messages. The COVID-19 crisis, however, has exposed the hollowness of this ‘alternate reality’ as the carefully crafted image of invincibility of both Trump and Modi lies shattered, thanks to the unacceptable number of deaths in the US due to the incompetence of the former and the migrant labour crisis created by an utterly unplanned national lockdown by the latter. Amit Malviya and his team should realise that any amount of juggling with alternate reality will not alter reality.  (The writer, a former Cabinet Secretariat official, is Visiting Fellow, Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/bhakts-and-their-reality-840909.html
23-05-2020||Davangere||Davangere sees 3 new COVID-19 cases; tally rises to 121||All the three -- a 42-year-old man (P1808), a 69-year-old woman (P1809), and a 45-year-old man (P1852), are infected by a 48-year-old man (P1251) from Jaalinagar in Davangere city.   As many as 21 patients recovered from it, while four have died. The district has 96 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/davangere-sees-3-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-121-841007.html
23-05-2020||First Edit||Airlines, fliers to the skies, with limits||The government’s decision to allow limited resumption of domestic air travel from May 25 is another sign of a recognition of the need to gradually reopen the closed sections of the economy. Air travel has been completely suspended for two months due to the lockdown. But with the operation of train services and public transport facilities in some form in parts of the country, there was a case for the air services also to resume. Only last week, the government had extended the prohibition on air travel till May 31, but it has now lifted the prohibition. It is probably because all airlines are under severe stress and even a few days might make a difference in the fight for survival. Aviation was the country's fastest growing industry but has been in dire straits in recent times, weighed down by high debt and other problems. The lack of operations and loss of nearly all revenue for two months has probably pushed airlines to the brink.   Only a few services will start now, and the airlines will have to gradually increase the number of flights depending on the response and the circumstances. Though there may be some demand for quick travel over long distances, it is doubtful whether there will be any sizeable traffic because all sectors that aviation caters to are badly hit. Metro cities like Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai, which account for the highest share of air traffic, are the most affected by the virus and will take time to recover. So, the services which start now may not contribute much revenue to the airlines, especially because the government has regulated the air fare, prescribing a minimum and maximum fare for every route. This is intended to prevent profiteering and to ensure that there is no unfair competition. It amounts to an intervention in the market, but the government has said that the regulation is only for three months.  The most important responsibility of the airlines and the airports is to ensure the safety and protection of passengers. The civil aviation ministry has issued detailed guidelines in this regard and they will have to be strictly followed. Air travel has challenges like air conditioning and seating arrangements but also advantages, like fewer passengers to deal with while implementing the standard anti-virus operating procedures. If there are differences in the protocols existing in various states, they will also have to be taken into consideration. There is a premium on safety in air travel, and it is more important now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/airlines-fliers-to-the-skies-with-limits-840907.html
23-05-2020||In Perspective||How to rule the world from your couch||Hollywood actor Demi Moore posted a photo of herself and Bruce Willis, her ex-husband, while in self-isolation due to Covid-19, along with members of their families. Eight of them were sitting on a couch, reading eight copies of the same book – Laura Day’s ‘How to Rule the World from Your Couch’ – perhaps indicative of what exactly is desirable while in lockdown or quarantine. Moore put out an interesting caption, too: “Family book club...How to Rule the World from Your Couch – quarantine edition.” Certainly, during this tiring lockdown period, many of us have been spending hours reading books that we had wanted to read for long but hadn’t managed to find the time to do so. Not only fiction, they include titles on science, philosophy, economics, politics, etc. Personally, I buy lot of books, especially during the annual Kolkata Book Fair. However, a significant number of them remains unread for want of leisure time. My wife has for long been complaining about the number of unread books filling up our home. The lockdown came as a golden opportunity for me to convince her that unread books are like Alibaba’s hidden treasures that come handy during such an unforeseen ‘Black Swan’ event. During lockdown, we passed April 23, celebrated as the ‘World Book Day’ by UNESCO since 1995. It is the date of death of Miguel de Cervantes and William Shakespeare, both of whom died in 1616, although according to the Gregorian calendar in Spain and the Julian calendar in England. However, the question that haunts one is: Are books luxury items or a basic necessity? During the lockdown period, which began on March 25 in India, only grocery stores, healthcare and other essential services were allowed to operate. But the southern state of Kerala allowed bookshops also to open twice a week – Tuesday and Friday. Certainly, books are treated as a basic necessity in Kerala. Interestingly, it was reported that when the countrywide lockdown was announced, leading Malayalam movie stars like Tovino Thomas and Manju Warrier quickly purchased some books to  reading. Perhaps it is an expression of the pride of India’s most literate state about their education and culture that they allowed bookstores to open during the lockdown. The broader question is: does our culture tell us to consider books as essential? Do we also buy a bag full of books during our festivals when we buy fancy clothes, mobile phones, and eat out in expensive restaurants? There is no one answer to that, though. Social media and mainstream media are flooded with photos and videos of various activities of the celebrities confined within their homes due to lockdown – some are singing, some are dancing, some are exhibiting their haircuts, some are cooking, some are cleaning their houses, some are chatting with family members, while some are busy with yoga or workouts. However, I didn’t see too many pictures of Indian celebrities reading books. Madhuri Dixit was seen reading ‘Born a Crime’, an autobiographical book by the famous South African comedian Trevor Noah; and Bollywood’s Sri Lankan actor Jacqueline Fernandez was reading ‘Funny Girl’, written by English writer Nick Hornby. Of course, there must be some others that I missed. The situation is different in Hollywood though. This discussion started with the example of Demi Moore. Natalie Portman is a renowned bibliophile, so there was little surprise in seeing her reading a book. Jessica Chastain was reading Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s ‘Love in the Time of Cholera’ – certainly an interesting book to read during a pandemic. And celebrities like Guillermo del Toro, Ari Aster, JA Bayona, Sarah Jessica Parker, Emma Roberts, Reese Witherspoon, Britney Spears, among others, were all pictured reading books. Certainly, the objective here is not to compare the reading habits of Bollywood and Hollywood. Rather, I was interested to find a parallel to Kerala allowing bookstores to remain open during the pandemic. This, in my opinion, is a “Covid-19 yardstick” to gauge how a country or a state/province envisages books. While Italians were struggling for their lives during the Covid-19 pandemic, in a desparate bid to save the economy, the country made the lockdown ‘partial’ after April 13. The country allowed some businesses, including bookstores, stores with children’s supplies, and timber companies to open. Gemany made their lockdown ‘partial’ on April 19, and it allowed smaller stores to open, along with car and bicycle dealers and bookstores, provided they adhered to strict distancing and hygiene rules. Certainly, these European countries have given books a bit more importance than many other countries in the world. These ‘lockdown editions’ of the books are a basic ingredient of their lifestyles even during disasters. In 1985, Michael Kinsley, the then editor of The New Republic, conducted an interesting experiment. In some Washington DC bookstores, Kinsley hid little notes, offering a $5 reward to anyone who saw them, about three-quarters of the way through 70 copies of certain select books that all of Washington seemed to be talking about. However, no one called! Thirty-five years on, books are in no better position in most parts of the globe. Still, it was good to know that there are some places where you can rule the world from your couch, no matter what – such as Kerala, Italy and Germany – with ‘quarantine editions’ or ‘lockdown editions.’ (The writer is a Professor of Statistics, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/how-to-rule-the-world-from-your-couch-840910.html
23-05-2020||Kalaburagi||COVID-19: Migrant workers tatter Kalyana Karnataka||Cases will continue to witness a huge spike in the region as lakhs of migrant workers returned from Maharashtra after the lockdown was eased. Meanwhile, after a lull for two days, a man from Kalaburagi tested positive for the virus.   It can be remembered that both Raichur and Yadgir district were in the green zone until recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/covid-19-migrant-workers-tatter-kalyana-karnataka-841000.html
23-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Throat swab of primary health care doctor in Chikkamagaluru tests COVID-19 negative||The doctor's throat swab was tested again in Shivamogga and Hassan labs where it has tested negative. He will be discharged from hospital, said the DC.  All the 28 contacts of the doctor too tested negative.  A total of 485 primary contacts and 961 secondary contacts of the doctor were quarantined after the throat swab of the doctor was tested positive. All the contacts who have been quarantined will be sent back home from quarantine centres, added DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/throat-swab-of-primary-health-care-doctor-in-chikkamagaluru-tests-covid-19-negative-841005.html
23-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown: Flight service to resume at Mangaluru from Monday||Domestic flight services will resume from Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) from May 25 as per the instructions of Union Civil Aviation Ministry. Six Indigo and SpiceJet flights will be operated from Mangaluru to Bengaluru, Mumbai and Chennai. Air-India is yet to finalise its schedule, airport sources said. Three Indigo flights will depart from Mangaluru to Bengaluru, Mumbai and Chennai and three flights of SpiceJet will leave for Bengaluru and Mumbai on May 25. SpiceJet flight will take off from Bengaluru to Mangaluru at 8.30 am and7 pm while Indigo will take off from Mangaluru to Bengaluru at 5.55 pm. SpiceJet flight will take off from Mangaluru at 10.20 am and 9.35 pm while Indigo will depart at 7.30 pm. From Mumbai, Spice Jet flight will take off at 7.05 am and Indigo at 9.30 am. The Mangaluru-Mumbai SpiceJet flight will take off at 9.05 am and Indigo at 11.40 am. Indigo flight will depart from Chennai to Mangaluru at 5.45 pm and from Mangaluru to Chennai at 8.05 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-flight-service-to-resume-at-mangaluru-from-monday-841018.html
23-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Decision to commence SSLC classes soon'||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar said that commencing of SSLC classes will be decided only after discussing pros and cons. In a press conference here, the minister said there is pressure to reopen the SSLC classes and the matter will be decided soon, he said. The department has taken several safety measures to conduct examination between June 27 and July 4. Masks will be distributed among the students and measures will be taken to ensure that the students will maintain social distance, he added. The minister said he has visited three districts and discussed with the officials concerned. “I will tour ten districts to access the situation,” he said, adding that the teachers in several district are conducting quiz and other academic programmes through ‘WhatsApp’. Suresh Kumar said he will urge transport minister to provide free service in KSRTC  buses to the students attending examination. The Education department has listed the schools more than 75-year-old for rehabilitation. When asked about wrongly tested positive for Covid-19 in Mudigere of Chikkamagaluru district, the minister said that it was due to mistake in the laboratory. It has to be noted that the throat swab sample of a PHC doctor in Mudigere who was tested positive in the past has tested negative for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/decision-to-commence-sslc-classes-soon-841155.html
23-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Grievances pour in during DH-PV phone-in programme||People from villages, and also from urban areas, poured their grievances on Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Zilla Panchayat Prashant Kumar Mishra during the Deccan Herald-Prajavani phone-in programme, organised by the publications here, on Saturday. The CEO assured the callers that their problems will be solved soon and he suggested solutions to some. Deputy Secretary (Development) M Krishna Raju noted down the names of the callers, their mobile numbers and their grievances. D Lingaraju, a resident of Lakshmipura in Mysuru taluk, sought a house under Ashraya Housing Scheme. Chandru from Subbaiahnakoppalu, Periyapatna taluk, complained that he was not getting physically-challenged persons’ pension since four months. D Mahesh of Puttegowdanahundi, Mysuru taluk, complained that the sewage water was contaminating the village lake. He also sought a job card, under Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA). Guruswamy and Shivashankar of Mallupura had complaints against Bannari Amman Sugar Factory. While Arun Raje Urs of Bettadathunga complained about the problems in the pure drinking water unit, Darshan from Sargur appealed for cleaning up of River Kapila and also repair of Ooty Road. Vijaykumar of Nagarle sought an enquiry into the works of multi-village drinking water project that includes Kavalande and Kalkunda. Sharath of Husainpura demanded construction of toilets for 200 houses. Amith of Belavadi, Nagappa of Chowthi, Rajasekhar of Danayakanapura and Prashanth of Kuppegala sought solution to the problems in drainage system, drinking water project and street lights in their respective villages. Ravi from Suttur complained of problems due to manholes. Kiran of Clean Mysuru Foundation pointed at the encroachment of a lake at Hinkal. Devendra of B Dundanahalli alleged that the silt was being removed with an excavator, instead of employing people in his village lake. Kumar of Keggere and Prasad of Chattnalli Palya sought repair of handpumps of borewells. Venkatesh of Gopalapura and Venkatesh Joshi of Saranahalli appealed for repair of pure water unit. Narayana Joshi of Bannur pointed out that the internet network problem was hindering work in the gram panchayat office. Sathish from Chandagalu alleged that the GP officials were not providing information under Right to Information Act. Beerappa of Harohalli urged the officials to make arrangements to treat drainage water in a scientific way. The CEO said that he would ask the respective Panchayat Development Officers to attend to their problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/grievances-pour-in-during-dh-pv-phone-in-programme-841156.html
23-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Migrants cross border illegally near MM Hills||Even though the district administration has blocked all routes between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, migrant workers are crossing the border through illegal points in forests. Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi had ordered closure of illegal entry points and also directed Forest department officials to intensify patrolling in these areas, a few days back, following reports. But still, migrant workers continue to cross the borders. In fact, the number of people crossing the border has increased. The people of MM Hills and Gopinatham have close contact with TN as the villages are located on Karnataka Tamil Nadu border. A majority of the people depend on TN for business and work. In addition, several people of Hanur taluk work in garment factories in TN and are returning to their native. A villager of Palar, Nagaraju, said, "Despite strict measures by the police, people from TN are coming to Karnataka. The people cross the border and reach Gopinatham and MM Hill before 6 am and after 6 pm."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/migrants-cross-border-illegally-near-mm-hills-841157.html
23-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Alliance Air to start flights from Monday||Alliance Air, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India, is all set to commence flight operations from Mysuru from May 25. The detailed schedule of the flight operations from May 25 to June 30 is available under Alliance Air section of www.airindia.in. According to a press note, issued by Alliance Air, “The airline has tried to connect the maximum regional touchpoints across the country in its schedule so that the travellers have the convenient option to fly back to their roots, as soon as possible.” Regional connections with direct flight options are Jaipur to Agra, Dehradun to Pantnagar, Kolhapur to Bengaluru, Mysuru to Goa, Mysuru to Kochi, Kochi to Agatti, Pune to Belgavi, Jharsuguda to Bhubaneshwar, Guwahati to Dimapur and Imphal, Guwahati to Pasighat and further to Tezpur. Travellers from Hyderabad have an option of direct flights to Kolhapur, Mysuru and Pune. Likewise, Bengaluru flyers can take direct flights to Kochi, Kalaburgi and Mysuru. The airline is adhering to all government guidelines and will follow all standard operating procedures (SOPs), issued by the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation. The focus will be on ensuring physical distance between passengers and, minimising contagion through contact and through frequently touched surfaces. Precautionary measures will be taken within the aircraft as well at the time of check-in, boarding and arrival at the destination. The aircrafts will be rigorously disinfected after each flight to eliminate any risk of contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/alliance-air-to-start-flights-from-monday-841159.html
23-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Atma Nirbhar in Mysuru state in early 1900s||The 136th birth anniversary of Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, the architect of Modern Mysuru state, will be celebrated on June 4, at a time when the entire nation is gearing up to become Atma Nirbhar or self-reliant, following the address of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on May 12, to revive post-Covid economy. It has to be noted that there were all out efforts in the erstwhile Mysuru state, in the early 1900s, under Nalvadi and his Dewans, for self-reliance. In his book, ‘My Public Life’, Dewan Sir Mirza Ismail states: “We are very proud of the products of these factories. Mysoreans wash themselves with Mysore soap, dry themselves with Mysore towels, clothe themselves in Mysore silks, ride Mysore horses, eat the abundant Mysore food, drink Mysore coffee with Mysore sugar, equip their houses with Mysore furniture, light them with Mysore lamps and write their letters on Mysore paper”. It was a part of his speech on All India Radio on August 5, 1938. Besides, there were manufacturing units for steel, cement, chemicals and fertilisers, aircraft, glass, porcelain, agricultural implements, and cast iron pipes. The hydroelectric stations gave a boost to further industrialisation of Mysore state, that included Bengaluru. The erstwhile Mysuru state comprised the present 15 districts of Bengaluru, Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru Urban, Ramanagar, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Chitradurga and Davangere. Baskar Kalale, ex-chairman of CII-Mysuru and president and GM-India operations, Theorem India, said, “Mysuru has always been a state of innovators and creativity. The Wadiyars advocated development, industrialisation and self-reliance for the welfare of the people. Nalvadi was one of the most progressive and innovative rulers of his times. Fortunately, we also have Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL) and Central Food Technologies Research Institute (CFTRI), where research and development is done to feed those who guard our nation. Mysore Sandal Soap, Mysore Silk, etc are the gifts of the erstwhile maharajas.” B N Pramodh, co-founder, FromGround Up, and startups mentor, said, “Nalvadi was a visionary and advocated education, skill training and self-reliance.” Besides setting up industries, he supported Sir M Visvesvaraya to start the University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE) in Bengaluru 1917. “He donated 371 acres of land for the establishment of Indian Institute of Science by Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata and lands to Sir C V Raman to set up his science institute in Bengaluru, to encourage research and innovation for self-reliance,” said Pramodh. He pointed out that Dewan Sir Mirza Ismail had mentioned, in his book ‘My Public Life’: “My policy was not to concentrate many factories in one or two centres, but to distribute them, as far as possible, all over the state, and in this way benefit many places. Another advantage was that in case of labour troubles, the infection would not spread so easily to other industries.” Pramodh said, “It is not clear whether the Dewan refers to labour unrest or an epidemic, when he says infection, but at a time when we are combating a pandemic, policymakers should take note of his advise.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/atma-nirbhar-in-mysuru-state-in-early-1900s-841161.html
23-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Pavagada achieves progress in MGNREGA works||Pavagada taluk has registered considerable progress in the implementation of works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in the district by executing 55,456 human days of works by May 21. The target for 2020-21 financial year is creation of 10 lakh human days. About 338 individual and community works under 39 gram panchayats limits are under progress at present. The taluk is in the fifth position in the district. Desilting work of Kyataganahalli tank in BK Halli gram panchayat in the taluk has been taken up at a cost of Rs 3 lakh. It has created 1018 human days. Sixteen groups, each comprising 11 members, have been given jobs. A project is being implemented at a cost of Rs 73,000 at Honnebagi gram panchayat in Chikkanayakanahalli taluk. It is proposed to create 7 lakh human days in the taluk. About 39,266 human days have already been created. About 2181 human days have been created for Rs 9 lakh project Namma Hola Namma Dari for road construction at Mallaghatta village in Turuvekere taluk. A project has been taken up at a cost of Rs 2 lakh to construct an open well at Tumbadi village in Koratagere taluk. About 463 human days have been created. Sira MLA B Satyanarayana distributed work orders for the construction of bunds and farm ponds at the fields at Magodu gram panchayat in Sira taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/pavagada-achieves-progress-in-mgnrega-works-841111.html
23-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Dist SNR hospital to be Covid-19 hospital by May 27||The SNR district hospital here will be converted into a complete Covid-19 hospital by May 27. It will soon be a hospital with 200 beds. The district administration had identified R L Jalappa Hospital and Research Centre (RLJHRC) as the Covid-19 hospital. However, the RLJHRC management of refused to continue the treatment of five patients prompting the district administration to convert the  SNR district hospital here as a complete Covid-19 hospital. Based on the district administration’s proposal to the State government, the state health department nodal officer Dr Chandrakala and Dr Sridhar visited the hospital for inspection. The deputy commissioner, who accompanied the nodal officers, directed the hospital authorities to focus on cleanliness in the hospital. “The district hospital will soon be ready to treat Covid-19 patients. The hospital has 40-bed intensive care unit, besides 5 ventilators. About 35 additional ventilators will soon be ready at the hospital. It will be a complete Covid-19 hospital by May 27,” Dr Chandrakala said. Out of 200 beds, 70 would be allotted for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, while 90 beds will be allotted for those under quarantine, she said. Additional deputy commissioner B Shivaswamy directed officials to install television sets in all wards where Covid-19 patients are being treated for the entertainment purpose. District health and family welfare officer Dr S N Vijay Kumar and district surveillance officer Dr Charini were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/dist-snr-hospital-to-be-covid-19-hospital-by-may-27-841112.html
23-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Total lockdown: Only essential services will be available today||Deputy Commissioner C Satyabhama said that only essential services would be available on Sunday in the wake of total lockdown as per the government order. She was speaking after reviewing preparedness of the SNR district hospital to treat Covid-19 patients here on Saturday. Based on the State and the Central government guidelines, there would be prohibitory orders across the district. Outlets selling milk, fruits, meat and vegetables had been excluded and they would operate as usual. Customers should maintain social distancing at those outlets, she said. “Essential services will be available between 7 am and 7 pm on Sunday. Sales of liquor has been banned,” she said. On the permission granted by the Srinivaspur APMC secretary for mango sales, the DC said that district in-charge secretary Uma Mahadevan had requested the government not to grant permission for the sales of mangoes at the APMCs. The district administration would take a suitable action in this regard. “The SNR district hospital is fully prepared to handle Covid-19 patients. Steps have been taken to setup 40 bed intensive care unit and procure 35 ventilators using Corporate Social Responsibility funds and the government grants,” the DC said. “There is provision to appoint medical staff on contract basis if the staff shortage occurs at the hospital. Steps will be taken to appoint staff for 81 primary health centres in the district on contract basis,” she said. District health and family welfare officer Dr S N Vijaykumar, district surveillance officer Dr Charini and Dr Jagadish were present. .||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/total-lockdown-only-essential-services-will-be-available-today-841115.html
23-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||MP seeks irrigation data in digital format||MP G S Basavaraju on Saturday directed water resources department chief engineer Rajendra to provide village-wise and local body-wise data of the irrigation sector in the district in digital format. He chaired a meeting of the officials here. “Geometric centre was setup 19 years ago. However, the officials are unable to collect the accurate data. The officials lack interest once funds released by the State and Central governments are exhausted,” he expressed displeasure. The MP wanted to know reasons for delay in storing the date in digital format. “The digitalisation process of the irrigation sector has happened only on paper,” he charged. Rajendra assured that he would take steps to provide the data sought by the MP in digital format. Basavaraju directed Rajendra to write letters to various departments seeking information to compile the digital data. He asked Rajendra to mark a copy of the letter to the MP. “Decision will be taken at District Infrastructure Scheme Advisory Committees (DISHA) meeting to initiate action against officials refusing to the provide the information,” he said. Tumakuru Disha committee member Kundaranahalli Ramesh, Vijaykumar, Lalitha and Shivaprasad were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/mp-seeks-irrigation-data-in-digital-format-841119.html
23-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||30 people penalised for not wearing masks||The City Municipal Council (CMC) officials imposed fine on 30 people and collected Rs 3,000 fine amount for moving without wearing masks in the city on Saturday. The district administration has made it mandatory to wear masks while venturing outside and ensure social distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19. The CMC officials conducted checks at Ammavaripet, Champak circle, MG Road, Mekke circle, MB Road and other areas. Many people and riders were moving without wearing masks. The officials stopped them on the road and imposed Rs 100 as fine. “We are implementing the rule strictly. We will continue our checks against those who fail to ensure social distancing and move without wearing masks,” CMC commissioner Srikanth told reporters. He said,” An amount of Rs 500 will be imposed as fine for spitting in public places. The fine amount for not ensuring social distancing near shops and in markets is Rs 500.” Urban development cell planning director Rangaswamy, revenue and health department officials were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/30-people-penalised-for-not-wearing-masks-841169.html
23-05-2020||National||Economic devastation if poor, MSMEs not supported urgently: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said there would be an "economic devastation" if the poor were not helped urgently with cash and free rations and if MSMEs were not supported by the government. Addressing a meeting of opposition parties, he also asked why the lockdown was being eased when the coronavirus cases were still rising. "Lockdown had two objectives: halting the disease and preparing for future management of the disease. But today transmission is rising. We are still opening the lockdown. Does this mean an ill thought out lockdown imposed earlier hasn't yielded results? "Lockdown has destroyed crores. If urgently they (the poor) are not given Rs 7,500 a month, not provided free ration, not helped and if MSMEs are not supported now, there will be economic devastation," Gandhi said.  He said the government's economic package does not acknowledge that people need cash, not credit. "It's our duty to raise this issue. It's not about parties. It's about the country. If we don't raise it now lakhs will seep into poverty,” he added. The opposition meet was attended by 22 parties and they discussed the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. They have put forth 11 demands before the central government, including direct cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month to families outside the Income Tax bracket for six months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/economic-devastation-if-poor-msmes-not-supported-urgently-rahul-840879.html
23-05-2020||National||PM Modi offers condolences on Naipal Singh’s demise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed anguish at the death of BJP veteran Naipal Singh on Friday, saying he will be remembered for his community service and efforts to strengthen the party in Uttar Pradesh. A former Uttar Pradesh minister, Singh passed away on Friday following a heart attack. He was 80. "He would be remembered for his numerous community service efforts. He played a key role in strengthening the BJP in Uttar Pradesh," the prime minister tweeted. "Condolences to his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti," Modi said. Born in Chandaula village in Aligarh, Singh was five-time member of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council from Bareilly-Moradabad Division Graduates constituency. He had served in the state cabinet headed by Kalyan Singh and Rajnath Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-offers-condolences-on-naipal-singh-s-demise-840885.html
23-05-2020||National||Lockdown cannot go on indefinitely, has served its purpose: Niti Aayog member||The government on Friday said the lockdown, which is about to complete two months, cannot go on indefinitely and it has achieved its purpose by giving the nation enough time to ramp up the health infrastructure and raise awareness about the coronavirus pandemic. Responding to a question on whether relaxations allowed in the fourth phase of the lockdown, which includes partial resumption of domestic flight services, would hurtle India back to square one in its fight against COVID-19, chairman of Empowered Group One and Niti Aayog member V K Paul said the lockdown was a special effort, meant for a purpose, and it cannot continue for an indefinite time. The government has formed 11 empowered groups to suggest measures to ramp up healthcare, put the economy back on track and reduce misery of people once the lockdown is lifted. The government imposed a lockdown on March 25 and it is currently in its fourth phase. Paul said a large number of deaths were averted due to lockdown, which put a brake on the spread of the virus. "It cannot continue for an unlimited time and life has to return to normal as livelihoods have been affected," he said, stressing it's important to exhibit a behaviour that creates difficulties for the virus. "Now we know what can save us, we need to be vigilant and respond accordingly," he added. Asked whether there has been any study to get a prediction on how many more may get infected or die in the coming days, Paul said real COVID-19 virus growth trajectory "depends on mathematics of the spread of infection and also on the behaviour of community and society". "How we respond cannot be put into a model or equation, we can only make some guesses. Hence it is difficult to predict," he said. Paul said the virus has a nature of spreading exponentially.  But after April 3 there was a steep decline and the case growth per cent dropped to 5.5 by May 13 from 15-22 per cent earlier as the lockdown stopped the speed of increase of cases, he said, adding the doubling time of the cases has now improved significantly to 13.3 days from 3.4 days before lockdown.   Paul, however, cautioned against relaxing the lockdown, and said, "If we relax, virus will spread." "The confinement of COVID-19 to certain areas has been due to the actions taken during lockdown. It prepared us for future," he said, referring to the ramping up of the health infrastructure. As many as 1,093 dedicated COVID facilities and around 1,85, 306 beds have been prepared for treatment of COVID-19 patients. Also 2,403 dedicated COVID-19 health centres with oxygen facilities having a capacity 1,38,652 isolation beds have been readied, he said. Also Aarogya Setu is an unequalled weapon against the disease, Paul said. "The time the nation got for preparedness due to lockdown has been utilized very well, we can now say with confidence that we will be able to face the challenge and surmount it," he said." he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-cannot-go-on-indefinitely-has-served-its-purpose-niti-aayog-member-840890.html
23-05-2020||National||Cyber criminals leak personal data of 2.9 cr job-seeking Indians on dark web for free||Cyber criminals have posted personal data of 2.9 crore job-seeking Indians on dark web for free in one of the hacking forums, according to online intelligence firm Cyble. The company had recently revealed hacking of Facebook and Sequoia-funded Indian education technology firm Unacademy. "29.1 million Indian jobseekers' personal details leaked in deepweb for free. We usually see this sort of leaks all the time, but this time, the message header got our attention as it included a lot of personal details – where most of the things are generally static such as education, address etc," Cyble said in a blog on Friday. Folders in the name of some of the leading job websites in India also appeared on the screenshot posted by Cyble but the company was investigating the source of the leak at the time of writing this report. "It appears to have originated from a resume aggregator given the sheer volume and detailed information. We will update this article as new information is identified," Cyble said. The cyber intelligence firm said that the breach includes sensitive information such as email, phone, home address, qualification, work experience etc. "Cybercriminals are always on the lookout for such personal information to conduct various nefarious activities such as identity thefts, scams, and corporate espionage," Cyble said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyber-criminals-leak-personal-data-of-29-cr-job-seeking-indians-on-dark-web-for-free-840891.html
23-05-2020||National||Mumbai: Liquor home delivery allowed in non-containment zones||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday allowed home delivery of liquor in Mumbai, except in containment zones. But over-the-counter sale of liquor will not be allowed yet, it said. "E-commerce platforms may be utilised by the liquor shops permitted to do home delivery," said the BMC order. After lockdown began, liquor sale was completely banned in the city, which is worst affected by the coronavirus outbreak in the country. The civic body said that it has decided to allow home delivery of liquor in the city in view of the extension of lockdown and revised guidelines on the measures to be taken for containment of coronavirus. Liquor shops can deliver sealed bottles of tipple to customers at home address, the order issued by Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Chahal said.  The order comes five days after the Maharashtra government allowed home delivery of liquor in red zones. "All the concerned are directed to comply with above orders in toto failing which action under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897; Disaster Management Act, 2005 and section 188 of Indian Penal Code (not complying with government order) will be initiated against the defaulters," it read. On May 5, the BMC had ordered that liquor shops be closed again as there was crowding after shops reopened and social distancing norms were ignored completely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-liquor-home-delivery-allowed-in-non-containment-zones-840892.html
23-05-2020||National||Congress to air documentary on Rahul's interaction with group of migrants||The Congress has made a documentary on Rahul Gandhi's conversation with a group of migrants which will be aired on Saturday. "A few days ago, I met a group of migrants walking hundreds of KM from their work site in Haryana to their village near Jhansi, UP. Tomorrow, 9 Am onwards, watch their incredible story of grit, determination & survival on," Gandhi tweeted late Friday night. Gandhi last Saturday had interacted with a group of migrant labourers near the Sukhdev Vihar flyover here and asked them about their problems as they walked home amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. He sat on the pavement and gave the migrant workers a patient hearing and assured them of help. For over two months now, since the nationwide lockdown began, India has been shamed by the pictures and videos of lakhs of our migrant men, women and children desperately trying to get back to the safety of their home towns and villages, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. Former Congress chief Gandhi has been meeting those affected by the crisis, in groups and individually, to offer solidarity and help, he said. "One such group of migrants that he met, were walking from their worksite in Haryana to their village near Jhansi, in Uttar Pradesh. A distance of over 600 KM. When Shri Rahul Gandhi met up with them, on the Mathura road in Delhi, they had stopped to rest, after continuously walking over 100 KM from their place of work," he said.  "For almost an hour, he listened to their stories - the hardships and discrimination they faced, their reasons for deciding to flee their workplace and why they were forced to walk home to their village, their fears, dreams and aspirations," Surjewala said. On the request of the group that he met, Gandhi and volunteers from the Indian National Congress, organised transport and the necessary permissions, to get them back safely to their village near Jhansi, Surjewala said. On arrival, they were screened by the local health authorities and put into 21-day home quarantine, which they are at present undergoing, he said. Gandhi's conversation with this group of migrants has now been shaped into a documentary film that will be released on his YouTube channel on Saturday at 9 AM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-air-documentary-on-rahuls-interaction-with-group-of-migrants-840893.html
23-05-2020||National||BCI to provide videoconferencing facility to lawyers to appear before virtual courts||The Bar Council of India (BCI) on Friday said it will provide videoconferencing facility at its office here to help needy lawyers appear and argue their cases before virtual courts (VCs) from May 26. The Supreme Court and other courts have been holding VCs and only hearing urgent matters since March 25 when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Taking note of the difficulties faced by some lawyers in accessing VCs, the BCI said it has prepared four "videoconferencing or virtual hearing rooms". "Bar Council of India has developed four videoconferencing/virtual hearing rooms along with well equipped systems/Wi-Fi for the convenience of advocates of Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court. Nothing will be charged from the advocates for this facility, which is going to start from May 26," the apex lawyers' body said in a statement. Advocates will be required to book their time slots at least 36 hours in advance by sending a request through email, it said.  The BCI said, "Not more than two advocates/persons will be allowed to enter the premises of Bar Council of India for a particular case ideally, however, if both sides come for videoconferencing in one case, then the total number of persons should not exceed four." "Advocates would be required to maintain social distancing and wear N95 masks and keep alcohol-based hand sanitisers with them," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bci-to-provide-videoconferencing-facility-to-lawyers-to-appear-before-virtual-courts-840894.html
23-05-2020||National||Himachal records 16 new COVID-19 cases; tally at 169||Sixteen people with recent travel history tested positive for COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 169, officials said here. While 14 fresh cases were reported from Hamirpur district, two were from Kangra district, they said. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 106. Hamirpur has the maximum number of active cases at 55; Kangra 30; Solan and Bilaspur five each; Mandi four; Sirmaur, Una and Chamba two each; and Kullu one, the officials said. Four COVID-19 patients were also discharged in Kangra during the day, taking the total number of those who have recovered to 59, they said. Hamirpur Deputy Commissioner Harikesh Meena said all 14 people, including three women and as many girls, who tested positive for COVID-19 in the district had recently returned from Mumbai. A majority of them had been under institutional quarantine at different places. They are being admitted to various COVID centres of the district for treatment and isolation, he added. The fresh cases include a 44-year-old woman from Kungan village and her three teenage daughters (aged between 11 and 17). They had returned from Mumbai on May 14, Meena added. A 55-year-old taxi driver and his 23-year-old son from Har village have also tested positive for coronavirus. They had returned from Mumbai on May 17. A 78-year-old man, his 41-year-old daughter-in-law and 21-year-old grandson are also among the fresh cases. A 26-year-old man from Jamnoti village of Nadaun area, who works in the film industry, has also tested positive for the infection. A 29-year-old man from Pahloo village has also tested positive. He returned from Mumbai with his pregnant wife. He was kept under home quarantine.  Also among the fresh cases are a 31-year-old woman from Daswin village, a 19-year-old boy from Sukrial village and a 41-year-old man from Baroti village. In Kangra, two men from Kauna village in Thural tehsil and Bharmad village in Jawali tehsil, respectively, tested positive for COVID-19, Superintendent of Police Vimukt Ranjan said. The man from Kauna village had recently returned from Mumbai and the one from Bharmad village had returned from Delhi. They were in institutional quarantine, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/himachal-records-16-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-169-840898.html
23-05-2020||National||Tomato prices fall 3-year low at Rs 3-10/kg in Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad wholesale markets||Tomato prices in consuming centres of Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad fell below three-year lows, in the range of Rs 4-10 per kg on Friday in the wholesale markets on higher arrival, according to official data. The prices had ruled at Rs 14.30 per kg on May 22 last year at the Azadpur wholesale mandi in the national capital, while above Rs 30 per kg in Hyderabad and Bengalure. The steep fall in prices of tomatoes was due to higher supply of the commodity amid sluggish demand and lack of smooth movement of perishable commodities in this COVID-19 crisis, experts said. According to data maintained by the food processing ministry, "In Azadpur, the current modal prices are trading near Rs 440 per quintal as compared to Rs 1,258 per quintal last year." In Delhi, the tomato crop is coming from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, it said. In Hyderabad's Bowenpally wholesale market, tomato prices were ruling at around Rs 5 per kg on Friday, compared with Rs 34 per kg a year ago. Similarly, in the Bengaluru wholesale market, tomato prices were ruling at Rs 10 per kg as against above Rs 30 per kg in the year-ago period. In tomato-producing areas also, the wholesale rates have fallen below three-year's seasonal average in 40 districts out of 52 tracked by the food processing ministry for the purpose of extending marketing linkages. Even in 12 clusters identified for linking directly to markets, prices of tomatoes are ruling below three-year's average low.  For instance in five tomato clusters located in the Kolar district of Karnataka, prices declined to the level of Rs 3-8 per kg depending on the quality and varieties when compared with Rs 14-35 per kg in the year-ago, the data showed. In Andhra Pradesh, five clusters located in Chittoor district as well as in two clusters in Odisha showed a similar declining trend in prices. Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are the top-two major tomato-producing states in India. The combined production of the two states is estimated at 42 lakh tonne this year. India's annual tomato production is enough to meet the domestic demand of about 111 lakh tonnes. The government has pegged total tomato output at 193.28 lakh tonne for 2019-20 crop year (July-June), according to the ministry's data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tomato-prices-fall-3-year-low-at-rs-3-10/kg-in-delhi-bengaluru-hyderabad-wholesale-markets-840902.html
23-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 23, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-23-2020-edition-840903.html
23-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 23||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,30,677 as of May 23. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 3,858 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 42,298 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-23-840904.html
23-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: How one Indian company could be world's door to a COVID-19 vaccine||Serum Institute, the world's largest manufacturer of vaccines by volume, is working on several candidates for the novel coronavirus - including potentially mass-producing the AstraZeneca/Oxford university one that has garnered global headlines - as well as developing its own.  The efforts are partly being shepherded by Umesh Shaligram, the head of research and development. His employer is a private company but every day, shortly before midnight, he receives a WhatsApp message from the government asking for updates, and about any new hurdles he faces. The message is usually from K VijayRaghavan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's top scientific adviser - an indication of the critical, and even strategically important, nature of the race to develop the vaccines the whole world is waiting for. Shaligram promptly responds with a progress report and details any bottlenecks. "Any delays, you just tell them," said Shaligram, adding the government has been doing everything it can to fast-track clearances and resolve import delays and other issues. "We have begun to see approvals come through in days, even on a Sunday night, for trials and things like that," he said, noting some of these processes typically took 4 to 6 months. While most of the attention regarding vaccines typically goes to the pharmaceutical developer, India quietly plays a key role in manufacturing 60%-70% of all vaccines sold globally with the Serum Institute playing a lead role, said the company's Chief Executive Adar Poonawalla. At the company's sprawling, 150-acre campus in the western Indian city of Pune, Shaligram and his team are working flat-out. Dozens of buses ferry in hundreds of workers each day to the grounds, which are buzzing with activity even as the city around it remains largely under lockdown. The push comes as the number of cases of COVID-19, both globally and domestically, continue to surge and world leaders look to vaccines as the only real way to restart their stalled economies, even though none have yet been proven to be effective against the coronavirus. Poonawalla, whose family owns the vaccine maker, said scientists, drugmakers and manufacturers were collaborating at an unparalleled scale to spur development and availability. "We are all in a race to battle the disease, there is no one-upmanship here," he told Reuters, sitting in his office beside his family's 74-year-old stud farm. Vaccine Candidates Serum, founded in 1966 by Adar's father Cyrus Poonawalla, has partnered with US biotech firm Codagenix, its US rival Novavax and Austria's Themis to potentially manufacture three COVID-19 vaccine candidates that are still in development. Another candidate in the works is the experimental vaccine developed by a team at the University of Oxford and now licensed to drugmaker AstraZeneca, with whom Serum is in talks to mass-produce the vaccine, which is now in the clinical trial stage. The United States has secured almost a third of the first 1 billion doses planned for the potential vaccine, initially known as ChAdOx1 and now as AZD1222, by pledging up to $1.2 billion. Poonawalla aims to initially produce 4-5 million doses a month, beginning from June, and then gradually ramp up to 350-400 million doses a year. "Hopefully we will build a stock of a few million doses to give to our country and other high-risk areas across the globe come October-November when the trials ought to be concluded," the 39-year-old said, while giving Reuters rare access to tour his facilities. He added he had been given to understand by the development team that the trials had an 80% chance of success, given that the vaccine is based on a tried-and-tested platform. Based on the information currently available, Poonawalla also said he anticipated AZD1222 would be a single-dose vaccine and not require a booster dose. He sees AZD1222 potentially priced at about 1,000 rupees ($13) per dose in India but expects it will be procured and distributed by governments without charge. Serum is also working on developing its own in-house vaccine options to tackle the disease, Poonawalla said. Vials, Tubes, Chemicals Even if a vaccine does succeed, a treatment to fight COVID-19 would still be required, said Poonawalla, noting some people do not get the desired immune response, even if vaccinated. "You may get mild symptoms, you may get severe symptoms. It depends on your system, but there is a chance," he added. "Not all vaccines are fully effective." The Serum Institute produces more than 1.5 billion doses of vaccines every year, for everything from polio to measles. Poonawalla says that gave the company an edge in securing supplies of vials and high-quality chemicals required to make a vaccine in bulk once all approvals are in place. "We have partnered with many of our suppliers to have one to two-year inventories of glass vials and tubing glass stocked in advance, so luckily for us that won't be an issue." Any successful vaccine is however bound to be in short supply at first, he stressed. India recorded more than 6,000 new cases of the coronavirus on Friday, bringing its total to over 1,18,000 cases with more than 3,500 deaths, even as it gradually begins to ease its nearly two-month-long nationwide lockdown. There have been more than 5 million infections and over 330,000 deaths reported worldwide. The Indian government stands ready to cover the costs of trials of any vaccine in the country, said Poonawalla, adding that the government had also expressed interest in placing advance orders for a potential vaccine. "We've reached out and they have been very positive," he added. "But we've said hold on ... as we don't want to take government money until we are very confident we can deliver."  Unlocking the value in the 'Hype' Serum, one of the few companies ramping up hiring during the health crisis, is also designing a separate facility to make vaccines for pandemic-level diseases that could handle 90% of the current vaccine candidates being developed, beyond just the COVID-19 ones. That facility, which will be ready in the next two to three years, would be able to potentially churn out 700-800 million doses a year, according to Poonawalla. The CEO said he considered taking the company public some years ago to fund some large acquisitions, but changed course when the deals fell through. Now he's considering a different approach. He is exploring creating a holding entity that will host the company's pandemic-level technologies, including manufacturing rights, intellectual property and the sale of all of Serum's COVID-19-related candidates, and selling a minority stake in the venture. "That will unlock value in the main hype," he said. Poonawalla said he had engaged bankers to test the waters on this, but stressed he would only consider selling a stake to ethical, long-term funds or sovereign funds that do not expect huge returns and want to "make a difference to the world". "After getting them onboard, I don't want to be in a situation where I have to charge high prices to give them returns."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-how-one-indian-company-could-be-worlds-door-to-a-covid-19-vaccine-840948.html
23-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Indian-Americans welcome relaxation in visa, travel restrictions for OCI card holders||The Indian-Americans have welcomed the decision of the Indian government to ease the coronavirus-linked global travel restrictions imposed on those having OCI cards, describing it as a big relief for them. Overseas Citizens of India or OCI card is issued to people of Indian origin globally which gives them almost all the privileges of an Indian national except for the right to vote, government service and buying agricultural land. The OCI card gives them a visa-free travel to India. On Friday, the central government allowed certain categories of OCI card holders, who are stranded abroad, to come to the country. Earlier, according to the regulations issued by the Indian government in April, visas of foreign nationals and OCI cards were suspended as part of the new international travel restrictions following the COVID-19 pandemic. This privilege of visa free travel to India was causing distress among a large number of people of Indian-origin and Indian citizens in countries like the US whose children were OCI card holders as they were born in this country. Many Indian parents, several of whom lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis due to coronavirus pandemic, but were not allowed to take the special evacuation flights of Air India from various US cities, took to social media and urged the Indian leaders to allow them to travel to India. “This is a big relief for the OCI card holders. It was a humanitarian crisis in the making. I am pleased that the Indian Government listened to their voices,” said social activist Prem Bhandari, chairman of Jaipur Foot USA, who has been taking up the cause of the OCI card holders.  “(This is a) much needed relaxation to the distressed parents with minors having OCI need to travel back home,” said Geeta Somani. In a family of four, her six-year-old daughter is a OCI card holder and rest are Indian citizens and their US visa is about to expire. But they were not able to travel because of the previous travel restrictions for the OCI card holders. Now they are planning to travel back home. “Many thanks to all of you and the Government of India for understanding our concern,” said a person named Rajesh. Bhandari who for the past few weeks had launched a relentless campaign for the Indian Government to reverse its recent OCI order, said voices of overseas Indians were humanely considered by its leaders, “right from” the top Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan. Flooded with questions on the OCI card issue, Muraleedharan during a webinar last week organised by Federation of Indian Americans (FIA) and Bihar Jharkhand Association of North America (BJANA), assured Indian Americans that the government will soon take a decision. During the webinar, after listening to their concerns, top RSS leader Dr Krishna Gopal “had assured us that he will take up the matter with appropriate authorities in India,” Bhandari said adding efforts made by every-one from inside and outside India helped resolve this emerging humanitarian crisis. “This is great news for the diaspora in need,” said Ranjeet Singh Champawat. “Today is such a great day. The Government of India resolves the big concern for OCI holders,” said Alok Kumar, former FIA president. “Good news for OCI Card holders.... Multiple-entry lifelong visa facility granted to Overseas Citizen of India card holders restored for minor children of Indian nationals abroad and holding OCI cards,” tweeted Oxomiya Jiyori. “Good News for OCI card holders,” said Sunanda Sondhi. At the same time, a number of OCI card holders on Friday sought further relaxation. “Please include OCI kids of OCI parents and parents living in India. It would be a nominal number in the scheme of things,” urged Sunil Kumar. “I am an OCI card holder living in India from 2008 and my son is an OCI card holder stuck in the USA,” he wrote. “Request you to please allow OCI students of OCI parents residing in India for almost 16 years,” urged Uma Sitaraman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-americans-welcome-relaxation-in-visa-travel-restrictions-for-oci-card-holders-840950.html
23-05-2020||National||Video of man pushing a mini Ferris wheel welded to his bike is at least 2 years old||Several Facebook and Twitter users have shared a 40-second video of a man riding a bike while pushing a mini-Ferris wheel on the road. A woman is sitting along with luggage in one of the seats in the mini-Ferris wheel. “This migrant labour in India surely deserves an award for their Brains, innovation & Practical and workable solutions He has removed the front wheel of his bike & welded his bike to the giant wheel with tyres. He has put a charpoy on top to sleep also,” is the claim shared with the clip. On May 16, Twitter user @IndurChhugani posted the viral video along with the viral text. The user gave the video courtesy to Shashi Bhagnari. This tweet has been retweeted over 900 times and has over 48,000 views. This migrant labour in India surely deserves an award for their Brains, innovation & Practical and workable solutions He has removed the front wheel of his bike & welded his bike to the giant wheel with tyres He has put a charpoy on top to sleep also   Fact-check Alt News performed a reverse image search of the first frame of the viral video on Yandex and found that the video was uploaded in November 2018 by Time For Utpatang, a YouTube account. Since the video was posted in 2018 it cannot depict a recent video of a migrant labourer. Additionally, there is a considerable amount of traffic and the person riding the bike isn’t wearing a mask. Prior to our report, Social Media Hoax Slayer published a fact-check report and found out that the viral video was published by News18 Gujarati journalist Sandhya Panchal in 2018. While social media users didn’t explicitly state that the video is recent, the fact they mentioned that it shows a migrant labourer is misleading enough for people to think it represents an incident that took place during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/video-of-man-pushing-a-mini-ferris-wheel-welded-to-his-bike-is-at-least-2-years-old-840955.html
23-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: What does flattening the curve mean?||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, DH journalist Varsha Gowda explores and dissects the term “flattening the curve”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-what-does-flattening-the-curve-mean-840959.html
23-05-2020||National||Nationwide lockdown will no longer help in COVID-19 fight: Virologist Shahid Jameel||The nationwide lockdown will no longer help India in its fight against COVID-19, and in its place community-driven containment, isolation and quarantine strategies have to be brought into play, leading virologist Shahid Jameel said. The recipient of Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology also stressed that testing should be carried out vigorously to identify coronavirus hotspots and isolate those areas. "Our current testing rate at 1,744 tests per million population is one of the lowest in the world. We should deploy both antibody tests and confirmatory PCR tests. This will tell us about pockets of ongoing infection and past (recovered) infection. This will provide data to open up gradually and let economic activity resume," Jameel told PTI in an interview. He stressed that testing has to be dynamic to continuously monitor red, orange and green zones and change these based on that data. About community transmission of COVID-19 in India, Jameel said the country reached that stage long ago. "We reached community transmission a long time ago. It's just that the health authorities are not admitting it. Even ICMR's own study of SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) showed that about 40 per cent of those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 did not have any history of overseas travel or contact to a known case. If this is not community transmission, then what is?" he posed. Lockdown bought India time in its fight against coronavirus, but continuing it is unlikely to yield any further dividend, Jameel said. "Instead, community-driven local lockdowns, isolations and quarantines have to come into play. Building trust is most important so that people follow rules. A public health problem cannot be dealt with as a law-and-order problem." The nationwide lockdown, initially imposed from March 25 to April 14, has been extended thrice and will continue at least till May 31. The virus has claimed 3,720 lives and infected over 1.25 lakh people in the country so far. Jameel has expertise in the fields of molecular biology, infectious diseases, and biotechnology. He is the CEO of Wellcome Trust/Department of Biotechnology's India Alliance and is best known for extensive research in Hepatitis E virus and HIV. He said COVID-19 will eventually be controlled through herd immunity, which is acquired in two ways – when a sufficient fraction of the population gets infected and recovers, and with vaccination. "It is estimated that for SARS-CoV-2 at least 60 per cent of the population would have to be infected and recovered, or vaccinated. This will happen over the course of the next few years," Jameel said. Herd immunity is reached when the majority of a population becomes immune to an infectious disease, either because they have become infected and recovered, or through vaccination. When that happens, the disease is less likely to spread to people who aren't immune, because there just aren't enough infectious carriers. "India has 1.38 billion people, a population density of about 400/sq km and a healthcare system ranked at 143 in the world. If we allow 60 per cent people to get infected quickly in the hopes of herd immunity, that would mean 830 million infections," Jameel said. "If 15 per cent need hospitalization that means about 125 million isolation beds (we have 0.3 million). If five per cent need oxygen and ventilatory support, this amounts to about 42 million oxygen support and ICU beds; we have 0.1 million oxygen support beds and 34,000 ICU beds. This would overwhelm the healthcare system causing mayhem," he said. Jameel said if the population level mortality is 0.5 per cent that would mean 40 lakh deaths. "Are we prepared to pay this price for herd immunity in the short term? Clearly not," he said. He said it is unlikely that a vaccine would be available by the end of the year. "Even then, we don't know yet how long it would give protection – weeks, months, one year, a few years? I don't think we will return to pre-coronavirus days for at least the next 3-5 years. This is also a chance to evaluate if we want to return to those unsustainable, environment-damaging ways. COVID-19 is a timely warning to reform our way of living," he said. Jameel said it is hard to predict but plausible that COVID-19 would return in second or third wave. "Later waves come when we don't understand the disease and become lax. A comparison to Spanish Flu is not entirely valid because in 1918 no one knew what caused it. No one had seen a virus till the mid-1930s as the electron microscope needed to view those was invented in 1931," he said. "Today we know a lot more about the pathogen, its genetic makeup, how it transmits and how to prevent it. We need to be sensible and follow expert advice," he said. If there is any scientific evidence linking deforestation, rapid urbanisation, climate change with pandemics like COVID-19, he said zoonotic viruses -- those that jump from animals to humans -- happen so when wild animal–human contacts increase. "Deforestation destroys animal habitats bringing them closer to humans. When you cut forests, bats come to roost on trees closer to human habitations. Their viruses in secretions/stool get transmitted to domestic animals and on to humans. This happened clearly with Nipah virus outbreak in Malaysia in 1997-98 from fruit bats to pigs to humans," he said. "COVID-19 possibly arose in wet animal markets due to dietary habits that bring all kinds of live and dead wild animals in close contact with humans," Jameel added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nationwide-lockdown-will-no-longer-help-in-covid-19-fight-virologist-shahid-jameel-840960.html
23-05-2020||National||PIPFPD appeals to India, Pakistan to release fishermen, women prisoners keeping in mind Eid & coronavirus||India and Pakistan should release the arrested fishermen and women prisoners of each other's country keeping in mind the holy month of Ramzan and Eid, Jatin Desai, national committee member of Pakistan-India Peoples' Forum for Peace and Democracy (PIPFPD), said. This should be done as a goodwill gesture, said Desai, who is based in Mumbai. Desai has appealed to Pakistan PM Imran Khan and India's Minister for External Affairs S Jaishankar. Apart from the holy month of Ramzan, both the countries should also consider keeping in mind the increasing novel coronavirus cases in both the countries and also in their prisons. The family members of arrested fishermen and others are worried about their near and dear ones languishing in each other's prisons. There are 207 Indian fishermen and few women prisoners in Pakistan's prisons and similarly 99 Pakistani fishermen and few women prisoners are in Indian jails. The charges against fishermen are of 'inadvertently' crossing the territorial border and entering into the waters of another country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pipfpd-appeals-to-india-pakistan-to-release-fishermen-women-prisoners-keeping-in-mind-eid-coronavirus-840972.html
23-05-2020||National||Ivanka Trump praises Indian girl from Bihar who cycled down 1200km carrying ailing father amidst the COVID-19 lockdown||Stuck in Gurugram in Haryana due to the COVID-19-induced travel restrictions and lockdown, a tenacious Jyoti asked her father to sit on the rear side carrier of her cycle and took him to his native place in Bihar, covering 1200km in seven days. Ivanka took to Twitter on Friday to highlight the story of the Indian girl, a class eight student, whose journey has become an extensive talking point even on social media where there has been talk about whether she has it in her to pursue cycling as a career. "15 yr old Jyoti Kumari, carried her wounded father to their home village on the back of her bicycle covering +1,200 km over 7 days. 15 yr old Jyoti Kumari, carried her wounded father to their home village on the back of her bicycle covering +1,200 km over 7 days. "This beautiful feat of endurance & love has captured the imagination of the Indian people and the cycling federation!" Ivanka said in a tweet. Ivanka, who is advisor to President Trump on job creation, has visited India twice, most recently in February this year along with her father. In 2017, she led the US delegation at the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in India. Impressed with the doggedness with which Kumari pedalled her way to Bihar from Gurugram, carrying her ailing father, the Cycling Federation of India (CFI) will invite Kumari to appear for a trial next month, in what could be a life-changing opportunity. CFI Chairman Onkar Singh recently told PTI that if Kumari passed the trial, she will be selected as a trainee at the state-of-the-art National Cycling Academy at the IGI Stadium complex here. Jyoti's father, Mohan Paswan, an autorickshaw driver in Gurgaon got injured and the lockdown left him without any source of income. He had to return the autorickshaw to the owner. The father and daughter duo started their journey from Gurgaon on May 10 after buying a cycle with whatever money they had and reached their village on May 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ivanka-trump-praises-indian-girl-from-bihar-who-cycled-down-1200km-carrying-ailing-father-amidst-the-covid-19-lockdown-840979.html
23-05-2020||National||Sikh student in US drops out of school over bias-based bullying; files lawsuit||A Sikh student in the US state of New Jersey has filed a lawsuit against a Board of Education alleging that he was subjected to bias-based bullying because of his faith and was forced to permanently pull out of school due to the prolonged harassment. Community-based organisation the Sikh Coalition said it has joined with co-counsel at the Law Offices of Brian M Cige to file a complaint against the Gloucester County Special Services School District Board of Education in Sewell, New Jersey. The complaint addresses the case of the Sikh student, who remains anonymous as he is a minor, enrolled at the Gloucester County Institute of Technology. It alleges that the student suffered “under a pattern of bias-based bullying since 2018.” “No student should experience what my child has gone through -- not the bullying by fellow students, and certainly not the indifference, dismissiveness, or criticism of the adults who are meant to protect them,” said the student’s mother, who also remains anonymous to protect her child’s identity. “I am hopeful that a civil court will recognise this clear case of bullying and take decisive action, both for the sake of my child and to create a safer learning environment for all students in this district.” The Sikh Coalition said in a statement that despite being subjected to slurs based on his actual and perceived race, derogatory comments about his articles of faith, and other bullying and harassment to the point that he were permanently pulled out of school, the student’s pleas for help from the school district have been repeatedly brushed aside by educators and administrators. Prior to the filing of the complaint this month, the Coalition worked with the family to formally appeal the negative finding of the school district’s initial investigation. The organisation said both the first investigation and the appeal ended with the school board refusing to take action; officials ignored the clear pattern of harassment, and insisted on characterising obviously bias-motivated attacks as harmless ‘nicknames.’ The suit calls for acknowledgement of the school district’s wrongdoing, training and processes to better recognise bias-motivated harassment in the future, and damages. The organisation further said that even after more than a year out of school, the effects of the bullying on this student persist. “The student remains in treatment for negative mental health consequences of his experience. And while students across New Jersey were transitioned to distance learning as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, this student--who was already learning from home--has been subjected to additional reporting burdens and reduced learning time by the district,” it said. Sikh Coalition Senior Staff Attorney Giselle Klapper said the organisation’s top priority is ensuring a safe path for the child to return to a healthy learning environment. “However, it is also important that the School Board recognise and remedy how their investigation failed to acknowledge -- let alone appropriately respond to -- the obvious bias driving this bullying behaviour. This acknowledgement must be accompanied by new training and procedures to keep from repeating these mistakes in the future,” Klapper said. The Sikh Coalition added that despite being members of the world’s fifth largest religion, Sikhs in the United States are often subject to bias, bigotry and backlash. “This harassment often focuses on Sikhs’ visible articles of faith, including unshorn hair, head coverings, steel bracelets, and other items,” it said. The bullying of Sikh youth on the basis of their perceived and actual identity remains a “systemic problem” in the United States, it said, citing the results of the Sikh Coalition 2014 survey and a report entitled 'Go Home, Terrorist'. In the past year alone, the Sikh Coalition has received 14 legal intakes pertaining to school bullying across the country, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sikh-student-in-us-drops-out-of-school-over-bias-based-bullying-files-lawsuit-840996.html
23-05-2020||National||Delhi sees 23 COVID-19 deaths, 591 more cases||COVID-19 cases in Delhi showed a slight decline for the first time on Saturday (May 23) in four days. But, reporting of 23 deaths, some of them not in the last 24 hours, on a single day depicted the challenges before the health apparatus with lockdown 4.0 relaxations almost nearing a week. The latest medical bulletin showed that the capital reported 591 cases, down from 660 on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 12,910 while the death toll rose to 231. On May 13, Delhi had reported 20 deaths, the highest since the first case was reported on March 2. Since May 19, Delhi has been reporting more than 500 cases and it has been rising since then. However, on Saturday, the numbers have slightly declined. On May 18, there were 299 cases while May 19 had reported 500 cases, May 20 with 534 cases and May 21 with 571 cases. In the past four days, the capital has reported 2,856 cases while May alone accounted for 9,391 or 72.74% of total cases. According to the latest medical bulletin, 6,267 people have recovered.  At present, 6,412 people are still under treatment with 3,861 with mild symptoms in home isolation. A total of 1.65 lakh samples have been tested so far, including 4,792 fresh samples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-sees-23-covid-19-deaths-591-more-cases-841002.html
23-05-2020||National||Cyclone Amphan: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres following situation in India, Bangladesh; saddened by loss of lives||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said that he is following the situation in India and Bangladesh after cyclone Amphan struck the two countries and expressed sadness over the loss of lives. Cyclone Amphan, the strongest to hit the region in nearly two decades, made landfall on Wednesday evening. It has killed over 85 people and directly affected around 1.5 crore others and destroyed more than 10 lakh houses in India. In Bangladesh, it has killed at least 22 people and left many displaced in the coastal areas. Guterres on Friday took to Twitter to express sadness over the loss of lives and destruction. “I’ve been following developments in Bangladesh and India after #CycloneAmphan made landfall Wednesday. Deeply saddened to hear lives have been lost and millions more have been affected. UN staff are on the ground assessing damage & emergency needs,” the UN chief said in a tweet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced an advance interim assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for West Bengal and Rs 500 crore for Odisha. The UN Country Team in India has said that Cyclone Amphan, which has ravaged areas in West Bengal, is now considered even more destructive than Cyclone Aila, which slammed the region in May 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-amphan-un-secretary-general-antonio-guterres-following-situation-in-india-bangladesh-saddened-by-loss-of-lives-841010.html
23-05-2020||National||Will try to restart international flights before August: Puri||India will try to resume a good percentage of international flights as early as mid-June if the COVID-19 behaves in a predictable manner, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday. In an interactive session on Facebook, Puri said the entire civil aviation sector is ready for resumption of domestic flights from Monday and is awaiting guidelines from the International Civil Aviation Organisation on starting international commercial passenger flights. “Why wait till August-September? If the situation eases and the virus behaves in a predictable manner, and we get used to co-exist with the virus, we are in a position to make arrangements. Why not start by June middle or June end or by July…. Nothing is cast in stone,” the minister said. The minister was responding to a question from viewers on restarting of international commercial passenger flights, which have been suspended since March 22 to break the chain of transmission of the COVID-19.   “We must have a very ambitious goal. Why not start mid-June, end June or July. If not the entire civil aviation, at least we can start a good percentage of it,” Puri said. The minister also assured on increasing the number of Vande Bharat flights to bring back Indian nationals stranded abroad. Between May 7 and 21, 23,000 Indians have returned home and about 8,000 NRIs, who are usually residents of other countries, have taken the flights out of India. Puri said as many as 50,000 Indians stranded abroad would return to the country by the end of this month. “I am able to meet the objective of ensuring NRI who are now living in India but are ordinarily resident abroad in countries such as in the Canada, the US, Japan, EU and Australia, to return even before international civil aviation opens up because we are now increasing the number of Vande Bharat flights,” Puri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-try-to-restart-international-flights-before-august-puri-841013.html
23-05-2020||National||Chennai returnee tests COVID-19 positive in Manipur; active cases now 25||A 26-year-old man, who returned to Manipur from Chennai recently by a special train, tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 25, an official said on Saturday. The man from Imphal West district had been under quarantine since his return, and he was admitted at the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences here, they said. He is among 1,140 people who returned to the state by a Shramik Special train on May 13. "Samples of others in the quarantine centre, where the man was staying, were tested and they were found negative," the officials said. Of the 25 active cases, 16 are Chennai returnees, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chennai-returnee-tests-covid-19-positive-in-manipur-active-cases-now-25-841032.html
23-05-2020||National||PM Modi discusses coronavirus situation with Lankan Prez, Mauritius PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke on phone with Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and assured him that India would continue to provide all possible support to the neighbouring nation to mitigate the economic impact of the lockdown enforced to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Modi also spoke to the leader of another Indian Ocean nation – Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth of Mauritius – on Saturday and assured him that India was “duty-bound” to support its friends to come out of the COVID-19 crisis.  Prime Minister and Sri Lankan President discussed the pandemic and its likely health and economic impacts in the South Asia and Indian Ocean region. Rajapaksa conveyed Modi on the steps being taken by the Sri Lankan Government to restart economic activity. They agreed on the need to accelerate the development projects India was supporting in Sri Lanka. They also discussed the possibilities of promoting investments and value-addition in Sri Lanka by the private sector of India, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi. Jugnauth thanked Modi for sending the Indian Naval Ship ‘Kesari’ to Mauritius as part of 'Operation Sagar', with a consignment of medicines and a 14-member medical team to help his country’s health authorities fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Modi conveyed his appreciation for the effective Covid-19 response mounted by Mauritius, which has reported no new cases of infection for several weeks. He suggested that Mauritius could document its best practices, which would be helpful for other countries, especially island countries, in dealing with similar health crises.  The two leaders discussed enhancing cooperation in various areas including measures aimed at supporting the financial sector of Mauritius, and enabling Mauritian youth to study Ayurvedic medicine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-discusses-coronavirus-situation-with-lankan-prez-mauritius-pm-841033.html
23-05-2020||National||Ladakh reports three fresh COVID-19 positive cases||Three fresh COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Kargil district of Ladakh on Saturday, taking the total number of active positive cases in the Union Territory (UT) to four. “Two Iran-returned (Residents of Kargil ) under Institutional Quarantine at #kargil has tested #COVID19 Positive. One Student who returned from Jammu (Resident of Kargil) tested #covid19 Positive (sic)” Commissioner Secretary Health, Ladakh, Rigzin Samphel, tweeted. He said all the patients, who were under institutional quarantine, have been shifted to an isolation facility. Kargil district was declared COVID-19 free on May 15 after the last two patients, including a two-year-old boy, were declared recovered and subsequently discharged. Similarly neighbouring Leh district had become COVID-19 free as nineteen more positive patients were discharged from a hospital in Leh district on May 19.  Ladakh has so far recorded a total of 47 positive cases with 43 among them have recovered. The UT, which has a population of 2.74 lakh (2011 census), was one of the first few regions in the country to report a coronavirus positive case. The first two positive cases in the UT were reported on March 7 with both the patients having travel history to Iran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-reports-three-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-841041.html
23-05-2020||National||Indian Railways ferried around 32 lakh migrants in 2,570 Shramik Special trains since May 1||The Railways has ferried around 32 lakh migrant workers on board 2,570 Shramik Special trains since May 1, according to official data. The Shramik Special trains are being operated primarily on the requests of the states which want to send the migrant workers to their home states. The Railways is bearing 85 per cent of the total cost of running each of the trains while the rest is being borne by the states. Out of the 2,570 trains, 505 are yet to reach their destination, while 2,065 trains have completed their journey. According to data with the Railways, Uttar Pradesh (1246) has received the highest number of Shramik Special trains, followed by Bihar (804) and Jharkhand (124). Among the originating states, Gujarat (759) has used the most services to sent migrant workers home, followed by Maharashtra (483) and Punjab (291). The coronavirus lockdown has had a devastating impact on the economy as well as on the livelihoods of lakhs of migrant workers. It shone the spotlight on the miseries of the migrant workers whose journeys on foot from several urban centres to their villages hundreds of kilometres away had grabbed headlines for almost the last two months. There were incidents of many of them being killed in road accidents. A number of migrant labourers were even killed by a speeding train after they fell asleep on the tracks. On May 1, the Railways started the migrant special trains to facilitate the movement of such workers back to their home states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-ferried-around-32-lakh-migrants-in-2570-shramik-special-trains-since-may-1-841043.html
23-05-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh govt warns of coronavirus peak in June||Even as the COVID-19 has engulfed entire Madhya Pradesh, the state government has warned people to brace up for steep spike in pandemic cases which have already touched 6,170 till Saturday morning in the state. The death toll due to the pandemic, which has spread to 50 out of 52 districts, has gone up to 272. Indore accounts for 2,850 followed by 1,206 in Bhopal and 504 cases in Ujjain. Number of active cases is 2,809 while 3,089 patients have recovered and discharged.   State chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bais said coronavirus cases are likely to jump further by mid June, so the administration has to augment its preparedness at war footing. In a meeting with top health department officials, the chief secretary informed that number of beds in hospitals is being increased up to one lakh and 18 lakh disposable bed-sheets are being purchased. A special fund has been created from mining revenue to buy PPE, masks, oxygen cylinders and other necessary equipment to combat the growing danger of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-govt-warns-of-coronavirus-peak-in-june-841046.html
23-05-2020||National||Train to Gorakhpur takes different route||In what comes as a shocker, a Shramik Special train from Mumbai that was bound for Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, reached Odisha. However,  the Western Railway (WR),  from where the train originated,  and Central Railway (CR),  on which it covered a long journey, said that the diversion was for operational reasons.On Thursday evening,  the train left the Vasai station in Palghar district,  the western suburbs of Mumbai.  Under normal circumstances, the train should have reached Gorakhpur by Friday midnight. On Saturday morning,  the passengers found them in Rourkela in Odisha. "We are facing a horrible time. There is no water. There are no officials whom we can speak to. We are running out of food," said Vishal Singh, a budding dancer,  who was on board the running train."Women and children too are in the train and it is difficult," Singh told DH over phone. However, a WR spokesperson said that the Vasai Road - Gorakhpur Shramik Special train was to run on Kalyan - Jalgoan- Bhusaval - Khandwa - Itarsi - Jabalpur - Manikpur route but this train will go to Gorakhpur by diverted route ie via Bilaspur (SECR), Jharsuguda   Rourkela, Adra, Asansol (ER) due to heavy traffic congestion on existing routes. He said that due to heavy congestion on Itarsi - Jabalpur - Pt. Deen Dayal Nagar route in view of running of large numbers of Shramik Special trains, it is decided by the Railway Board to run the trains originating from Vasai Road, Udhna, Surat, Valsad, Ankleshwar of WR, Konkan Railway and some stations of CR  temporarily on diverted route via Bilaspur - Jharsugda - Raurkela. Meanwhile, a CR spokesperson said that the train cannot be run mistakenly via different route. It is a planned diversion due to operational or any other reasons, the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/train-to-gorakhpur-takes-different-route-841054.html
23-05-2020||National||Army called in following cyclone Amphan: WB Govt||West Bengal government has called in the Army for relief and rescue work in the wake of the cyclone Amphan. The announcement was made by the state’s Home Department in a tweet on Saturday (May 23). The development comes at a time when discontent is brewing in several districts including Kolkata for lack of relief work, water, and power supply. So far, the storm has caused 85 lives in the state. The Home Department in a series of tweets also stated that apart from the deployment of NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) and SDRF(State Disaster Response Force), the state government has also urged the Railways, Port and the private sector to supply teams and equipment. “GOWB mobilizes maximum strength in unified command mode on 24×7 basis for immediate restoration of essential infrastructure and services ASAP. Army support has been called for; NDRF and SDRF teams deployed; Rlys, Port & private sector too requested to supply teams and equipment,” tweeted the Home Department. The Department also stated that the drinking water supply and drainage are being restored on a war footing and the Public Health Engineering Department has been asked to supply water puches in areas where the drinking water supply has been affected.  It stated that more than 100 teams of from various departments are working to clear uprooted trees so that power supply can resume in affected localities. “WBSEDCL (West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited) & CESC(Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation ) asked to deploy maximal manpower, even while lockdown significantly affects the deployment potential of the latter. Police on high alert,” tweeted the Home Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-called-in-following-cyclone-amphan-wb-govt-841057.html
23-05-2020||National||Gujarat: 7,512 of 22.5 lakh migrants eligible for travel allowance||Of 22.5 lakh migrant workers in Gujarat, only 7,512 were registered under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (IMW) Act and were thus eligible for travel allowance, the state government has informed the Gujarat High Court. In a written reply to a Public Interest Litigation, the government informed a division bench of Justices J B Pardiwala and I, J Vora, on Friday that around 22.5 lakh inter-state migrant workers lived in Gujarat as per the state labour department's data. But the provisions of the IMW Act of 1979 were applicable to only 7,512 workers who were registered under the Act, it said. "Most of the 22.5 lakh migrant workers have come on their own and provisions for payment of travel and displacement allowances as required by section 14 and 15 of the IMW Act, 1979, were not applicable to them," it said.  Under sections 14 and 15, contractors are required to pay travel and displacement allowances to workers. The court was hearing a PIL filed by lawyer Anand Yagnik along with a suo motu petition (a petition initiated by the HC on its own) and other pleas seeking a direction to the government to provide free transport facility to migrant workers stranded due to coronavirus lockdown. Of 22.5 inter-state migrant workers, 11.5 lakh are employed in and around Surat alone, the government said. By May 31, only 1.5 lakh migrant labourers would be left behind in Surat, of which 1.15 lakh had already returned to work, it said. Around 3.94 lakh workers from other districts of Gujarat were also employed in Surat but most of them returned to their hometowns in 30,975 buses, the reply said. The state government also told the court that the Railways had been collecting transportation charges from workers even though travel arrangements were being made at the district-level by NGOs and civil society organisations. States including Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have said they would reimburse travel expenses to the Railways directly, it said. "No migrant worker has been denied travel to his hometown on account of non-payment of travel charges," the Gujarat government claimed. The lockdown on account of coronavirus has seen a virtual exodus of migrants to their home states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-7512-of-225-lakh-migrants-eligible-for-travel-allowance-841059.html
23-05-2020||National||Indian Railways to operate 2,600 Shramik special trains in 10 days||Indian Railways will operate 2,600 Shramik Special trains in next 10 days to ferry migrant workers to their home states. The railways has already operated 2,600 Shramik Special Trains since May 1. Around 36 lakhs stranded migrants have been transported till now to their home states, said Railway Board Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav here on Saturday. The railways is ready to operate Shramik special trains as long as all migrants want to go home, he told reporters here. Around 80 per cent Shramik Special trains have been received by Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, while West Bengal the lowest. Though West Bengal gave a list of over 100 trains, the state government requested a delay in its operation due to Amphan Cyclone in the state.  Once the state give its approval, the railways will resume Shramik Special trains. Around 98 per cent tickets have been booked in Special AC trains started from May 12. The railway is closely monitoring the situation and if required, more trains will be operated on routes having highest demand. To a question of removal of concession in tickets, he said all concession provided during pre-COVID period has been restored. However, senior citizen concession has not been reintroduced as these are special trains with special purposes, he said.  Meanwhile, the railways transported 9.7 million tonne of foodfrains between April 1 to May 22 and operated 3,255 parcel trains since March 22, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-operate-2600-shramik-special-trains-in-10-days-841060.html
23-05-2020||National||Zoom responds to PIL in Supreme Court for banning video app in India||Harsh Chugh, a part-time tutor, filed  Public Interest Legislation (PIL) in Supreme Court, urging the central government to ban the popular video conferencing app Zoom in India. After the nation-wide lockdown on March 25, Zoom had become a popular choice among corporate and government employees to host virtual meetings. Even schools used it to impart online education. However, soon reports emerged that the Zoom lacked proper user-privacy policy and also vulnerable to getting hijacked by pranksters. There were several complaints of Zoom Bombing, where cybercriminals shared age-inappropriate contents during online meetings and classes. Supreme Court, after going the Harsh Chugh's PIL, on Friday (May 22) sent a notice to the central government to respond with measures taken to prevent cyber crimes and if there is a need for banning the Zoom app. Now, Zoom has responded to the media with regard to aforementioned the PIL in Supreme Court.  “Zoom takes user privacy, security, and trust extremely seriously. We have been focused on enhancing our commitment to security and privacy under our 90-day plan announced April 1st, and have made significant progress. Zoom is an American company listed on Nasdaq and for close to a decade we have been helping some of the world’s largest financial services companies, leading telecommunications providers, government agencies, universities, and others stay connected in a safe and secure manner. Many of these entities have done exhaustive security reviews of our user, network and data center layers and confidently selected Zoom for complete deployment, and we actively engage with them[, as we are with the Indian Central Government,] to provide them with any information they need to make informed decisions In India, we’ve been proud to help businesses, government agencies, communities, school teachers, and other users stay connected during this challenging and unprecedented time,” Zoom Spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zoom-responds-to-pil-in-supreme-court-for-banning-video-app-in-india-841062.html
23-05-2020||National||AIIMS preparing database of critically ill patients to save them from coronavirus: Official||AIIMS, Rishikesh has started preparing a database of patients suffering from critical illnesses in view of their higher vulnerability to COVID-19, officials said.  "People suffering from critical ailments are more at risk of contracting coronavirus than people in general. We have begun preparing a database of such patients to keep a watch on them in particular and save them from getting infected," nodal officer for COVID-19 cases at AIIMS, Rishikesh Madhur Uniyal told PTI.  Diabetics, people on dialysis, those suffering from coronary disease, lung infection or kidney disease fall into the category named co-morbidity, he said.    The exercise began after two COVID-19 positive women who died at AIIMS, Rishikesh were found to be suffering from other serious ailments like cancer and a brain stroke.   District Magistrate Ashish Kumar Shrivastava said a similar exercise has been launched at the district level too with the involvement of Asha workers. "They (asha volunteers) have been asked to prepare a database of critically-ill patients so as to monitor their health and save them from infection of the deadly virus," Shrivastava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-preparing-database-of-critically-ill-patients-to-save-them-from-coronavirus-official-841068.html
23-05-2020||National||Future actions to stimulate economy will depend on how COVID-19 crisis pans out: Finance Minister||A day after the RBI projected economic contraction in 2020-21, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said future fiscal policy actions to stimulate the economy will depend on how COVID-19 pandemic pans out.  The government has already announced a Rs 20.97 lakh crore economic package, which includes Reserve Bank's Rs 8.01 lakh crore worth of liquidity measures till May 17.  Sitharaman said making a "realistic assessment" of economic growth would be difficult at this point of time as there is no clarity on when the pandemic would retreat. "I'm not closing the door at all. I want to keep getting inputs from industry, implement what we have announced and depending on how things pan out we have to respond accordingly. We are only 2-month old in this year, we have 10 months to go," Sitharaman said in a conversation with BJP leader Nalin Kohli.  The Reserve Bank on Friday had said the impact of COVID-19 is more severe than anticipated and the GDP growth during 2020-21 is likely to remain in the negative territory. It projected some pick-up in growth impulses from second half (October-March) of 2020-21 onwards. Last week, the minister had announced an economic packages five tranches, which included a Rs 3.70 lakh crore support for MSMEs, Rs 75,000 crore for NBFCs and Rs 90,000 crore for Power distribution companies, free foodgrains to migrant workers, increased allocation for MGNREGS, tax relief to certain sections and Rs 15,000 crore allocated to the healthcare sector to deal with the pandemic. The package was done in consultation with economists, academicians, ex-bankers, ex-finance ministry officials and industry, Sitharaman said, adding the idea was to make available more liquidity in the economy and revive demand, Sitharaman said.  "The package was designed keeping in mind that we are facing a situation which is exceptional and therefore whether the contraction is going to be this much or that much, we didn't have the luxury of data to guess-estimating them. However, the spirit of that thought has been kept in mind that we have to now look at complete contraction and if we have to stimulate the economy keeping that in mind what is that we have to do," she said.  Sitharaman said the approach has been to go through this route of stimulating the economy through companies, institutions, enterprises and businesses all getting assistance by banks or formulations through which businesses restart.  "I'm sure the Indian entrepreneurs are also going to come out after they test the waters post the lockdown...We have come with measures which will get more liquidity in the economy, if there is more liquidity in economy people will get money in their hands and that will kick-start economy, bring more demand,” she said.  Sitharaman further said that the government is working to further speed up FDI clearances by administrative departments, providing policy certainty and easing compliance burden for companies.  COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus, has claimed 3,720 lives in India while the number of infected stood at over 1.25 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/future-actions-to-stimulate-economy-will-depend-on-how-covid-19-crisis-pans-out-finance-minister-841073.html
23-05-2020||National||Frustrated by repeated deferments due to lockdown, UP woman walks 80 kms to get married||Apparently frustrated by repeated lockdowns, which resulted in deferments of her wedding date, a woman walked 80 kilometres under the scorching sun to reach the groom's home to get married. The bizarre incident happened in Uttar Pradesh's Kannauj district on Friday. According to reports, the marriage of 19-year-old Goldie, a resident of Mangalpur village in UP's Kanpur Dehat district, was to be solemnised with Virendra Kumar Rathore, a resident of Baispur village in Unnao district, in March this year but had to be postponed after the lockdown was declared. The wedding had to be postponed several times owing to repeated extension of the lockdown. The two families then decided that the wedding would be solemnised on May 17.  As Goldie's luck would have it, the lockdown was again extended till May 31. By then she had run out of her patience. On Thursday, Goldie quietly left her home with a small bag and walked over 80 kilometres to reach the groom's home much to the surprise of his parents. It took her around 18 hours to cover the distance, reports said.   ''I had no option....my parents were planning to defer the wedding again,'' she said. Goldie was, however, welcomed by Virendra's parents and the wedding was ultimately solemnised on Friday with both the bride and groom wearing masks and in the presence of a handful of guests, reports said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/frustrated-by-repeated-deferments-due-to-lockdown-up-woman-walks-80-kms-to-get-married-841074.html
23-05-2020||National||SCBA prez lashes out at judiciary for failing people during COVID-19 pandemic||Supreme Court Bar Association President and senior advocate Dushyant Dave on Saturday lashed out at the top court for failing the people of the country during the COVID-19 pandemic by not questioning the executive in redressing grievances of millions of migrant workers.  "Nobody wants the judiciary to interfere in the daily functioning of the executive but the judiciary must hold the executive answerable. When it came to the large migrant labour population of the country, the Judiciary has failed us," he said in a webinar on the 'role of the judiciary in a pandemic'.  Maintaining that judges can't sit in ivory tower blind-folded to miseries of citizens, he said this is the time for the judges to galvanize themselves and there was no better way that the judges can serve the people right now during this pandemic. "It is really sad that the Supreme Court, instead of reminding the executive that they are answerable for their actions, reminded the people of the country during the lockdown that they can be punished for violating the lockdown rules under Disaster management Act," he said.  Dave said the pandemic has given the opportunity to the judiciary to rise to the occasion and prove that it is proactive. It really gave the judiciary a chance to win over the hearts of the people by taking proactive steps in the time of crisis and earn back the respect it once commanded. He also rued there has been no dialogue between the Supreme Court bench and the Supreme Court Bar regarding how to energise and synergise better functioning of the court in such a pandemic and crisis.  He said the media blamed the Nizamuddin Markaz for the spread of COVID-19 but it did not question why the government allowed the attendees to come into India in March. "Sadly even the judiciary went completely silent," he said. Dave said nobody in media held a debate on why the Prime Minister declared lockdown with such short notice, and why preparation for pandemic did not begin sooner and such.  "Crisis cannot be simply overlooked by us as lawyers, citizens, civil society and certainly not by judges. We will be failing the nation if we overlook the situation and history will remember India as not a democracy that protects rights of the people but as a country that protected those in power," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scba-prez-lashes-out-at-judiciary-for-failing-people-during-covid-19-pandemic-841075.html
23-05-2020||National||Out of 4 crore migrant workers, 75 lakh return home so far, says Ministry of Home Affairs||The Centre on Saturday said around four crore migrant labourers are engaged in various works in different parts of the country and so far 75 lakh of them have returned home in trains and buses since the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Joint Secretary in the Union Home Ministry, Punya Salila Srivastava, said the railways have engaged over 2,600 'Shramik' special trains since May 1 for transportation of the migrant workers from different parts of the country to their destinations.  "According to the last census report, there are four crore migrant workers in the country," she said at a press conference here. Elaborating on the steps taken by the central government for the convenience of migrant workers since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown began, Srivastava said 35 lakh migrant workers have reached their destinations using 'Shramik' special trains, while 40 lakh have travelled in buses to reach their destinations. The joint secretary said that on March 27, the Home Ministry had sent an advisory to all states and Union Territories (UTs)  that the issue of migrant workers should be handled with sensitivity and ensure that they don't move during the lockdown. The states and UTs were also told to provide them food and shelter, she said. On March 28, the Home Ministry issued an order empowering the states and UTs to use funds under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) for providing food and shelter to the migrant workers. By April 3, a total of Rs 11,092 crore have been released by the central government to the states and UTs under the NDRF, Srivastava said.  She said the Home Ministry has also set up a 24x7 control room to monitor migrant workers' issues across the country under the supervision of the joint secretary level officers. States and UTs were also told to set up similar control room, she said. The joint secretary said the Home Ministry again sent an advisory on March 29 asking the states to provide food and shelter to the migrant workers. The states were also told to make wide publicity so that the migrant workers know the facilities available for them. Subsequently, another advisory was sent banning transportation of migrant workers by trucks and made the SPs responsible for any violation. Srivastava said the Home Ministry on April 19 allowed movement of workers within a state and on May 1, inter-state movement through trains.  A nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic. It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17. The lockdown has now been extended till May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/out-of-4-crore-migrant-workers-75-lakh-return-home-so-far-says-ministry-of-home-affairs-841076.html
23-05-2020||National||Industry-starved Mizoram gives industry status to sports for more jobs||Mizoram cabinet has accorded industry status to sports in order to create more jobs as the state's efforts to attract investment for industry yielded very less response. A meeting of the cabinet ministers on Friday (May 22) approved the proposal by the state sports and youth service department to grant sports an industry status. "This is a historic development and now we hope to attract more investment for sports development as sports is our strength and resource," sports minister Robert Romawia Royte told reporters in Aizawl after the cabinet meeting. He said the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and a few other big industrial bodies have been demanding industry status to sport for a long time and Mizoram's decision would help create more jobs for local youths. Royte, a business-man-turned politician is credited for creating a conducive atmosphere for sports in Mizoram after his football club, Aizawl FC won the I-League football in 2017. Royte, who won the Assembly elections in 2018 had also promised to bring in more professionalism into sports and help to project sports as a career in Mizoram, where there are very few industries even today. The economy in Mizoram is agriculture-based and lack of proper infrastructure and communication facilities have failed to attract private investors to set up industry in the state. The state has produced several footballers who are playing in big football clubs in the rest of the country. The move, Royte said would also help attract private investors to further improve sports infrastructure in the state and allow sportspersons to earn more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/industry-starved-mizoram-gives-industry-status-to-sports-for-more-jobs-841077.html
23-05-2020||National||MP: COVID-19 woman gives birth to twin boys in Indore hospital||A 28-year-old COVID-19 patient on Saturday gave birth to twin boys in a hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, the district worst-hit by the outbreak in the central state. It was a normal delivery though it was a month ahead of full-term, Maharaja Tukojirao Holkar (MTH) Hospital in-charge Dr Sumit Shukla told PTI. "The weight of the twins is around 1.6 kilograms each, which is lower than that of normal newborns. A team of doctors is at hand to ensure mother and newborns are fine," he added. According to experts, babies born after a normal period of pregnancy weigh between 2.5 to 3.5 kilograms. Indore, classified as a red zone, has 2,933 COVID-19 patients, and 111 people have died of the infection so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-covid-19-woman-gives-birth-to-twin-boys-in-indore-hospital-841083.html
23-05-2020||National||Don't indulge in politics, have patience: Mamata after protests in several areas in WB||After protests in several cyclone-affected areas of West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged people to have patience as the administration was working tirelessly to restore water and power supply. She also denounced the "negative campaigning" against her government, saying "this is not the time to do politics". The chief minister conducted an aerial survey of the worst affected regions of South 24 Parganas district for the second consecutive day, after accompanying Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday. "We are facing four challenges at a time, COVID-19, lockdown, issues related to migrant labourers and now the cyclonic disaster," she said. After holding a review meeting at Kakdwip in the district, the chief minister said that devastation caused by cyclone Amphan is "more than a national disaster". Banerjee said that people should understand the "ground reality" and cooperate. At the meeting, she directed the district administration to utilise local people in order to restore normalcy in the region. "Take the help of the local people. They may not be able to help you technically but at least they will be able to help you remove the posts or do some basic work... include them in the 100 days' scheme and also utilise people of self-help groups," Banerjee said in the presence of senior district officials, including District Magistrate Dr P Ulaganathan. She said that the Odisha government has agreed to send personnel to help in the process of cutting trees which were uprooted during cyclone Amphan. The chief minister also directed the district magistrate to ensure that people get enough drinking water and there is no complaint about it. "There are huge losses in your district. Our challenge is to restore normalcy. Ensure that all people get drinking water. If needed, start supplying drinking water pouches" she said. She said since the state government does not have much fund, it must spend accordingly. The chief minister also said that those injured in the cyclone will get Rs 25,000 each and the state will bear expenses for their treatment. Three days after Cyclone Amphan hit West Bengal, several areas of the city are still without power and water supplies, triggering protests by residents. "There are a few areas in Kolkata where there is no electricity (after cyclone Amphan) hampering water supply. I have called up the CESC (Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation) at least 10 times. Even I do not have a proper phone network... I cannot watch television at home...," the chief minister said. "People should understand the ground reality and have patience. Some of you have started negative campaigning against the government. This is not the time to do politics," Banerjee said. Until power supply is normalised, the chief minister said, she has mooted an idea to the CESC to hire 150 generators. The CESC is a private organisation which was set up during the erstwhile Left Front government, she said. A dearth of manpower due to the lockdown has also hit restoration work, the chief minister said. "Several people have left (the city) because of the coronavirus pandemic. In some places, 25 per cent of men are working while in some places only 30 per cent are on the job. So we do not have the required manpower and because the lockdown is still on, they cannot come for work," she said. The chief minister said she has asked Firhad Hakim, Chairman of the Board of Administrators of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), to make arrangements for supplying water to areas facing water crisis due to absence of power. "Now because these days there is no load-shedding people have forgotten it. Even two days' problem has become a big trouble for the. I can understand the pain," Banerjee said. Not only in the state capital, people took to the streets demanding immediate water supply in Howrah also after which police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the protesters. A similar incident was reported from Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas. Cyclone Amphan has claimed 86 lives in West Bengal and caused havoc in at least 14 districts mainly in South 24 Parganas, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, East Midnapore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-indulge-in-politics-have-patience-mamata-after-protests-in-several-areas-in-wb-841103.html
23-05-2020||National||Railways to use 50% of converted isolation coaches to operate Shramik Special trains||The railways on Saturday said 50 per cent of its 5,213 isolation coaches meant for coronavirus patients will now be used to run Shramik Special trains. PTI had on Friday reported that the railway board in an order dated May 21 allowed 60 per cent of these modified coaches to operate the special trains to ferry migrants. The officials said these non-AC coaches will not be reconverted into normal coaches but will be used as "they are" for these services. “We have so far converted 5,000 such coaches and we have 80,000 beds available. These coaches can be deployed wherever the states desire, but since they were not in use as of now, we have taken a decision to use 50 per cent of them as Shramik Special coaches,” Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said on Saturday. "However, the others are available for use as COVID-19 care centres. If required, even those used in the trains can be diverted for COVID-19 care whenever required,” he said. In the order issued on May 21, the railway board said “60 per cent of isolation coaches meant for the intervention of COVID-19 cases, railways may utilise them for running of Shramik Special trains. It is permitted by the board”.  While making the modified isolation wards, the middle berths had been removed and the lower portion of the compartment plugged by plywood. There is also a provision of partition provided from the aisle side for isolation of the compartment. Due to non-availability of the middle berth, when in use, the trains with these coaches will have lower number of passengers. Officials said all the equipment onboard the coaches like oxygen tanks, ventilators and other medical items will be removed from them. One significant change for travellers would be the availability of a proper bathroom and not just a toilet on board. The four toilets in each coach have been converted into two bathrooms by plugging the toilet pan and with proper flooring. Each bathroom will have a hand shower, bucket and mug. "This is a win-win situation for railways. We are not reconverting the coaches into regular ones, but using them as they are by removing only the medical equipment on board. There is no additional cost that we are incurring. We will also remove the curtains. These coaches will come in multipurpose use since they are currently not being utilised. “If and when they are needed as isolation units, they will be shifted for use there," a railway spokesperson said.' The Centre has, however, earmarked 215 railway stations for the deployment of railways' isolation coaches to be used as “COVID-19 Care Centers” for suspected or confirmed patients categorised as mild or very mild cases. As of now, none of these coaches are in use. Officials said modifying each coach into isolation wards has cost the national transporter around Rs 2 lakh, while reconverting them into regular non-AC coaches would cost it Rs 1 lakh for each coach. So far, the railways has operated 2,600 Shramik Special trains since May 1 to ferry 36 lakh migrant workers home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-use-50-of-converted-isolation-coaches-to-operate-shramik-special-trains-841105.html
23-05-2020||National||Parents income hit by COVID-19 lockdown, many children in Assam turn vegetable sellers||Her face is well covered with a mask. But Rumi Kumari (name changed) refused to turn left while being photographed. "I don't sell vegetables always. Now that my father's work is closed and we don't have school too, I came here to earn whatever little I can," the 13-year girl selling vegetables told DH as she got busy with customers enquiring about prices of the raw jackfruit and mangoes she was selling near Rehabari market in Guwahati. The roadside tea stall Rumi's father runs remained shut since March 24, when the country-wide lockdown was clamped as a preventive measure to avoid Coronavirus infection. Her mother, who works as a maid too could not go to her work due to the lockdown. "My father remained idle at home for about a month. Then he decided to sell vegetables as it is allowed by the police. But since his income is very less, I am trying to help the family," Rumi, who now earns about Rs. 100 by selling vegetables daily further said.  Most private schools in Guwahati are conducting online classes during the lockdown but the government-run schools like the one where Rumi studies are not doing so. Two boys, aged about 14 years were also seen selling vegetables in a crowded roadside market less than half-a-kilometer away. The story is almost similar--their parents' income has been severely hit and it was becoming impossible to run a family of six. "We wake up at 5:00 am to buy the vegetables from the wholesale market. We rush here in a bi-cycle before this space is occupied by others," one of them said, with a request not to click a photo. "If we don't work, it will be impossible for my father to pay for the house rent of Rs. 3,000 this month," he added. Both did not have a mask.  The economic blow the lockdown has given forced many children in Assam like them to become vegetable sellers. Many children are still seen selling vegetables and watermelons along the highways to help their parents earn some extra during the lockdown.  The plight of such children has not yet drawn any attention from the administration or the child rights bodies but activists termed it very disturbing. "Most of these children belong to urban poor families, who either live on the hills in and around Guwahati or in rented houses. Their parents work as rickshaw pullers, daily wagers, run street-side tea stalls, or work as maids. Most of them study in government schools and depend on the mid-day meal for lunch as their parents remain out for work till evening. Now that their parents' income has stopped and they don't get a mid-day meal, they are now forced to earn themselves. These are very disturbing development," Indrani Tahbiildar, a child rights activist in Guwahati told DH. Tahbildar, a former member of the Assam State Commission for Protection of Child Rights said this could even increase the problem of child labour and school drop-outs even after the lockdown is completely lifted. "Whatever a little they are earning now can motivate to carry on with such work in the future too. And their parents may not stop them as their income too will remain affected for a long time from now," she said. "Such families need urgent financial support and motivation before asking them not to push their children to work," she said. According to the 2011 census, nearly 5% of children aged between 5 and 14 years in Assam are engaged in income-generating works. Another survey said the school drop out rate at the primary level stood at 10.1%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parents-income-hit-by-covid-19-lockdown-many-children-in-assam-turn-vegetable-sellers-841116.html
23-05-2020||National||Fire breaks out in hospital in South Delhi, 8 COVID-19 patients evacuated||A fire broke out in an operation theatre and recovery room at the third floor of Cygnus Orthocare hospital opposite IIT here in south Delhi on Saturday evening, officials said. This is a reserve hospital for COVID-19 patients and there were eight patients present when the incident occurred but all were evacuated safely. According to the fire officials, the information regarding the blaze was received at 5.54 pm. Eight fire tenders were rushed to the hospital and the fire was brought under control, the official added. There was no patient on the third floor of the building where the fire broke out. All the eight patients were on the ground floor, he said. A team of firemen focused on evacuating the patients to a safer place while the others contained the fire in the building which comprised a basement, ground floor and three floors, said the senior fire official.  With summer, there has been an increase in the number of calls about the fire. So, the Delhi Fire Service has advised everyone to get servicing done of air-conditioners and other electrical appliances before opening offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-in-hospital-in-south-delhi-8-covid-19-patients-evacuated-841118.html
23-05-2020||National||Sadhguru asks real estate industry to rejig itself||Spiritual guru Sadhguru has called on the real estate industry in the country to "rejig itself" to leverage new investment opportunities that will come India's way with some firms deciding to wholly or partially shut down their China operations. Participating in a webinar on ‘Rebuilding the Nation and New Avenues for Real Estate’ organized by  Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India (CREDAI) and National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), Sadhguru asked "responsible builders” to change the image of the real estate industry by strongly advocating for unambiguous laws. The real estate industry which employs 5 crore labourers is reeling under the onslaught of the pandemic with stalled projects and an unprecedented reverse exodus of migrants, he said.  “Unless we spread the investment and in turn the development, there is no way” the cities of the world can stop migration or offer quality of life to its residents. It is estimated that up to 78% of investments are concentrated in 32 cities around the world," Sadhguru said.  Responding to a question from Niranjan Hiranandani on how to rejuvenate cities, Sadhguru outlined his concept of ‘One Building City’ a vertical complex with residential blocks, office blocks, schools, healthcare and entertainment facilities contained in a single building with the land around it left free and forested.  "This can significantly improve living standards in villages and cities while also protecting the ecology," Sadhguru said. He also called on CREDAI and NAREDCO to examine how the realty industry can change its relationship with migrant labourers by offering them better healthcare, accommodation, livelihood security and other facilities to encourage them to return to cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sadhguru-asks-real-estate-industry-to-rejig-itself-841121.html
23-05-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi doing politics of misery over migrants issue: BJP||The BJP on Saturday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of doing "politics of misery" over the issue of migrants, claiming that his party did nothing to help them in states where it is in power.  The attack from the BJP on the former Congress president came on a day the opposition party released a documentary film on Rahul Gandhi's interaction with a group of migrant labourers last week. "Gandhi family did nothing to do help migrants in states where they are in power. Migrant workers from UPA-ruled Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Maharashtra were not allowed even to return to their native villages," BJP spokesperson G V L Narasimha Rao said.  Rahul Gandhi has been "indulging in-camera politics". He is visiting and speaking to migrants in non-Congress ruled state not with the intention of giving them relief but to indulge in politics of misery, he added.   The Rajya Sabha MP said Gandhi would have heard the woes of migrants in Rajasthan had he ventured there.  "Alas, Rahul is only interested in politics and not helping migrants. With the entire Gandhi family indulging in politics over migrants, the Congress party is seen by the public as a party fishing in troubled waters and not as a responsible party joining the national effort in mitigating distress of migrants," Rao said.  Congress has been critical of the handling of migrants issue by the BJP-led central government. Rahul Gandhi has demanded justice for such workers who are walking hundreds of kilometres to their homes amid the coronavirus lockdown.   At the end of the documentary, Gandhi says the government should immediately give Rs 7,500 to the 13 crore needy families through direct cash transfer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-doing-politics-of-misery-over-migrants-issue-bjp-841123.html
23-05-2020||National||24-year-old dupes IAF officer of Rs 75,000 on e-commerce website||An Indian Air Force officer has been duped of Rs 75,000 by a 24-year-old who posed as a CISF constable and promised to buy an old furniture from him on an e-commerce website, police said on Saturday. The accused, Ajruddin, a resident of Mewat district of Haryana, has been arrested. The Air Force officer told police that the accused reached out to him on an e-commerce website posing as CISF constable Sahil. He agreed to buy the furniture but expressed inability to make the payment or collect the item in person as he was in a remote area of Rajasthan. Ajruddin said he could make the payment online, through UPI, a police official said. "The complainant (IAF officer) gave the number of his sister-in-law. The accused sent a UPI link for payment, but instead of money being credited, it was debited from her account on multiple occasions," Anyesh Roy, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber), said. Police took help of technical experts to investigate the case and arrested Ajruddin and his associates from near Nuh bus stop in Mewat earlier this week, the DCP said. Ajruddin told police he and his associates would create fake IDs of army and paramilitary personnel on e-commerce platforms after downloading their photographs from their social media profiles and would dupe people on e-commerce websites. The DCP said the UPI link generated by them was not meant for crediting money but for debiting money for their potential victims' bank accounts. Police said the accused would keep debiting money from bank accounts on one of the other pretext, adding efforts are on to arrest other members of the gang.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/24-year-old-dupes-iaf-officer-of-rs-75000-on-e-commerce-website-841124.html
23-05-2020||National||GoAir awaits clarity from states before resuming flights||Private airline GoAir has decided not to rush into re-starting domestic flights on Monday (May 25) and await clarity on state governments accepting flights at airports in their respective states. “Without clarity on these conditions GoAir does not wish to inconvenience its passengers by putting on sale flights immediately post the 25th of May which they may book, that will not be permitted to operate to the respective states or may have conditions for arriving passengers of which they may be unaware,” the airline said in a statement here. It said tickets on its entire network are available for sale for travel from June 1 onwards and has received a “positive” response from customers. “On receiving clarity, GoAir will open its site for bookings post the 25th of May up to the 31st of May as and when & where appropriate,” the airline said.  The statement said that GoAir was fully prepared and equipped to execute the COVID-19-specific health and safety procedures outlined by the DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) for the Indian aviation industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goair-awaits-clarity-from-states-before-resuming-flights-841136.html
23-05-2020||National||MP: Couple on Shramik Special want to name newborn 'lockdown'||The parents of a boy born late Friday night in Burhanpur in Madhya Pradesh during a train commute amid the coronavirus outbreak said they wish to name him "lockdown". Reena (32), traveling with her husband Udaybhan Singh Yadav on a Shramik Special from Mumbai to reach Ambedkar Nagar in UP, gave birth late Friday night in the district hospital here. "He has been born in such a situation that we want to name him Lockdown Yadav," she told reporters here.  Her husband said he contacted the railway helpline after she went into labour in the train, and officials helped them alight at Burhanpur and took them to the hospital. District Collector Praveen Singh Adhayach said the mother and newborn were doing well and the administration had provided Rs 5,000 as assistance besides clothes, medicine and food. Adhayach said the family was sent to their destination in UP by a private vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-couple-on-shramik-special-want-to-name-newborn-lockdown-841137.html
23-05-2020||National||COVID-19: After walking 100 km, migrant labourer's wife delivers baby; child dies||A migrant labourer's pregnant wife, who walked over 100 km from Ludhiana in Punjab, delivered a girl child after reaching Ambala in Haryana but the baby died shortly after birth. Bindia and her husband Jatin Ram, who are in their early 20s, had set out from Ludhiana last week for their village in Bihar. When the couple reached Ambala City on Wednesday, the woman gave birth to a female child. However, the baby died immediately after birth. The couple performed the last rites in Ambala City. Bindia married Ram two years ago and it was their first child. She had come to Ludhiana from Bihar last year with Ram, who worked as a labourer in a factory. After the coronavirus forced a lockdown, most migrant workers began leaving for their home towns. Some walked and others hired vehicles to reach Ambala and Yamunanagar to board special trains.  Ram said he and his nine-month pregnant wife decided to walk to Ambala after they did not get registration in special trains, possibly to save money for future travel expenses. Bindia was very weak as she did not get a proper diet required by a pregnant woman, the husband said, adding they did not have enough money as he lost his job during lockdown. When they reached Ambala City, from Ludhiana, after walking more than 100 km, Bindia started having labour pain and police helped Ram take her to the civil hospital. She delivered the child but the baby did not survive. An NGO at Ambala Cantonment has made arrangements for their stay and is provided them food. The NGO has assured the couple they would also make arrangements for their safe travel in a Shramik Special train to Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-after-walking-100-km-migrant-labourers-wife-delivers-baby-child-dies-841139.html
23-05-2020||National||Assam sees highest single-day COVID-19 cases, total count breaches 300||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-sees-highest-single-day-covid-19-cases-total-count-breaches-300-841140.html
23-05-2020||National||Jharkhand stresses on boosting immunity of migrants to fight COVID-19||The Jharkhand government is at present focussing on boosting the immunity of those at quarantine centres by serving nutritious food to help them fight coronavirus infection amid a surge in cases following the return of migrant workers to the state. The deputy commissioners (DCs) of all the 24 districts in the state are periodically monitoring the quarantine centres in this regard, an official statement said. Focus is being given on serving nutritious food to the people at the quarantine centres to boost their immunity to fight the disease, it said. Of the 323 cases of COVID-19 detected in the state, 158 are migrant workers. They are being served watermelon, eggs and bananas along with regular meals, the government said. Meanwhile, the AYUSH Department in Gumla district said that it has formulated a decoction that would boost the immunity of people against COVID-19. The ayurvedic decoction would soon be made available to all migrant workers and other people in quarantine centres in the district, it said.  The decoction, made with a mixture of four main ingredients -- basil, cinnamon, dry ginger and peppercorns, would help prevent the virus and taking it two-three times daily could boost immunity, it said. Stating that under the leadership of Chief Minister Hemant Soren several efforts have been undertaken in the fight against coronavirus, the government said that "social policing" has been introduced to create awareness among migrant workers regarding the infection. "A large number of migrant workers are returning home. Through 'social policing', (designated) people are visiting their house to make them aware (of COVID-19). Unless people are aware of coronavirus, it is not possible to save them (from the disease)," it said. The designated people are village heads, panchayat chiefs, anganwadi workers, guards, members of school committees and teachers, among others. The efforts of the state government in the battle against COVID-19 reflect in Jharkhand's mortality rate being 0.93 per cent, while the recovery rate is 42.10 per cent, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-stresses-on-boosting-immunity-of-migrants-to-fight-covid-19-841141.html
23-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: 3 held, 747 vehicles penalised and 10 seized, says Noida Police||Three people were arrested and 10 vehicles impounded while another 747 penalised across Noida and Greater Noida for allegedly violating the lockdown curbs on Friday, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said. Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144 is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar, whose urban areas fall in the red zone for COVID-19, even as general lockdown curbs continued due to the pandemic.  "Two FIRs were registered on Saturday for lockdown violation and three people arrested. A total of 1,721 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 747 of them, while another 10 were impounded," police said in a statement. The FIRs were registered under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and violation of prohibitory orders put in place under CrPC Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more people, they said. While shops and parks have reopened, metro rail services, educational institutions, cinema halls, shopping malls, bars, assembly halls and others spaces like these continue to remain closed as the lockdown got extended till May 31, officials said.  Stadiums and sports complexes can reopen but no audience will be allowed there, while all sorts of cultural, political, religious, educational or any similar congregations are completely banned, they added. People's movement outdoors between 7 pm and 7 am is strictly prohibited except for essential works, while officials have cautioned people over 65 years of age, children below 10 years and pregnant women to stay indoors amid the COVID-19 outbreak. As of Saturday, 323 positive cases of coronavirus have been recorded in the district, including five deaths, while 221 patients have recovered and got discharged from hospitals, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-3-held-747-vehicles-penalised-and-10-seized-says-noida-police-841143.html
23-05-2020||National||Mumbai COVID-19 case doubling rate now 14 days, says Maharashtra CM||The number of COVID-19 patients in Mumbai is doubling over a period of 14 days, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday as he interacted with doctors of BMC-run hospitals. During the video conference interaction, Thackeray praised the doctors for their continuous fight over the last two months to contain the outbreak and exuded confidence that the task would be accomplished. "Even though the number of patients is increasing in Mumbai, the number of patients is now doubling over a period of 14 days," the statement quoted Thackeray as saying. The CM, who stressed on setting up field hospitals in the time to come, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had been following directives and protocol laid down by the Centre. Thackeray said BMC had arranged for intensive care units and isolation beds at several places in the metropolis. He asked civic officials to step up preparations to handle dengue and leptospirosis cases as monsoon was approaching. "I feel energised seeing you... you will be the true architect of the victory when the epidemic will be over," Thackeray said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-covid-19-case-doubling-rate-now-14-days-says-maharashtra-cm-841144.html
23-05-2020||National||Delhi govt in soup over advertisement depicting Sikkim as separate country||An advertisement seeking Civil Defence volunteers have put Delhi government in a rough spot after it referred Sikkim as a separate country, prompting authorities to withdraw it and suspend a senior official of the Directorate of Civil Defence. The advertisement issued by the Directorate of Civil Defence in newspapers on Saturday bore the photograph of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. The controversial part in the advertisement was about the eligibility criteria which said "citizens of India or subject of Sikkim or Bhutan or of Nepal and a resident of Delhi".  Sikkim joined the Indian union on May 16, 1975. Interestingly, the Civil Defence Regulations, 1968 of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) continue to retain this formulation for eligibility. According to the regulations, a person who intends to apply for appointment of a Civil Defence Corps must fulfil the conditions, including "he shall be a citizen of India, or a subject of Sikkim or Bhutan or of Nepal". As soon as the advertisement came in newspapers, Sikkim shot off a letter to Delhi government, saying it was "offensive" and must be withdrawn immediately since it is "immensely hurtful" to the people. "This is immensely hurtful to the people of Sikkim who take pride in being the citizens of our great country, ever since it became the 22nd state of the Indian union on 16 May. 1975," Sikkim Chief Secretary S C Gupta wrote in his letter. He also wanted the Delhi government to issue a "suitable communique" to assuage the feelings of the people of Sikkim. As the controversy raged, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal tweeted, "a senior officer of Directorate of Civil Defence (HQ) has been suspended with immediate effect for publishing an Advertisement which disrespects the territorial integrity of India by making incorrect reference to Sikkim on the same lines as some neighbouring countries." "Zero tolerance for such gross misconduct! Direction has also been given immediately to withdraw the offensive advertisement," he added. Kejriwal too tweeted, "Sikkim is an integral part of India. Such errors also cannot be tolerated. Advertisement has been withdrawn and action taken against the officer concerned."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-in-soup-over-advertisement-depicting-sikkim-as-separate-country-841148.html
23-05-2020||National||Dry Gujarat: NDRF team dives into canal to find stolen 'mudda-maal' liquor bottles||Recently Gujarat police brought a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) to dive into the canal and find the liquor bottles dumped inside. After they failed in their attempt, a team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was called in on Saturday (May 23) with their deep-diving sets. It worked and the divers finally found dozens of liquor bottles from the depth of the canal which are said to have been "stolen from a police station and dumped in the canal in the apprehension of being caught."  "We had brought NDRF team today which has found some liquor bottles from the canal. The search operation is on. All I can say at the moment that the Directorate General of Police (Shivanand Jha) ordered me to inquire into this case some two days ago. We are trying to find out what exactly happened," said Inspector General of Police, Gandhinagar Range, Mayanksinh Chavda.  On Friday (May 22), when the police started an inquiry, being conducted by Gandhinagar Superintendent of Police Mayur Chavda, several empty boxes of liquor crates and bottles were found from the bushes near the canal. When asked about the details, Chavda refused to divulge information and said that "inquiry is on." He also confirmed that liquor bottles have been found and are being counted. Mehsana Superintendent of Police, Manish Singh, told DH, "I and IG sir (Chavda) found that there was some foul play of liquor going on at the police station. I can't say what exactly it is. So, I asked IG sir for an inquiry by some other officer outside the district."  Another senior officer told DH, "We have found that Kadi police have not destroyed seized liquor, as per the prohibition policy, in the past four to five years whose value runs in crores. As far as I remember, we seized nearly Rs1.5 crore worth liquor in the past two years alone. There is hardly any storage facilities and condition is the same across the police stations in the state. We have also found that local administration (collector office) has been delaying the request of sending its officers to do the formality of destroying the seized liquor as per the anti-liquor policy." Under the prohibition policy, seized liquor is mostly bulldozed every year after they are exhibited in the court as records.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dry-gujarat-ndrf-team-dives-into-canal-to-find-stolen-mudda-maal-liquor-bottles-841160.html
23-05-2020||National||Odisha allows home delivery of liquor, introduces 50% 'COVID Fee'||The Odisha government on Saturday allowed home delivery of liquor and introduced a 50- per cent 'COVID Fee' on all types of foreign liquor and beer, an official said. He said the existing ON and OFF shop licensees situated in areas other than containment zones and shopping malls will be allowed to make home delivery from Sunday, following the amendment of relevant provisions under the Odisha Excise Rules, 2017. However, no excise licensee will be allowed to sell liquor across the counter or in their premise. Liquor outlets across the state were since the first phase of the coronavirus lockdown in March. The additional fee will be applicable on MRPs of 2019-20 fiscal. "The additional revenue generated will go towards meeting the expenses incurred by the state government in the treatment of COVID-19 patients and other related activities," the official said. On the modalities of the home delivery, the Odisha government said it can be taken up by retailers directly and also through reputed food aggregators, standard technology platforms, delivery service providers and others acting as retail aggregators.  The aggregators can be engaged by retailers only after they obtain a No Objection Certificate from the Excise Commissioner, the official said. Normal timing for home delivery would be between 7 am and 6 pm. The delivery boys will have to adhere to safety and health guidelines like social distancing, wearing masks and using hand sanitisers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-allows-home-delivery-of-liquor-introduces-50-covid-fee-841163.html
23-05-2020||National||Prisoners aged above 60 to be released on emergency parole to decongest jail in Delhi||Jail inmates who are above 60 years of age will be granted emergency parole in view of the coronavirus pandemic, according to Delhi Prisons department. A circular issued earlier this week stated that the convicts in this age group are more susceptible to COVID-19 and the emergency parole will be given to decongest the jails, officials said on Saturday. If an inmate has been convicted for less than five years and has already completed three months in jail, he or she is eligible for the emergency parole, the circular stated. For jail term of more than five and up to 10 years, only those convicts will be released who have completed a stay of six months and their appeal is not pending in the court. For prisoners having more than 10 years sentence and life convicts, except those having specific direction not to be released before a specific period or not to consider them for remission, they should have completed six months or more as a convict and overall period of custody undergone should be one year, it said.  The parole will be for eight weeks. “For emergency parole, the convict's behaviour in jail will also be considered. The convicts whose appeal against conviction is pending in High Court or Supreme Court will not be eligible for it,” said Sandeep Goel, Director General (Prisons).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prisoners-aged-above-60-to-be-released-on-emergency-parole-to-decongest-jail-in-delhi-841164.html
23-05-2020||National||Ahmedabad civil hospital conditions pathetic, painful: Guj HC||Conditions at the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad, where 377 COVID-19 patients have died till Friday, is "pathetic" and the hospital is "as good as a dungeon, maybe even worse", the Gujarat High Court observed in an order made available on Saturday. In an order passed in a suo motu PIL on coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown, a division bench of Justices JB Pardiwala and IJ Vora came down hard on the state government on conditions prevailing in Ahmedabad's Civil Hospital, and said it was "distressing and painful". The facility has seen 377 COVID-19 deaths till Friday, which is a sizable portion of the 638 deaths reported in all hospitals during this period. "It is very distressing and painful to note that the condition prevailing, as on date, in the Civil Hospital, is pathetic... We are very sorry to state that the Civil Hospital Ahmedabad, as on date, appears to be in an extremely bad shape" the court observed. "As we said earlier that the Civil Hospital is meant to treat the patients. However, it appears that as on date, it is as good as a dungeon. Maybe even worse than a dungeon. Unfortunately, the poor and helpless patients have no option," it said. The HC issued a host of directions to the state government to improve conditions for treatment of patients at Asia's largest hospital. The court also asked if the state health minister and senior health department officials had any idea what was going on at the hospital.  "Does the health minister of the state of Gujarat have any idea about the problems which patients, doctors, nursing staff and other employees are facing as on date? How many times the health minister has interacted with the medical officers and other staff members in person so as to understand their difficulties and problems?" it said. "Is the state government aware of the hard fact that the patients at the Civil Hospital are dying because of lack of adequate number of ventilators? How does the state government propose to tackle this problem of ventilators?" the court further asked. The HC directed the state government to "immediately transfer" non-performing doctors and bring in senior and experienced doctors from other hospitals "who are ready and willing to render better services in the Civil Hospital". It sought improvement in the working conditions of resident doctors and fix accountability of senior officers "who have failed to improve health care in the Civil Hospital leading to massive loss of human lives". To tackle the issue of lack of ventilators at the Civil Hospital, the court told authorities to admit patients at the Institute of Kidney Diseases and UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology where adequate number of ventilators are available. The court further directed the state government to ask general physicians to run their own clinics or serve in the government's COVID hospitals, in line with the policy adopted by the neighbouring Maharashtra. To reduce co-morbid COVID-19 deaths, the court directed the government "to ensure all the private clinics / hospitals / nursing homes, which have been closed by their owners /management for the past two months, are immediately opened so as to make supplement health facilities available to the noncorona patients at large". It also directed private hospitals not to charge fees in advance and only seek details of people's Aadhaar card and PAN, and recover fees only if patients are capable as per their PAN card details. The court sought creation of a computerised COVID control centre with real-time information on each facility, adherence to treatment protocol and strict discharge policy, transfer of excess staff to other facilities, regular testing of healthcare workers, and conversion of government hospitals with over 50 beds and ICU into community health centres and hospitals, with 20 per cent beds kept for emergency work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahmedabad-civil-hospital-conditions-pathetic-painful-guj-hc-841171.html
23-05-2020||National||Kerala will be able to survive any crisis after COVID-19: CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the state would be able to survive any other crisis after COVID-19 as it was in the forefront of developing innovative ways to fight the pandemic. "Kerala is in the forefront of developing innovative ways to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic and will be able to overcome any crisis which might come. Most of the cases currently being reported in Kerala have come from outside the state. We must not alienate them. This land belongs to them too," Vijayan said, speaking at the first edition of #AskTheCM organized by Twitter India. He was responding to queries on the return of Keralites from abroad, their employment issues, upcoming monsoon and climate change, chances of a natural disaster and preparedness of the state to deal with it, the agriculture sector, the prerequisites of the lockdown relaxations, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-will-be-able-to-survive-any-crisis-after-covid-19-cm-841173.html
23-05-2020||National||Govt asks 11 municipal areas that have accounted for 70% coronavirus case load to step up monitoring||Eleven municipal areas in seven states and union territories that have accounted for 70 per cent of India's coronavirus case load were asked by the government on Saturday to step up monitoring in old cities, urban slums and other high density pockets like camps and clusters for migrant workers for management of COVID-19 cases. These 11 municipal areas are from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan and account for 70 per cent of active case load, the Union health ministry said. Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan who held a high-level meeting through video conferencing with principal health secretaries and municipal commissioners along with other officials from the 11 municipal areas urged them to focus on prevention through active screening of high risk and vulnerable population along with effective and sturdy clinical management of the admitted cases to reduce fatality rate.  The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,720 and the number of cases climbed to 1,25,101 in the country on Saturday, registering an increase of 137 deaths and a record jump of 6,654 cases in a 24-hour span till 8 AM, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 69,597 while 51,783 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.  "Thus, around 41.39 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said.  During the meeting, a presentation was made to highlight the trend in case trajectory with respect to total confirmed cases, case fatality rate, doubling time, tests per million and confirmation percentage, the ministry said.  "It was told that major challenge lies in those corporations having shorter doubling time, higher mortality rate and a higher confirmation rate than the national average," the ministry said in its statement. The officials were briefed about the factors to be considered while mapping the containment and buffer zones and the activities mandated in containment zone like perimeter control, active search for cases through house to house surveillance, contact tracing, clinical management of the active cases. They were also asked to undertake surveillance activities in the buffer zone like monitoring of SARI/ILI cases and promoting social distancing and hand hygiene among others.  "Maintaining high vigilance and monitoring in areas of old cities, urban slums and other high density pockets along with the camps/clusters for migrant workers are important steps in COVID-19 management in the urban areas," Sudan said. The officials were also urged to focus on prevention through active screening of high risk and vulnerable population and groups, and effective and sturdy clinical management of the admitted cases to reduce fatality rate.  While many have operationalised 24x7 state control rooms, others could also follow the lead and start such units which shall not only provide assistance to the people for various facilities and services regarding COVID-19 management, but also have a panel of domain experts and doctors to provide round the clock support and mentoring for clinical issues which shall effectively contribute to reducing fatality rate, the statement said.     "It was pointed out that testing needs to stepped up  in some municipal areas to ensure early detection of cases, timely clinical management and a reduction in fatality rate," it said. They also need to be mindful of ramping up the health infrastructure to ensure preparedness for the next two months with special focus on isolation beds with oxygen, ventilators and ICU beds.  Other issues that need focused attention include active coordination with government and private labs to address delays in sample collection, partnership with private hospitals to augment the health and bed capacity, waste disposal, management of camps for migrant labourers and creating awareness regarding issues such as stigmatisation of patients in local languages, by involving community leaders, youth groups among others. The measures taken and best practices followed by the municipal corporations for the management of COVID-19 cases were also discussed, the statement stated. Mumbai Municipal Commissioner briefed about establishing close cooperation between private hospitals and municipal authorities to pool the health infrastructure like ICU or oxygen beds etc.  They shall also soon make public the online portal displaying the bed availability with unique ID numbers for each bed, and also set up a GPS backed online ambulance tracking system, the statement said.   Indore authorities have focused on contact tracing, and active house to house survey.  They have formed 'gully patrolling teams' which include community volunteers and retired government officials helping the special surveillance teams in containment zones to improve confidence building measures, active surveillance and provisioning of essential items, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-asks-11-municipal-areas-that-have-accounted-for-70-coronavirus-case-load-to-step-up-monitoring-841180.html
23-05-2020||National||44 new coronavirus cases in Chhattisgarh, tally 216||Chhattisgarh continued to see an increase in the number of coronavirus cases on Saturday, with 44 persons, including a woman junior doctor at a government hospital, testing positive, health officials said. It was the biggest single-day increase in a number of cases so far, they added, which took the tally of cases to 216. On Friday, the state had reported 40 coronavirus patients. "With the new cases, the tally of positive cases increased to 216 in the state, of which 152 are active. 64 patients have been discharged after recovery," a health official here said. Ten cases were reported from Rajnandgaon district, nine each from Mungeli and Bilaspur districts, four each from Raigarh and Koriya districts and three each from Surguja and Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi (GPM) districts, he said. One case each was found in Balodabazar and Jashpur, the official said. Most of the new patients are migrant labourers who recently returned to their home districts from different parts of the country and were kept in quarantine centres, he said.  "A 35-year-old junior doctor at Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS) Bilaspur is also among the new cases," said Dr Aarti Pandey, Public Relations Officer (PRO) of CIMS. The woman doctor had been deputed in Corona IPD (Inpatient Department) of the institute, the PRO said. Tribal-dominated Jashpur and GPM districts reported coronavirus cases for the first time. Two male patients from Balod district were discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur following their recovery. Chhattisgarh COVID-19 figures are as follows: positive cases-216, new cases-44, deaths-zero, discharged-64, active cases-152, people tested so far-49,763.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/44-new-coronavirus-cases-in-chhattisgarh-tally-216-841193.html
23-05-2020||National||From 'Love Jihad' to 'Land Jihad', anti-Hindu concerns on VHP menu||Bringing back in discourse Hindutva issues, which had taken a backseat in the last two months of pandemic fight, Vishwa Hindu Parishad has raised a number of concerns from “Land Jihad” in Delhi to “anti-Hindu conspiracies” in Haryana. Within a fortnight, the VHP has raised the alleged issue of Hindus and Hindu beliefs under threat in at least half a dozen states ruled by various parties and cited new archaeological evidences in Ayodhya to slam the ‘followers of Babar’, besides going hammer and tongs on popular Amazon Prime web series Patal Lok, calling it anti-Hindu. A delegation of VHP along with various social and religious organisations of Haryana, led by VHP central Joint General Secretary Surendra Jain, met Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday, submitting him a report listing the “anti-national and anti-Hindu activities” in Mewat. VHP, which had sent a delegation to Mewat, also apprised him about the conclusions and recommendations of its “high level inquiry committee” which explained “how Mewat is becoming a graveyard for Hindus, especially Dalits and women.” “103 villages have become completely devoid of Hindus and there are over 82 villages where only less than 5 families of Hindus are left,” the VHP said and expressed concern over the growing “love jihad” and conversion activities in Haryana and demanded enactment of anti-conversion law. If in Haryana VHP flagged ‘love jihad”, it flagged “land Jihad” in Delhi and submitted a memorandum to the Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on May 20 regarding alleged “illegal encroachment” of DDA’s Indraprastha Millennium Park by Delhi Wakf Board, which was dubbed as “Land Jihad” by VHP’s national spokesperson Vinod Bansal. He alleged a conspiracy to convert the capital's prestigious park into a "COVID-19 GRAVEYARD". Earlier it alleged political patronage to “Bangladeshi and Rohingya muslim infiltrators” in Delhi. Bansal also sought immediate action against alleged “anti-Hindu propaganda” being shown by Amazon Prime Video’s crime thriller Patal Lok, alleging that the series is “full of Hinduphobia”. VHP earlier raised concerns over security of Hindus in Bihar, petitioning the Governor on the issue and slammed Odisha and Tamil Nadu governments over affront to goddess Sita by some writers in the state and attempting to take money from Hindu temples respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-love-jihad-to-land-jihad-anti-hindu-concerns-on-vhp-menu-841194.html
23-05-2020||National||Electricity workers, engineers to observe 'protest day' on June 1||Electricity employees and engineers will observe 'protest day' on June 1 to oppose proposed privatisation in the power sector.  "Electricity employees and engineers to observe 'Protest Day' on 1st June, 2020," the All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) stated in a letter to Power Minister R K Singh on Friday.  The federation said it has noted with grave concern that the government proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 towards privatisation of the sector through transferring the asset created with public exchequer inclusive of natural resources to private houses. The AIPEF has strongly opposed the approach of the government ventilated through the proposed "draconian anti-people electricity legislation with clear object of snatching away right of access to electricity from poor section of Indian people and peasants".  The federation said that it is evident that the bill is for ease of making business for the profit monger community and all aspects related to right to electricity for poor people has been set aside. "We are anguished to note that when whole country is integrally fighting menace of COVID-19, the Ministry of Power is otherwise busy in curbing the people’s right to energy," it said in the letter.     The federation's apex leadership decided to make wider campaign among people of different walks of life to unveil the counterfeit behind the policy of the Government and misleading statement submitted in the paragraphs under 'Objects and Reasons' circulated with the bill.  As part of this campaign, National Protest Day will be observed on 1st June, 2020, it said. All electricity employees and engineers across the country will exercise their democratic right through wearing black badges opposing the bill and urging the people to come forward to retain their constitutional right for access to energy as a member of the civilised country, it added.  Earlier, the power ministry had circulated the draft bill on April 17, 2020 with a deadline to submit comments in three weeks till May 8. Later in April, the power ministry extended the deadline for submission of stakeholders' comments on the draft Electricity Amendment Bill by four weeks till June 5. Last month, the ministry came out with fourth draft of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill since 2014, which seeks to set up an Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority (ECEA) having power of a civil court to settle disputes related to power purchase agreement between discoms and gencos. The draft provides that the ECEA will have sole authority to adjudicate matters related to specific performance of contracts related to purchase or sale of power, between power generation companies (gencos) and distribution companies (discoms). The decision of the ECEA can be challenged at the Appellate Tribunal For Electricity (APTEL) and, subsequently, at the Supreme Court. Currently, state electricity regulatory commissions and Central Electricity Regulatory Commission settle state-level and inter-state PPA disputes, respectively. The AIPEF had strongly condemned the timings of the power ministry''s move to bring back the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 when the whole country is fighting against the COVID-19 pandemic. The body was view that the bad experience from the COVID-19 crisis should have led to nationalise all sectors, including power, across India. The ministry had brought first draft in 2014 that was introduced in the Lok Sabha seeking separate carriage and contend electricity distribution business. The Bill could have given option to consumers to change their service providers like they do for their mobile phone service. But, unfortunately, that Bill lapsed after dissolution of the Lok Sabha.The second and third drafts were circulated in 2018 and 2019. Earlier the AIPEF had also demanded to put the bill on hold.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/electricity-workers-engineers-to-observe-protest-day-on-june-1-841195.html
23-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: ICMR doubles down on HCQ as preventive medicine though studies show it offers no benefit||Days after publication of fresh scientific evidence on the futility of using hydroxychloroquine against COVID-19 patients, the Indian Council of Medical Research has decided to double down on the anti-malarial drug as it expanded its use as a preventive medicine against the novel coronavirus not only for high risk individuals but also for the contacts of asymptomatic COVID-19 positive patients. The ICMR advisory comes close on the heels of two studies in the Lancet and British Medical Journal showing that the medicine does not offer any additional benefit for COVID-19 patients, rather it increases the death rate in such patients. In the new advisory, the ICMR has recommended use of HCQ as a preventive medicine among all asymptomatic healthcare workers working in Covid and non-Covid  hospitals.  In addition, the medicine has been recommended for use in surveillance workers deployed in containment zones, police and paramilitary personnel involved in COVID-19 related activities and asymptomatic household contacts of confirmed cases. The guidance from the ICMR national task force on COVID-19 is on the basis of three small scale trials, none of which are peer reviewed, and an in-vitro study at the National Institute of Virology, Pune. ICMR's own safety profile shows that out of 1,323 healthcare workers examined to check the safety of the drug, 214 persons exhibit some form of adverse effects, described by the council as mild. The council acknowledges that the drug do pose some risks to the heart and eye, and should be taken under medical supervision for such cases. DH query on the HCQ to an ICMR spokesperson remained unanswered, but another ICMR scientist pointed out that a large scale observational study involving 1000-1500 health care workers has just begun. Under the new study, doctors, nurses, paramedics and sanitation staff at AIIMS, Jodhpur; Maulana Azad Medical College, Delhi; Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Apollo Hospital, Chennai and AIIMS, Patna would be given HCQ as a preventive medicine and its effects would be examined. "We have started the trial in early May and it will continue till July. The results are expected in August," principal investigator Suman Kanungo, an ICMR scientist, told DH. On Friday, a similar observational study appeared in the Lancet, in which researchers examined the efficacy of HCQ and chloroquine on 15,000 COVID-19 patients and compared the results with more than 80,000 other novel coronavirus patients. The study by American and European researchers suggest that treatment with antimalarial drug chloroquine or its analogue hydroxychloroquine (taken with or without the antibiotics azithromycin or clarithromycin) offers no benefit for patients with COVID-19.  The study also concluded that use of the two drugs is associated with increased mortality risks for COVID-19 patients. A second study published in the BMJ earlier this week came to a similar conclusion. Administration of HCQ did not result in a significantly higher probability of negative conversion than standard care alone in COVID-19 patients in hospital. Adverse events were higher in  HCQ recipients than in non-recipients, noted the BMJ study carried out by Chinese researchers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-icmr-doubles-down-on-hcq-as-preventive-medicine-though-studies-show-it-offers-no-benefit-841202.html
23-05-2020||National||Become 'Carpatathia' that saved Titanic passengers from dying: Gujarat HC||The high court's observation came while hearing a set of petitions related to the COVID-19 situation in the state. The division bench led by justice J B Pardiwala came down heavily on the state government, particularly health minister and bureaucrats, for not tackling the situation properly.  The bench was unhappy with the state government's way of handling the situation  at civil hospital, Asarwa, in Ahmedabad where over 45% of state's total deaths have been reported by May 22. The bench termed the hospital, that claims to be one of Asia's largest hospitals, as worst than a "dungeon". The hospital has reported 377 deaths till Saturday evening out of 829 deaths from coronavirus reported across the state. In Ahmedabad alone, 669 patients have died. The bench has noted that the civil hospital is in "very bad shape" and situation did not improve for last two months despite appointment of IAS officers like Pankaj Kumar, Milind Torwane and Jayanti to oversee the management.  The high court has also sought answer from the state government about eight top private hospitals including Apollo, Zydus, K D Hospital, Global Hospital, UN Mehta Hospital among others as to why these hospitals are not in the list of those hospitals which have agreed to treat COVID-19 patients. The court asked the government to take action against those hospital refusing to comply. The court has also stated that testing prior to discharge must be made mandatory which the state has stopped for more than a week. The order also reveals that the state government has stopped private laboratories to test samples and the government has decided to do "gatekeeping for private lab." It says the state has enough capacity of lab testing. However, the order also mentions, a recent statement made by - IAS officer Rajeev Gupta, who has overall charge of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, that “more number of tests which lead to 70% of the population testing positive for COVID-19, thereby leading to fear psychosis.” The order reads "this should not be a ground to refuse or restrict the testing."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/become-carpatathia-that-saved-titanic-passengers-from-dying-gujarat-hc-841206.html
23-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: Congress releases documentary on Rahul Gandhi's interaction with migrants||The Congress released a documentary film on Saturday on Rahul Gandhi's interaction with a group of migrant labourers last week, demanding justice for such workers who are walking hundreds of kilometres to their homes amid the coronavirus lockdown. At the end of the documentary, Gandhi says the government should immediately give Rs 7,500 to the 13 crore needy families through direct cash transfer. The documentary captures the pain and helplessness the migrant labourers and their families are feeling, as they long to return to their villages after losing their means of livelihood in cities due to the lockdown over the novel coronavirus pandemic.  Gandhi had interacted with a group of migrant labourers near the Sukhdev Vihar flyover in Delhi last Saturday and asked them about their problems as they walked home amid the lockdown. In an over 16-minute documentary capturing this interaction, Gandhi says that coronavirus has hurt a lot of people, but it has hit the migrant labourers the most. Gandhi, dressed in black pants and a white kurta, is seen sitting on the pavement and giving the migrant workers a patient hearing while assuring them of all help so that they reach their destination safely. In the meeting with the group of 20 migrants, including women and children, walking from their work site near Ambala to their village in Jhansi, Gandhi is heard asking them about the problems faced by them due to the sudden announcement of the lockdown and the loss of livelihood. The migrant labourers also allege that people threatened to beat them in Haryana if they went out of the house. The documentary also shows Rahul Gandhi promising help and subsequently they being transported to their village near Jhansi in vans and cars.  Upon reaching their homes, the migrant labourers and their families thank Gandhi for his help. At the end of the documentary, Gandhi's voiceover is heard saying: "My migrant labourer brothers and sisters, you are the strength of this country." "You take the entire burden of this country on your shoulders. The whole country wants justice for you. It is everyone's responsibility to strengthen the power of this country," Gandhi says in the documentary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-congress-releases-documentary-on-rahul-gandhis-interaction-with-migrants-840962.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Allahabad HC grants bail to Unnao rape survivor’s uncle in forgery case||The Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on Friday granted bail to the uncle of Unnao rape survivor, Mahesh Singh in connection with a case of manipulating a court order. Passing the order, Justice Vikas Kunvar Srivastav said Singh had already been in jail in the case since November 22, 2018. The applicant had urged that he did not make or procure any forged order of the court in Unnao in the ‘attempt to murder’ case and instead it was co-accused Navin Singh who had applied for the copy of judgment and order, which was subsequently found to be fake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-hc-grants-bail-to-unnao-rape-survivor-s-uncle-in-forgery-case-840886.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||6 new COVID-19 containment zones declared in southwest Delhi||Six new COVID-19 containment zones were declared in Dwarka and Kapashera area of southwest Delhi, the district administration said on Friday. The containment orders were issued on May 21 after around 39 cases of coronavirus were reported in parts of southwest Delhi, including Vikaspuri, Kanganheri village, Palam Colony and Sadh Nagar. According to a list shared by the Delhi government on Friday, there were 92 containment zones in the national capital. The announcement comes after the health department asked all district magistrates to create such zones in their respective areas as per the existing guidelines. The department's direction was prompted by a mismatch between the number of coronavirus cases and that of the containment zones in Delhi. While coronavirus cases in the city have been rising, the number of containment zones has gone down. An official in the southwest district administration said the ‘cluster containment strategy’ will contain the virus within a defined geographical area by early detection of cases, breaking the chain of transmission and preventing its spread to new areas. He said the sub divisional magistrates concerned in coordination with the police and medical authorities will keep a buffer zone around the containment zone.   “Medical authorities will take samples of owners and persons working at grocery and medical stores for COVID-19 test,” the official added.   The coronavirus death toll in Delhi has mounted to 208, while 660 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported on Friday in the biggest single-day spike. The total number of cases in the city now stands at 12,319. As many as 5,897 patients in Delhi were discharged or migrated so far, while there are 6,214 active cases, the Delhi health department said on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-new-covid-19-containment-zones-declared-in-southwest-delhi-840887.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Man arrested for raping woman lawyer in Delhi||A 23-year-old man was arrested for allegedly barging into the house of a lawyer in southeast Delhi's Nizamuddin area and raping her, police said on Friday. The accused has been identified as Sonu. He also tried to strangulate the woman, they said. The complainant alleged that the accused barged into her house through a balcony on May 17. He held her hostage and raped her. When he tried to strangulate her, she raised an alarm and the accused fled from the spot, a senior police officer said. The woman was taken to a hospital for treatment and a case registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the officer said. Sonu was identified after scanning all CCTV footage of the area and arrested on Thursday. He was involved in several burglary cases as well, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-for-raping-woman-lawyer-in-delhi-840906.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Markets in Ghaziabad to open from May 25||The Ghaziabad administration in Uttar Pradesh on Friday said markets in the district will open from May 25 on alternate days from 10 am to 5 pm. Two days' time has been given to shopkeepers to make arrangements to ensure social distancing, it said. Markets across the district will open from 10 am to 5 pm, he said. All markets will remain closed every Sunday to avoid overcrowding, he added. Pandey said markets in Indirapuram and Vaishali will open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, while Vasundhara, Kaushambi, Rajendra Nagar, Shyam Park, Raj Nagar district centre shopping complexes will open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The schedule for the entire district has been issued to traders' associations for circulation among the masses, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-markets-in-ghaziabad-to-open-from-may-25-840926.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Have brought back over 5 lakh migrant workers to Madhya Pradesh: Government||Over five lakh migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh, who were stranded in different parts of the country due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, have been brought back to their home state, a government official said on Saturday. As of Friday, the state government had brought back over five lakh migrants, mostly by buses, additional chief secretary ICP Keshari said. At least 3.52 lakh migrants have returned to MP by buses while 1.46 lakh others returned on 119 special trains, said the senior bureaucrat, who is in-charge of state control room. Keshari said 2.02 lakh migrants were brought back from Gujarat, 1.12 lakh from Maharashtra and 1.10 lakh from Rajasthan. Apart from these, stranded migrants were also brought back from Goa, Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, he said.  The state government has also been transporting migrant workers coming from other states to the Madhya Pradesh-Uttar Pradesh border. In view of the plight of migrant workers stuck in different parts of the country amidst the lockdown, the Railways started operating 'Shramik Specil' trains on May 1. The Centre had announced considerable relaxations during the third phase of the lockdown, which had kicked in on May 4, regarding the inter-state movement of migrant labourers, students, tourists and other people with priority accorded to those stranded in green and orange zones. The lockdown was subsequently extended till May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/have-brought-back-over-5-lakh-migrant-workers-to-madhya-pradesh-government-840937.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Record jump in coronavirus cases in India, 137 more deaths in last 24 hours||The number of novel coronavirus infections saw the biggest spike in India with 6,654 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,25,101 on Saturday, while the death toll due to the pandemic rose to 3,720 after 137 more fatalities, the Union Health Ministry said. The active cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) rose to 69,597, while 51,783 people have recovered and a patient has migrated, according to the ministry bulletin. Of the 137 new deaths, 63 were in Maharashtra, 29 in Gujarat, 14 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, six from West Bengal, four from Tamil Nadu, two each from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, and one from Haryana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/record-jump-in-coronavirus-cases-in-india-137-more-deaths-in-last-24-hours-840946.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Migrant worker commits suicide in UP’s Banda||A migrant who had recently returned from Mumbai allegedly committed suicide while in home quarantine in a village here, police said. Sunil (19) had arrived at Musivan village under Kamasin Police Station area five days ago on a Shramik special train. He committed suicide by hanging himself on Friday, police said. The body had been sent for post-mortem examination, SHO of Kamasin Police Station, Omkar Singh said on Saturday. According to the family members, Sunil worked in a steel factory in Mumbai which had closed down because of the CO VID-19-induced lockdown. While he had returned home, his father is still stranded in Gujarat, police said. Investigation is on to ascertain the causes leading to the suicide, the SHO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-worker-commits-suicide-in-up-s-banda-840958.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown: Kashmir’s fragile economy suffers Rs 8,500 crore loss||This is the Valley’s second lockdown in a row as the first was imposed by the Centre on August 5 when the special status of J&K was abrogated. It lasted six months, during which the Kashmir economy suffered losses of Rs 17,878 crore, according to the Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI).  And now according to a preliminary assessment by Kashmir Economic Alliance (KEA), the region's leading trade body, the Valley's economy suffered losses of Rs 8,416.2 crore in the first two months of lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The trade sector, as per the KEA, took a cumulative hit of Rs 1,620 crore in the last two months. The industrial sector suffered losses of Rs 1,248 crore, followed by the transport sector of Rs 1,140 crore. The Real Estate and Housing took a hit of Rs 900 crore, livestock and constructions of Rs 882 crore and Rs 874.2 crore, respectively. Tourism and hospitality, a sector that has a trickle-down effect on other sectors too, recorded losses of Rs 810 crore in the two months of coronavirus lockdown, so far. Tourism has been suffering losses right since the government itself asked tourists to leave Kashmir in early August last year. Any hopes of revival this year were dashed by the coronavirus pandemic. One of the backbones of the Kashmir economy, handicrafts, suffered losses of Rs 300 crore in the last two months. The services sector suffered losses of Rs 240 crore. Education sector lost at least Rs 30 crore in the 60-day lockdown period, so far, according to the KEA assessment.  A leading businessman from the Valley said many business establishments have closed down or are contemplating closure as losses have mounted beyond their capacity. “No serious exercise has been undertaken to either assess the losses or to support the helpless traders in Kashmir, who are bearing the brunt of lockdowns for almost a year now,” he said. “Tourism sector is in shambles. Artisans and weavers are jobless and manufacturing is in tatters,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-kashmir-s-fragile-economy-suffers-rs-8500-crore-loss-840963.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Indore COVID-19 count nears 3,000 with 83 new cases||With 83 more people testing positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours in Indore, the overall COVID-19 case count in the worst-hit district in Madhya Pradesh has climbed to 2,933, an official said on Saturday. The death toll in the district rose to 111 after samples of a 40-year-old deceased tested positive, said Indore's chief medical and health officer Praveeen Jadia. The man had reportedly succumbed to the viral infection at a government hospital on Monday. He was suffering from high blood pressure and other ailments, said Jadia. Meanwhile, the number of the patients recovered from COVID-19 disease stood at 1,381, he added. Indore had reported its first few COVID-19 cases on March 24, when four people tested positive for the infection and the district has since witnessed a sharp rise in cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-covid-19-count-nears-3000-with-83-new-cases-840976.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Congress arranges buses for Kerala students stranded in Bhopal||The Congress has arranged for transport for students from Wayanad and other parts of Kerala who were stuck in the Madhya Pradesh capital due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, a party leader said on Saturday. Wayanad is the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. The step was taken after the stranded students contacted Rahul Gandhi, who in turn informed Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath, the state Congress leader said. "One such bus carrying the students, including those from Wayanad, left for Kerala on Saturday morning," Madhya Pradesh Congress media cell in-charge Jitu Patwari told PTI. He said the party has been sending buses as soon as they receive instructions and information about stranded students from the southern state. Patwari said such arrangements have also been made for the students stranded in Bhopal who belong to other districts, including Indore, of Madhya Pradesh. Recently, the Congress and the Uttar Pradesh government had locked horns over plying of buses for migrant labourers in the BJP-ruled northern state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-arranges-buses-for-kerala-students-stranded-in-bhopal-840978.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Mother poisons 2 kids, commits suicide in Uttar Pradesh||A woman allegedly committed suicide after administering poison to her two children here as she was upset over a family dispute, police said on Saturday. Luxmi gave poison to her son Rudraksh (5) and daughter Mahi (7) before consuming it herself at Dudhaheri village under Mansurpur Police Station in the district on Friday, they said. The three were taken to a hospital where the woman was declared brought dead by the doctors and the children are in a serious condition, they said. The woman had married Pravesh Kumar nine years ago, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mother-poisons-2-kids-commits-suicide-in-uttar-pradesh-840983.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 20 new cases in Uttarakhand, one more dies||Twenty more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand on Saturday in the highest single day spike in cases so far taking the state's coronavirus tally to 173 while one more person infected with the deadly virus died at AIIMS, Rishikesh.         The latest cases were reported from Almora, Champawat, Dehradun, Haridwar, Nainital, Pithoragarh and Uttarkashi, a state health department bulletin said.           Champawat which falls in the green zone reported the highest number of cases at seven followed by Almora and Uttarkashi (three each), Pithoragarh, Nainital and Dehradun (two each) and Haridwar (one), it said.             With migrants returning home in large numbers there has been a sudden rise in the number of cases being reported daily.             Meanwhile, another COVID-19 patient died at AIIMS, Rishikesh late on Friday night with authorities attributing her death to respiratory failure/ carcinoma oesophagus and not coronavirus           This is the second instance of a COVID-19 patient dying in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic.           The patient was also suffering from cancer and had undergone an operation recently, COVID-19 nodal officer for corona cases at AIIMS, Rishikesh Madhur Uniyal said.             The first COVID-19 patient had died in Uttarakhand on May 1.            The 56-year-old woman had been admitted  at AIIMS, Rishikesh after a brain stroke.         She tested positive for coronavirs after being admitted at the facility and died there a few days later.              The state health authorities had attributed her death to ventricular tachycardia secondary to acute coronary syndrome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-20-new-cases-in-uttarakhand-one-more-dies-840987.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||At Delhi-UP border: Some scrambling to reach home for Eid; others on wing and prayer||Carrying a sack full of belongings and a backpack on shoulders daily wager Mohammed Sunny and his friend Mohammed Danish are determined to reach home for Eid in Bihar's Araria district, facing all odds stacked up against them. Shahjehanpur native Adesh Singh with his wife and three little children, who left their residence in south Delhi three days ago, are still scrambling to reach home, haggling with taxi drivers, to take them to their home town charging a reasonable fare. This was among the many scenes of migrants' life on Friday at Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border touching Ghazipur in east Delhi who are struggling to make their way to their native places amid a COVID-19-induced lockdown across the country. "We left home three days ago near Chhatarpur, we have walked and rested by roadsides, people gave us food on the way, so we survived. Now, we just want to reach home, we can't survive in Delhi," Manju Singh, wife of Adesh Singh told PTI as she waited at the UP Gate to get a taxi to cross the border on way to her home. Their three children Alok (12), Ankesh (8) and Rupali (9), all wearing simple masks, were seen squatting on the roadside beside their luggage as their wearied parents, using cloths to cover their nose and mouth, bargained with taxi drivers to take them home, without charging much above the regular fare, saying they "did not have much cash left". Police personnel could be seen asking many migrants who were marching on foot towards the inter-state border, to turn back. Many did, but not Sunny and Danish, who feel if "Allah wants us to reach home, we surely will". Both of them worked at a chemical plant in Delhi, and said, they have been "kicked out" after the lockdown was imposed, making their survival difficult in the national capital. "We don't have money to pay rent now, or buy food, we have to go home now, what option do we have," Sunny said. Danish alleged that the poor have been "abandoned" by the government and left in the lurch. "The government has money to bring home Indians stranded abroad, but can't take home the Indians who have been toiling hard all these years. Is it fair to us," he asked. "But, Inshallah, we will reach home if the Almighty wants us to, and will be joining our family for Eid, though it will hardly be a celebration this time. But, we want the comfort of being with our family at least," Sunny said. Eid which marks the end of the holy Ramzan month, will be celebrated either on Sunday or Monday, depending on sighting of the moon. Lakhs of migrant labourers stranded away from home in Delhi and other big cities have been attempting to reach home in the last two months, a large number of them walking on foot after they found no mode of conveyance. The coronavirus death toll in Delhi has mounted to 208, while 660 fresh cases of COVID-19 infection reported on Friday, the highest single-day spike here, took the total in the city to 12,319. Roshan Shrivastav (19), his nephew Shivam Shrivastav (19) and friend Prince Gupta (21), all hailing from Siwan in Bihar, were seen standing on a pavement after being told by the police to turn back from the barricade posted bear the Delhi-UP border. "We live together in Baljeet Nagar in West Delhi, in a single room. I had come from Bihar after Holi, seeking a job, but then I got stuck in lockdown here without a job. Whatever money I had brought, and Rs 10,000 our parents had sent online, all has got exhausted in these three months," Roshan lamented. "Our landlord has been very kind, and didn't even ask for any rent after the lockdown, but how long can we survive on charity. And, I don't like being dependent on someone, so we want to go home," he said. Roshan said, he and Shivam, both also write and sing songs in Hindi and their native tongue Bhojpuri. "We have written a few lines on lockdown crisis too -- 'Hum mazdooran ke ghar bhejwa da sarkar, nahin to ketna log hiyan par ho jai bimar' (please send us home or else many would fall sick here)," Shivam said, as he stood in scorching heat of May, carrying his leftover cash in pocket and hope in heart.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-delhi-up-border-some-scrambling-to-reach-home-for-eid-others-on-wing-and-prayer-840988.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Jammu and Kashmir to quarantine all flyers on their arrival||With train and domestic flight operations resuming from May 25, the Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to put all people under quarantine on their arrival in the Union Territory (UT).  However, there are minor changes in earlier quarantine protocol, an official privy to the development told DH. He said a seven-day period of quarantine is being worked out for all the arrivals from outside J&K after May 25. “Chief Secretary B V R Subramanyam has reached Srinagar to oversee the new arrangements of quarantine,” the official said. Sources said it has been decided that the administration will offer only government quarantine facilities and not hotels. “But some hotels on minimum fixed payment have been selected,” they said, adding that tertiary-care SKIMS hospital, Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar and Jammu have been asked to ramp up testing facilities. The government expects more than 3,000 arrivals daily after May 25. In the beginning, 80-90 flights are expected to operate per week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-jammu-and-kashmir-to-quarantine-all-flyers-on-their-arrival-840989.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||SC dismisses Mantri Techzone's curative petition against Rs 117 crore penalty||The Supreme Court has dismissed a curative petition filed by Mantri Techzone Private Limited against the 2019 judgement that had upheld Rs 117 crore penalty on the real estate developer for encroachment of water bodies in Bengaluru. A five-judge bench of Justices N V Ramana, Arun Mishra, Rohinton Fali Nariman, S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah also rejected a plea for allowing oral hearing of the petition. In a recent order, the bench said, "We have gone through the curative petition and the relevant documents. In our opinion, no case is made out within the parameters indicated in the decision of this Court in “Rupa Ashok Hurra vs Ashok Hurra and Another” (2002). Hence, the Curative Petition is dismissed." Curative petitions like review petitions are considered by judges inside their chambers through circulation of documents sans the presence of lawyers. It is considered as the last legal remedy to avoid miscarriage of justice and to prevent abuse of the process against the final judgement of the top court. Mantri Techzone had filed the curative petition against the order passed on August 6, 2019 in its review petition. The court had then declined to review its March 5, 2019 judgement. A bench of Justices A K Sikri (since retired) and Nazeer and Shah had then set aside the National Green Tribunal's order of May 4, 2016 which enlarged the buffer zone limits around lakes and water bodies in Bengaluru from 30-metre limit. The Karnataka government and others questioned the direction for maintaining a buffer zone and green belt of 75 metres in case of lakes, 50 metres for primary, 35 metres for secondary and 25 metres for tertiary 'Rajkulewas'. The top court, however, dismissed the appeals filed by Mantri Techzone Pvt Ltd and Core Mind Software and Services Pvt Ltd against the findings of encroachment of water bodies in Bengaluru. It had agreed with the NGT's findings that the projects for setting up of Software Technology Park, commercial and residential complex, hotel and multi-level car parks in the protected zone in between the Bellandur Lake and the Agara Lake would cause serious damage to the environment. The court had then declined to relax Rs 117 crore penalty imposed on Mantri Techzone Pvt Ltd and Rs 13.5 crore on Core Mind Software and Services Pvt Ltd for encroachment of water bodies in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-dismisses-mantri-techzones-curative-petition-against-rs-117-crore-penalty-840990.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Tablighi Jamaat members aided COVID-19 spread in Indore, Bhopal initially: MP CM||In the midst of rebooting state economy and settling down migrant labourers, Chouhan told PTI in an interview, "Initially the members of Tablighi Jamaat contributed in spreading this virus. The people, who came back from this event to prime cities like Indore and Bhopal, transmitted this virus to others also." Further, they added to it by not cooperating with government personnel. They stayed hidden led this spread into persons who directly or indirectly came in their contact, he said, adding "they did not act responsibly". A large congregation organised in March by the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin area of the national capital significantly contributed to the increase of coronavirus cases in India. Some of the participants, who were later tested positive for coronavirus, had travelled to their home states and other areas. Madhya Pradesh has so far reported 6,170 coronavirus cases, including 2,850 in its commercial city Indore, 1,153 in state capital Bhopal and 504 in the religious town of Ujjain, according to the official data updated as on Friday. Cases in these cities have been increasing steadily. Of the total of 272 COVID-19 deaths, 109 people have died in Indore, 40 in Bhopal and 51 in Ujjain, the data said. To a question on the increase in COVID-19 cases in Bhopal and Indore, Chouhan said these places are "under special care" of the state administration. "We are continuously monitoring the situations of these regions. Situation seems to be improving and stable now. More than 1,500 patients of Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain have recovered and are well now," the chief minister said. He said, the state administration is continuously trying its best to ensure availability of necessary medical facilities in these regions. "All hospitals and medical centres of these regions have been equipped fully to counter the emergency situations," Chouhan said. In a stern message, the chief minister also said that persons indulging in attacking COVID-19 frontline workers "will not be spared at all". "These are shameful acts of violating the laws and not co-operating with the government which is working for their safety. The Central government has also amended the penal provisions for such acts. Such accused persons have been arrested under provisions of the National Security Act," he said.  On the Congress' charge that the state government was not doing enough to fight the pandemic, Chouhan said it is time for all of us to put a check on the spread of the disease unitedly. "It is a time, we all need to fight this pandemic together and the Congress is busy in accusing us. It shows their concerns and priorities. They are accusing us to hide their failure. They could have taken the preventive measures regarding this at much early stages that we did as soon as we took charge of the state," he said hitting out at the previous Kamal Nath–led Congress government in the state. Chouhan said when he took over as the chief minister, medical facilities were less in number in the state. "Today, we are in a far better condition than before. If the previous government was aware of these facts why didn't they take measures to overcome these things? They could have done a lot earlier, but they were involved in their internal party conflicts,” he said. The chief minister appealed everyone to follow the lockdown sincerely for their own safety.  "Keep maintaining the social distancing norms even after the lockdown. Stay at home, stay safe. I request everyone to have patience; we will soon overcome this pandemic," Chouhan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tablighi-jamaat-members-aided-covid-19-spread-in-indore-bhopal-initially-mp-cm-840995.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 toll in Rajasthan rises to 155, cases 6,542||The novel coronavirus toll in Rajasthan rose to 155 on Saturday with one more death in Jaipur and Kota each, while 48 new cases took the number of infections to 6,542, an official said. There are 2,695 active cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), while 3,692 patients have recovered so far, the government official said. Out of the 48 new COVID-19 cases, 17 were from Nagaur, 10 from Kota, six from Jhunjhunu and five from Jaipur districts. Four people were afflicted with the disease in Jhalawar, two in Dholpur and one each in Banswara, Bhilwara, Bharatpur and Ajmer districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-toll-in-rajasthan-rises-to-155-cases-6542-840998.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: 21-yr-old recovered COVID-19 patient donates plasma at King George's Medical University||A 21-year-old man, who defeated COVID-19, has donated his plasma at the King George's Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow to treat severally-ill coronavirus patients, a hospital official said. A total of seven people have donated their plasma at the KGMU so far, the official said, adding that they have been kept in a plasma bank and can be used anytime for the next one year. “Yash Thakur, the recovered patient, donated his plasma on Friday night… His blood group is O positive which is quite rare,” the head of the KGMU blood transfusion medicine department Tulika Chandra said on Saturday. There are 17 coronavirus patients admitted in the KGMU including two women but none of them require plasma therapy. So, the KGMU administration has decided that serious patients admitted in hospitals in other districts, who require plasma therapy, should be brought here, Chandra said. Plasma therapy trials are currently underway at the KGMU. On April 27, a 58-year-old doctor from Orai in Jalaun district became the first recipient of plasma therapy and the donor was the woman doctor from Canada, the first COVID-19 patient admitted to KGMU. However, the patient passed away after suffering a heart attack on May 9. The KGMU had later said that two corona reports of the deceased were negative. Convalescent Plasma Therapy is an experimental procedure for treating COVID-19 patients. In this treatment, plasma, a blood component, from a cured patient is transfused to a critically ill coronavirus patient. The blood of a person who has recovered from COVID-19 develops antibodies to fight the virus. This therapy uses the antibodies from the blood of a cured patient to treat another critical patient. The Union health ministry, however, has advised against considering the therapy to be regular treatment for coronavirus, adding it should be used for research and trial purposes till there is a robust scientific evidence to support its efficacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-21-yr-old-recovered-covid-19-patient-donates-plasma-at-king-georges-medical-university-841001.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh identifies 44 containment zones amid coronavirus pandemic||The Chhattisgarh government has classified four development blocks in the state as red zones and 80 as orange zones to contain the spread of coronavirus, an official here said on Saturday. Apart from this, it has also declared 44 areas, from where COVID-19 cases were recently detected, as containment zones, the official said. The state's health secretary Niharika Barik Singh had issued a notification regarding the classification of COVID-19 zones on Friday evening, and based on this, activities, including business, will be permitted or restricted in these areas, he said. In keeping with the Union Health and Family Welfare ministry's guidelines, the state health department has classified development blocks and urban areas based on the number of active COVID-19 cases, doubling rates and samples tested per 1 lakh population of the area, he said. "The state government has demarcated four development blocks- Doundilohara (Balod district), Takhatpur and Masturi (Bilaspur district) and Korba (Korba district) as red zones," he said. Similarly, at least 80 development blocks and cities in 25 districts were marked as orange zones, he said. Some areas were classified as orange zones despite not reporting a single COVID-19 case so far, after it was found that the testing rate per 1 lakh population was less there, he said. As many as 146 development blocks in the state were categorised as green zones, he said, adding that these classifications will be reviewed every Monday. The state government has also demarcated 44 containment zones, which include villages and areas in cities, the official said. With the detection of 40 new cases on Friday, Chhattisgarh's COVID-19 tally rose to 172, of which 110 are active cases and 62 patients have recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-identifies-44-containment-zones-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-841006.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Migrant who came to Yamuna Sports Complex, stays back, enrolls as volunteer||Ajit Lochin Mishra came to Yamuna Sports Complex last month hoping to return to his native place in Jharkhand, but after seeing the condition of other migrant workers he decided to stay back and enrolled as a volunteer at the shelter home. Ajit has been running a food stall at Kashmere Gate Metro station from past many years. "The metro is closed and I have no work here post lockdown. I came to the shelter home at Yamuna Sports Complex in the second week of April, hoping to go back to my village in Deoghar. When I saw the condition of people here, my conscience didn't allow me to leave the shelter home. "Thereafter, I decided to stay here and work as a volunteer. I will definitely go to my village but only after the situation gets normal and all the migrant workers are sent back to their native places," Ajit told PTI. He came to Delhi four decades ago. He studied here and now lives in northeast Delhi''s Bhajanpura area.  "I participate in distributing food, ask people to come in line and constantly tell them to maintain social distance. I also try to manage any issue or problem the children are facing here. I have a wife and two kids in Deoghar and have already informed them about it," he said. Ashish Mishra, Executive Magistrate of Shahdara district and in-charge of Yamuna Sports Complex shelter home, said that Ajit is working as a volunteer here from past 40 days.  "He is a very considerate person. He roams in the area and talks to people. If anyone has some family emergency or any other issue, he tells us and we try to send that person home as soon as possible. He also tells us about the people who need medical assistance. "He distributes food to the migrant workers in the shelter home. He participates in housekeeping work and does not even hesitate to clean the toilet of the complex," Ashish Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-who-came-to-yamuna-sports-complex-stays-back-enrolls-as-volunteer-841015.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||ID cards of MLAs to act as e-passes for travel in Madhya Pradesh: Govt||Identity cards of legislators in Madhya Pradesh will now be recognised as the valid e-pass for travelling amidst the coronavirus lockdown, a state government official said on Saturday. The ID card will also be considered as an e-pass in a red zone, he said. "It has been decided by the state government that the ID card issued by the Legislative Assembly to MLAs will be considered as e-pass. No separate e-passes will be required for members of the Legislative Assembly," said an official of the Public Relations department. Even if legislators wish to visit their home districts or want to attend meetings be travelling away from their residences, identity cards issued by the state Legislative Assembly would be recognised as an e-pass, he said. Following the instructions of the Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Additional Chief Secretary and State Control Room in-charge ICP Keshari has issued a circular in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/id-cards-of-mlas-to-act-as-e-passes-for-travel-in-madhya-pradesh-govt-841025.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Ambedkar statue found damaged, tension in Uttar Pradesh village||A statue of Dalit icon B R Ambedkar was found damaged in Lakshmana village in Uttar Pradesh's Bhadohi district on Saturday, leading to tension in the area, police said. The 6-feet statue, installed in Dalit Basti of the village under the Aurai Police Station limits, was found damaged on Saturday morning, Additional SP Ravindra Verma said. The incident led to tension in the area as people started gathering. Police were rushed to the area, the ASP said. A new statue is being installed and a case has been registered against unidentified persons, the official said, adding a complaint has been received and investigations are on. An additional police force has been deployed in the village, the ASP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ambedkar-statue-found-damaged-tension-in-uttar-pradesh-village-841045.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Hungry, thirsty 'shramiks' on board special trains turn violent, ransack offices||Going without food and water amid soaring temperature, angry migrant workers on board the 'shramik special' trains, created ruckus on tracks, looted food packets and also ransacked offices at several railway stations in Uttar Pradesh. According to the reports, hundreds of migrant workers blocked movement of trains by standing on the tracks near Deen Dayal Upadhyaya railway station in UP's Chandauli district after the Visakhapattanam-Chapra 'shramik special' train remained stuck in the railway yard for 10 hours on Friday. ''The workers complained that they had been without food and water for more than 48-hours.....they put sleepers on the tracks to block movement of trains from the other side,'' said a district official in Chandauli on Saturday. In another incident, irate workers, travelling in Panvel-Jaunpur 'shramik special', broke the glass panes of the windows after their train was delayed by several hours and got stuck at Vyasnagar railway station near Varanasi on Saturday. The passengers of Bengaluru-Darbhanga 'shramik special' train indulged in violence and ransacked the offices of the railway officials at Ajgain, Sonik and Unnao railway stations on Saturday in protest against failure of the officials to provide them food and water. ''We have been travelling for two days....there are children with us....we are without food and water,'' said a worker.   Hungry migrant workers, travelling by Ahmedabad-Sitamarhi 'shramik special', looted food packets and water bottles and fought with each other at Kanpur railway on Friday as the officials and the GRP looked on. In another bizarre incident, a shramik special train bound for Gorakhpur from Vasai near Mumbai reached Rourkela in Odisha much to the shock and dismay of the passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hungry-thirsty-shramiks-on-board-special-trains-turn-violent-ransack-offices-841050.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Nearly 21 lakh people have returned to UP, over 13.54 lakh of them in special trains: Govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday said over 13.54 lakh migrant labourers have returned to the state in 1,018 special trains since the services began earlier this month and monitoring teams are ensuring they strictly follow home quarantine. Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi said overall nearly 21 lakh people have arrived in the state in trains, buses and other means.  "On Saturday and Sunday, 178 trains are expected to come to the state," he added. Authorities have collected the data on the returnees. "A paper slip will be pasted on their houses, with complete details. The nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) will keep a watch on them, and ensure they strictly follow home quarantine," Awasthi said. Awasthi said there are 52 stations in UP where special trains have stoppages. In Varanasi, two stations — Cantonment and Madhuadih — have been identified for special trains.  "For the first time, a (special) train is coming to Pilibhit. UP government is bringing migrant labourers and workers free of cost. No one has to pay any charge for any train coming to UP," he said. The senior official also said challans have been issued against 5,298 persons for not wearing masks, while over 18,200 two-wheeler owners have been fined after the vehicles were caught with more than one rider. "Of the 5,298 persons against whom challans have been issued, 1,461 are from Lucknow and 1,306 from Varanasi. The cost of a mask is between Rs 5 and Rs 10; instead of paying fine, people should purchase mask," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-21-lakh-people-have-returned-to-up-over-1354-lakh-of-them-in-special-trains-govt-841091.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||UP's Gautam Buddh Nagar reports 17 new COVID-19 cases; Total now 323||Seventeen more people, including three teenagers, tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Saturday, pushing the total number of cases in the district to 323, officials said. Also, seven people were discharged from hospitals after being cured, even as the number of active cases rose to 97, they said.  District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said 58 test results were obtained from Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), 60 from National Institute of Biologicals (NIB) and 128 from Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) on Saturday. "All results from GIMS were negative. Thirteen from NIB were found positive, while three from SSPHPGTI were also found positive," he said. One more person who tested positive was examined at a private laboratory, officials said.  "On Saturday, 17 people were found positive for COVID-19 and total positive cases till date stand at 323. Seven patients were discharged on Saturday and a total 221 patients have recovered so far. There are 97 active cases now," Dohare said in a statement. Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh has so far recorded five deaths, all of them male aged above 60 years, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ups-gautam-buddh-nagar-reports-17-new-covid-19-cases-total-now-323-841093.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM hands over Rs 10 lakh ex gratia to late constable’s wife||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday handed over a cheque of Rs 10 lakh to the wife of constable Sanjay Gurjar who died in the line of duty here. The ‘corona warrior’ was returning after delivering PPE kits at a quarantine center here earlier this month when he fell off his motorcycle. He succumbed to injuries at a hospital a day later.  The ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh was given to the late constable's wife Priyanka out of the Chief Minister's Relief Fund. After handing over the cheque at the CM residence, Rawat assured her of all support and also asked DIG Arun Mohan Joshi to expedite the process of her appointment in the police department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-hands-over-rs-10-lakh-ex-gratia-to-late-constable-s-wife-841100.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Migrants being charged for train tickets, says Kamal Nath||Senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Saturday alleged migrants stranded in the coronavirus-induced lockdown were being charged for train tickets, contrary to claims made by the BJP-led governments at the Centre and here. Nath also shared a video in which a person can be seen claiming he was charged Rs 575 for a migrant special train going to Darbhanga in Bihar from Bhopal's Habibganj station.  "The Centre and the state government are making big claims that special trains are being run to send the migrant workers and the poor home, and that no fare is being charged from them, while the truth is contrary," Nath tweeted on Saturday while sharing a video. In the video, a person is seen stating he was given a token against Rs 575 for each ticket for Darbhanga-bound train from Bhopal's Habibganj station, and that officials said the ticket against this token would be given at the railway station. "Many such cases have also come up in the past, in which money was realised for the rail tickets. Now, another method has been found by the state to charge for the tickets. This is the picture of Bhopal, where tokens are being given after charging ticket money. The extent of shamelessness - this is their reality," Nath said in another tweet.  On the other hand, state BJP vice president and party MLA Rameshwar Sharma termed the allegation as "politically motivated". "The MP government is not charging any money from any passenger. The Congress is desperate after the party's general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's failed attempt to defame the UP government. This is a conspiracy," Sharma told PTI. Sharma said this was not the time for politics and Congress should have a constructive approach. No state government official was available for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrants-being-charged-for-train-tickets-says-kamal-nath-841109.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||17 more test positive for COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh, tally rises to 186  ||Seventeen more people tested positive for coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 186, officials said. Six of the fresh cases were reported from Kangra, five from Solan, four from Mandi and one each from Hamirpur and Una, they said.  While nine of these people are Mumbai returnees, five had visited West Bengal and two came back from Jalandhar, the officials said. The details about the person who tested positive in Una were not immediately available. In Kangra, two women, aged 70 and 44, from Lambagaon, Jaisinghpur and Bhawarna, respectively, tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus, according to a district official. Similarly, three men, aged 48, 49 and 50, from Lambagaon, Palampur and Jaisinghpur, respectively, tested positive for the respiratory disease. All of them returned from Mumbai on a special train on May 18 and were quarantined at Paraur in Palampur sub-division. The 70-year-old woman is being shifted to Dedicated COVID Health Centre (DCHC), Dharamshala, whereas the other four patients are being shifted to PRI, Baijnath. Besides, a 68-year-old man who recently returned from Jalandhar tested positive in Kangra. Currently, he is admitted to SARI, Tanda.  In Solan, all five people who tested positive for the respiratory disease are West Bengal returnees, District Health Officer (DHO) N K Gupta said. All of them were quarantined at Ramshehar upon their return, he added. In Mandi, the four cases include three members of a family -- a woman, her son and daughter -- who had recently returned from Mumbai. They were already lodged at a quarantine centre, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Jeevanand Chauhan said. The woman's husband had also travelled to Mumbai, but his report came back negative, he said. A 61-year-old taxi driver, a resident of Mumbai, also tested positive for COVID-19. He had brought back some residents from the commercial capital a few days ago and was quarantined after he showed symptoms of influenza-like illness, the CMO said. In Hamirpur, a 72-year-old woman from Dugha village tested positive for COVID-19 two days after her husband. She suffers from a liver infection, district Deputy Commissioner Harikesh Meena said. She had gone to Jalandhar for treatment and was admitted to the district government medical college after she returned, he said. She was referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla for treatment as her condition worsened. Her sample was taken there and her report came back positive on Saturday, he added. Meena said one more patient from Seedhi village of Hamirpur's Kakker area has been cured and will soon be sent to home quarantine for 14 days. The number of active COVID-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh now stands at 121 and 61 people have recovered so far, according to the officials. Hamirpur has the maximum number of active cases in the state at 54; followed by 35 in Kangra; 10 in Solan; eight in Mandi; five in Bilaspur; three in Una; two each in Sirmaur and Chamba; and one each in Kullu and Shimla, they said. Four people have died due to COVID-19 in the state till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-pradesh-tally-rises-to-186-841117.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Will sit on 'dharna' if payments to farmers not cleared by June 1: Abhay Chautala||Indian National Lok Dal MLA Abhay Singh Chautala on Saturday said he would sit on ‘dharna’ if the M L Khattar government does not clear “outstanding payments” to farmers for procuring their wheat and mustard crop. “Farmers feel cheated. The government makes tall claims, but reality is something else. The reality is that not even one-third of the total payment due has been credited to the farmers' accounts after their crop was procured,” the lone INLD legislator told reporters here. He said if the entire payment of farmers is not cleared June 1, he would sit on ‘dharna’ from June 2. “And I won't sit alone. Thousands of farmers will join me in this ‘dharna’ to put pressure on the government to clear their outstanding payments,” he said. He also demanded that the government should pay interest to the farmers for payments delayed beyond four days. “The government claims it will clear farmers’ payments within 72 hours, but if it fails to do so, it should pay an interest on the delayed payment,” he said. He also took a dig at his nephew Dushyant Chautala, a JJP leader and the state’ deputy chief minister, who also holds the Food and Civil Supplies and Excise Departments. “The government has kept a new spokesman these days, who keeps claiming that he propagates Chaudhary Devi Lal’s policies. But the truth is he knows nothing about famers. For the past many days, he has been mentioning the name of a farmer Nirmal Singh to back his claims that crop procurement was going on smoothly. The truth is that Nirmal Singh is Dushyant's personal security officer,” he claimed. He said the government knows its mismanagement in crop procurement would soon get “exposed” and “that is why they ask such people (Dushyant) to make statements before the media. Officials hand over documents to them which they read.” Dushyant Chautala, however, said the payment of farmers and 'arhtiyas' or commission agents is made within four days after the wheat is purchased and lifted from the mandis for the warehouses. He said so far 73 lakh metric tonne of wheat and more than 8 lakh metric tonne of mustard have been successfully procured. In addition to this, more than 5,081 metric tonne of gram has also been procured. Without naming anyone, Dushyant Chautala said “despite the fact that the procurement process was conducted efficiently, some politicians could not digest the effectiveness of the same. “The reality is that about Rs 22,000 crore cash credit has already been arranged so as to make timely payments to farmers and 2.5 percent commission for commission agents,” he said. On the alleged liquor scam in the state, in which a special enquiry team (SET) has been constituted, Abhay Chautala claimed that the SET lacks power and was toothless. “First the government said it will constitute a SIT, then they set up a SET, which lacks powers,” he said. Abhay Chautala said it would be better if an inquiry by a sitting judge is ordered into the scam so that an independent probe can be held. The SET was formed after a huge stock of seized liquor went missing from two godowns in Sonipat district. The SET was also mandated to check the actual availability of stock in all warehouses and godowns that were sealed by the Excise Department during last two years for any violation, which means it will check whether the stock of liquor which was there on the date of sealing is actually the same or not.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-sit-on-dharna-if-payments-to-farmers-not-cleared-by-june-1-abhay-chautala-841142.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||80 more test COVID-19 positive in J&K; tally at 1,569||As many as 80 more people, including a doctor, tested positive for COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the union territory to 1,569, officials said. While 21 of these cases are from Jammu, 59 are from the Kashmir region, they said. The 80 fresh cases include a doctor from Srinagar who is posted in Bandipora and a pregnant woman from Kulgam, according to the officials. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir has now reached 1,569, they said. Of these, 1,330 have been recorded in Kashmir and 239 in the Jammu region, they added. There are 774 active cases in the union territory -- 609 in Kashmir and 165 in Jammu. A total of 774 patients have recovered, they said. The union territory has recorded 21 COVID-19 related deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/80-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-jk-tally-at-1569-841146.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||22 US deportees among 64 fresh COVID-19 cases in Haryana; tally rises to 1,131||As many as 64 people, including 22 who were part of a group of Indian nationals recently deported from the US, tested positive for COVID-19 in Haryana on Saturday, taking the state's tally to 1,131, officials said. The state's worst-hit Gurgaon, Faridabad and Sonipat districts reported 25 fresh infections, they said. A total of 76 people from Haryana were part of a group of over 160 Indians who were deported from the US earlier this week. They reached Amritsar in Punjab on a special chartered flight with others and were later brought to Panchkula. "Twenty-two of these 76 who were tested have been found COVID positive," Health Minister Anil Vij told reporters. Most of the deported Indians had tried to enter the US from its southern border with Mexico and had exhausted all legal options before they were deported. Gurgaon reported 12 cases, Faridabad 10 and Sonipat three, a state health department bulletin said.  Panipat reported seven cases; Jind and Hisar three each, Bhiwani two, and Palwal and Karnal one each, it said. According to the bulletin, Haryana has 365 active COVID-19 cases. The state has a recovery rate of 66.31 per cent, fatality rate of 1.41 per cent and tests per million being conducted are 3,709. Haryana has recorded 16 COVID-19 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/22-us-deportees-among-64-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-haryana-tally-rises-to-1131-841151.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM hopeful state will not face labour shortage for paddy sowing||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday expressed hope that the state might not face labour shortage for paddy sowing, saying 10 lakh migrant labourers were still present in the state. "We have a total 13 lakh labourers in the state and around three lakh workers have gone back (to their native places). Still we have 10 lakh labourers in the state," Singh said in his Facebook Live programme '#AskCaptain'.         “If they (labourers) get work then why will they go back and possibly they stay back and hopefully, there will be no labour shortage,” said Singh in response to a question on labour shortage for paddy sowing.       He also advocated the use of direct seeding of paddy which is less labour intensive operation.       Notably, farmers have expressed apprehension that with migrant labourers returning to their native places in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, paddy growers would face labour shortage for paddy transplantation next month.       The chief minister also appreciated the hard-working farmers for overcoming all challenges to deliver another bumper crop in these unprecedented times.       He said 125 lakh tonnes of wheat had already been procured and payments were being made strictly as per laid out norms. Singh asked the farmers to bring to his notice any delay in payment. He also lauded the agriculture department officials, police as well as NCC Cadets for conducting the mega procurement operations, without a single case of COVID infection being reported from the mandis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-hopeful-state-will-not-face-labour-shortage-for-paddy-sowing-841167.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||China’s unease over India’s intent on Aksai Chin sparked current tension in eastern Ladakh; India maintains aggressive posturing||China’s concerns over India’s intention to wrest back control of Aksai Chin apparently prompted the neighbouring communist country’s People’s Liberation Army to deploy additional troops along the disputed boundary between the two nations early this month in response to a road Indian Army built in eastern Ladakh. Even as the military officials and the diplomats of India and China have been in touch, they could not yet diffuse the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto border between the two nations - on the north-bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Army too sent reinforcements in response to deployment of additional troops by the Chinese PLA. Though no new scuffle between the soldiers of the two nations reported, the build-ups by both sides over the past couple of weeks escalated tension in the region. A large number of Chinese PLA soldiers are staying put in about 80-100 tents set up close to a mountain spur on the bank of the lake, with more waiting in a nearby camp. The Indian Army also rushed additional troops as a countermeasure. The two sides also deployed additional boats to patrol the lake. It has not yet turned into a face-off like the one that had happened in Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan in June-August 2017, when Indian and Chinese soldiers had an eyeball-to-eyeball situation for almost 72 days.  A source in New Delhi said that efforts were on to avert a rerun of the 2017 Doklam face-off on the bank of the Pangong Tso lake and a breakthrough might come next week.  Both Indian and Chinese soldiers often inadvertently transgress into the territory of each other due to differences in perception of the alignment of the LAC – not only in the mountain spurs on the banks of the Pangong Tso lake, but also in other places along the disputed boundary in western, middle or eastern sectors. The recent build-ups started after the Chinese PLA personnel attacked Indian Army soldiers with sticks and stones on May 5 in an area perceived in New Delhi to be well within the India’s side of the LAC. They also demolished some makeshift structures built by Indian Army soldiers. The Chinese PLA followed up by building a bunker in order to restrict the access to an area where Indian Army soldiers regularly patrolled. A source aware of New Delhi’s engagement with Beijing on boundary disputes, however, said that what had triggered the actions of the Chinese PLA was a road Indian Army had built a few months ago linking its military base at Daulat Beg Oldie with a village close to the Pangong Tso lake along with a bridge over a rivulet nearby. The new road in fact branched out from another 255-kilometer-long one from Darbuk and Shyok to the DBO, which was completed by the Border Roads Organization (BRO) of India last year. “Construction of the road and the bridge, as well as other such infrastructure closer to the LAC in eastern Ladakh, prompted the Chinese PLA to presume that Indian Army was preparing for a military move towards Aksai Chin,” the source told the DH in New Delhi.  China last year joined Pakistan to oppose India’s August 5 move to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and reorganise the state into two Union Territories. What in fact raised hackles in Beijing was Home Minister Amit Shah's statement in the Lok Sabha on August 6 that just as the entire J&K state had remained an integral part of India, the two new UTs too would include, not only India's territory, currently under illegal occupation of Pakistan, but also areas Pakistan had illegally ceded to China in 1963 as well as Aksai Chin – a territory east of Ladakh claimed by both India and China. Beijing perceived it as a ploy by New Delhi to strengthen its claim on Aksai Chin, which is now administered by China but claimed by India as easternmost part of Ladakh (now a Union Territory).  When External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had held a meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Beijing on August 12, 2019, he had sought to allay the concerns of the communist country stating that New Delhi’s move on J&K had been India’s internal matter of India and not aimed at making new territorial claims along its disputed boundary with China. New Delhi also repeatedly conveyed to Beijing over the past few months that it remained committed to finding a “fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution to India-China boundary question” through talks between the Special Representatives of the two Governments Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Wang are currently leading the India-China talks on boundary as Special Representatives of the respective governments. They had held the 22nd round of talks in New Delhi in December 2019. Beijing, however, seems to have remained suspicious about New Delhi’s intent and Indian Army’s moves on the Western Sector of the LAC, particularly on building infrastructure in eastern Ladakh. China of late accused India of trespassing into its territory and illegally building defence facilities in the Galwan Valley near the Pangong Tso lake. The Global Times, a state-owned newspaper of the communist country, alleged that Indian Army soldiers had been trespassing into territory of China since early May. It also accused Indian Army of “illegally” constructing defence facilities in its territory in the Galwan Valley region. New Delhi dismissed the allegation and accused Chinese PLA of hindering “normal patrolling” by Indian Army soldiers and thus escalating tension along the disputed boundary between the two neighbouring nations in eastern Ladakh. It underlined that India had always taken “a very responsible approach” towards border management, but, “at the same time”, it remained deeply committed to protecting its sovereignty and security”. The Indian Army chief General M M Naravane visited Ladakh on Friday. He had a meeting with Lieutenant General Y K Joshi, the chief of the Army’s Northern Command, and Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, the commander of the Army’s 14 corps based in Leh, and reviewed the situation along the LAC. Indian and Chinese soldiers also had a skirmish during a brief stand-off along the LAC at Naku La in northern Sikkim on May 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/china-s-unease-over-india-s-intent-on-aksai-chin-sparked-current-tension-in-eastern-ladakh-india-maintains-aggressive-posturing-841178.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||14 more contract COVID-19 in Chandigarh; tally rises to 233||Fourteen more persons tested positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh on Saturday, taking the COVID-19 tally to 233 in the Union territory. Two boys, aged 12 and 13 years, are among the fresh cases and they all are residents of Bapu Dham colony, the worst affected area in the city, a medical bulletin said. Meanwhile, samples of 57 persons, all residents of Bapu Dham Colony, were collected on Saturday for testing.  A total of 3,749 samples have been tested so far and of them, 3,390 samples are negative while the reports of 133 samples are awaited, as per the bulletin. The city has 51 active COVID-19 cases, it said.  A two-month-old coronavirus positive girl, resident of Sector 25, was discharged from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research after she was cured of the infection. With this, 179 people have so far recovered from the virus. Three persons have died of coronavirus in the city, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-more-contract-covid-19-in-chandigarh-tally-rises-to-233-841182.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt allows sale of high-end liquor brands in shopping malls||The Uttar Pradesh government has allowed the sale of some types of liquor in malls, an official said on Saturday. “The Cabinet has approved the Uttar Pradesh Excise (Settlement of Licenses for Premium Retail Vends of Foreign Liquor) Rules, 2020, paving the way for sale of certain categories of liquors in malls within the state,” Excise Department ‘s Principal Secretary Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said in a statement here.  Bhoosreddy said so far foreign liquor was being sold only in retail shops and model shops. "Earlier there was no provision for sale of foreign liquor in malls. Licenses in form FL-4-C will be granted for retail sale of foreign liquor in sealed bottles in malls. These vends will be in addition to the existing shops," he added. The principal secretary said the license for selling liquor in malls can be obtained by any eligible person, company, partnership firm, proprietary firm or society. The mall in which such vends can open, should have a minimum plinth area of 10,000 square feet and it includes departmental stores, super markets or hybrid hyper markets, he explained.  “The premium retail vend should have at least 500 square feet carpet area and provide customers the facility to walk in the shops and select his/her choice of brand from the shelves. It has to be air conditioned and be well decorated with shelves so that various brands are displayed in shelves with a systematic layout plan," Bhoosreddy said. The premium retail vends can sell only those categories of foreign liquor which have been authorized by the Excise Commissioner, he said, adding that consumption of alcohol on the premises of the vend will not be allowed. The premium retail vend can sell only -- imported foreign liquor brands (BIO), IMFL brands of scotch or above category, all categories of Brandi, Gin and Wine, brands of Vodka and Rum with MRP of more than Rs 700 and above, and brands of Beer with MRP of more than Rs160 per can of 500 ml or equivalent. "Keeping in view the increasing trend of shopping in malls, the rules have been framed allowing sale of premium brands of liquor in malls. These vends will give choice and provide access to wide variety of liquor brands both Indian and imported to liquor connoisseurs, besides giving a better shopping experience,” Bhoosreddy said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-allows-sale-of-high-end-liquor-brands-in-shopping-malls-841191.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan govt to give needy migrants wheat for free||The Rajasthan government will give 2 kg to 5 kg wheat free of cost to needy migrants workers, who are not in the food security beneficiaries list. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday directed officials to prepare a data base of all migrants and other needy people who are not in the list of beneficiaries so as to provide them with wheat during the next two months. He also asked the officials to remove names of ineligible people who figure in the list of beneficiaries. Gehlot said Rajasthan has emerged as a model state in distribution of ration and other items to the poor, helpless and needy during the coronavirus pandemic. In a review meeting of the food and civil supplies department, officials said 3.7 crore needy and poor people were distributed cooked food and dry ration through district administrations during the lockdown. Also, an additional amount of Rs 114 crore was borne by the state government for distribution of free wheat to the needy. Food and Civil Supply Minister Ramesh Meena, Chief Secretary D B Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary (finance) Niranjan Arya and other senior officials were present in the review meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-to-give-needy-migrants-wheat-for-free-841192.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: MP reports 201 new cases, nine deaths on Saturday||Madhya Pradesh on Saturday reported 201 new COVID-19 cases, including 83 in worst-hit Indore, and nine deaths, taking the total case count to 6,371 and fatalities to 281, state health officials said. Two deaths each were reported from Indore, Bhopal and Burhanpur while one person each succumbed to the infection in Khandwa, Dhar and Sagar, they said. So far, 3,267 persons have recovered, leaving MP with 2,823 active cases. The number of cases in Indore rose to 2,933 with 83 new cases on Saturday, and the death toll now stands at 111, as per a health bulletin. It said 38 new patients were detected in Bhopal, 27 in Ujjain, eight in Khandwa, seven in Dewas, five in Jabalpur, four each in Betul, Burhanpur, Ashok Nagar and Dindori, two each in Dhar, Gwalior, Mandsaur, Sagar and Balaghat and one each in Khargone, Ratlam, Jhabua, Sheopur, Shivpuri, Datia and Guna. Bhopal now has 1,191 COVID-19 cases, Ujjain 531, Khandwa 216, Burhanpur 213, Jabalpur 199, Khargone 115 and Dhar 109, as per the bulletin. In Gwalior the number of cases is 92, in Mandsaur 85, Dewas 80, Sagar 59, Ratlam 31, Betul 13, Jhabua 12, Ashok Nagar 10, Dindori nine, six each in Sheopur and Shivpuri, Datia five, Balaghat three and Guna two.     No new coronavirus case was found in 27 districts since Friday evening, officials said. So far, coronavirus cases have been found in 49 out of 52 districts of the state. With two deaths each, the number of persons who have succumbed to COVID-19 stands at 42 in Bhopal and 13 in Burhanpur, while it reached 11 in Khandwa, and three each in Dhar and Sagar, the bulletin said. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 6,371, active cases 2,823, new cases 201, death toll 281, recovered 3,267, total number of tested people 1,32,769.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-mp-reports-201-new-cases-nine-deaths-on-saturday-841197.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt again faces charge of 'under-reporting' COVID-19 deaths; Toll nearly 3 times, allege MCD leaders||There is a "massive discrepancy" between the COVID-19 death toll recorded from cremation and burial sites in the national capital, and the number of coronavirus fatalities reported by the Delhi government, senior leaders of BJP-ruled civic bodies alleged on Saturday. There was no immediate reaction from the Delhi government, which had earlier also faced flak after it came to light that the number of coronavirus deaths reported by hospitals was higher than those mentioned in its health bulletin.  Standing Committee chairman of BJP-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation Jai Prakash claimed that till May 21, as many as 282 people, who were coronavirus-positive, have been cremated or buried as per the standard protocol in its area. Leader of House in BJP-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation Kamaljeet Sehrawat also claimed a much larger death count, saying 309 COVID-19-positive people have been cremated or buried in its area, as per the municipal data. The COVID-19 death toll, according to official bulletin released by the Delhi heath department, stood at 194 on May 21. The toll has now jumped to 231, according to the latest bulletin released on Saturday. "If you combine the total death figures from NDMC and SDMC, it comes out to be nearly 600 till May 21, which is almost three times what the Delhi government reported. The AAP government is under-reporting death cases to save its face," Prakash alleged. "The Kejriwal government is afraid that if real death figures become known to people, it will puncture its claim that coronavirus situation is supposedly under control in Delhi," he said. Several phone calls and text messages to Delhi heath department officials did not elicit any response.  The city government had earlier blamed the hospitals for the mismatch in the death toll figures, saying they were not providing it timely information, and had issued fresh guidelines to them for submitting death reports. Sehrawat, a former South Delhi mayor, said that based on data obtained from the staff at crematoria, "bodies of 232 coronavirus-positive cases were brought to Punjabi Bagh crematorium, while 68 bodies were of suspected cases" till May 21. Similarly, 76 bodies of COVID-19 victims were brought to ITO Kabristan and one body at Madanpur Khadar burial ground till that date, she claimed. NDMC panel chief Prakash claimed that 270 bodies of coronavirus victims were brought to Nigambodh Ghat for cremation, while 11 bodies were buried at Mangolpuri Muslim burial ground and one at a Christmas cemetery in Rohini till May 21. Both Prakash and Sehrawat claimed that they have "submitted" these figures to the Delhi government. "The Delhi government is perhaps trying to portray that everything is under control and sort of normal. Why can't they just acknowledge these deaths, it will only make people more aware and alert," Sehrawat said. SDMC standing committee chairman Bhupender Gupta, said, "An inquiry should be done to analyse these huge discrepancies", adding, "it will then prove, who is lying". "Even today, many bodies of COVID-19 victims were brought to Punjabi Bagh crematorium. And, we are quoting from the tags attached to the bodies, which clearly tell if the deceased person was COVID-positive or suspected to be have died of the infection," he claimed. Prakash also questioned the easing of lockdown across the city from May 19, saying areas should have been designated and then opened in staggered fashion. Sehrawat alleged that "SDMC officials were not consulted by the Delhi government while formulating policies". "It is time to fight this pandemic together, and not to resort to any sort of politics," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-again-faces-charge-of-under-reporting-covid-19-deaths-toll-nearly-3-times-allege-mcd-leaders-841199.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||All returning to Punjab to undergo 14-day quarantine: CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said all those coming to the state, whether on domestic flights or trains or buses, will have to compulsorily undergo home quarantine for 14 days. He ruled out any complacency despite Punjab posting the highest recovery rate of 90 per cent in the country. “Screening of those entering the state would be done at all state and district border entry points, as well as railway stations and airports, and those found symptomatic would be sent into institutional quarantine, while others would have to undergo mandatory two-week home quarantine,” the chief minister said in his live Facebook programme `#AskCaptain'. Rapid testing teams would check on the home-quarantined persons while those found symptomatic would have to undergo thorough testing in hospitals, Singh said in an official statement also here. He made it clear that his government would not rely on any certificate of testing from any part of the country or the world. He cited Punjab's experience with those who came from Maharashtra and Rajasthan, as well as more recent cases of Dubai, from where Punjabis coming back had tested positive despite carrying medical certificates showing them to be negative. Notably, those returning to India via special international flights are already required to undergo institutional quarantine, as per the Central government's guidelines. With a large number of Punjabis coming home, and more and more investors also showing keenness to resume business in the state, the chief minister underlined the need for strict caution, asserting that “we will not let the pandemic spread further in Punjab, which has so far managed to keep the situation under excellent control.” In response to a question, the CM said there is likelihood of infection coming here from Punjabis returning from other countries and states, but the state is taking no chance and has made elaborate arrangements for their testing and quarantine. “Five flights have come today, and a total of 20,000 people are expected to come from other countries on 88 flights, while 60,000 are expected from other states. I will not let this infection spread any further in Punjab,” he asserted.     Expressing his appreciation and gratitude for the cooperation of the people in checking the spread of COVID in the state, which has “done exceedingly well in controlling the situation”, Singh said the success of Punjab's strategy is evident from its slowest doubling rate of 86 days against the national average of 14 days. Of the total 2,028 confirmed cases in the state, 1,819 had fully recovered, he said, expressing confidence that the 200 patients under treatment would also be fine soon. “There is no patient on oxygen support and only one patient on ventilator support,” he disclosed. As far as high recovery rate is concerned, he said it had been possible only due to Punjabis following strict discipline in maintaining all social distancing norms. It was unfortunate, however, that 39 people died in the state, with many more deaths reported nationwide. The chief minister warned that social distancing and compulsory wearing of masks would need to be strictly followed to keep the situation under control. He said he had directed police to take stringent action against such offenders. On some schools not following directions regarding online fee charges, the CM asked the Amritsar resident who raised the issue to share details of the school and promised strict action. The CM said the decision on opening gyms would be taken after May 31, in line with the government of India's guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-returning-to-punjab-to-undergo-14-day-quarantine-cm-841201.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||Immense opportunities for pharma, medical equipment industries in UP: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asserted that there are immense opportunities in the field of pharmaceutical, medical equipment and herbal medicines in the state, and directed officials to prepare a policy in this regard after consulting experts within a week. The chief minister was reviewing the presentation of the proposal of Pharma Park and Medical Device Park at his residence here on Saturday, a statement issued here by the UP Government said. He said there are many well-known institutions in the state. "Make the maximum utilisation of their abilities. Also connect these with Pharma Park and Pharma Device Park. I have requested the Centre for Pharma Park and Medical Device Park. Keeping this in mind, start preparations regarding this as soon as possible." He added, "We do not have shortage of land bank. The Revenue Department alone has a land bank of 1.66 lakh acres. This land is available in all the nine climatic zones of the state. The government will also provide skill development incentives and other concessions to the investing companies as per the requirement. While making any proposal, keep the possibilities of Bundelkhand also in focus."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/immense-opportunities-for-pharma-medical-equipment-industries-in-up-adityanath-841207.html
23-05-2020||North and Central||4 held for looting mangoes in Delhi's Jagatpuri area||Four men have been arrested for allegedly looting the mangoes of a fruit seller in Shahdara's Jagatpuri area, police said on Saturday. On the basis of video footage, the accused were arrested on Friday and Saturday. They live near Chandan Nagar, where the incident took place. The accused have been sent to judicial custody, they said. On Friday, a 43-year-old fruit seller lodged a complaint with the police. Chhote, the fruit seller, has allegedly that mangoes from his crates were stolen by passersby. The incident took place on Thursday morning in Shahdara’s Jagatpuri area. A video of the incident was recorded and has gone viral on social media. In the video, passersby can be seen pushing each other to pick up mangoes from unattended crates. Some of them filled their helmets and bags with mangoes, while others ran away with six to seven mangoes in their hands. The incident took place after a heated argument between a fruit seller and some rickshaw-pullers on Thursday morning. Chhote said he was standing under a tree when a group of rickshaw pullers asked him to leave. Meanwhile, Chhote received donations from several people who transferred the money into his bank account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-held-for-looting-mangoes-in-delhis-jagatpuri-area-841208.html
23-05-2020||Opinion||Afghanistan: Political challenges mount amidst COVID-19 pandemic||On May 17, after months of bickering and bitter political exchanges, President Ashraf Ghani and his main rival, Abdullah Abdullah, signed a deal to end their political differences (for now) and share power. As per the deal, Abdullah Abdullah will be able to appoint half of the cabinet members of Ashraf Ghani’s cabinet and will also head national efforts for peace and reconciliation with the Taliban.   For Afghanistan, it was hoped that the signing of the deal between the US and the Taliban on February 29, 2020, would pave the way for intra-Afghan peace talks and rapprochement between the Kabul government and the Taliban. However, the Taliban’s behaviour over the last three months demonstrates that peace seems a distant possibility for the war-torn country. An emboldened Taliban In fact, the Taliban feels emboldened by the deal and has found little incentive to cooperate with the regime in Kabul. Taliban’s maximalist demands and hardening positions regarding the prisoner swap with the Kabul government was the first sign of increasing belligerence of the insurgent group. Despite the peace deal, the Taliban has not ceased violence and in fact, has intensified attacks. Recently, a ghastly attack took place in a maternity hospital in which pregnant women and babies were targeted. Even by the standards of Afghanistan, it was an unprecedented development. The American special envoy attributed this attack to the Islamic State. However, it was seen as a desperate attempt to salvage the deal with the Taliban by deflecting the blame.   This week, the Taliban’s attack on the northern city of Kunduz was repelled by the Afghan security forces. Besides, in northern Afghanistan, despite the holy month of Ramadan, a mosque was also attacked and worshippers returning from prayers were killed.  Although the Taliban has denied its involvement in the attack on a mosque, it has rejected the Kabul government’s offers for a ceasefire. Hence, as a response to the repeated attacks by the Taliban, the Afghan security forces were ordered to shift their strategy from being defensive to offensive. Interestingly, since the peace deal between the Taliban and the US, foreign troops have not faced the brunt of attacks. Fighting seems limited, primarily, between Afghans.  New political conditions & COVID-19 spread  The continued prevalence of terror attacks, violence and political uncertainty creates favourable conditions for the Taliban to operate with impunity and also allows other groups such as the Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP) to launch attacks with ever greater intensity. It seems that with the arrival of ISKP as a force to reckon with, it now has become a triangular fight. While the political conditions within the country are not conducive to peace, the COVID-19 pandemic has spread to different parts of Afghanistan. In the last three months, infections have steadily gone up and as of now, they stand at 8,145 cases. However, with more testing, it is likely that these figures would go up significantly. Moreover, due to the decades of war and instability, Afghanistan’s health infrastructure is woefully underprepared to deal with COVID-19. Hence, beyond major cities like Kabul, it would be extremely difficult for authorities to control the spread of the pandemic. It would also be a challenge to provide modern healthcare in Taliban-controlled areas. As countries around the world are fighting the pandemic within their own borders, it seems difficult for them to provide much-needed international assistance to Afghanistan. Conversely, despite COVID-19, the diplomatic efforts to stabilise the country have not stopped. Indian role and concerns In this context, India finds itself in a difficult position. India is a major donor and an important strategic partner for Afghanistan. However, in the evolving international efforts, India seems to have been sidelined. India’s lack of direct geographic access only compounds this problem. It was visible in the latest UN meeting on Afghanistan where all six physical neighbours along with the US, Russia and the Kabul government were invited. But India had no place in this meeting. In early May, Zalmay Khalilzad had visited the region and had held meetings in New Delhi with India’s Minister of External Affairs, S Jaishankar, and National Security Advisor, Ajit Doval. During his visit, Mr Khalilzad while speaking to a newspaper also suggested that India should directly discuss its concerns with the Taliban.   However, India’s Afghanistan policy has for long been beset by the dilemma of whether or not to engage with the Taliban. In the 1990s, India had joined hands with Iran and Russia to support anti-Taliban forces. However, in the evolving political situation, if all other powers including Iran and Russia are willing to engage with Taliban, it makes little sense for India to try to keep its powder dry by not talking to Taliban. Taliban’s close ties with Pakistan are a matter of concern. India is also worried that Taliban-controlled territory might be used to train anti-India terror groups. However, by shutting the door completely on the Taliban, India stands to gain little, if anything. Therefore, it may perhaps be necessary for India to open some sort of channels of communication with the Taliban and explore if core Indian interests regarding Afghanistan can be accommodated by the Taliban as well. Whether in the coming months, India can make this difficult choice or not will shape India’s role and position within Afghanistan.            (Sankalp Gurjar is a research fellow with the Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi. Views are personal) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/afghanistan-political-challenges-mount-amidst-covid-19-pandemic-840966.html
23-05-2020||Opinion||Why states must not adopt shortcuts to economic reforms||There are enough reasons to be nonplussed at the sight of the snaking lines of migrants returning home without jobs. But there is no reason to get vituperative about the news that some states are reviving their labour laws in the hope of attracting investments. The walk back by the labourers this summer is a colossal tragedy; that of the rewrite of labour laws by them is a comedy. The effort by states, led by Uttar Pradesh, to change labour laws is quite reminiscent of the rush of 2006-07 by them to change land laws to attract investment in Special Economic Zones (SEZs). This time the target is the foreign investor, the target then was domestic investors. Just as the rush to amend land laws came to grief, it is possible those to do with labour will also meet a similar fate.  It is likely to happen because – as entrepreneurs then found out – Indian states play with laws without care. It has happened recently too. Investors in renewable energy projects in Andhra Pradesh discovered this in 2019 when Chandrababu Naidu’s Telugu Desam Party lost the Assembly elections. Naidu had promised them long-term contracts to buy power to encourage investments into renewable energy. His successor Jaganmohan Reddy of YSR Congress told investors to submit to a new set of laws. It had a huge negative impact on India’s efforts to develop renewable energy. The renewable energy sector companies rendered out of action are clear they do not wish for favourable laws henceforth, but only for stable laws.  Bitter SEZ experience As the earlier SEZ episode showed, it is risky to depend on enthusiastic en masse changes in laws by Indian states (depending on which is the current favourite theme) to draw in large investments. Around 2006 many states got convinced they could draw in investments without needing to improve the conditions for the supply of labour or of other facilities like roads and power.  Instead, they offered SEZ land banks as a great shortcut. The resultant political uproar was so massive, that it finally culminated in the promulgation of the strict Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (LARR). It has become almost impossible for any industry to get a plot of land without state support after it was passed. The carve-outs by some of the states have only facilitated linear projects like roads. The land is still a challenge for the bullet train project.   So just as the land notifications did then, the temporary changes in labour laws will also please only the respective state secretariats. Once the lockdowns are over it could also allow them to hold fancy investment meets. But no outcomes would result. Rather, those entrepreneurs willing to take the plunge could come away with their balance sheets red. The land banks which many real estate companies built up in efforts to become promoters of SEZs are still on their books, more than a decade after the episode. No stomach for reforms Why does this happen? Most Indian states are loath to do painstaking reforms for various reasons. Every government at the centre after 2000 has tried at least once to reform the power distribution sector in the states. But this would have meant the state governments needed to get serious about not promising free power to whoever could lobby hard. Irrespective of political colour, none has managed to do so. As of December 2019, the power distribution companies owed Rs 85,000 crore to the power generation companies. Large scale manufacturing industries in the early 2000s wished to get around this problem by setting up their captive power plants. We know the spectacular result of those forays. Today, if a manufacturing sector company steps into Uttar Pradesh or Madhya Pradesh, their primary concern would still be about assured supply of power instead of labour. If power markets are difficult, it is even harder to undertake reforms in the factor markets, land, labour and capital. Instead, they have become favoured play for any weakly-administered state to extract rent from entrepreneurs. Few states have shown the appetite to do the sustained work to break these links. Instead they are tempted to use shortcuts once again. In West Bengal, the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC government has sought to get around the labour challenge by clamping down on any protests by labour. She has publicly announced her reluctance to allow any strikes in the state. It has worked but will be available so long as she is in power.  Importance of long-term thinking The Centre has realised this. So its menu of labour reforms announced last week, which does not offer any immediate manna but calls for sustained work to make them a reality, is likely to hold good.  But the message needs to be percolated to states. As the example of the renewable energy developers in Andhra Pradesh shows, shortcuts are not a route for a long-term strategy for any industry. For instance, no diversified SEZ was able to come up from the high noon of that policy. At best, these policies allow for someone with a short-term plan to make good. So while there will be good optics from the rush to amend labour laws, even domestic investors will cavil at taking advantage from the short-term changes. Foreign investors will possibly not even include these in any assessment of policies when they evaluate their strategies for India. (The writer is a business journalist and can be reached at s.bhattacharjee@ris.org.in)   Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-states-must-not-adopt-shortcuts-to-economic-reforms-841003.html
23-05-2020||Right in the Middle||Is this the real life?||When I used to visit my daughter, son in law and grandson in Hong Kong, I get the opportunity to meet the present generation. Many evenings were spent out at restaurants accompanied by the young children. After being seated, the mothers dive into their handbags and out come the iPads which are placed in front of the children that screen movies like Kung fu Panda, Simba the Lion King, Angry Birds, or others, as per the demand of the child. Next in line are smartphones, that are like miniature oxygen tanks, carried everywhere by emphysema patients.  Parents feel that their children are becoming smarter by learning how to count, sing, dance, study on devices. Yet they are unable to do the simple additions, subtractions, multiplications, divisions, leave alone simple square roots etc without opening the calculator on the mobile. While browsing through old magazines at the RSI (Army Institute) at Bengaluru, I saw on 2016 issue of the Time, a picture of a teenage girl. She has shoulder-length dark hair, is wearing jeans and a lace pink shirt. She looks like all the life has been drained out of her and like she has no hope left in the world. Next to the teenage girl is the headline that reads, “Anxiety, Depression and the present Youth.”  Is it because the real world is being replaced by virtuals and the more dangerous transition of believing that virtual experiences equal real experiences?  I am a great admirer of technology. Technology has brought with it tremendous benefits. I myself make all efforts to learn and use technology to my advantage. Even today at the age of seventy-five, I spend one hour every evening from 6 pm to 7 pm with my PA improving my knowledge and skill-set with regard to computers. At the same time, we must take all precautions to guard against the evils technology brings with it. I feel that young parents and us grandparents are pushing kids towards screens and devices. Addiction to screens, devices is a matter of serious concern. Are we pushing our young children towards a lethal addiction that would harm them now and in years to come? Are we harming our children by over-exposing them to technology during their most impressionable years? We may not see the adverse impact of devices and screens today but it will become apparent as they grow older. Our children and grand-children are our most precious possessions --let us keep an open mind and try to protect them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/is-this-the-real-life-840911.html
23-05-2020||Second Edit||Pak must pull back from dam decision||Pakistan must rethink its plans to build the Diamer Bhasha dam across the Indus river. The hydro-electric power project is illegal as it is located in Gilgit-Baltistan in Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (POK). India has protested Pakistan’s recent signing of an agreement with China on construction of the dam as it violates India’s territorial sovereignty. By pressing ahead with the project, Pakistan is worsening already fraught relations between the two countries. The Diamer Bhasha dam is expected to provide power-scarce Pakistan with 4,500 MW of electricity, reduce water scarcity, create 16,500 jobs and boost the country’s construction industry. The project was first conceived four decades ago but failed to take off as it ran into several problems, a major one being the difficulty Pakistan encountered in raising funds for it. Since the project will be located in disputed territory, funders, including the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, were reluctant to sink money in it. Prospects of funding brightened when China stepped in to bring it under the ambit of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. However, the terms China put forward in 2017 were reportedly unacceptable to Pakistan. That changed a little over a week ago when China and Pakistan clinched a deal. Frontier Works Organisation, the commercial arm of the Pakistani military, has now signed a $5.8 billion contract with a consortium led by a Chinese state-run company. Under the new deal, the project will be funded by public sector development funds and commercial loans and China will hold a 70% stake in the project. Besides India, the Diamer Bhasha project has strong opponents at home in Pakistan. The dam is likely to inundate 32 villages in Diamer district alone. Tens of thousands of people living along the Indus will be displaced. They will lose their homes and livelihoods. The project has enormous social, economic and ecological implications. Mass protests against the project can be expected in the coming months. In a bid to strengthen its hold over Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan will be holding elections there in June in a sort of signal to the international community of both Islamabad’s hold over the disputed region as well as of its democratic face. These moves, however, cannot erase the fact that the Diamer Bhasha project is illegal. It is unfortunate that despite its illegality and the enormous costs it will inflict on Gilgit-Baltistanis and on Pakistanis themselves, the Pakistani government is determined to press ahead with it. It should rethink its decision. It is not too late to pull back from a disastrous decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/pak-must-pull-back-from-dam-decision-840908.html
23-05-2020||South||Three deaths, 62 fresh COVID-19 cases in Telangana||Telangana witnessed a spike in COVID-19 cases on Friday, with 62 fresh cases being reported taking the number of infections in the state to 1,761, besides three virus-related deaths. Areas under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), which has been the hotbed of COVID-19 infections in the state, contributed 42 out of the 62 new cases. While one casewas reported from Ranga Reddy district, neighbouring Hyderabad, the remaining 19 were "migrants" who arrived in the state in recent days. As many as 118 "migrants" have tested positive in the state as on Friday, a COVID-19 bulletin said. The number of deaths due to the virus rose to 48 after the three reported on Friday. State Health Minister E Rajender, who held a meeting with officials on the risein cases, appealed to the people not to panic but to take personal protection measures, an official release said on Friday night. He asked the officials to ensure that medical personnel are available in all hospitals as per the full capacity, it said. The minister sought a report on number of personnel who are still required to be recruited.  Rajender, who spoke to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, congratulated him on assuming charge as Chairman of WHO's Executive Board and discussed with him the rise of positive cases due to the migrants, the release said. Referring to international passengers being kept in isolation in hotels for 14 days after their arrival from foreign countries, Rajender observed that cancer patients, pregnant women and kidney patients among the international passengers are facing difficulties (in such quarantine). He requested the Union Minister to allow such patients to be quarantined at home if they test negative after seven days of stay at hotels, the release added. Till date, 1,043 people havebeen discharged from hospitals after recovery and the number of people under treatment stood at 670.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-deaths-62-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-840874.html
23-05-2020||South||One coronavirus death, 47 fresh cases reported in AP; toll touches 56||With 47 fresh infections, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh climbed to 2,714 while one death due to the virus was reported, taking the toll in the state to 56, a bulletin from the government said on Saturday. The lone death was reported in Krishna district. Of the fresh cases in the past 24 hours ending 9 AM on Saturday, five were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, the bulletin said. Samples of 9,136 people were tested and 47 have been discharged from various hospitals after treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1778. The number of active patients are now at 727. Cumulative positive cases from other states stood at 153 with 127 active ones, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-coronavirus-death-47-fresh-cases-reported-in-ap-toll-touches-56-840991.html
23-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown 4.0: Beauty parlours, salons to open from Sunday in Tamil Nadu, except in Chennai||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday allowed beauty parlours and salons across the state, except those in Greater Chennai police limits, to reopen from Sunday with certain riders. The government had earlier allowed salons in rural areas to resume business from May 19. On Saturday, Chief Minister K Palaniswami, while announcing that salons and beauty parlours can reopen from tomorrow, said the businesses should ensure both workers and customers wear masks and strictly enforce social distancing in the work place. The shops should be disinfected at least five times a day and frequent hand washing should be practised, he said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-40-beauty-parlours-salons-to-open-from-sunday-in-tamil-nadu-except-in-chennai-841029.html
23-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu has suffered Rs 35,000 Cr revenue loss during coronavirus lockdown: CM||Tamil Nadu has suffered an estimated Rs 35,000 crore GST revenue loss during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown and various austerity measures have been taken to handle the situation, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said on Saturday. However, development schemes won't be affected from these steps, he said. During the last week of March, besides April and May, due to the lockdown, the state has suffered an estimated Rs 35,000 crore GST revenue loss, he said quoting the Finance Department.  "Various austerity measures have been taken to handle the situation but they won't affect development schemes as they ensure employment generation," he told reporters here, without elaborating. The Tamil Nadu government had imposed the lockdown on March 24, a day ahead of the national lockdown, to curb the spread of coronavirus in the state. To a question, he said the state will see what announcement the Centre makes on the next course of lockdown as the ongoing fourth phase will end on May 31. The government would also consult a panel of medical experts, he said, while pointing out at the various relaxations already provided, including in the farming and industrial sectors to resume activity.  To another question, he said there was no community transmission of the pandemic and asserted that the government was taking the right steps to prevent the contagion. In Chennai, the spike was sharp and that too in containment zones due to narrow spaces that accommodated more people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-has-suffered-rs-35000-cr-revenue-loss-during-coronavirus-lockdown-cm-841064.html
23-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu COVID-19 toll swells past 100; cases cross 15,000-mark||Five people died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Saturday taking the death toll to over 100 as the state is grappling with the contagion witnessing 759 fresh cases, the health department has said. Among the fresh cases, 49 of them arrived to the state from various places, the health bulletin said. A 75-year-old woman and four men, all from Chennai and suffering from various ailments, succumbed totalling the death toll to 103 in the state. Of those infected were two one-month-old babies from Kancheepuram and Chennai, the bulletin said. Twenty one employees of various companies including those of an automobile manufacturing in neighbouring Sriperumbudur were among the latest COVID-19 cases, health department sources told PTI. As many as 363 people have been discharged taking the total to 7,491, the bulletin said. Chennai leads in the maximum number of positive cases with 624 being added to the list on Saturday totalling 9,989 till date. With the latest cases, the cumulative COVID-19 positive tally also crossed the 15,000-mark to touch 15,512. Saturday also marks the fourth straight day the state has reported over 700 COVID-19 cases.  On May 22, it had recorded 786; on May 21, it saw 776 cases; on May 20, it witnessed 743. Five passengers who had returned from the Philippines and seven have tested positive in the exit test conducted after seven days of arrival, albeit having tested negative earlier. On the domestic front, 24 from Maharashtra, three from West Bengal, one passenger each from New Delhi, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh have tested positive for the virus. A private lab in Kanyakumari has come into operation for testing samples taking the total number of facilities to 68. According to the health department, 3,97,340 samples were taken for testing and there were 7,915 active cases under treatment, including those in isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-covid-19-toll-swells-past-100-cases-cross-15000-mark-841087.html
23-05-2020||South||COVID-19 cases continue to surge in Kerala; 62 cases reported||Coronavirus cases continued to see a surge in Kerala with 62 people, including 49 returnees from abroad and other states, testing positive on Saturday, while more than 91,000 are under observation. With this addition, coronavirus cases in the state have touched 794 while those under treatment are 275. Thirteen, including seven health workers-- three from Palakkad, two each from Kannur and Kozhikode-- have been infected through contact. While 18 of the infected have come from various countries-- UAE (9), Saudi Arabia (3), Kuwait (2), Muscat, Qatar, Maldives and Singapore (one each), 31 have come from other states-- Maharashtra (13), Tamil Nadu (12), Gujarat (2), Karnataka (2), Uttar Pradesh and Delhi (one each).  On Friday, Kerala had reported 42 cases. With the increase in cases causing a big worry to the state, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on Friday said that Kerala cannot close its doors on its own people. The increase in cases was not due to relaxations in lockdown, but because many Keralites from abroad and other states were returning,Vijayan had said. Only three of the infected have been cured and discharged from hospital and 515 have recovered, a press release quoting Health minister K K Shailaja said. Palakkad has 19 cases, Kannur 16, Malappuram 8, Alappuzha 5, Kozhikode, Kasaragod districts 4 cases each, Kollam 3, Kottayam 2 and Wayanad one, the release added. Totally 88,640 people have come to the state. According to the release, 7,303 people have arrived through airports, 1,621 through the seaport, 76,608 from checkpoints and 3,108 through railways. At least 91,084 are under observation at homes or Institutionalquarantine facilities, 668 in various hospitals, including 182 admitted on Saturday. So far, 52,771 people samples have been sent for testing of which the results of 51,045, which have been received, are negative. Nine more regions have been brought under hot spot category, taking the total to 37. Kannur district has the highest number of COVID-19 cases at 55, followed by Malappuram and Palakkad 44 each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-cases-continue-to-surge-in-kerala-62-cases-reported-841088.html
23-05-2020||South||COVID-19: After Karnataka, Goa wants precautionary measures for domestic flight passengers||Hours after Karnataka announced a seven-day institutional quarantine and another seven-day home quarantine for passengers entering the state using domestic flights from COVID-19 hotspots in the rest of the country, the Goa government too has sought permission from the central government to screen passengers landing at the state's only airport. "In the interest of our state, I have requested Indian Council for Medical Research and Union Ministry of Civil Aviation to permit us to conduct antibody testing of the passengers and the passengers need to be issued a COVID-19 negative certificate to enter the state via domestic flights from Monday," Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Saturday. "Such testing will help us identify asymptomatic patients while screening them at the airport to avoid community transmission," the Health Minister also said. Earlier on Saturday, Karnataka announced that passengers travelling to the Southern state from Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh would be quarantined for seven days in institutional facilities and seven days at home as a precautionary measure. Goa's tally of active COVID-19 cases currently stands at 38.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-after-karnataka-goa-wants-precautionary-measures-for-domestic-flight-passengers-841089.html
23-05-2020||South||Kerala should be informed about special trains beforehand: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday urged the Railways to inform the state beforehand when special trains are allottedand the details of the passengers travelling. The request was made by Vijayan in an e-mail to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. It was essential to have thelist of passengers, details regarding their address, telephone numbers, as otherwise it would adversely affect the government's fight against COVID-19, he stated. Kerala was not informed when a special train from Mumbai left for the state capital on May 22, he said. Information about the passengers was needed to make arrangements for health check-upand their onward journey and quarantine facilities,he said. Kerala has seen a huge surge in coronavirus cases on Saturday with 62 fresh cases, including 49 returnees from abroad and other states, being reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-should-be-informed-about-special-trains-beforehand-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-841158.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Chikkaballapur sees big leap in infections, tally jumps to 75||Interstate travellers continued to pile on Karnataka’s Covid-19 misery. The state saw a whopping 138 cases in the last 24 hours (ending 5 pm on Saturday) with Maharashtra returnees accounting for 111. Chikkaballapur district saw its biggest single-day spike in cases with 47 infections on Friday. The patients include a one-year-old baby and a few others aged above 55 years, according to the health department officials. In just two days the number of cases across the district went up to 75 -  61 from Gauribidanur, 9 from Chikkaballapur and 5 from Chintamani - due to mass influx of migrants from Mumbai. On May 19 alone, about 265 people from the district, most of them hailing from Gauribidanur and Bagepalli, had returned from Mumbai. In fact, Medical Education Minister and Chikkaballapur MLA K Sudhakar saw it coming. On Thursday, he tweeted: “Around 250 people have arrived in the district in six buses from the virus-hit Maharashtra. The decision to send them home was unfortunate and taken in haste. The district will see a spike in cases from the interstate travellers. I am losing my sleep over it...” And his worst fears have come true. Meanwhile, Tumakuru reported nine fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday. With this the total count of infections has gone up to 25. Six among nine cases have a travel history to Mumbai. All six were quarantined at Tumakuru and Turuvekere taluks after they returned from the virus-hit Maharashtra capital.  Of the remaining three, a 66-year-old man from Hebbur was admitted to Siddaganga Hospital with complaints of diabetes and breathlessness. He is now shifted to the designated Covid hospital in Tumakuru. A 24-year-old pregnant woman from Sadashivnagar and a 55-year-old woman from Dobbspet also tested positive for virus. Efforts are underway to trace their travel history and source of infection.  Hassan and Mandya districts on Friday reported 14 and eight fresh cases respectively. All 22 cases have a travel history to Maharashtra. Hassan was in Green Zone till the best part of May. But in the last few days, the district witnessed a flurry of cases due to the interstate travellers, mostly from Maharashtra. Its case tally stands at 80 as on May 22. Mandya also saw an explosion of infections in the last one week, mostly from Maharashtra returnees. With 209 cases, Mandya is second in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state.   Kalyana Karnataka districts continued to feel the heat of Maharashtra and Telangana returnees. On Friday, Raichur district recorded 10 cases while Bidar saw nine test positive for Covid-19. The day also witnessed three from Haveri district contract virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chikkaballapur-sees-big-leap-in-infections-tally-jumps-to-75-840869.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dramatic drop in Uttara Kannada’s forest cover: study||Large-scale development activities led to massive degradation of forests in Uttara Kannada from a high 74.19% of the land area in 1973 to 48.04% in 2018, shows a new study by researchers of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kharagpur. The research focussed on the landscape dynamics across the west-flowing major rivers of Uttara Kannada district, which falls under the Central Western Ghats. Led by Dr T V Ramachandra, the team had S Vinay, S Bharath, M D Subash Chandran and Bharath H Aithal. The forest degradation was accelerated by the construction of dams, power projects, forest-based industries – paper mills, expansion of roads, urbanization, encroachment for horticultural and agricultural practices. The forests are currently confined to the Western Ghats and protected areas. The study found that the evergreen forest cover in Aghanashini riverscape, for instance, declined from 72.15% (1973) to 24.09% (2018), while moist deciduous forest cover increased from 9.79% to 25.76% during this period. The dramatic decline in forest cover coincided with a sharp increase in agricultural activity from 4.46% to 16.38% in the coastal regions. In the Western Ghats and transition zones to the east, horticulture practices (areca nut gardens) rose from 3.63% to 10.68%. This was particularly pronounced along the river valleys and stream courses. During the period under study, urban growth picked up as indicated by an increase in built-up area from 0.1% to 4.87% in the proximity of the coast (Gokarna and Kumta) and along theGhats (Sirsi). Inevitably, this interior forest cover reduced dramatically from 73.28% to 17.78%. During the period, there was a marginal increase in edge forests (from 8.71% to 19.65%) and transitional forests (from 1.86% to 8.23%). Construction of a series of dams in the Kali river basin at Supa, Kodasalli, Kadra, etc. resulted in the loss of forest cover (from 87.26% to 54.24%) and in particular evergreen forests (from 61.82% to 30.5%). Encroachments were another big factor for degradation. “Due to availability of water and lack of appropriate regulatory mechanisms, there have been encroachments into the forests in the eastern part of the catchment (near Hubballi and Belagavi).” These, the study found, led to an increase in agriculture and horticulture activities (17.02%–22.15%). “Overall, the forest cover in the Kali river basin has reduced.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dramatic-drop-in-uttara-kannada-s-forest-cover-study-840870.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt grants permission to KPCL to drill boreholes inside Sharavathi sanctuary||Amidst burgeoning protests and opposition to the proposed 2,000 MW Sharavathi pumped-storage hydroelectric project inside the Sharavathi Valley between Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada, the Karnataka Forest Department has granted permission to Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) to carry out survey and geotechnical investigation by drilling inside the Sharavathi Valley Lion-tailed Macaque Wildlife Sanctuary last week subject to stringent conditions. The proposal, which was accorded an approval by the State Board for Wildlife in September 2019, was recommended to the Prime Minister-headed National Board for Wildlife (NBWL). The NBWL which met in April 2020 amidst lockdown against the COVID-19 also gave its green signal to carry out the study subject to conditions imposed by the Chief Wildlife Warden of Karnataka. A few days ago, the Chief Wildlife Warden permitting the KPCL to drill 12 bore holes of 2X2 inch diameter. According to the order, a copy of which is with DH, “The survey has to be carried without any tree cutting or disturbance to the wildlife. Drilling equipment has to be carried on the head. Drilling is allowed only between 9:00 am and 6:00 pm. No tents or stay arrangements are allowed at the site inside the sanctuary limits during night. The period of the work shall be for one-year term from the date of issuance of the order. Further, the survey work shall not be taken up during monsoon season.” Joseph Hoover, Convener of the United Conservation Movement said, “The state should not have hurried just because NBWL has given clearance for the proposal especially during the present pandemic situation. The MoEF&CC in its order dated 6 April 20 directed all states to restrict the movement of people to wildlife sanctuaries and national parks besides initiating measures to stop transmission of COVID-19 from humans to animals and vice versa. Despite such an order by the Centre, the state has already given them go-ahead.” According to sources in the Forest Department, Sagara, as many as 14 people have come from Haryana to carry out the survey and drilling work inside the sanctuary. “They have deployed their machinery at a place near to the worksite. Looking at the machinery itself one can understand that no human can take them inside the forest on head. Locals have also complained to the Tashildar to keep these workers under quarantine as they have come from different states,” an activist from Sagara said. Similarly, activists from Bengaluru and power policy analysts have also appealed to the Chief Minister not to pursue even the survey let alone the controversial project.  The Project: The project envisaged between existing Talakalale and Gerusoppa reservoir on the downstream of Linganamakki reservoir on Sharavathi River aims to make use of the runoff water by way of pumped storage. Planned to be an underground project, the project with eight units of 250 Mw each would generate about 2,000 Mw catering to the peak hour load. The project, worth Rs 4,862.89 Crores, requires about 153 hectares and of which 150 acres is forest area||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-grants-permission-to-kpcl-to-drill-boreholes-inside-sharavathi-sanctuary-840884.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: 7-day institutional quarantine for returnees from 6 high-risk states, says Karnataka government||The Karnataka government on Friday said returnees from six states with high COVID-19 caseload -- Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh -- will be kept in institutional quarantine for seven days. After the returnees test negative for the disease in pool testing, they will be sent for home quarantine for another seven days, it said. Returnees from other low prevalence states will be asked to follow 14 days of home quarantine, according to the standard operating procedure (SOP) for entry of persons from other states to Karnataka issued by the state health department late on Friday night.  The SOP allows home quarantine for pregnant women, children below the age of 10, those aged 80 and above, and terminally ill patients along with one attendant after they test negative. In special cases like businessmen coming for urgent work, the quarantine period will be waived if they furnish a report from an ICMR-approved laboratory showing they tested negative for COVID-19, it said. The report should not be more than two days old from the date of travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-7-day-institutional-quarantine-for-returnees-from-6-high-risk-states-says-karnataka-government-840914.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka govt releases new SOPs for interstate travellers||A new standard operating procedure (SOP) was released in Karnataka for interstate passengers here on late Friday night. According to the new SOP, passengers will be sent to institution quarantine for seven days if they arrive from these high-risk states -- Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, followed by seven days of home quarantine.  These returnees will be tested between the fifth day to the seventh day. Returnees from all other Indian states will be home quarantined for 14-days. However, there are exemptions to institutional quarantine.   Four categories of people: Pregnant women along with one attendant, those above 80 years of age along with one attendant, children below the age of 10 along with one attendant, and terminally-ill patients with cancer, chronic kidney disease, or stroke, along with one attendant, will be tested on arrival and if found negative will be sent for 14-day home quarantine. Seva Sindhu registration is mandatory for entry into the state. If they don't have such a certificate, they can stay in paid quarantine, that is, the government-identified hotels, until the test result comes out. After a negative test result, they will be allowed to finish their engagements and return.  If their total stay is beyond five days, they will go to a fever clinic, and get themselves examined to get an extension of five days, if found asymptomatic.  All returnees who have come to Karnataka since May 4, will be tested between the fifth and seventh day of arrival. If they test negative, they will be sent home for the remaining quarantine period. The usual process of hand stamping and notices for home quarantine should be followed.  Interstate movement of medical professionals, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitation personnel and ambulances is allowed with only home quarantine.  When members of the defence, paramilitary, railways, DRDO, ISRO, PSUs prefer to stay in institutional quarantine for 14 days in a dedicated guest house or quarantine facility of the organisation, then they should be allowed to do so.  In rural areas, those staying in farmhouses are allowed to be quarantined in the farmhouses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-govt-releases-new-sops-for-interstate-travellers-840941.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 cases in Hassan, Mandya reach 84 and 237||While Hassan district has reported four Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday (May 23)), Mandya district confirmed 28 positive cases.  With fresh cases, Hassan recorded a total of 84, and Mandya's tally is 237 cases. On Thursday, Hassan had reported 14 cases while Mandya reported eight positive cases.  More positive cases may be expected by evening as hundreds of samples are awaiting results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-cases-in-hassan-mandya-reach-84-and-237-840999.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Smart Cities Mission to support Karnataka in tackling COVID-19||“The Mission has proposed to upscale its current projects to handle the COVID-19 situation, to upgrade infrastructure and equipment at district hospitals, and to procure ambulances and equipment. It also plans to use an Integrated Command and Control Centre model along with other IT interventions to upgrade the existing e-health system, and will be involved in the hardware procurement for an e-Hospital Management System. A detailed plan of action is being worked out in consultation with BBMP Special Commissioner, Health, Ravi Surpur, and other senior officials from the health department,” Pankaj Kumar Pandey said.  Under the Smart Cities Mission, health projects that have already been completed include a 30-bed hospital in Vantamuri, Belagavi. Two parts of a trauma centre have also been constructed in Belagavi, while a 37-bedded ICU has been installed at Wenlock Hospital, Mangaluru. IT innovations include a Digital Nerve Centre in Tumakuru and a Smart Healthcare Centre in Hubballi-Dharwad. Two upgradation projects at Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru, and the construction of an additional floor at Lady Goschen Hospital in Mangaluru, have also been tendered. The construction of a Trauma Centre in Tumakuru, and a 10-bed hospital in Vadagaon, Belagavi, is going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/smart-cities-mission-to-support-karnataka-in-tackling-covid-19-841009.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees highest single day spike with 216 cases||Karnataka reported a whopping 216 COVID-19 cases and two deaths in 24-hour-period on May 23. Out of 216 cases, 198 are returnees from Maharashtra. A 32-year-old from Bengaluru's Nagawara died today. He was emaciated before admission to the hospital on 19th May and died after a cardiac arrest today. While one death was reported from Bengaluru another was reported from Dakshina Kannada district due to a "non-COVID-19" cause which is yet to be revealed. This is the second COVID-19 patient to die for reasons other than the infection. Earlier one COVID-19 patient had committed suicide in Bengaluru.  The 216 cases include 30 children and a four-month-old baby. Most cases were seen from Yadgir, Mandya, Chikkaballapur, Raichur, and Gadag. Other patients are from containment zones and contacts of previously diagnosed patients. Now the state has 1,307 active cases and 608 discharged individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-highest-single-day-spike-with-216-cases-841019.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Home quarantine is the future, guidelines soon: Karnataka Minister K Sudhakar||Karnataka is heading towards a ‘home quarantine’ regime to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic because of the immense stress on the infrastructure available to put travellers under institutional quarantine, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said Saturday.  “We have a limitation for institutional quarantine. If travelers start coming in lakhs of numbers, we don’t have enough facilities. Then, we will have to resort to home quarantine, which will be the ultimate, practical and pragmatic solution,” Sudhakar, who looks after COVID-19 affairs in Bengaluru, said during a live Facebook interaction hosted by Deccan Herald.  “We’re creating all the models for it on how effectively surveillance can be done and implemented. In a day or two, detailed guidelines will be issued. We’ve had a detailed discussion on this with the chief minister,” Sudhakar said.  Karnataka has seen a huge surge in its COVID-19 tally, which is largely due to inter-state travellers testing positive. According to data by the State COVID-19 War Room, there are 1.15 lakh inter-state travellers currently under institutional quarantine. The government has approved another 1.23 lakh people to come into the state.  Sudhakar said the high numbers over the past couple of days is not a cause for concern. “There’s no community spread,” he said. “These are cases of people migrating from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. We knew this would happen, but the government took a considerate view in the interest of these people,” he said, adding that out of about 1,000 positive cases since May 1, some 500-600 were inter-state travellers. “About 40 per cent of people travelling from Maharashtra are testing positive,” he pointed out, “and that’s why cases in Mandya and Chikballapur have gone up.”  Revising its standard operating procedure, the government has now mandated a 7-day institutional quarantine for people coming from the high-risk states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, followed by a 7-day home quarantine. Those coming from other states will be home quarantined.  “Handling COVID-19 will be different going forward,” Sudhakar said. “Coexistence is the only way forward with the right health and hygiene protocols.” He added that a vaccine for COVID-19 will take “not less than 8-10 months.” He also ruled out herd immunity. “Herd immunity develops when at least 60% of the population gets infected. For Karnataka, that’s about four crore people. Let’s not even think of it,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/home-quarantine-is-the-future-guidelines-soon-karnataka-minister-k-sudhakar-841122.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister warns pvt medical colleges against non-payment of stipend to medicos||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday warned action against private medical colleges if they do not pay stipends to students at par with what the government paid. Many students raised the issue with Sudhakar who was live on Facebook for an interaction hosted by Deccan Herald.  Specifically, students from the JJM Medical College in Davangere, which is run by a trust belonging to senior Congress leader Shamanur Shivashankarappa, complained of non-payment of stipend. “I’m calling for a meeting with the management (of the institution). We will have to raise it with the Medical Council of India (MCI) also. It’s a serious issue, it’s an offence and inhuman. We will write to the MCI and take strict disciplinary action,” the minister said.  Earlier this month, the government hiked the stipend for medical students at all 17 government medical colleges. House residents, postgraduate students, superspecialty students and those on fellowship had their stipends hiked by almost 40%, Sudhakar said.  “We did this despite economic difficulty as a token of gratitude,” he said. “Private colleges have to just follow the kind of stipend the government is giving. This is the MCI guideline,” he said. “But I am told that students haven’t been paid since 18 months. I want to help them. We will solve this issue,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-warns-pvt-medical-colleges-against-non-payment-of-stipend-to-medicos-841172.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Interim summer schedule at KIA: 108 departures, 107 arrivals||With Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) set to resume operations from May 25, the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) has announced an interim Summer Schedule 2020. As defined by the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the new schedule is 32  per cent of the schedule, which was expected to come into effect from March 29, 2020. The revised schedule will be in effect until June 30, 2020. KIA will handle an average of 215 Air Traffic Movements (ATMs) per day (108 departures and 107 arrivals), with reduced terminal capacity, to ensure social distancing norms. The top airline during this schedule by ATMs will be Indigo with 47 per cent, while Air Asia and Spice Jet have 16 per cent and 14 per cent respectively. Slots have been optimised in 10-minute intervals, spread over an hour through the day, to support passenger flow within the terminal, while maintaining both level of service standards and safe distances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/interim-summer-schedule-at-kia-108-departures-107-arrivals-841176.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Supplemental oxygen systems planned for all hospitals||It took a pandemic to 'breathe' life into public hospitals as the state government is equipping all district, taluk hospitals and community health centres with high-flow nasal cannulas and oxygen pipelines.  Though assisted oxygen is helpful in respiratory distress caused due to any illness, the state does not have all its beds equipped with supplemental oxygen systems.  Now at a cost of Rs 207.98 crore, it is supplementing 15,893 beds with oxygen. The government estimates that 79,150 patients can be taken care of with this.  Covid-19 Expert Committee member Dr Giridhar Babu said, "The world is learning new ways of stepping up capacity in the Covid-19 crisis. Mumbai has run out of its beds, same with New York. There’s no benchmark. While centralised oxygen supply is common in ICUs, critical care units and post-operative units, it wasn't common to have it for all beds. This is the new normal now. It is preparation for a potential surge in cases."  The health department has invited tenders for the installation of a medical gas pipeline with high oxygen flow system in 18 (125-bed) district hospitals in the first phase.  According to a government order quoting the World Health Organisation (WHO), 75% of Covid-19 patients need 10 litres of oxygen per minute and 25% need 30 litres of oxygen per minute. Now, a centralised system will have pipelines for each bed. In the second phase, 146 (50-bed) taluk hospitals, and thereafter, 206 (30-bed) community health centres will be equipped with oxygen. Medical education director Dr PG Girish said, "In medical colleges, central oxygen lines are in ICUs and step down ICUs. If it is necessary for the wards, we wheel in the oxygen cylinders. If high-flow oxygen is given to Covid-19 patients, symptoms come down. So, for those medical colleges and district hospitals that have no central oxygen line, we are supplying them." "High-flow oxygen nasal cannula needs to be connected to the centralised line. Except for obstetric, psychiatric and paediatric beds, we are equipping all beds with oxygen," he said.   "We don't want to disturb deliveries during emergencies. So, we are not touching those beds for Covid-19. Apart from money, we need a liquid oxygen plant, manifold room, and technicians to set up oxygen systems. For hospitals under the medical education department, Rs 58 crore is needed for 4,965 beds. Since most of our hospitals are at tertiary level, most of the beds already have oxygen," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/supplemental-oxygen-systems-planned-for-all-hospitals-841177.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Shivakumar does a Rahul, interacts with stranded migrants||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar did a Rahul Gandhi on Saturday by rushing to Palace Grounds where he interacted with scores of migrants who had queued up in the hope of getting onto trains back to their native places.  Shivakumr later lashed out at the state government for failure in handling the migrant crisis. On Saturday, hundreds of migrant workers waited at Palace Grounds for hours together, in the hope of getting back home. “It’s an embarrassment to the state,” Shivakumar said. “The Congress party is willing to bear the cost of their travel if the state government can’t,” he said.  Shivakumar said even after the government promised to bear the travel cost of migrants, no concrete steps were taken. The migrants were standing under hot sun without food or water, waiting for a ticket, he said. “The government could have at least made seating arrangements for them in the nearby wedding halls. There are several of them in the vicinity. One cannot stop migrants from going back home. They are not bonded labourers,” Shivakumarsaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shivakumar-does-a-rahul-interacts-with-stranded-migrants-841179.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State prepares 1L personnel for fight against pandemic||From doctors and nurses to housekeeping staff, Karnataka has trained and prepared more than 1 lakh personnel to face the Covid-19 pandemic battle. The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) has trained healthcare professionals in clinical case management, psychiatric stress management, critical care, biomedical waste management and many others. The officials say that they are fully ready even for the worst situation in the State with this manpower. Nimhans help The RGUHS took up this training of doctors, nurses, programme officers, paramedic/allied health sciences staff, Ayush doctors with the help of National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans) and other institutes. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar inaugurated most of the training sessions, conducted online across the state. RGUHS also conducted special training sessions for dental professionals, pharmacy staff, gynaecologists, police officers, family physicians, microbiology professionals, pathologists and even the UG and PG students of the university. The specialists who conducted this training were from all fields, from physicians to intensivists. The training officers also conducted live demonstration of specimen collection and helped the doctors in remote districts to get their doubts cleared. What they learnt Dr S Sachidanand, vice-chancellor of RGUHS, said, “We trained everyone in surveillance, containment, ICU management, treating protocols, how to handle deaths, post-mortem. The intention was to bring everyone on the same page.” Sachidanand said, “There was one nurse from Mysuru who said she couldn’t stand with Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) even for 10 minutes. But, after the training, she said that she has a mental strength to withstand it for close to six hours ofduty time.” The officials said that they are also training students to face this crisis. The university is training students, so that they do not have depression or anxiety issues. “Owing to this situation, students tend to think about their classes and the uncertainties. So, we are training them under a programme called Student Minds every week. Motivational speakers talk to them on managing Covid-19 patients,” he added. The Department of Medical Education said all these training modules are made available on YouTube channels and on the university portal for students. The university even opened a window for volunteers’ registration, under which over 23,000 volunteers (medical and allied health sciences students) have registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-prepares-1l-personnel-for-fight-against-pandemic-841181.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP MP office to set up 'economic restructuring cell'||Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya announced on Saturday that his office will start a dedicated 'economic restructuring cell' to help kickstart the economy.  The BJP leader was speaking at the "Samsath Dhwani" event that was held online. "The economic restructuring cell of Bengaluru South will help entrepreneurs restart the economy. While the government has announced "Atmanirbhar Abhiyan," banks have to work with intended beneficiaries for the scheme to reach out to all," he said.  "In order to ensure that loans reach the intended beneficiaries in a seamless manner, every month the MP's office will organise a meeting with both public and private sector banks," he said. Work over the next one year will be dedicated to rebooting India's economy, he added.  The MP also lauded the state government for promulgating an ordinance allowing establishment of private markets where farmers can sell their produce. With this, Surya said Indian farmers finally got the right over their produce. The reforms have brought farmers out of the clutches of middlemen, he opined.  The event was organised to discuss ideas to carry forward Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "Atmanirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India). Experts from various sectors including industry representatives, NGOs, startup coaches and academicians presented their views on how the country could move towards self-sustenance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-mp-office-to-set-up-economic-restructuring-cell-841183.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Stipend for medicos: Minister warns pvt medical colleges||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday warned action against private medical colleges if they do not pay stipends to students on a par with what the government paid. Many students raised the issue with Sudhakar who was live on Facebook for an interaction hosted by DH.  Specifically, students from the JJM Medical College in Davangere, which is run by a trust belonging to senior Congress leader Shamanur Shivashankarappa, complained of non-payment of stipend. "I’m calling for a meeting with the management (of the institution). We will have to raise it with the Medical Council of India (MCI) also. It’s a serious issue, it’s an offence and inhuman. We will write to the MCI and take strict disciplinary action,” the minister said.  Earlier this month, the government hiked the stipend for medical students at all 17 government medical colleges. House residents, postgraduate students, superspecialty students and those on fellowship had their stipends hiked by almost 40%, Sudhakar said.  "We did this despite economic difficulty as a token of gratitude," he said. "Private colleges have to just follow the kind of stipend the government is giving. This is the MCI guideline,” he said. "But I am told that students haven’t been paid since 18 months. I want to help them. We will solve this issue,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stipend-for-medicos-minister-warns-pvt-medical-colleges-841184.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Yadgir, Raichur witness explosion of Covid-19 cases||In a biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka saw a staggering 216 infections on Friday with two districts in Kalyana Karnataka - Yadgir and Raichur - accounting for more than 50% of the cases. Covid-19 cases exploded in Yadgir district with 72 infections in the last 24 hours (ending 5 pm on Saturday). All 72 cases have a travel history to Mumbai and other Maharashtra cities. Among the infected in the district are 22 children and as many women. According to Deputy Commissioner Kurma Rao, A total of 54 Mumbai returnees, quarantined at Kanyakolur in Shahpur taluk, have contracted virus while the throat swab samples of eight persons each quarantined at Kandakur and Yadgir have returned positive for virus. The remaining cases were reported from Arakera (K) quarantine centre.  All 72 infected, mostly from Allipur Tanda, had returned to Yadgir by a Shramik Seva train. It is said, 107 migrant workers, including two suffering from fever, were sent to Kanyakolur quarantine centre after they returned from Maharashtra. “Repeated pleas to the doctors and Health officials to segregate the ones with fever and other symptoms from the rest failed to yield the desired results. Worst fears have come true now,” a staffer at the quarantine centre told DH on the condition of anonymity. Raichur district, which saw its first positive case on May 18, took a big leap with 40 infections in a single day on Saturday. All but three are cases with a travel history to Maharashtra. A 2-year-old girl from Malihabad is presented with influenza-like illness (ILI) while a 46-year-old man has a travel history to AndhraPradesh. The district has 66 active cases. Of which, 45 are from a quarantine centre in Devadurg taluk. All infected have been admitted to OPEC Hospital in Raichur. Maharashtra returnees continue to haunt three southern districts - Chikkaballpur, Mandya and Hassan. Chikkaballapur district reported 20 more fresh cases on Saturday. It has seen 67 cases in last two days, taking its overall count to 93. As many as 275 migrant workers had returned to Chikkaballapur from Maharashtra in 6 to 7 buses recently. Results of 163 samples are awaited. Mandya recorded 28 new cases as its tally jumped to 237, 28 short of leader Begaluru Urban. All 28 cases are reported from KR Pet taluk. Among the infected are seven children under 15 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yadgir-raichur-witness-explosion-of-covid-19-cases-841186.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gadag reports 15 fresh infections; tally swells to 35||The district on Saturday saw its biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases at 15. Nine people are contacts of Patient 913 while six others have a travel history to Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan. Among the infected are two girls aged seven and eight. With this, the district’s tally went up to 35 (29 activecases) A 17-year-old girl, part of a 17-member group from Laxmeshwar in the district which had returned from Ajmer in Rajasthan, recently, tested positive for virus on Saturday. A total of 21 contacts of the girl have been placed in institutional quarantine. Three Maharashtra returnees, including a seven-year-old girl, have tested positive for virus. Two men, aged 17 and 25, with a travel history to Gujarat, also contracted coronavrus. The district has more local infections compered to those with an interstate travel history. Most of the infections were reported from Ganji Basaveshwara Oni and Ranganwad areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gadag-reports-15-fresh-infections-tally-swells-to-35-841187.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Eid-ul-Fitr today in coastal dists, on Monday in other dists||Coastal districts will celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr on Sunday whereas the festival will be celebrated in other districts of Karnataka on Monday. The Central Ruet-e-Hilal Committee, Karnataka, led by Sagheer Ahmed Rashadi took the decision after a meeting on Saturday. In a note, Rashadi stated that the moon was not sighted in the city of Bengaluru and other areas of Karnataka. “Therefore, respected Ulemas have unanimously decided that the first day of Shawwal (1441) will be on Monday,”he stated. Eid will be celebrated on Sunday in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Bhatakal taluk in Uttara Kannada, parts of Hassan and Chikkamagalur districts. The observation 30-day fast, as part of Ramzan, ends on Saturday in these places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/eid-ul-fitr-today-in-coastal-dists-on-monday-in-other-dists-841188.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Smart Cities Mission to support state in tackling Covid-19||The Smart Cities Mission, which was setup for local development and technology innovations, will henceforth work closely with the Karnataka health department to control the spread of Covid- 19 in the State. The focus will be on strengthening health infrastructure, providing medical equipment and developing information technology solutions. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey chaired a meeting with Charulata Somal, State Mission Director, Smart Cities Mission, in this regard. “The Mission has proposed to upscale its current projects to handle the Covid-19 situation, to upgrade infrastructure and equipment at district hospitals and to procure ambulances and equipment,” Pankaj Kumar Pandey said. He added, ”It also plans to use an Integrated Command and Control Centre model along with other IT interventions to upgrade the existing e-health system and will be involved in the hardware procurement for an e-Hospital Management System. A detailed plan of action is being worked out in consultation with BBMP Special Commissioner ( Health), Ravi Surpur, and other senior officials from the health department.” Under the Smart Cities Mission, health projects that have already been completed include a 30-bed hospital in Vantamuri, Belagavi. Two parts of a trauma centre have also been constructed in Belagavi, while a 37-bedded ICU has been installed at Wenlock Hospital, Mangaluru. The IT innovations include a Digital Nerve Centre in Tumakuru and a Smart Healthcare centre in Hubballi-Dharwad. Two upgradation projects at Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru, and the construction of an additional floor at Lady Goschen Hospital in Mangaluru, have also been tendered. The construction of a Trauma Centre in Tumakuru and a 10-bed hospital in Vadagaon, Belagavi, is under progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/smart-cities-mission-to-support-state-in-tackling-covid-19-841190.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PU teachers in dilemma over evaluation, online classes||Several pre-university college lecturers are in confusion as they have been asked to report to evaluation work of the second year PUC examinations even as the college managements stress that they should conduct online classes. When teachers approached the principals of the respective colleges, they were told to continue with online classes and skip evaluation work by giving some reason. “Evaluation work is essential and we cannot say no to it. But the department of pre-university education should exempt lecturers from online classes,” a faculty working with a private unaided college in the city said. A majority of colleges have started online classes for second PUC students and this is clashing with the evaluation work. “The government should issue clear instructions to the college managements about compulsory attendance of teachers to evaluation. Otherwise, we teachers will suffer as we cannot handle both at a time,” another teacher said. To a question, Kanagavalli, director of the department, said, “Online classes are secondary and the teachers must report to evaluation work. Even colleges are aware of the importance of the evaluation work.” She even said that, in case of such pressure from the colleges, the teachers can bring it to the notice of the department. Relaxation Considering the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the department has given an exemption for teachers, who are away from the district where evaluation duty is deployed, this year. In the official messages sent to eligible evaluators, the department has mentioned, “Those who have health issues, pregnant and those, who are away from the district where evaluation work is scheduled, can get an exemption.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pu-teachers-in-dilemma-over-evaluation-online-classes-841196.html
23-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Tech-enabled contactless parking-to-boarding at KIA||Preparing for resumption of domestic flight operations from May 25, a tech-enabled parking-to-boarding contactless process has been adopted for passengers transiting through the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) here.  For departing passengers, the new process will be as follows:  A passenger must wear a face mask and carry an e-/ printed-boarding pass. At the Departure Gates, the passenger will undergo thermal scan and must show that the Aarogya Setu mobile app has the ‘you are safe’ message.  CISF personnel will verify the boarding pass and government-issued Photo ID. The door mats will be soaked with bleach (Sodium Hypochlorite Solution) at the terminal entrance to disinfect the shoes. Once inside the terminal, the passenger will scan the boarding pass at a contactless self-service kiosk, collect the baggage tag before proceeding to the airline counter to drop off luggage.  Initially, a maximum of one hand baggage and one checked-in baggage will be allowed, as mandated by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). At the airline bag drop counters, a transparent partition has been installed. The passengers will scan the boarding pass on a sensor and show their ID. Airline staff will accept the bags, ensuring that the pass does not touch the glass screen.  At the Pre-Embarkation Security Check, the passenger will scan the boarding pass at a kiosk and put all belongings in the tray before going through the body scanner. Trays will be sanitised after every use. Body scanning will be done using Door Frame Metal Detectors (DFMD). Stamping of the boarding pass has been suspended, as directed by the DGCA. At the boarding gate, the airline staff will hand over a kit containing a face mask, face shield, and sanitiser to the passenger for mandatory use before boarding. The passenger will scan the boarding pass on the sensor. Airline staff will do temperature screening and then permit boarding.   At parking zones, the ticket dispensing machine will print a ticket after recording the time and date of entry. At exit, the ticket will be scanned against a machine and the payment can be made digitally.   At the taxi boarding area, vehicles will be sanitised and drivers screened before every trip. Masks are mandatory for drivers, as well as passengers. Passengers without masks will not be allowed to board a taxi.  Each taxi will accommodate only the driver + 2 passengers. BMTC buses will operate at 50% capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tech-enabled-contactless-parking-to-boarding-at-kia-841200.html
23-05-2020||West||Nashik COVID-19 count touches 902 as 12 test positive||Twelve coronavirus positive cases, comprising 11 from Nashik city and one from Malegaon, were detected on Friday in Nashik district, taking the COVID- 19 count here to 902, an official said. Malegaon currently has 685 cases while the figure is 67 for Nashik city, 111 for other parts, and 39 are from places outside the district, officials said. Of the 46 people who have died of the infection so far in the district, 43 are from Malegaon and three from Nashik municipal corporation limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nashik-covid-19-count-touches-902-as-12-test-positive-840900.html
23-05-2020||West||COVID-19 may deal the final blow to Mumbai's dance bars||Kammo, Julie, Sheela, Tanya...and many others. They were the dance bar girls of Mumbai - and these were not their real names. In lehenga-choli and sarees, they swayed and gyrated to Bollywood numbers and patron showered currency notes on them. The cigarette smoke-filled room, the aroma of liquor,  the burning of tandoor and dazzling multi-colour lights - might just become part of Mumbai's history. In 2005, the Maharashtra government banned dance bar but after a prolonged battle that went to the level of Supreme Court,  these bars restarted after more than a decade but with severe restrictions.  "The condition is really bad, we really do not know what the future holds. We already have enough restrictions on dance bars, the time limit of 11.30 pm. In future we would have to follow physical distancing norms," said Bharat Singh Thakur, the President of Performance Bars' Association. Thakur told DH that since mid-March, several dancers have left for their home states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Assam. Mumbai and its suburbs had 400 dance bars before the 2005 ban. Around 300 of them were converted into orchestra bars and ladies service bars after the ban. Only a few applied for dance bars but performances did happen. "We are in a difficult situation now...whether people will with masks and follow social distancing norms.  We appear to have hit a dead-end,"  a source associated with dance bars told DH. In several Bollywood movies, Mumbai's dance bars have been showcased in item numbers. Filmmaker Madhu Bhandarkar, who made the national award-winning film 'Chandni Bar' starring Tabu that dwelled on the lives of dance bar girls. Internationally-acclaimed writer Suketu Mehta too in his 'Maximum City: Bombay Lost and Found', is a narrative non-fiction book, which deals on Mumbai, has made several references to dance bars.   Sonia Faleiro's 'Beautiful Thing: Inside the Secret World of Bombay's Dance Bars' is another interesting book.  A book 'Bar-Bala' penned by a former bar dancer, Vaishali Haldankar, too highlights the issue. Vaishali worked for about 16 years as a singer in the various liquor, orchestra and dance bars in Maharashtra and abroad. A dance bar owner said that the lockdown has given a blow to the economy. "Who will come now? If we do a simple calculation, a 60-ml peg of 'common drink' will cost Rs 550 plus. Will people now have money to spend Rs 3,500 to 5,000 plus in one sitting? And that too when you will have to follow various norms including that of physical distancing. And leave by 11.30 pm? On average if a person walks in by 9.30 to 10 pm, we will be able to enjoy just five or six dance or songs," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-may-deal-the-final-blow-to-mumbais-dance-bars-840931.html
23-05-2020||West||Indian Navy rescues burn victim off Karwar||A crew member of a merchant ship, who had sustained severe burn injuries to his face due to hot oil spillage, was evacuated by the Indian Navy off Karwar.  The request for assistance was received from the Merchant Vessel MV Vardman, which was anchored off Karwar on Thursday.  A naval Fast Interceptor Craft (FIC) from Sagar Prahari Bal (SPB), Karwar, immediately evacuated the 24-year-old oiler man and provided timely medical care, despite rough sea. The injured individual, who hails from Berhampur, Odisha, is being treated at Karwar and his medical condition is reported to be stable, a press release from Western Naval Command said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-rescues-burn-victim-off-karwar-840939.html
23-05-2020||West||Spike in cyber crimes during coronavirus lockdown: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||Noting "spike" in cyber crimes in Maharashtra amidst the coronavirus-induced lockdown, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday warned of a stricter action against those involved in such acts. The minister also said that the Maharashtra Cyber Department has so far registered 410 offences and arrested 213 persons in connection with these. He said that there has been "a big rise" in crimes like spreading provocative content, rumours and objectionable posts against women and creating communal divide using social media platforms like WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and TikTok. "These wrong things are happening. Please refrain from it. Meanwhile, videos encouraging acid attack and rape too were circulated via TikTok," the minister said in a video message. "Remember, the Maharashtra Cyber Department is keeping a tab on you. Strict action will be taken against whoever will make such posts and videos," he warned. The nationwide lockdown imposed on March 24 has been extended in phases till May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/spike-in-cyber-crimes-during-coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-840953.html
23-05-2020||West||Pune dog lovers rescue pets abandoned due to coronavirus fears||Over 50 volunteers from Animal Adoption and Rescue Team (AART) have been patrolling the streets of Pune, looking to rescue abandoned pets and feeding strays during the COVID- 19 lockdown. "Since the lockdown was imposed, we have seen a rise in cases of dog owners abandoning their pets, especially those of imported breeds such as Dobermans, Labradors and German Shepherds," said Ajay Pujar, one of the volunteers. The organisation had so far rescued over 40 such dogs from different parts of the city and sent them to shelter homes in the outskirts of Pune, he said. Many dog owners were abandoning their pets over misplaced fears and misconceptions that coronavirus infection was transmitted from animals, he said. "Another reason for this phenomenon is that several pet owners, including students, have left the city because of the pandemic, leaving the animals behind," he added. After the lockdown was imposed, the organisation had received a call from a housing society, where some students had returned to their hometowns, leaving their two dogs locked in their flat. "We rescued the dogs who were left behind without any food or means to survive," he said. Abandoning pets had become a common phenomenon during the health crisis, said Vineeta Tandon, who heads Animal Rescue Trust. "As abandoning pets is a crime, dog owners don't call shelter homes directly and instead leave these canines tied to gates of dog shelters or abandon them in areas where they know strays are fed regularly," she said. The health ministry has clarified that coronavirus cannot be transmitted from dogs and cats to humans, said Tandon, who runs a shelter home in Kharadi area. The organisation has so far rescued dogs of 23 foreign breeds since the lockdown, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-dog-lovers-rescue-pets-abandoned-due-to-coronavirus-fears-840964.html
23-05-2020||West||CPI (M) and AIKS celebrate 75 years of tribal revolt in Maharashtra||The CPI(M) and the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) on Saturday celebrated 75 years of the Warli Adivasi revolt by hoisting red flags atop houses in villages in Thane district of Maharashtra and other parts, the organisations said. According to a statement, on this day in 1945, a convention was held at Zari village in then Umbargaon (now Talasari) tehsil of the district, where AIKS leaders Shamrao Parulekar and Godavari Parulekar had given a call to overthrow the "hated feudal system of bonded labour and marriage slavery that was rampant for the one hundred years then". Within a few months of the Zari convention, bonded labour and marriage slavery was abolished by the adivasis (tribals) themselves through their unity and struggle led by the AIKS, the statement said. It said the struggle had also raised the issues of wages, forest and land rights, and later water, food, employment, education and health. The revolt also had its echo in other districts like Nashik, Nandurbar, Ahmednagar, Pune, Nanded, Yavatmal and elsewhere, it said. "Today, the sterling contribution over the last 75 years of hundreds of leaders, thousands of activists and 64 adivasi martyrs is being hailed all over the state by hoisting flags observing social distancing during the times of novel coronavirus," AIKS leader Ashok Dhawale told PTI over phone. The AIKS said it will hold demonstrations on May 27 against the Narendra Modi government over its "failure" in reaching out to the poor amidst the COVID-19 crisis. PTI ENM NSK NSK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cpi-m-and-aiks-celebrate-75-years-of-tribal-revolt-in-maharashtra-840974.html
23-05-2020||West||Gujarat: Three employees of Cadila Pharma die of COVID-19||Three employees of Cadila Pharmaceuticals' Dholka-based plant near here in Gujarat have died of coronavirus infection, the company said on Saturday. The deceased were part of the company's production and packaging departments, a spokesperson said. Earlier this month, at least 26 employees of the pharma firm's manufacturing unit in Dholka had tested positive for the deadly virus. "The company is saddened by the loss of three of its employees due to COVID-19," the spokesperson said.  He said one of the deceased employees was recently shifted to home isolation along with 20 others, while two were undergoing treatment at Sola Civil Hospital, he said. The company has set up its own quarantine facility and has given the option to employees quarantined elsewhere to move to the facility, he added.  Ahmedabad district, which is worst-hit by the coronavirus pandemic, so far recorded 9,724 cases and 645 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-three-employees-of-cadila-pharma-die-of-covid-19-840975.html
23-05-2020||West||Double whammy for Bengali workers, artisans of Mumbai's Zaveri Bazaar||It's a sort of double whammy for the large Bengali population of Zaveri Bazaar that is part and parcel of the start-to-end gold trade of Mumbai. It is often referred to as the gold trading hub of India, and it was started in the 19th century. Around five lakh people are associated with the gold trade, of which nearly 1.5 lakh are workers and small artisans, who work and stay in Zaveri Bazaar, located in Bhuleshwar between the Crawford Market and Mumbadevi stretch. There are more than 10,000 small and big gold jewellery manufacturing units here, right from 100 sq feet to big ones. The owners who started off as workers now stay in flats on Mumbai's western and eastern suburbs. "It is a difficult situation. We all know there was a delay in Maharashtra to West Bengal trains. After the trains started,  people are facing the cyclone. Trains have stopped now," Kalidas Sinha Roy,  the president of Bengali Swarna Shilpi Kalyan Sangh,  told DH. According to him, nearly 1.5 lakh people stay and work in Zaveri Bazaar. "More than 60,000 are still stranded in Mumbai," he said adding that at both ends, there is a coronavirus threat and the added problem of Amphan. Majority of them hail from West Medinipur, Malda, Birbhum, Hooghly and Howrah. According to Satyajit Pramanik, who stays in Vasai suburbs, the workers are going by road. "It's a difficult process. The bus owner first takes necessary permission from the West Bengal government, then it makes a journey to Mumbai. Here the people have to get police permission and then leave. It's a long process. The journey itself takes 60 plus hours and one has to shell out Rs 8,000 to 10,000," he said. "It's a crisis situation for them. In fact, a lot of people depend on these workers and artisans for their livelihood.  From the zhal-muriwala (snack) to Bengali food, everything is available here," said journalist-writer Ajit Joshi,  who tracks Mumbai's communities and businesses. The narrow lanes and bylanes are dotted with hundreds of gold jewellery manufacturing units and shops like Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri, Dwarkadas Chandumal, Dhirajlal Bhimji Zaveri and UTZ that sell gems and jewels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/double-whammy-for-bengali-workers-artisans-of-mumbais-zaveri-bazaar-840977.html
23-05-2020||West||12 workers of sugar factory hospitalised after suffocation in Maharashtra||At least 12 workers of a sugar factory in Maharashtra's Pune district were hospitalised on Saturday morning after they complained of suffocation while cleaning a vacuum pan, officials said. The incident occurred when some kind of gas got released during the cleaning of the pan by workers. "Five to six workers were conducting a cleaning activity inside a vacuum pan at the factory when a gas emanated and they felt suffocated," said Vijay Wable, Managing Director, Malegaon Sugar factory, which is located in Baramati. A vacuum pan is a tank with a vacuum pump for rapid evaporation and condensation (as of sugar syrup) by boiling at a low temperature. He said the workers then called their colleagues for help. "Some workers who entered the pan also felt suffocated and felt nauseating," the MD said. All the affected workers have been admitted to a private hospital, he said. "All the workers have been shifted to a private hospital. While 10 of them are stable, two other remained admitted in ICU," said Wable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-workers-of-sugar-factory-hospitalised-after-suffocation-in-maharashtra-840994.html
23-05-2020||West||Relations between Maharashtra CM and Governor like father and son: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena senior leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday met with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan in Mumbai. A Raj Bhavan statement described the meeting between the Sena MP and the governor as a "courtesy call". Raut's visit came on the heels of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray skipping a meeting called by the governor to assess the state government's preparedness to tackle COVID-19 crisis on Wednesday. Earlier this week, the Opposition BJP had visited the governor and complained that the state government had failed in checking the spread of the virus. Meanwhile, Raut told reporters that it was a courtesy visit. "The governor and the chief minister had no conflict between them. Their relations are like that of a father and a son, and they will remain like that," Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/relations-between-maharashtra-cm-and-governor-like-father-and-son-sanjay-raut-841016.html
23-05-2020||West||1,671 COVID-19 cases reported in Maharashtra police; toll at 18||At least 18 police personnel, including an officer, have died of COVID-19 in Maharashtra so far, an official said on Saturday. The Maharashtra police, which is ensuring strict enforcement of the lockdown in the state, has been severely hit by the pandemic.  As many as 1,671 personnel, including 174 officers and 1,497 other staffers, have contracted the deadly infection so far, the official said, adding that the Mumbai police had accounted for the highest number of infections and casualties in the department. At least 42 police officers and 499 constables, who had tested positive for COVID-19, have recovered from the infection so far, he added. Apart from the risk of infection, the police also had to face public ire while enforcing the lockdown in different parts of the state. As many as 246 incidents of assault on police were reported across the state, in which 85 police personnel and one Home Guard were injured, he said.  The Maharashtra Police has registered over 1.1 lakh offences under section 188 (disobeying an order issued by a public servant) of the IPC and 22,753 persons were arrested in these cases, he said. The police also tracked down 680 quarantine violators in the state, excluding Mumbai, the official said. During the lockdown, the police registered 1,317 offences of illegal transport and seized 69,435 vehicles, he said, adding that fines to the tune of Rs 5.22 crore were collected for various offences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1671-covid-19-cases-reported-in-maharashtra-police-toll-at-18-841065.html
23-05-2020||West||COVID-19 toll in Rajasthan rises to 156, cases stand at 6,657||Three deaths and 163 new coronavirus cases were reported in Rajasthan on Saturday taking the total number of fatalities due to COVID-19 to 156 and positive cases to 6,657. Two deaths were reported from Jaipur and one from Kota, the official said.  At 23, the maximum cases were reported from Jodhpur followed by Pali (19), Nagaur (17), Rajsamand (14), Jalore and Udaipur (13 each), Dungarpur and Kota (10 each), Barmer and Jhunjhunu (6 each), Ajmer and Jaipur (5 each), Sirohi and Jhalawar (4 each), Tonk and Bikaner (3 each), Dholpur and Sikar (2 each), Banswara, Bharatpur, Bhilwara and Chittorgarh (1 each). According to the official, 3,695 COVID-19 patients have so far recovered while there are 1,368 active cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-toll-in-rajasthan-rises-to-156-cases-stand-at-6657-841069.html
23-05-2020||West||COVID-19: 5 Maharashtra-returnees test positive in Chhattisgarh, tally at 177||Five migrant workers tested positive for novel coronavirus in Chhattisgarh on Saturday, taking the COVID-19 tally in the state to 177, officials said. Of the five, four are from Raigarh district while one is from Jashpur, the latter recording its first COVID-19 case in the process, an official said.  They had returned recently from Maharashtra and were in quarantine centres since, he added. "All five were admitted in Raigarh Medical College Hospital. With the addition of five cases, the COVID-19 count in the state has reached 177, though the number of active cases is 115, as 62 have been discharged after recovery," he added. Chhattisgarh COVID-19 figures are as follows: positive cases-177, new cases-5, deaths-nil, discharged-62, active cases-115, people tested so far-48,116.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-5-maharashtra-returnees-test-positive-in-chhattisgarh-tally-at-177-841080.html
23-05-2020||West||Congress seeks judicial probe into use of Dhaman-1 ventilators in Guj, says not certified by DCGI||The Congress on Saturday demanded a judicial probe into the use of a ventilator on COVID-19 patients in Gujarat that, it said, has not been approved by the DCGI, alleging the mortality rate was highest at the hospital these machines were installed. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said almost six weeks after Dhaman-1 ventilators were installed at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital on April 4, doctors there sought more ventilators claiming these machines did not work on patients and were not capable.  The Dhaman-1 ventilator has been developed by Rajkot-based firm Jyoti CNC which "donated" 866 of them to the state government last month in view of acute shortage of the machines, according to senior Gujarat government official. A row erupted when the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital wrote to the government, stating that the ventilators were not up to the mark, and sought sophisticated machines. The senior official, however, sought to put the controversy to rest, saying Dhaman-1 was "as good as other such machines" and was certified by a Centrally accredited laboratory. On Saturday, Khera alleged the Vijay Rupani government projected the mechanised AMBU (Artificial Manual Breathing Unit) bag as ventilator, "playing with the lives of patients". "Why was Dhaman-1 approved and installed when it had been tested on just one patient? Why was Dhaman-1 approved and installed without a licence by DCGI (Drug Controller General of India)," he asked. "We also want to know if the PM Cares Fund was used to buy 5,000 pieces of Dhaman-1 through HLL Lifecare. All these answers can only be found through an independent judicial inquiry," Khera said. Training his guns on Chief Minister Rupani, he asked why Gujarat had "such shocking data" on COVID-19 patients as 11 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country were in the state, but 22 per cent of the deaths related to COVID-19 in the country were from Gujarat.  "Why this high mortality, Why the high mortality in Ahmedabad in particular and in Ahmedabad, why the highest mortality is in the civil hospital, where these machines were installed," he asked. "Whatever be your compulsions, Mr Rupani, we understand there are compulsions. But you cannot play with the lives of the people, just because you are in a position of power," he alleged. He alleged the machines were donated under CSR funds by a company in which a Surat-based businessman, who donated the monogrammed suit to Prime Minister Narendra Modi which was worn by him during former US President Barack Obama's visit to India, has a stake. He asked why Dhaman-1 was marketed within and outside the state as a "ventilator when it is not a ventilator". The Congress leader asked why was Dhaman-1 allowed to be sold to other states and why was HLL Lifecare, a PSU, allowed to order 5,000 pieces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-seeks-judicial-probe-into-use-of-dhaman-1-ventilators-in-guj-says-not-certified-by-dcgi-841132.html
23-05-2020||West||With ban on autos and taxis, how will Mumbaikars commute during emergency situation?||Amidst increasing cases of COVID-19 in Mumbai, the Maharashtra government has now banned autos and taxis in an order issued to combat coronavirus pandemic. Nontheless, this decision has now given rise to a new argument. "When the movement of auto and taxis been strictly restricted, how will Mumbaikars cope up in emergency situation?" asked veteran RTI activist Anil Galgali.  "The movement of other means of transportation like local trains, metro, etc have been freezed. BEST buses are not allowed. Making the situation worst, the government has now banned the movement of autos and taxis, which was the only option to commute for the common people in Mumbai, as every citizen doesn't have a private car," he said.   Galgali further stressed that very often people have to go to hospital and in the wake of new insensitive move, people cannot hire taxi or rickshaw. Then what is the option before them? The government has not made any alternative arrangement so far arising in such emergency situation, he added. Galgali has demanded to revoke the ban imposed on the movement of autos and taxis. He has written a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Transport Minister Adv Anil Parb, Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta and Transport Commissioner Shekhar Channe in this regard and requested them to reconsider on the ban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-ban-on-autos-and-taxis-how-will-mumbaikars-commute-during-emergency-situation-841133.html
23-05-2020||West||COVID-19 cases in Mumbai's Dharavi cross 1,500-mark||The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Dharavi, the largest slum cluster in Asia, crossed the 1,500-mark on Saturday. The total deaths in Dharavi now stands at 58 and cases at 1,514 with over 500 patients treated and discharged. The first COVID-19 positive case and death was reported from the Dr Baliga Nagar area of Dharavi on April 1. Dharavi, which is emerging as a point of concern for the Maharashtra government and the Centre, is a highly populous area with nearly 7 to 10 lakh people living in 2.1 sq kms. The majority population is that of migrants and nearly 40 to 50 per cent of them have left for their native states. The majority of the Dharavi cases are reported from Dr Baliga Nagar, Kalyanwadi, Social Nagar, Muslim Colony, Transit Camp, Matunga Labour Camp, Kumbharwada, Mukund Nagar and Railway Colony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-in-mumbais-dharavi-cross-1500-mark-841150.html
23-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra extends medical cover under Mahatma Phule scheme||The Maharashtra government extended medical cover under the state's Mahatma Jyotiba Phule health insurance scheme to all people in the state. While this decision was announced by health minister Rajesh Tope a few days ago, the government resolution (GR) on it was issued on Saturday.  The GR said the decision will be applicable till July 31, and COVID-19 and non-COVID treatments will be covered in all empaneled hospitals. At present 2.23 crore people are covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule and Pradhan Mantri Janarogya schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-extends-medical-cover-under-mahatma-phule-scheme-841153.html
23-05-2020||West||Flights: Maharashtra lockdown order not amended as yet, says official||Even as the Centre plans resumption of domestic flights from May 25, a Maharashtra government official on Saturday said the state had not yet amended its May 19 lockdown order which allowed only certain kinds of flights. As per the May 19 order of the state government extending the coronavirus-induced lockdown to May 31, all domestic and international air travel of passengers, except for domestic medical services, domestic air ambulance and for security purposes as permitted by Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), will continue to remain prohibited across the state. "We have not yet amended this lockdown order issued on May 19," an official told PTI when queried about the resumption of passenger flights in Maharashtra. Earlier in the day, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, during a Facebook live session, said India will try to restart a good percentage of international passenger flights before August.  All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 25 when the lockdown was announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/flights-maharashtra-lockdown-order-not-amended-as-yet-says-official-841166.html
