24-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Karnataka: Kalaburagi, Yadgir record 6 new COVID-19 cases each||Maharashtra returnees continued to haunt Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts with both districts reporting six each cases on Sunday.  Out of six cases reported in Kalaburagi district, five are Maharashtra returnees. One returned from Andhra Pradesh. However, six Maharashtra returned tested positive cases in Yadgir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/karnataka-kalaburagi-yadgir-record-6-new-covid-19-cases-each-841324.html
24-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Karnataka: Complete lockdown evokes good response in Kalaburagi||A complete lockdown enforced on Sunday to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the district evoked good response.  Roads of the city wore a deserted look as vehicles including NEKRTC bused were off the roads.  The residents too preferred to stay home due to soaring temperature which touched 44.5 degree Celsius on Saturday in the city.  Except for autorickshaws and grocery shops, curbs on other business activities have continued since the country's Covid-19 death was reported from Kalaburagi city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/karnataka-complete-lockdown-evokes-good-response-in-kalaburagi-841325.html
24-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown: Dakshina Kannada celebrates Eid with in-home prayers||Eid-ul-Fitr, marking the end of a month long fast, was observed across Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. Following the lockdown, the festival was observed with in-home prayers substituting mass prayers at masjids. In the wake of coronavirus pandemic, Dakshina Kannada district Khazi Alhaj Bekal Ibrahim Musliyar had called upon Muslim community not to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr with pomp.  The khazi had asked the members to offer prayers at home. He had asked community members not to shake hands or gather in groups, which is normally a part of sharing joy and happiness during the festival. The festival spirit was missing with COVID-19 casting its shadow on the festival. Every year, the members of the Muslim community were observing mass prayers at Idgah Maidan at Light House Hill road in Mangaluru. However this year the entire area wore a deserted look following COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-dakshina-kannada-celebrates-eid-with-in-home-prayers-841305.html
24-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Shivamogga gets good response for lockdown||Shivamogga witnesses good response on Sunday for complete lockdown enforced by the state government to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. All businesses establishments were closed. KSRTC bus terminal wore a deserted look as bus service was also suspended. People were seen buying chickens from stalls in the city. Barricades had been set up in major circles to prevent movement of vehicles.  City corporation staff slapped fine of Rs 200 on Hosanagara Tahasildar Rajeev for not wearing a face mask in a public place at Aalkola circle in the city. The officer was on a bike when the incident took place. He paid penalty and apologised for not following guidelines of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-shivamogga-gets-good-response-for-lockdown-841312.html
24-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Injured slender lorises released into the wild||Two injured slender lorises which were reported to wildlife rescuers were released back into the wild after they were treated for their injuries. One of the creatures was an adult female which had been found in Ramohalli on April 6. It had suffered electrocution and was in a weak condition, wildlife staff from the People for Animals (PFA) group said. “The animal was treated with antibiotics, pain killers, hourly provision of fluids and wound treatment,” explained Dr Karthik M, Senior Veterinarian, PFA. The second animal was a sub-adult male found in Kommaghatta on May 8, after it had been attacked by a non-venomous rat snake. The animal was treated for its wounds, Dr Karthik added. Both animals were released into the Sullikere Forest late on Wednesday by PFA wildlife rescuers and Deputy Range Forest Officer Naveen. The Slender Loris known locally as Kaadu Paapa is a small arboreal primate. They are on the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List and their habitats are threatened. PFA said it has rescued 66 slender lorises to date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/injured-slender-lorises-released-into-the-wild-841314.html
24-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Hassan records 14 COVID-19 cases, Mandya 15||Fifteen people tested positive for COVID-19 in Mandya and 14 cases in Hassan district, on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 252 in Mandya district. Out of 15 positive cases, there are eight male and seven female patients. While 11 cases have a contact history of Maharashtra, four have a contact history with P 869. Hassan reported 14 cases, including a police constable. He had returned from Bengaluru duty it is said. Eight have a travel history from Maharashtra. Five are said to be from containment zones and one has a travel history of Dakshina Kannada. This includes 10 male and four female cases.  The total number of cases is 98. All have been shifted to Covid hospitals in Mandya and Hassan districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-hassan-records-14-covid-19-cases-mandya-15-841320.html
24-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||One more tests COVID-19 positive in Dakshina Kannada||A 42 –year-old man who was the secondary contact of P 1233 has been tested positive for COVID 19, in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. The man is being treated at the designated COVID-19 hospital in Mangaluru. With this, DK has registered a total of 66 positive cases with 34 active cases. P 1233 was a 30-year-old man who had inter-state travel history from Maharashtra, said DK DC Sindhu B Rupesh.  While Udupi district has registered 18 positive cases. The 14 cases have inter-state travel history from Maharashtra. While two have been tested positive after returning from the containment zone and the contacts of the other two are being traced by the health officials.  Kodagu district registered its third COVID-19 case after a 26-year-old man from Somwarpet was tested positive. The man was a bank employee in Mumbai and had returned to the district via Sampaje check post on May 20. After testing him at Sampaje check post, he was directly admitted to COVID-19 hospital in Madikeri. The condition of the patient is said to be stable. Kodagu DC Annies Kanmani Joy said that the man has not come in contact with others in the district and the people need not panic, said Annies Kanmani Joy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-more-tests-covid-19-positive-in-dakshina-kannada-841341.html
24-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Udupi under total lockdown||The total lockdown evoked good response in Udupi district om Sunday. Barring shops selling essential commodities all others remained closed. Autos, taxis and buses remained off the road.  Members of Muslim community observed Eid ul Fitr at home. The entire Udupi town wore a deserted look. Barricades had been placed at major roads to prevent movement of vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-udupi-under-total-lockdown-841348.html
24-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||2nd Shramik Special leaves Mysuru for Bihar||Another Bihar-bound Shramik Special left for Purnia in Bihar from Ashokapuram Station in Mysuru on Sunday. The train is being run on the request of the state governments of Bihar and Karnataka. The train comprising 22 LHB coaches, carrying 1,164 migrants, is scheduled to reach Purnia on Tuesday. After scrutiny and verification of documents of the registered migrants from Mandya, Maddur and Hunsur, the authorities of the Health department completed screening process before allowing the passengers to board the train. The government, in association with the Rotary Club of Mysuru, provided food and water to the passengers. As per the arrangements, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation will take care of the catering during their remaining journey. Six Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel will be escorting the train, end-to-end, to address issues, of any, relating to law and order in coordination with the police of the respective state governments along the way. Passengers were instructed to compulsorily wear face masks and maintain high standards of personal hygiene. It has to be mentioned that on Saturday, a Shramik Special with a total of 1,520 migrants from Hassan and Chikkamagaluru districts left for Katihar in Bihar. This was the seventh Shramik Special from Mysuru Division, according to Divisional Commercial Manager Priya Shetty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2nd-shramik-special-leaves-mysuru-for-bihar-841453.html
24-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Patrolling intensified; illegal points sealed||The Forest department has taken all measures to intensify patrolling at Male Mahadeshwara and Cauvery Wildlife Sancturies in Hanur taluk and close the illegal points, through which the migrants from the neighbouring state are entering Karnataka. As the lockdown is in place, the people from Tamil Nadu are restricted from entering the state. With personnel on duty at the checkposts not allowing them to enter the state, the people adjoining Male Mahadeshwara Hill, and surrounding villages in Hanur, have found illegal points through the forest route to enter the district.  Following media reports in this regard, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi has directed the deputy conservator of forests to close all the illegal points in the forest and intensify patrolling.  The department personnel swung into action and closed all the illegal routes in the border areas. Patrolling has been intensified on the banks of River Cauvery, which is one of the main route chosen by the illegal entrants from Tamil Nadu. They have informed their counterparts in Hosuru and Dharmapuri and sought the migrants staying near the banks of the river be shifted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/patrolling-intensified-illegal-points-sealed-841454.html
24-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid: 15 test positive in Mandya, 14 in Hassan||Fifteen people tested positive for Covid 19 in Mandya while it was 14 in Hassan district on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases in Hassan is 98 and 252 in Mandya district. For the first time, two people from Hassan city, including a police constable and a woman, tested positive for the coronavirus. This has created anxiety among the residents. The constable is attached to Karnataka State Reserve Police and has a travel history to Bengaluru. The remaining have a travel history of Maharashtra, according to sources.  Out of 14, 10 are male and four are female. All have been shifted to Covid hospitals in Hassan district. Two areas in the city, Indira Nagar 2nd cross and Salagame Road, near Aralikatte, in Uttara Badavane, have been identified as containment zones and are sealed down for the next 28 days. The police have been alerting the residents of the containment zones not to venture out and use sanitiser and social distancing. Deputy Commissioner R Girish, Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda, Distritc Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr Sathish visited the areas. DC R Girish said that that two positive cases have been reported from the city and the areas have been sealed down. The woman was admitted to the hospital following cough and cold. Upon testing, she was found positive for Covid 19. In another case, a KSRP constable, who was on duty to Bengaluru has contracted the infection. As he was in the city for three days before he tested positive, all his primary and secondary contacts are being traced, he explained. He appealed to the public not to enter the containment zones. Asha workers would conduct a door-to-door survey and if required would collect the samples. There is no need for panic. The residents should cooperate and follow the guidelines issued by the authorities, the DC said. There was a spike in covid cases from Mandya district, with 15 positive cases reported on Sunday. With this the total number of positive cases has increased to 252 in Mandya district. Out of the 15, eight male and seven female patients. While 11 cases have a travel history of Maharashtra, four have a contact history with P869.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-15-test-positive-in-mandya-14-in-hassan-841455.html
24-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sunday lockdown evokes good response||The complete lockdown on Sunday declared by the state government to contain the spread of Covid-19, evoked good response in Mysuru region. The people of the region comprising Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts, extended support to the 36-hour lockdown, by staying at home. The roads wore a deserted look as vehicles including KSRTC buses and private vehicles stayed off. Except emergency vehicles and the vehicles transporting essentials such as milk, water, newspaper vans, other vehicles did not ply. Medical shops, hospitals, meat shops and vegetable markets were open but, the footfall was very less compared to normal days. Hotels did not open for the whole day. Saloons, bakeries, textile shops and other commercial establishments had downed their shutters.   In Mysuru city, with the movement of the vehicles restricted, major streets such as D Devaraj Urs, Kalidasa Road, MG Road, Ashoka Road wore a deserted look. Almost all the business establishments remained closed for the day.     In Hassan, the lockdown evoked a good response. Except medical shops, market and meat shops, all other business activities were suspended for the day. The police were deputed at check posts to check the movement of the vehicles. The Bengaluru-Mangaluru National Highway, which passes through Hassan remained empty.  In Mandya too, the lockdown was effective and the residents followed the guidelines of the government by staying at home. However, a few people in rural Mandya were seen moving around. Hardly a few vehicles were seen moving on Mysuru-Bengaluru National Highway. The police had erected barricades and was seen inspecting the vehicles moving on the roads. In Chamarajanagar, the lockdown was very successful. There was no movement of the vehicles in the town. Despite lockdown, two marriage ceremonies were held on Sunday. While a couple entered into wedlock in Mysuru city, another couple commenced their new journey at Arakalgud in Hassan district. V Keerthi of Mysuru married B R Smitha of Bengaluru at Yoga Narasimha Swami Temple, here. The couple tied the knot wearing mask. A hearing and speech impaired couple got married in a simple ceremony at Arakalgud town in Hassan taluk. Lokesh and Poornima entered into the wedlock at the town. Earlier, the wedding was scheduled for May 4 but, due to outbreak of Covid-19, the ceremony was performed on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sunday-lockdown-evokes-good-response-841456.html
24-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||State units of Cong, BJP trade barbs on Twitter||The state Congress and BJP units sparred on Twitter after the former accused the central government of ignoring Karnataka for six years. “(sic)There is no account of PM Cares Fund-Spent & Expenditure. Why our state hasn’t received any aid so far,” Congress tweeted, demanding to know the contributions from the Centre to Karnataka. The attack on BJP came after the Central government announced relief to cyclone-hit Bengal days after the calamity devastated parts of the state.  “If you check a dictionary, you will understand difference between questioning & accusing. Are you saying that MOTHER Sonia Gandhi, prime accused in National Herald Corruption Case can falsely accuse PM Modi & still not be questioned?”, BJP responded. The Congress replied, asking whether the PM was unquestionable. The Centre has betrayed the people of Karnataka for six years. “...you have lost out morally as you have no answers,” it tweeted. The BJP responded, saying, “For ten years, Sonia Gandhi plundered India by installing a “Puppet PM” & running the Nation’s most corrupt Government. But, according to Congress workers, MOTHER Sonia Gandhi must not be questioned. Is She above the Law? Or is Shethe Law?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/state-units-of-cong-bjp-trade-barbs-on-twitter-841431.html
24-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Tumakuru woman succumbs to Covid||A 60-year-old woman who had contracted Covid-19 passed away in the district hospital late on Sunday night. The patient hailed from Veerasagara village of Nelamangala taluk. The woman was admitted at the hospital on May 19 after she complained of breathing problems. Her throat swabs were sent for testing and they returned positive for Covid-10 on May 22. With this, total number of Covid deaths in Tumakuru district has risen to 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/tumakuru-woman-succumbs-to-covid-841482.html
24-05-2020||National||Law Minster Ravi Shankar Prasad urges Sports counterpart Rijiju to help train girl who cycled 1,200 kms carrying ill dad||Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday urged his sports counterpart to support the 15-year-old girl, who cycled 1,200 km carrying her ailing father during the lockdown, with training to help her become a "cyclist of repute". "Was moved to see the courage of a young girl from Bihar who pedaled for over 1,000 km on cycle from Gurugram to Darbhanga with her father as pillion," the law minister wrote on Twitter. Prasad also spoke to Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, requesting him to help the girl get training. "Also requested the Sports Minister to give full support to this courageous girl from Bihar -- Jyoti Kumari Paswan -- by way of training & scholarship to develop her as a cyclist of repute, if she is willing," he said. Impressed with the doggedness with which Jyoti pedaled her way to Bihar from Gurugram, carrying her ailing father, the Cycling Federation of India (CFI) will invite her to appear for a trial next month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/law-minster-ravi-shankar-prasad-urges-sports-counterpart-rijiju-to-help-train-girl-who-cycled-1200-kms-carrying-ill-dad-841209.html
24-05-2020||National||States press quarantine button as flights set to resume||Concerned over the rise in COVID-19 cases, at least eight states have pressed the quarantine button for domestic flyers two days before flights resume on Monday. The panic over the pandemic has blurred political lines as at least three of the states insisting on quarantine are BJP-ruled (Karnataka, Goa and Assam) and one, Jammu and Kashmir, is under the Centre even as Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri tried to allay fears. Puri said he does not understand the need to quarantine domestic air passengers if their Aarogya Setu app shows green. On Saturday, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel (Congress) wrote to Puri opposing resumption of domestic flights and suggested a 14-day quarantine either at paid centre or a state-run facility. Karnataka (BJP), Kerala (Left), Andhra Pradesh (YSR Congress) and Telangana (TRS)  have already made it clear that the arriving passengers will have to stay in quarantine. While the AIADMK-ruled Tami Nadu categorically opposed re-starting domestic flights, Kerala has insisted on a 14-day quarantine for flyers coming to the state, exempting those coming for one-two days of business.   Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said quarantining would be mandatory for all those arriving by domestic flights. Whatever the mode of travel, all those who come from outside have to go into quarantine, he said. Earlier, Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja asserted that domestic flyers must undergo home quarantine. Soon after Karnataka announced a seven-day institutional quarantine for those arriving by domestic flights from COVID-19 hotspots, another BJP-ruled state Goa sought permission from the Centre to conduct antibody tests on passengers to ensure only those who test negative enter the state. Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane this will help identify asymptomatic patients to avoid community transmission.     Maharashtra has already barred air travel in the state and is likely to take a call tomorrow. GoAir has decided not to rush into re-starting domestic flights on Monday and will await clarity from state governments. Puri, however, appealed to state governments to allow operation of domestic flights from Monday by accepting passengers on the basis of the Aarogya Setu app status or self declaration.  “If you have taken a test and your test report is negative and you don’t have any symptoms, there should be no need for quarantine. The Aarogya Setu app is like a passport, if your status is green. Why should anyone want any quarantine?” he asked. “For the first two days, there will be some hesitation. Some states have asked us why not wait for two-three days more,” Puri said in a Facebook live session. He said discussions were on with the state governments on the anxieties expressed by them on allowing passengers without quarantine. "There will be clarity on the matter in a day or two,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-press-quarantine-button-as-flights-set-to-resume-841213.html
24-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 24, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-24-2020-edition-841240.html
24-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 24||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 137,890‬ as of May 23.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 4,015   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 54,441 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-24-841241.html
24-05-2020||National||Employee at Maruti's Manesar plant tests positive for coronavirus||An employee at Maruti Suzuki's Manesar plant has tested positive for COVID-19, according to a company spokesperson. The company is also looking at "a possibility of a second case" of infection at the facility but has ruled out any impact on the business part due to the situation. The country's largest carmaker, Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) had re-opened the Manesar facility earlier this month after around 50 days of closure due to coronavirus-led lockdown. "One employee of the company's Manesar plant tested positive on May 22, 2020 for COVID-19," the spokesperson told PTI when contacted over the matter. The said employee had last attended the plant on May 15 with normal health after which his residence area came into a containment zone and he did not join work thereafter, he said. The district administration was informed about the employee who has since been admitted in the hospital and his condition is stable, he added. MSI is providing all medical help and assistance to the infected employee as per government guidelines, the spokesperson said.  On the status of another employee possibly infected with the virus, the spokesperson said: "There may be a possibility of a second case of infection that has just been reported. More information is being sought." The automaker, in the confirmed case, has undertaken a contact tracing exercise and out of abundant caution, all employees who could have come in contact are advised to stay in home isolation, he said. The company has in place a robust and carefully designed standard operating procedure (SOP) for maximum safety against infection spread at the workplace and transit, which goes well beyond compliance requirement, the spokesperson said. In addition, there is also a COVID-19 Task Force that closely monitors adherence to the SOP in the company, the spokesperson added. MSI had resumed production at its Gurugram plant from May 18. Both Manesar and Gurugram plants have an installed capacity to churn out over 15.5 lakh vehicles per annum. The  Gurugram facility rolls out models like S-Cross, Vitara Brezza, Ignis and Super Carry light commercial vehicle. The Manesar plant, on the other hand, produces high selling models like Alto, Swift, Dzire, S-Presso, Ertiga and Baleno.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/employee-at-marutis-manesar-plant-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-841256.html
24-05-2020||National||Record 6,767 new COVID-19 cases in India in last 24 hours; death toll climbs to 3,867||COVID-19 cases in India saw the biggest spike for the third consecutive day on Sunday with 6,767 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,31,868, while the death toll due to the disease rose to 3,867 after 147 more fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-6767-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-in-last-24-hours-death-toll-climbs-to-3867-841278.html
24-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Digital education in times of COVID-19||Deccan Herald's podcasts are now available on your favourite podcast platforms including Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, and many more. Do subscribe to our Podcast there!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-digital-education-in-times-of-covid-19-841283.html
24-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Toy train ferry supplies in in Maharashtra's Matheran||In a major relief of sorts for people of the popular hill station of Matheran in Maharashtra, the toy train is being used to supply essential goods to the locals.  Located 108 km away from downtown Mumbai and 120 km away from Pune -  and at a height of 2,570 feet – in the Karjat tehsil of Raigad district, it is the smallest hill station of India. The 113-year-old narrow-gauge Neral-Matheran Railway (MHR),  that is run by the Central Railway (CR), is a major tourist attraction in the automobile-free hill station. From last week,  the CR is running the train between the two stations of Matheran and Neral. The 6,500-odd residents in the hill town are currently dependent on about 460 horses and a few hand carts for essential supplies.  But, now with the running of the mini train, Matheran, which means "forest on the forehead"  is an eco-sensitive region and is Asia's only automobile free hill station.  One can do a lot of things here – walk, trek, do some mountaineering and rock climbing, valley crossing, night trails, bird watching and so on. The mini-train covers a  distance of 21 km cutting a swathe through forest and connecting Neral to Matheran in the Western Ghats. The 2.5 km stretch between Matheran and Aman Lodge on the hill is one of the most popular stretch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-toy-train-ferry-supplies-in-in-maharashtras-matheran-841294.html
24-05-2020||National||Four associates of LeT militants arrested in Jammu and Kashmir||Security forces on Sunday arrested four associates of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, an official said. "Police in Budgam along with security forces have arrested four terrorist associates including top terror associate of proscribed terror outfit LeT and recovered arms and ammunition from their possession," a police spokesperson said.  The arrested persons have been identified as Waseem Ganie,  Farooq Ahmad Dar, Mohammad Yasin and Azharudin Mir, he said.  The spokesperson said incriminating material including arms and ammunition was recovered from their possession. As per the police records, the arrested persons were involved in providing logistical support and shelter to active terrorists of LeT operating in the area, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-associates-of-let-militants-arrested-in-jammu-and-kashmir-841301.html
24-05-2020||National||Health infrastructure must be ramped up to ensure preparedness to face coronavirus for next 2 months: Government||Health infrastructure should be ramped up to ensure preparedness for the next two months in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, the government has conveyed to eleven municipal areas in the country that have accounted for 70 per cent of India's coronavirus case load. Eleven municipal areas from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan account for 70 per cent of the active caseload, the Union health ministry said in a statement. The government has asked the eleven municipal areas to step up monitoring in old cities, urban slums and other high density pockets like camps and clusters for migrant workers for management of COVID-19 cases. Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan, who held a high-level meeting on Saturday through video conferencing with principal health secretaries and municipal commissioners along with other officials from the 11 municipal areas, urged them to focus on prevention through active screening of high risk and vulnerable population along with effective and sturdy clinical management of the admitted cases to reduce fatality rate. COVID-19 cases in India saw the biggest spike for the third consecutive day on Sunday with 6,767 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide tally to 1,31,868, while the death toll due to the disease rose to 3,867 after 147 more fatalities, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The active cases of the coronavirus disease rose to 73,560. While 54,440 people have recovered, one patient has migrated to another country, according to the ministry's bulletin. "Thus, around 41.28 per cent patients have recovered so far," a Health Ministry official said. During the meeting on Saturday, a presentation was made to highlight the trend in case trajectory with respect to total confirmed cases, case fatality rate, doubling time, tests per million and confirmation percentage, the ministry said. "It was told that a major challenge lies in those corporations having shorter doubling time, higher mortality rate and a higher confirmation rate than the national average," the ministry said in its statement. The officials were briefed about the factors to be considered while mapping the containment and buffer zones and the activities mandated in containment zones like perimeter control, active search for cases through house to house surveillance, contact tracing, clinical management of the active cases. They were also asked to undertake surveillance activities in the buffer zone like monitoring of severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and influenza like illness (ILI) cases and promoting social distancing and hand hygiene among others. It was pointed out that testing needs to be stepped up in some municipal areas to ensure early detection of cases, timely clinical management and a reduction in fatality rate. "They also need to be mindful of ramping up the health infrastructure to ensure preparedness for the next two months with special focus on isolation beds with oxygen, ventilators and ICU beds," the health ministry statement said.  "Maintaining high vigilance and monitoring in areas of old cities, urban slums and other high density pockets along with the camps/clusters for migrant workers are important steps in COVID-19 management in the urban areas," Sudan said at the meeting. The officials were also urged to focus on prevention through active screening of high risk and vulnerable population and groups, and effective and sturdy clinical management of the admitted cases to reduce fatality rate. While many have operationalised 24x7 state control rooms, others could also follow the lead and start such units which shall not only provide assistance to the people regarding various facilities and services for COVID-19 management, but also have a panel of domain experts and doctors to provide round the clock support and mentoring for clinical issues, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-infrastructure-must-be-ramped-up-to-ensure-preparedness-to-face-coronavirus-for-next-2-months-government-841303.html
24-05-2020||National||Bombay HC seeks reply from Air India on plea over safety measures in flights||The Bombay High Court has sought a response from the Air India and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on a petition of an AI pilot, claiming the airline was not following safety measures for COVID-19 while bringing back Indians stranded abroad. The pilot, Deven Kanani, in his plea claimed a circular issued by the Government of India on March 23, 2020 laid some conditions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 while bringing back Indians stranded abroad due to the pandemic. However, the condition pertaining to keeping the middle seat between two passengers empty was not being followed by the Air India, he said in the plea. Kanani submitted photographs of an Air India flight operated between San Francisco and Mumbai where all seats were occupied. Air India counsel Abhinav Chandrachud, however, opposed the plea and told the high court that the circular of March 23 has been now superseded with a new circular issued by the Government of India on May 22, 2020 while permitting domestic flights to operate from May 25 The new circular does not say the middle seat needs to be kept empty, Chandrachud told the court. He said all precautions required to prevent the spread of COVID-19 are taken while bringing back passengers to India from abroad. A division bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and Abhay Ahuja on Friday, however, noted that a cursory glance at the circular dated May 22 indicates that it applies only to domestic operations and not to international operations. The bench directed Air India and DGCA to file affidavits clarifying their stand, and posted the petition for further hearing on June 2. The court also allowed Kanani to amend his petition to challenge the circular of May 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-seeks-reply-from-air-india-on-plea-over-safety-measures-in-flights-841304.html
24-05-2020||National||TB, cholera deaths may cancel out lives saved during coronavirus lockdown: Health expert||Neglect of diseases like TB and cholera during the lockdown may cancel out lives potentially saved by the COVID-19-induced enforcement measure, says a public health expert. Professor, Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad, Public Health Foundation of India, V Ramana Dhara said one has to consider the invisible loss of life from the increase in poverty-related diseases like TB, malnutrition and cholera, which can be neglected while the "lockdowns are ongoing". The deaths resulting from these diseases may well cancel out the lives potentially saved by the lockdowns. One should view this epidemic as Mother Nature's reaction to the rampant ecological damage caused by humans resulting in animal habitat loss and resultant contact between humans and animals , he told PTI in an interview on Sunday. On his assessment of the COVID-19 situation in India, he noted that clearly the number of cases as on Saturday of 125,000 has exceeded the predicted 100,000 by May-end and is continuing to rapidly rise. While the case fatality rate is holding steady, overall mortality is more important, but there may be an under-count if some deaths may not be tested for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tb-cholera-deaths-may-cancel-out-lives-saved-during-coronavirus-lockdown-health-expert-841309.html
24-05-2020||National||No revenge pornography, setting limits to online friendships: CBSE's cyber safety lessons for teens||Warning against "revenge pornography", setting limits to online friendships, valuing consent and reporting to elders if faced with a problem, are among lessons the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) wants teenagers to learn to ensure their safety in the virtual world. While the digital exposure of students has increased due to teaching activities moving completely online during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, concerns about the potential threats have been brought to the forefront with the recent "Bois locker room" controversy. The CBSE has shared a Cyber Safety handbook with schools for class 9 to 12 students. The handbook also details guidelines for students as well as parents, listing the do's and dont's and activities to understand the sensitivity of the issue. "Students must learn to set limits to their online friendships as well as online communication with real life friends. There has to be a limit to what they share or exchange in terms of written words, photographs or videos. They must remember that, once online, they may not be able to control who will actually see it, prevent breach of trust and misuse and potential risk and harm to their person and reputation," a senior board official said. "Teenagers need to understand gender relations. Boys must learn to interact with girls on equal terms and respect them and their desires as those of human beings, not simply as objects of respect or desires," the official said. "Consent must be an important part of relationships. Pictures, videos and other material shared in confidence cannot be published on social media without the permission of the person just because the other person does not want to continue in a relationship. Youngsters must learn to cope with rejection as it is a part of life but not the end of the world," the official added. The board has advised parents to empower children to decide for themselves how others collect and use their information by requiring their consent. "As of now, there is no minimum age of digital consent in India. If there are people offline who you would be uncomfortable talking to about your physical or sexual experiences, chances are, you would be uncomfortable doing this with strangers online too. Cyber Groomers create fake accounts to befriend people, for the purpose of harming them whether physically, sexually or emotionally," the official said. "Students must be cautious when their chat partner gives them many compliments regarding their appearance within a short span of their acquaintance. Do not talk to people who ask you to share your sexually explicit photographs or videos. Never accept a friend request from someone you have never met in person. If you share your sexually explicit photos or videos with someone, the person can share those photos with others or post them on social media. They can also blackmail you," the official added. The handbook warns against falling into the trap of revenge pornography. "Teenagers in the age-group of 14 to 18 years are the worst victims of revenge porn as well as the perpetrators themselves, which is a matter of concern. Some teenage students who have been in a relationship and end it find their explicit photographs circulated on social media platforms. When such images go viral, students are often harassed and bullied by their peers – branded with insult and in the end, isolated," the handbook states. "A teenager may be targeted by her jealous classmates, her ex-boyfriend or even an unknown friend on social media who may be victimising her because she stopped communicating with him when she realised the dangers of online relationships," says the handbook. Earlier this month, a massive outrage erupted online after it emerged that an Instagram group named ''bois locker room'' was being used by some persons to share objectionable pictures of minor girls and discuss illegal acts including rape. People posted purported screenshots of crude conversations among members of the group – believed to be students of some top schools in Delhi and some allegedly as young as 13. It is alleged that they shared photos of teenage girls and made explicit comments about their looks. However, during its investigation into the 'Bois Locker Room' case, the Delhi police has stumbled upon a conversation on Snapchat where a girl, posing as a male, suggested a "sexual assault plan" to a boy just to test his "values and character".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-revenge-pornography-setting-limits-to-online-friendships-cbses-cyber-safety-lessons-for-teens-841316.html
24-05-2020||National||Migrant woes 'greatest manmade tragedy' in India since Partition: Ramchandra Guha||Cautioning that there will be social and psychological consequences for the rest of the country too, he said the migrant tragedy could have been averted or at least minimised if Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given them a week’s notice to return home before the lockdown kicked in. "It is probably not as bad as Partition, for at that time there was also horrific communal violence. But it is nonetheless the greatest manmade tragedy in India since Partition," Guha told PTI in an interview. In a televised address on the evening of March 24, Prime Minister Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown from midnight that day. The lockdown measures included banning train services, road transport and air travels to stem the spread of the novel coronavirus.    The lockdown was extended thrice but certain relaxations have been allowed since late April. "I have no idea about how the prime minister took the decisions he did. Did he consult with knowledgeable officials, or take inputs from his cabinet ministers? Or did he act unilaterally?” asked the author of books such as “”Redeeming the Republic” and “India After Gandhi”. Even now, he added, the situation can be "slightly" salvaged if the prime minister chooses to adopt a more consultative approach, and takes advice from the best minds in the country, including those in the Opposition. "But I rather fear that he won’t. His cabinet ministers are busy shifting the responsibility to the states for cleaning up a crisis the Centre has created," the noted historian added. Days after the lockdown came into force, lakhs of migrants, including daily wage workers, walked, cycled or hitchhiked to their home states hundreds, sometimes thousands, of kilometres away. Two months on, the exodus from cities and towns across India continues. The images of their struggle for survival shook the nation and made global headlines, raising questions about the government's handling of the situation. Arguing that the tragedy could have been averted if Modi had given the migrant workers at least a week's notice to return home, Guha said, "That he or his advisers did not think of the consequences of a lockdown at four hours notice is mystifying. They bear direct responsibility for the humanitarian tragedy that has since unfolded."  Guha said the tragedy has three dimensions -- public health, economy and society. "Had the migrants been allowed to go home in mid March, when few had COVID, they would have been safely re-integrated with their communities. Now, with so many of them infected, they are carriers of the disease," he said. Discussing the impact of the migrant crisis on the economy, he said it would have a cascading effect. “The economy was already in a shambles before the pandemic, and now it is in a state of near collapse. The unemployment rate is in the region of 25 per cent. "The social and psychological dimensions are also important; now, migrants who have after so much trouble and suffering finally returned home will be unwilling to return to factories and cities in search of work," the economist said. To a question on overall challenges such as a crumbling economy, allegations of threat to its founding principles and the pandemic facing the country, he said he is today more pessimistic about India than he has been ever been. "This is the greatest crisis India has faced since Partition. Then, we had towering politicians like Nehru, Patel, and Ambedkar; and great, selfless social workers like Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay and Mridula Sarabhai," he said. "These leaders set aside their personal and political differences to work together to unite India and rebuild its society and economy. Now, when we face a crisis of comparable magnitude, those in power at the Centre can think only of building their individual brand or promoting the interests of their own party," Guha observed. "Unless that changes, and changes soon, our future seems terribly bleak," he said. The Indian economy, Asia's third largest, has been hit hard by the nearly two-month lockdown of 1.3 billion people. Lakhs of people have lost their livelihoods while numerous sectors, including tourism, service industry, retail trade, real estate and manufacturing, are staring at a grim future due to huge losses. On May 12, Modi announced a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to revive the economy. It is not clear yet how far it will impact to bring back the economy on its tracks. According to an assessment by the Reserve Bank of India, the economy is expected to contract for the first time in nearly 40 years, due to demand compression and supply disruptions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-woes-greatest-manmade-tragedy-in-india-since-partition-ramchandra-guha-841330.html
24-05-2020||National||Reforms do not mean complete abolition of labour laws, says Rajiv Kumar||Amid concerns over changes in labour laws in various states, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar on Sunday said reforms do not mean complete abolition of labour laws and that the central government is committed to protecting the interests of workers. "I have just noticed that the Union Ministry of Labour is firming up its stance to tell the states that they cannot abolish labour laws because India is a signatory to the International Labour Organization (ILO)," Kumar told PTI in an interview. "Therefore, it is clear that the Union government does not believe that the reform of labour laws implies complete lack of labour laws... The government is committed to protecting the interest of workers," he said. He was replying to a query on whether labour reforms by states like Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat can be done without creating some kind of social safety net for wokers. Recently, the Uttar Pradesh government approved an ordinance to exempt various industries from certain labour laws for three years to revive the state's economic activities. Madhya Pradesh has also tweaked some labour laws amid the nationwide lockdown to spur economic activities. Some other states are also likely to follow suit. About the country's macroeconomic situation, Kumar said that just like the rest of the world, India is also suffering from the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.  The pandemic has resulted in serious loss of economic activities in the first two months of the first quarter of fiscal 2020-21, he said. Referring to RBI saying that the country's growth is likely to remain in the negative territory in the current fiscal, Kumar said, "the extent of that (negative growth) cannot be forecast at this point of time because there are too many unknowns, both in the domestic scene and in the global scene". On Friday, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said the impact of COVID-19 is more severe than anticipated and the GDP growth during 2020-21 is likely to remain in the negative territory. According to Kumar, the objective of the Rs 20 lakh crore-economic stimulus package announced by the government was to revive aggregate demand and not just consumer demand. "Huge amount of liquidity has been infused by the RBI and the Finance Minister's encouragement to all the banks to improve their credit flows means that it will help revive aggregate demand in the economy.  "So, the key therefore is that the financial sector and especially banking sector now becomes less risk averse and improves the credit flow to the MSMEs as well other segments of economy. If that happens, then the demand will revive and we will see the revival of economic activities in the country," Kumar emphasised. On whether there should be monetisation of deficit by RBI, the Niti Aayog Vice Chairman said the government is looking at all possible options to finance the stimulus package. When asked about the possibility of companies shifting their operations from China to India, Kumar said, "if we get our act together and we get the right policies to target companies which are making plans to move out of China, I think there is no reason to believe that they will not shift to India". To curb spreading of coronavirus infections, India and many other countries have imposed lockdowns, which have also impacted economic activities. Kumar said coronavirus induced-lockdowns have impacted different sectors of the economy as well as the entire global economic and trade situation. The lockdown in India was imposed on March 25 and it has been extended thrice. The lockdown is to end on May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reforms-do-not-mean-complete-abolition-of-labour-laws-says-rajiv-kumar-841334.html
24-05-2020||National||States should ensure thermal screening at departure point of airports, stations: Health min||The Health Ministry on Sunday issued guidelines for domestic travel, advising passengers to download the Aarogya Setu application on their mobile devices and asking states to ensure thermal screening at departure point of airports, railway stations and bus terminals. Asymptomatic passengers should be permitted to travel after being asked to self-monitor for 14 days, the ministry said.  Dos and Don'ts shall be provided along with tickets to travellers by agencies concerned, said the ministry's guidelines for domestic travel (air/train/inter-state bus travel). All passengers shall be advised to download the Arogya Setu application on their mobile devices, it said. The guidelines come after the Indian Railways last week issued a list of 100 pairs of trains that it will operate from June 1, putting in operation popular trains such as Durontos, Sampark Krantis, Jan Shatabdis and Poorva Express. Also, after a two-month hiatus, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri has announced resumption of domestic flights from May 25. In its guidelines for domestic travel, the health ministry said suitable announcement about COVID-19 including precautionary measures to be followed shall be made at airports, railway stations and bus terminals as well as in flights, trains and buses. The states/UTs shall ensure that all passengers undergo thermal screening at the point of departure and only asymptomatic passengers are allowed to board the flight, train or bus. During boarding and travel, all passengers shall use face covers or masks and will also follow hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene and maintain environmental hygiene, the ministry said in its guidelines.  At airports, railway stations and bus terminals, required measures to ensure social distancing shall be taken, the guidelines said. Airports, railway stations and bus terminals should be regularly sanitised or disinfected and the availability of soaps and sanitisers shall be ensured, the health ministry said. Thermal screening at exit point shall be arranged and asymptomatic passengers will be permitted to go with the advice that they shall self-monitor their health for 14 days, the guidelines said. "In case, they develop any symptoms, they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the state/national call centre (1075)," they said. Those found symptomatic will be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility and will be assessed for clinical severity at the health facility, the guidelines said. Those having moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to dedicated COVID health facilities and managed accordingly, the guidelines said. Those having mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation or isolated in the COVID Care Centre (both public & private facilities) as appropriate and tested as per ICMR protocol, they said. "If positive, they will continue in COVID Care Centre and will be managed as per clinical protocol. If negative, the passenger may be allowed to go home, isolate himself/herself and self-monitor his/her health for further 7 days," the health ministry said. In case, any symptoms develop they shall inform the district surveillance officer or the state or the national call centre (1075), it said. The ministry said that states can also develop their own protocol with regards to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-should-ensure-thermal-screening-at-departure-point-of-airports-stations-health-min-841337.html
24-05-2020||National||People stay indoors, shops wear deserted look on eve of Eid amid lockdown||The festive atmosphere was missing on the eve of Eid in the national capital on Sunday as people preferred to stay at their homes to offer namaz and most shops wore a deserted due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Eid-ul-Fitr, which marks the end of the fasting month of Ramzan, will be celebrated across the country on Monday.  The old city areas, which are usually crowded during Ramzan as people go for shopping to buy new clothes for the festival, wore a deserted look. With religious places shut due to the COVID-19 pandemic, people have been advised by Shahi Imams of Jama Masjid and Fatehpuri Masjid to stay indoors and offer Eid namaz at their homes. Mohammad Mohsin, a footwear trader in Ballimaran, said, "You cannot imagine celebrating Eid without participating in Eid namaz at a mosque. Besides, people also don't have money due to paralysed commercial and business activities in the past two months."  With coronavirus cases increasing in the city, people have been staying at their homes and observing social distancing norms by avoiding crowded places. "Main markets, where it would be difficult to move during normal days, more so on the occasion of Eid, are deserted. Shops are not opening because the entire supply chain has been disrupted in the country and also because people do not have money to spend," Akram Qureshi, president of Bazar Matia Mahal Traders Association, said. However, some people in inner parts and narrow bylanes of the old city areas of Matia Mahal, Chandni Chowk, Ballimaran visited shops to buy food items and new clothes for their children to celebrate Eid. In Shaheen Bagh, which was a protest venue for a section of people opposed to the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) earlier this year, a few shops were open as per the guidelines of the Delhi government in view of the lockdown. Similarly, in areas such as Jamia Nagar and Batla House, only a few shops were opened and less activity was witnessed in markets on the eve of Eid.  "We have decided to spend less on this Eid and help the needy and poor hit by the pandemic and the lockdown," Jamia Nagar-based social activist Muslim Mohammad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-stay-indoors-shops-wear-deserted-look-on-eve-of-eid-amid-lockdown-841359.html
24-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: 'Big-city school' dreams shattered for migrants' kids as families move back home||Fear of starvation amid the coronavirus-forced lockdown ended Shyam Babu's dream of "big-city school" for his child as the family packed their bags to return to their remote Chewara village in Bihar. For the last two months, he has been struggling to make ends meet. As Babu reminisces about the last eight years, since he moved to Gurugram in search of work, and ultimately got his son admitted to a school here, his 8-year-old son Neeraj is reluctant to leave and pleads his father that he will stay back and go to school when it reopens.  He fears that there may not be any coming back to Gurugram and he will have to study in a village school from now. "I have been in Gurugram for eight years now. I have worked as a labourer at different construction sites. I always wanted my son to study in a big-city school since those in villages are not that good. "Neeraj got admission in a government school here. His fees and meals were taken care of and we were happy that he will get a good education and will not have to work as a labourer when he grows up," Shyam Babu told PTI. With no work and wages pending, Babu's family had to vacate their rented room and were waiting for a chance to catch a train back home. "Neeraj wanted to stay back so that he can resume school when it reopens. But how can we leave him here alone?" he said. Unhappy about visiting his village suddenly with all their belongings, Neeraj said, "I like the school here. I wish I am able to come back and the situation turns normal soon. If they will let my father build houses, I will get to come here too." Tirath Kumar, a rickshaw puller, says that in his village in Bihar's Sheikhpura district big-city school is a sought after thing. "A rickshaw puller can work anywhere, but we chose to do it in a big city so that our kids get to study there. It is a very sought after thing there if your kids study in 'bade sheher ka school'. We have the same government schools there also but teaching is good in city schools. "I like it when my daughter talks in English fluently. She is smarter in maths too than her village friends," Kumar said.  He was determined to return to Gurugram after a few months.   "I will come back and see if we can again move here and will be able to survive. If yes, I will get my family here. Else my daughter will have to study in a village school only. Her education here is not expensive to manage as the anganwadi centres help too, but what will we eat, where will we stay?" he posed. Both Tirath Kumar and Shyam Babu's families left for their village on Shramik Special Train earlier this week, among hundreds of migrants labourers who were victims of reverse migration after being out of work due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Diwan Raj, who worked with a catering firm here, said, "My son's school here is very good. They also sent sanitiser and masks for the whole family and the teacher explained to us on phone about the virus and precautions everyone needs to take. You don't get all this in village schools. Children then struggle when they grow up." "I wish I could do something to keep things as they were. I also waited for two months hoping that situation will turn normal but we have exhausted our savings too now. Though the lockdown has been eased to some extent still there is no work, so we will now have to go back. There is no other option. We can live anywhere, we don't mind but my son's education will not be the same, I am more worried about this," he added. According to the Haryana Chief Minister's Office, so far over 2.60 lakh migrants have been sent home from the state. The country has been under lockdown since March 25 to contain the spread of the virus. The curbs have now been extended till May 31. It has thrown economic activities out of gear, rendered many homeless and penniless, beginning an exodus of migrants to their home states. While trains and buses are being arranged for them, lakhs of them continue to wait for their chance as they struggle to make ends meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-big-city-school-dreams-shattered-for-migrants-kids-as-families-move-back-home-841361.html
24-05-2020||National||Tade with caution to ensure compliance with competition law: CII tells cos amid COVID-19 crisis||At a time when coronavirus pandemic has disrupted economic activities, industry body CII on Sunday said companies must tread with caution when looking for business collaborations to ensure that their activities do not violate competition norms. Competition Commission of India (CCI), which keeps a tab on unfair business practices across sectors, has already issued an advisory mentioning that there are in-built safeguards under the Competition Act to protect businesses from sanctions for certain coordinated conduct subject to the condition that such activities result in increased efficiencies.  The fair trade watchdog has also mentioned that only such conduct of businesses which is necessary and proportionate to address concerns arising from COVID-19 would be considered. It has cautioned that businesses not to take advantage of COVID-19 to contravene any of the provisions of the Act. Coming out with a compliance manual on the Competition Act amid the pandemic, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said the impact of COVID-19 on the functioning of the economy may prompt companies to collaborate with their competitors to tackle the uncertainty and hardship faced. "Companies must note that antitrust laws continue to apply and all business decisions undertaken by companies must not fall foul of the provisions of Competition Act, 2002," it said, adding that CCI would keep a close watch for any potential competition law infringements during this period. The manual noted that companies must carefully evaluate their business operations during the COVID-19 period, especially if their operations might require close collaboration with its competitors. "The concrete antitrust risks surrounding any such collaboration remain difficult to assess. Given the absence of any guidance from CCI, companies should tread with caution and consult their antitrust lawyers as and when required or while exploring any collaboration," it said. Further, the grouping said companies should reach out to their external counsel to assess these risks and must avoid information exchanges through trade associations or any other platforms. Dominant enterprises must refrain from limiting production, services or technical development, excessive pricing and bundling non-essential products/ services with essential services. Companies having market power in the manufacture and sale of essential commodities must avoid entering into any exclusive distribution agreements, it added. CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee said there would be challenges for the industry given the shutdown and the work from the home scenario as well as other factors, including collaborations to cope with supply management, sharing of the distribution network and infrastructure. Referring to the guidelines in the manual, he also said they have been prepared for corporates to keep in mind while collaborating to ensure continued compliance with the competition law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tade-with-caution-to-ensure-compliance-with-competition-law-cii-tells-cos-amid-covid-19-crisis-841365.html
24-05-2020||National||SC to hear plea by BJP leader for weeding out fake social media accounts||A BJP leader and advocate has approached the Supreme Court against the Delhi High Court's judgement declining to act against bogus Facebook accounts and Twitter handles which proliferated fake news, and caused radicalism and at time, riots as well. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Krishna Murari and S Ravindra Bhat is scheduled to consider on Tuesday, May 26 the petition filed by Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay for weeding out fake social media accounts. The petitioner challenged the validity of the Delhi High Court's order of December 9, 2019, saying it failed to consider that at present, total number of Twitter handles in India are around 35 million and total number of Facebook accounts are 350 million, of which 10% are duplicate, bogus or fake. In his plea, he claimed, "Fake news is the root cause of many communal riots including the recent riots in Delhi, in which many people lost their lives. Fake social media accounts are used to promote casteism, communalism, regionalism, linguism, radicalism and separatism, which endangers fraternity, unity and national integration." He also contended various political parties and contesting candidates used fake social media accounts for not only self-promotion and image building but also to tarnish the image of opponent political parties and contesting candidates, especially during the elections. "The right to know the truth is an integral part of Article 19 of the Constitutuon and exposure to accurate information is a necessity for electors to make an informed choice, but, fake news has a tendency to influence this choice in a negative manner," he pointed out. The petition filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey contended the High Court has failed to appreciate that publication of fake news also involved use of black money, benami transaction, under-reporting of election expenses and indulging in other kinds of malpractices.  "Influence of black money has potential to result in an imbalanced election between people of different financial statures. Thus, in order to have free and fair elections, which is a basic dictum of democracy, level playing field is paramount and this cannot be achieved without weeding out fake social media accounts," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-plea-by-bjp-leader-for-weeding-out-fake-social-media-accounts-841367.html
24-05-2020||National||Three Hyundai India workers get coronavirus, showing restart risks||Three employees at Hyundai Motor Co's Indian plant have tested positive for the coronavirus, the company said on Sunday, days after the South Korean automaker resumed operations after a near two-month lockdown. Test results of sixteen more workers who possibly came into contact with the infected employees are expected over the next two days, a senior government official told Reuters. "The state's policy is to not let the industry stall," said P Ponniah, the top bureaucrat in the Kancheepuram district of southern India where Hyundai's plant is located. "We will ensure the areas inside the plant visited by the COVID positive employees are sanitised," he said, adding that until such time workers would be barred from working in those areas. Hyundai, which restarted operations at the plant on May 8, said the three employees started showing mild symptoms of coughs and colds in the first week of restarting and were tested positive. They are being treated, Hyundai's India spokesman said in a statement.  "All the necessary measures are being taken for contact tracing, self-isolation and complete sanitation," he said, adding the well-being of employees was a priority. The cases at Hyundai, India's second largest carmaker by market share, come as bigger rival Maruti Suzuki India said late on Saturday that one employee at its plant in the northern city of Manesar tested positive and there may be the possibility of a second case. The cases expose the risks and challenges Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government faces in restarting automobile production in an effort to kickstart the economy after a near two-month lockdown to fight the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-hyundai-india-workers-get-coronavirus-showing-restart-risks-841368.html
24-05-2020||National||Humanity in PM washing feet of safai workers vanished now: Raut||Taking a swipe at the Centre over the plight of migrant labourers amidst the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the humanity shown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi by washing the feet of conservatory workers seems to have vanished now. In his weekly column published in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', Raut said, "Prime Minister Modi had washed the feet of four conservatory workers in Varanasi and showed us the humanity. It seems this humanity has vanished in the last three months". The PM had washed the feet of safai karamcharis (sanitation workers) during Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj last February as a mark of respect for their work. Raut, who is the executive editor of the 'Saamana' and chief whip of the Sena in Parliament, also sought to draw parallels between "politicisation" of displacement of Kashmiri Pandits and the plight of migrant labourers, who are bearing the brunt of the lockdown. "The issue of Kashmiri Pandits being forced to leave their homes and living as refugees in their own country has been politicised frequently. Today, some six crore migrant workers are forced to live a similar way," he said. "Those who get angry with Adolf Hitler's cruelty and treatment to Jews should tell us what have they done for these migrant workers. If the ruling government is not moved by the sufferings of migrant workers in all states then this Coronavirus has ended the humanity," he said. Raut also targeted BJP leaders from Maharashtra over their "frequent" meeting with state governor B S Koshyari instead of interacting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who heads the Shiv Sena. "The Opposition in Maharashtra is consistently claiming that the Thackeray-led government has failed. They should not forget that governments of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat are actually the biggest failures in containing COVID-19 cases. "And since Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah hail from Gujarat, they cannot escape this responsibility," he said. Raut said that everybody is sailing in the same boat as far as the current COVID crisis and its adverse impact on the economy are concerned. "We have to work together to contain the outbreak," he added. Raut also slammed former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP who had criticised NCP chief Sharad Pawar for questioning the "Atma Nirbhar" package in the latter's recent letter to the prime minister. "Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis is getting agitated with letters of Sharad Pawar. Who has stopped him from writing letters to Prime Minister Modi?" he asked. Rut said the only agenda of Fadnavis is to dissolve the Sena-led tripartite government with the help of the governor. "If the Opposition keeps patients their lockdown will also end soon," Raut said cryptically. He also said that Opposition party (read BJP) is ridiculed the most on social media "which is not a good sign". Raut also asked Fadnavis to meet the CM and Sharad Pawar once||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/humanity-in-pm-washing-feet-of-safai-workers-vanished-now-raut-841369.html
24-05-2020||National||Bihar reports 12th COVID-19 death, total cases 2,477||A 48-year-old man has died of COVID-19 in Bihar, taking the coronavirus death toll in the state to 12, the state health department said on Sunday. The number of COVID-19 cases in the state increased to 2,477 with 87 people testing positive, it said. The deceased belonged to Marhaura in Saran district and was admitted to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on May 22 with fever and cough. He died on Saturday afternoon, PMCH Superintendent Bimal Kumar Karak told PTI. Though the deceased's sample was collected the day he was admitted but his test report confirmed that he was COVID-19 positive on Saturday after his death, Karak said. Asked whether the patient had a travel or contact history, Karak said that he had come to Saran from Tamil Nadu during lockdown period. So far, the contagion has claimed 12 lives that include two deaths each from Patna, Vaishali and Khagaria while one death each has been reported from Rohtas, Munger, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Begusarai and Saran.  Of the total 2,477 COVID-19 cases in the state, 12 people have died, 677 have recovered and 1,789 cases are active, the health department bulletin said. Patna district topped the list of COVID-19 cases with 196 patients while Rohtas stood at second with 151 cases. The other badly affected districts are Munger (145), Begusarai (141), Madhubani (136), Katihar (121), Khagaria (118), Buxar (110), Jehanabad (109).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-reports-12th-covid-19-death-total-cases-2477-841374.html
24-05-2020||National||COVID-19 Lockdown: Domestic passenger flights to resume Monday amid confusion over rules||Indian skies will open up for domestic passenger flights from Monday after a gap of two months but there was confusion following imposition of own set of conditions and rules by several states which are at odds with each other. Many states like Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu were opposed to opening up of their airports in view of rising cases of the coronavirus infection, making it difficult for the airlines as well as the civil aviation authorities to resume services.  Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Twitter on Sunday that it is "extremely ill-advised" to reopen airports in red zones. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she will urge the Centre to postpone resumption of domestic flight services at Kolkata and Bagdogra airports by a few days. On Sunday afternoon, AirAsia India said on Twitter that all passengers must read the health protocols of the destination states and it would "not be responsible for repatriating or bearing any quarantine or related costs of any guests". In the midst of uncertainty and confusion, representatives of airline and several states held multiple meetings with top officials of the Civil Aviation Ministry on Sunday covering a range of contentious issues like quarantine rules for flyers and standard operating procedures for leading airports, officials said. The focus of the deliberations was to have uniform quarantine rules following announcement of separate conditions by various state governments. However, it is not immediately clear whether uniform quarantine rules as envisaged could be finalised in the meetings. The government last week announced resumption of the domestic flight services from May under specific rules and guidelines like cap on ticket pricing, wearing of face masks by passengers, no food served on board planes and making available details of medical conditions by travellers through Aarogya Setu app or by filling up of a self declaration form. The government's decision came as the aviation sector was reeling under severe stress triggered by the coronavirus lockdown that began on March 25. However, many states expressed serious reservations to the Centre's decision to start the flight services. Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab, Assam and Andhra Pradesh have announced their respective quarantine measures for passengers arriving at their airports. Some states decided to put passengers on mandatory institutional quarantine while several others talked about putting them under home quarantine.  Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday questioned the need for quarantine if a passenger is shown green status in Aarogya Setu app. The green status signifies that a passenger is safe. However, as the states remained adamant on the matter, the central government is trying to create coherence in quarantine rules for flyers, officials said. They said bookings have been opened for around 1,050 domestic flights that will operate on Monday. Several executives from a number of airlines said since Mumbai airport and Kolkata airport handle a significant share of domestic flights, the operators are expecting the Centre to clarify the "prevailing confusion" relating to quarantine. "Clarity is required on matters regarding quarantine and flights to Mumbai and Kolkata as it is affecting our bookings. Passengers are reluctant to book in such an environment," said an executive of a low cost carrier. The Jammu and Kashmir government said on Saturday that all incoming passengers will have to undergo 14 days of "administrative quarantine". Similarly, the Kerala government said on Friday that all flyers will be put into 14 days' home quarantine and that it has made an exception to those coming for business purpose or for a short duration. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had said all incoming passengers will be put in home quarantine for 14 days while the Bihar government said that travellers will be put on "paid quarantine" for 14 days. Passengers coming to Andhra Pradesh would be put under home quarantine, said the state government, adding that once their test results for COVID-19 come negative, they will be relieved from quarantine. The Assam government on Friday said it will be putting flyers on a 14-day quarantine. The passengers might be distributed equally in home quarantine and government quarantine, it clarified. Karnataka government's health ministry made it clear said that anyone coming from states where there is "high prevalence" of COVID-19 will be kept in institutional quarantine for seven days and if tested COVID-negative, the passenger will have to spend the next seven days in home quarantine. Karnataka has classified Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh as "high prevalence" states. The passengers coming through remaining states in the country to Karnataka will have to undergo 14 days of home quarantine. However, the Karnataka health department clarified that special cases where businessmen are coming for urgent work will not require to undergo any quarantine if they bring test results that are not more than two days old and show them COVID-negative. Puri's announcement on Wednesday that airlines will resume domestic passenger flights from Monday came as a big breather for the aviation sector. Saujanya Shrivastava, Chief Operating Officer - Flights, MakeMyTrip and Goibibo, said: "With domestic flights taking off after 61 days of lockdown, there is an understandable apprehension amongst flyers. That said, we expect the situation to smoothen out as flyers gradually get attuned to the new safety protocols."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-domestic-passenger-flights-to-resume-monday-amid-confusion-over-rules-841383.html
24-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: HC asks Indian Railways to waive one-way ticket charges of migrants||The Gujarat High Court has directed the railway authorities to waive one-way train ticket charges of migrant workers, or the state government should bear the cost as an alternative arrangement. It said the government's response to a PIL seeking the court's direction for free transportation of migrant workers stranded due to the lockdown reflects that travel charges levied by the railway authorities are borne by a few host states, NGOs, employers, voluntary associations, and "this is not done".  "We direct the railway authorities to waive one-way charges of these migrant labourers or in the alternative, for the state government to bear such charges," a division bench of Justices J B Pardiwala and I J Vora said on Friday. The court's order came after the Vijay Rupani government said in a written reply that out of 22.5 lakh migrant workers in Gujarat, only 7,512 were registered under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act and they were thus, eligible for travel allowance. "The state government shall ensure that migrant workers do not have to face further difficulties for the purpose of travelling to their native places. The work in this regard shall continue in the right direction," the court said in an order. The state government told the court that nearly 22.5 lakh inter-state migrant workers lived in Gujarat, as per the state labour department's data. But, provisions of the Inter- State Migrant Workmen Act were applicable to only 7,512 workers who were registered under it. "Most of the 22.5 lakh migrant workers have come on their own and provisions for payment of travel and displacement allowances, as required under Sections 14 and 15 of the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, were not applicable to them," it said.  Under sections 14 and 15 of the Act, contractors are required to pay travel and displacement allowances to workers. The state government told the court that the Railways had been collecting transportation charges from workers even though travel arrangements were being made at the district- level by NGOs and civil society organisations. States, including Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, have said they would reimburse travel expenses to the Railways directly, it said. "No migrant worker has been denied travel to his hometown on account of non-payment of travel charges," the Gujarat government claimed. Following the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, over 11 lakh migrant workers have so far left from Gujarat for their native places by Shramik Special trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-hc-asks-indian-railways-to-waive-one-way-ticket-charges-of-migrants-841394.html
24-05-2020||National||Fees paid for transport dept valid till July 31||The Union Ministry of Road Transport on Sunday said all fee paid by public for getting documents or availing services under the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, including new driving license or renewing an existing one, learners licence,  international driving permit and for undertaking any test on or after February 1 will continue to be valid till July 31. "If there is delay in paying the fees from 1st of Feb, 2020 till the period of lockdown, there would not be any additional or late fee to be charged for such delays  till 31st July 2020, " the statement from the Ministry of Road Transport said. The Ministry statement came after the government received compalints about public facing difficulties in respect of various fees/late fees as mandated under rule 32 and 81 of Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989 due to lockdown in the country and closure of Government Transport Offices. There are cases where the fees have already been paid, for the service or renewal, however, the process could not be completed due to lockdown. Further, there are issues where citizen is finding difficult to deposit fees due to closure of RTO offices, the statement said. The Ministry earlier said it has extended the validity of all motor vehicle related documents whose validity expired since February 1 or would expire  till June 30 will be treated as valid till June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fees-paid-for-transport-dept-valid-till-july-31-841395.html
24-05-2020||National||People more worried about economic crisis than coronavirus, says study||People are more worried about economic crisis than health issues emanating from coronavirus pandemic, according to an online study conducted by IIM Lucknow on "Understanding public sentiment during lockdown". The study - conducted by Centre for Marketing in Emerging Economies (CMEE) at IIM Lucknow - revealed that majority (79 per cent) of people are worried and surrounded by feeling of fear (40 per cent) and sadness (22 per cent). The study, based on responses of participants from 104 cities across 23 states, said majority of respondents are worried about the economic impact of the lockdown. The other dominant fear among the people is the irrational behaviour of people, once the lockdown is lifted. "Worries of economic impact are top most in mind of people (32 per cent) while fear of others behaving irresponsibly during lockdown (15 per cent) and the uncertainty of it all (16 per cent) are the other key fears. "The single largest reason for worry voiced related to the economic impact of the lockdown following by the uncertainty around how long this will last. Worry of getting infected was not actually their biggest worry (14 per cent)," it said. The research study was conducted by Satyabhusan Dash and Avinash Jain (IIM Lucknow) in association with Ashu Sabharwal and Ankita Singh ( Qualisys research & consulting) and Mohankrishnan (Former VP, Kantar). It also showed that about 3 out of 5 expressed confidence in the government actions to help India combat the pandemic. Confidence increased from 57 per cent in Lockdown 1.0 to 63 per cent in Lockdown 2.0 as health infrastructure improved with news of masks, PPE kits arriving and better protocols being set. "Most of the confidence stems from the early lockdown undertaken by government and its efforts to maintain social distancing and contact tracing (70 per cent)," it said. Twenty nine per cent people surveyed felt good about people cooperating and adhering to required rules, 26 per cent expressed satisfaction with lower number of cases, and 19 per cent appreciated the strong leadership shown by the government, said the study based on 931 respondents. "Fear and sadness are the most dominant emotions for most with over 40 per cent expressing fear and 22 per cent expressing sadness...Between the Lockdown 1.0 & 2.0, while there is not much change in fear as an emotion," it said. CMEE said the study was conducted online in English across various social media platforms like Facebook, Linkedin and covered the Lockdown 1.0 and 2.0 period (March 25th to May 3rd). Given the nature of these platforms, the survey has a skew predominantly towards male (62 per cent) versus female (38 per cent), higher education (63 per cent post graduation and over) and upper income participants with 40 per cent of over 10 lakh annual income, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-more-worried-about-economic-crisis-than-coronavirus-says-study-841398.html
24-05-2020||National||Migrant worker's wife delivers baby onboard Shramik Special train||On her way to her home state Uttar Pradesh from here on a Shramik special train, a nine-month pregnant woman suddenly developed labour pains and gave birth to a baby girl, aided by women travelling with her. Her husband, Sandeep, a construction worker here, told PTI that his wife went into labour following which the other women formed a protective shield around her and aided in the birth. The couple were on their way to their native village Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh. Sandeep said his wife gave birth to the baby girl as the train approached Bina station in Madhya Pradesh.  Doctors there medically examined her and certified her fit for her onward journey. He said his co-travellers informed Deputy Commissioner of Police (Whitefield Division) M N Anucheth and an Indian Forest Service Officer Dipika Bajpai, who are working for migrants' needs during the COVID-19 pandemic, then alerted their batch mates in Uttar Pradesh. The couple alighted at Lucknow, after which the woman and her newborn were taken to a hospital by an ambulance. "The doctors did a medical check and gave some medicines. We then continued with our journey on a government bus to our home town Balrampur," Sandeep said. Inspector-General of Police and Additional Commissioner of Police (Administration), Bengaluru city police, Hemant Nimbalkar, said the woman had boarded the Shramik Special train without informing the authorities about her condition. "Her relatives too did not inform the authorities about her pregnancy.  In fact, the pregnant woman insisted on going back to her home town," Nimbalkar told PTI. Sharing the joy along with the photograph of the woman, Nimbalkar tweeted, "We made it @BlrCityPolice (Bengaluru City Police)! The mother and baby are fine & healthy. Folded hands to DCP Whitefield (M N Anucheth) who made it possible to board train to UP for this pregnant lady and husband. She delivered on board and all is well..." The Director-General of Police Praveen Sood too wished the family well, tweeting, "A new dawn...wishing the newborn a healthy beginning."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-workers-wife-delivers-baby-onboard-shramik-special-train-841399.html
24-05-2020||National||Centre's advise for self-monitoring of health in uniform guidelines for domestic travel||On the eve of resumption of flights within the country, the Health Ministry on Sunday issued uniform guidelines for domestic travel with advice to asymptomatic travelers to monitor their health for 14 days after completion of their journey. “States/UTs shall ensure that all passengers shall undergo thermal screening at the point of departure and only asymptomatic passengers are allowed to board the flight/bus/train,” the guidelines for domestic air, train, inter-state travel said. In separate guidelines for international arrivals, the Health Ministry reduced the period of mandatory institutional quarantine for air travelers from 14 days to seven days. All passengers arriving from foreign destinations will now have to undergo a seven days of institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by seven days of home isolation with self-monitoring of health. “Only for exceptional and compelling reasons such as cases of human distress, pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parents accompanied by children below 10 years, as assessed by the receiving states, home quarantine may be permitted for 14 days,” the guidelines for international arrivals said. The uniform guidelines were issued after Centre’s decision to not have mandatory quarantine for domestic air travelers came under criticism as migrant workers traveling by Shramik trains were subjected to compulsory quarantine at the destination. The Ministry has left it to the states to develop their own protocols for quarantine and isolation as per their assessment. Domestic passengers found to be symptomatic during screening (on return) shall be immediately isolated and taken to medical facility as per health protocol,” the guidelines said. The guidelines for domestic travel also state that dos and dont’s shall be provided along with tickets to the travelers by the agencies concerned. Suitable announcement about COVID-19, including precautionary measures to be followed shall be made at airports, railway stations and bus terminals as well as in flights, buses and trains, the guidelines said. The Health Ministry also advised passengers to download the Arogya Setu application on their mobile devices and asked states to ensure thermal screening at departure point of airports, railway stations and bus terminals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-advise-for-self-monitoring-of-health-in-uniform-guidelines-for-domestic-travel-841407.html
24-05-2020||National||2,818 Shramik Special trains have ferried around 37 lakh migrant workers since May 1, says Indian Railways||The Railways has ferried around 37 lakh migrant workers on board 2,818 'Shramik Special' trains since May 1, according to official data. While 565 trains are currently in transit, 2,253 have arrived at their destinations, the railways said. The 'Shramik Special' trains are being operated primarily on the requests of the states, which want to send migrant workers to their native places.  The Railways is bearing 85 per cent of the total cost of running each train while the rest is being borne by the states in the form of fares. According to data with the Railways, Uttar Pradesh (1,301) has received the highest number of Shramik Special trains, followed by Bihar (973) and Jharkhand (144) and Madhya Pradesh (116). Among the originating states, Gujarat (808) has used the most services to send migrant workers home, followed by Maharashtra (517) and Punjab (308). The railways on Saturday said that over the next 10 days it will operate 2,600 trains and carry 36 lakh migrant workers home. The coronavirus-triggered lockdown has had a devastating impact on the economy as well as on the livelihoods of lakhs of migrant workers.  It shone the spotlight on the miseries of migrant workers whose journeys on foot from several urban centres to their villages hundreds of kilometres away had grabbed headlines for almost two months. There were incidents of many of them being killed in road accidents. A number of migrant labourers were even killed by a speeding train after they fell asleep on the tracks. On May 1, the Railways started the migrant special trains to facilitate the movement of such workers back to their home states. While on the first day, four such trains were operated, it was escalated to 279 trains on May 20. In the last four days, the railways has operated 260 trains on an average daily carrying about three lakh passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2818-shramik-special-trains-have-ferried-around-37-lakh-migrant-workers-since-may-1-says-indian-railways-841409.html
24-05-2020||National||Wholesale vegetable prices fall sharply by up to 60% during lockdown||Wholesale prices of tomato, onion and other key seasonal vegetables have declined sharply by up to 60 per cent across the country, mainly due to higher production, compression of demand and market disruption amid COVID-19 crisis. However, the retail prices of most vegetables remain firm. According to data maintained by AGMARKNET under the Union Agriculture Ministry, the wholesale tomato prices were ruling below Rs 5 per kg in some states on May 24, while that of onion to Rs 6 per kg in the key producing state of Maharashtra. However, potato prices were stable at 12-13 per kg. Tomato, onion and potato are three key largely consuming vegetables in the country. The falling price trend was also seen in other vegetables such as ladies finger, capsicum, bitter gourd, bottle gourd, chillies and coriander leaves, among others. "It is a matter of concern that farmers are forced to sell at such low prices," government think-tank Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand told PTI. He said the fall in rates is due to an increase in arrival due to better crop production besides mandi disruption in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Chand, however, ruled out the impact of lack of demand from bulk users like hotels and restaurants. Since mandis come under the purview of states, the Niti Aayog member said they should step up efforts to ensure smooth functioning of wholesale markets. If they are not able to operate due to social distancing and COVID-19 reasons, other arrangements should be made to ensure farmers do not suffer. "Mandis are not working as usual. Maybe traders are not coming to markets. For instance Azadpur mandi in Delhi was closed for a few days due to COVID-19 reasons. There is impact on prices due to such disruptions," he said. Chand said he had suggested states in the beginning of COVID-19 crisis to suspend mandis for six months which not many states have done yet. Farmers should have been allowed to sell directly. Stating that demand for vegetables has compressed in this crisis period, agri-economist Ashok Gulati said the demand from bulk users like hotels and restaurants is missing. Even households are not buying in huge quantities because of fear of infection.  "After reports of traders in some mandis had got infected with the virus, there is fear among household consumers about the quality of vegetables. They find cleaning it everytime is a big hassle and therefore shifting to pulses, whose prices have shot up sharply due to rise in demand," he explained. Gulati said it is sad to see the government's TOP scheme under Operation Green has not been of much help to farmers in this situation. The government has spent only Rs 3 crore out of Rs 500 crore since its launch two years ago under the plan, whose objective is to help tomato, onion and potato (TOP) farmers in times of surplus output. According to AGMARKNET data, all India average wholesale rate of tomato dropped by 60 per cent to Rs 11 per kg on May 24 from Rs 27.50 per kg a year ago. Prices have fallen in 19 states but a sharp fall of up to 83 per cent was seen in Telangana, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. In Telangana, prices declined by 83 per cent to Rs 4.69 per kg on May 24 from over Rs 27 per kg a year ago, while prices in Karnataka slipped by 80.76 per cent to Rs 4.41 per kg from Rs 23 per kg. In Andhra Pradesh, prices dropped by 75.48 per cent to Rs 4.88 per kg from Rs 20 per kg. The wholesale prices of onion declined mainly in three states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi. In Maharashtra, the wholesale rates fell by over 27 per cent to little over Rs 6 per kg on May 24 this year from Rs 9 per kg a year ago, while in Karnataka rates fell by 17 per cent to Rs 8 per kg from Rs 9.50 per kg. The wholesale rate of potato, however, rose 44 per cent to Rs 18 per kg on May 24 from Rs 12.50 per kg a year ago. In Uttar Pradesh, it jumped two-fold to little over Rs 16 per kg. In Delhi too, rates have almost doubled to Rs 15 per kg.     The wholesale prices of chilli capsicum declined by up to 54 per cent in the key markets. In Karnataka, the rates fell by 53.67 per cent to Rs 20.65 per kg on May 24 from Rs 44.58 per kg. In Maharashtra, prices declined by 31 per cent to Rs 20 per kg from 24.50 per kg. In case of ladies finger (Bhindi), the all India average prices declined by 20 per cent to Rs 17.50 per kg on May 24 from Rs 22 per kg a year go. Prices have fallen in as many as 14 states. In Chattisgarh, rates have dropped by 57 per cent to Rs 4 per kg from  Rs 9 per kg, while in Gujarat, it slipped 45 per cent to little over Rs 10 per kg from over Rs 18 per kg. Similarly, the all India average price of bitter gourd fell 19 per cent to little over Rs 22 per kg from Rs 27.50 per kg. Prices have fallen in 15 states. That apart, all India average wholesale price of bottle gourd fell by 16.35 per cent to Rs 10 per kg on May 24 from Rs 12 per kg a year ago. Prices have fallen in 12 states. Prices of beans fell mainly in Karnataka, Odisha and Maharashtra. Maximum fall was seen in Odisha where the wholesale price fell by 35.43 per cent to Rs 24 per kg from Rs 37 per kg. In Karnataka, it dropped by 11 per cent to little over Rs 43 per kg from 49 per kg. Even prices of coriander leaves and green chillies showed a declining trend, as per the AGMARKNET.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wholesale-vegetable-prices-fall-sharply-by-up-to-60-during-lockdown-841413.html
24-05-2020||National||Surge in east-bound migrant special trains leading to network congestion, diversions: Indian Railways||With a surge in demand for migrant special trains to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the Railways is struggling to maintain the operating schedule of its Shramik Special trains leading to major diversions -- and complaints from travelling workers. The Railways has operated over 2,810 Shramik Special trains since May 1, carrying over 37 lakh passengers, 80 per cent of whom were bound for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, leading to major congestion on the routes, the Railways said.  While 1,301 of these trains were bound for Uttar Pradesh, 973 terminated in Bihar. "Most of the destinations in UP are around the Lucknow-Gorakhpur sector. In Bihar, it's around Patna. Of 565 trains that began their journeys yesterday, 266 were going to Bihar and 172 to Uttar Pradesh. ¨Convergence of trains to these destinations caused congestion on the network. Further, increased time taken in de-boarding of passengers due to the various health and social distancing protocols at stations is leading to congestion at terminals which further affects network congestion," the Railways said in a statement. The statement came after reports that a migrant special train which was to reach Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh reached Muzaffarpur in Bihar. On Saturday, a Shramik Special train from Mumbai which was to reach Gorakhpur, on Friday evening after a 24-hour journey, was rerouted via Odisha, adding two days and five states to the original journey. Officials said that the routes were so congested that it was difficult to operate trains on them and routes in eastern Uttar Pradesh like Goraphpur-Gonda-Lucknow were completely saturated.  "To ease the congestion, a few trains were diverted via Mathura, Jharsuguda. Further, route rationalisation order has been issued to avoid congestion on routes with heavy traffic. Round the clock monitoring at Railway Board level, zonal railway level and divisional level is being done to ensure that trains are not delayed. "The train running staff have also been sensitised to ensure punctual running of Shramik Special trains. With these efforts, the congestion position has eased considerably and the mobility of trains has drastically improved," the Railways said. To add to the misery of migrant labourers, due to the network congestion, trains got delayed affecting the meal distribution schedule. leading to thousands of passengers going hungry and thirsty. There were reports from many railway stations about protests by passengers over meals were being provided. "The IRCTC and the Railways have mobilized resources to ensure regular supply of meals and water to the Shramik trains and minimize inconvenience to the passengers,”the Railways said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surge-in-east-bound-migrant-special-trains-leading-to-network-congestion-diversions-indian-railways-841415.html
24-05-2020||National||Gen Rawat starts contributing Rs 50,000 per month to PM CARES, will continue for 1 year||Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat has decided to contribute Rs 6 lakh to the PM CARES fund for COVID-19 over a period of one year with a monthly contribution of Rs 50,000, officials said on Sunday. Gen Rawat has already started making the contribution from April and will continue it till March next year, they said. "The monthly contribution is 20 per cent of his total salary. In total, he will donate Rs 6 lakh to the PM-CARES fund," a military official said.  Gen Rawat, India's first Chief of Defence Staff, had donated one day's salary to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES) in March as part of a collective decision by the Defence Ministry and three services. In March, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced setting up of the PM CARES fund to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. Political leaders, corporates, defence personnel, employees of Railways and PSUs, and Bollywood personalities were among a cross-section of organisations and people making their contribution to the fund. Earlier this month, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh approved a proposal providing for a voluntary monthly contribution of one day's salary for next 11 months to the PM CARES fund for COVID-19 by nearly 1.5 million-strong armed forces and all other employees of the Defence Ministry.  The total estimated contribution would be around Rs 5,500 crore if a majority of the armed forces personnel and the employees of the ministry including from the defence public sector undertakings decide to go for it. According to an official note, the contribution to the PM CARES fund will start from May and will continue till March 2021. The defence minister, as well as all senior officials of the ministry and three services, are making their contributions to the fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gen-rawat-starts-contributing-rs-50000-per-month-to-pm-cares-will-continue-for-1-year-841418.html
24-05-2020||National||Curfew relaxed for air passengers, staff in Karnataka||The Karnataka state government permitted the movement of air passengers, airline and airport staff, and crew members to and from the Airport even during curfew period. The exemptions were made in an order by Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, which deleted 'domestic air travel of passengers' from the list of prohibited activities during lockdown.  The order, issued Sunday, allowed "unhindered/unrestricted movement of air passengers with valid air ticket, and airline staff/airport staff/crew members with valid IDs", during curfew period - between 7 pm to 7 am on all days and throughout Sunday when 24-hour curfew is in place till May 31. The directions were as per the prevailing guidelines and SOPs issued by the central and state governments. Centre recently permitted the resumption of domestic air travel in the country from May 25. Karnataka had agreed to resume flights with a few riders, which included seven day institutional quarantine followed by home quarantine for passengers from six states, registration on Seva Sindhu portal and others. Praveen Sood, Director General of Police, Karnataka, had announced the same in a tweet Saturday. The six states are Maharastra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/curfew-relaxed-for-air-passengers-staff-in-karnataka-841420.html
24-05-2020||National||MHA issues SOP for stranded Indians who wish to return||The government on Sunday issued a Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) for the return of Indians stranded abroad due to the coronavirus lockdown, saying it will be a paid service and preference will be given to those who are in distress, who have lost their jobs or to pregnant women. A similar SOP was also issued by the government for those who are stranded in India and desire to travel abroad. As per the latest SOP, issued by the Union Home Ministry, those who wish to return to India will have to register themselves with the Indian missions in that country, along with necessary details as prescribed by the Ministry of External Affairs. Priority will be given to compelling cases in distress, including migrant workers, labourers who have been laid off, short-term visa-holders facing expiry of visas, persons with medical emergency, pregnant women, elderly, those required to return to India due to death of family member, and students, the SOP said. The cost of travel, as specified by the carrier, will be borne by such travellers, it said. All those who will arrive from abroad will have to follow the guidelines for quarantine arrangements issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), the SOP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-issues-sop-for-stranded-indians-who-wish-to-return-841427.html
24-05-2020||National||Maharashtra coronavirus cases cross 50,000-mark||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra has crossed the 50,000-mark on Sunday. Urging people to be alert and cautious, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked people to take all necessary precautions and follow the COVID-19 prevention drill. Both, the Centre and the Maharashtra government expects a big spike in June-July coupled with added problem of monsoon. On Sunday,  58 deaths and 3,041 positive cases were reported from the state. This pushed the total progressive toll to 1,635 and cases to 50,231. A total of 1,196 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours taking the total to 14,600 patients who were treated and sent back home. In Mumbai, the financial capital of  India,  and worst-affected city,  the toll now stands at 988 and cases at 30,542. Sunday's spike of 3,041 in the state is the highest so far. The first positive case in Maharashtra was detected in Pune on 9 March,  when a couple  with travel history to Dubai tested positive.  The first death was reported on March 17 in Mumbai, when a 64-year-old man,  with travel history to Dubai, died. In a webcast on Sunday, Thackeray said the Centre estimated the cases to shoot up to 1.25 to 1.50 lakh by the end of May. "However, we have taken precautions  and as of now, there are 47,190 cases and 1,577 deaths...besides, 13,404 patients have been treated,  which is a big number," he said quoting figures of Saturday evening. "This information (of spike by May end) was conveyed (by Centre) so that necessary precautions are taken," he said,  adding that there is no doubt that there will be an increase in number, but the state is making all efforts to control the pandemic.  Thackeray also informed that 3.60  lakh plus Corona tests have been done in the state so far.  "There have been deaths,  but this includes many patients who were admitted to hospitals at eleventh hour and they were high risk patients," he said.  "The only symptoms were of cold, high temperature, cough but now if you feel like fatigue, feel tasteless, feel no odour, you must immediately approach hospitals for check-up," he said. Thackeray also made it clear that the "next battle" would be more serious and number of patients is likely to increase but appealed people not to resort to panicking since government is providing health services on a big scale.  Stating that there is blood shortage in the state, the Chief Minister appealed that people should come forward to donate blood for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-coronavirus-cases-cross-50000-mark-841437.html
24-05-2020||National||Domestic flights set to resume under quarantine shadow||Domestic flights are set to resume operations on Monday under the shadow of stiff restrictions by states asking all travellers to follow strict home quarantine to avoid the spread of COVID-19. After much persuasion by the Centre, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray decided to allow 25 flights every day into Mumbai, which is the worst-hit city by the COVID-19 outbreak. Karnataka has decided to put every incoming domestic flight passenger from six high-prevalence states – Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh – under institutional quarantine for seven days while advising home isolation of 14 days for those arriving from other states. West Bengal, which was ravaged by Cyclone Amphan last week, has asked the Centre to defer resumption of domestic flights to Kolkata and Bagdogra airports to May 28. The Union Health Ministry on Sunday issued uniform guidelines for domestic travel with advice to asymptomatic travellers to monitor their health for 14 days after completion of their journey. However, it had left it to the states to develop their own protocols for quarantine and isolation as per their assessment. Delhi government has decided to follow the guidelines issued by the Union government. States such as Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Odisha, Punjab have also decided to place passengers under home quarantine for 14 days. However, Odisha and Kerala have made exemptions from quarantine for those who plan to exit the state within 72 hours. In UP, short duration stay is allowed for seven days, provided the passenger gives details of his or her return journey. Short duration passengers will be asked to self-monitor their health and report to district authorities in case of any COVID-19 symptoms. Punjab has exempted frequent travelers such as salespersons, transporters, doctors, journalists from quarantine requirements. Himachal Pradesh has decided to allow only residents with valid address proof to enter the state, while sending the non-residents of the state to quarantine facilities. The Assam government has made it mandatory for all passengers coming to the state to stay under quarantine for 14 days. Neighbouring Meghalaya, which relies on Guwahati for air and rail connectivity, has decided not to grant permissions to pick up passengers arriving by rail or air till June 10 as they have to undergo health protocols set by the state government. Such passengers will be taken to Shillong or Tura for testing in buses arranged by the government and kept in institutional quarantine till the results are known. In separate guidelines for international arrivals, the Health Ministry reduced the period of mandatory institutional quarantine for air travelers from 14 days to seven days. All passengers arriving from foreign destinations will now have to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by seven days of home isolation with self-monitoring of health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-flights-set-to-resume-under-quarantine-shadow-841442.html
24-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Migrant workers trying to cycle 3500 km from Kerala to Assam stopped by police||Desperate to reach their home during the COVID-19 lockdown, five migrant workers from Assam set out from here on their bicycles hoping to pedal the over 3500-km journey to the north-eastern state but were stopped by police. The police team, on night patrol, stopped the five in their 20s at Chadayamangalam in Kollam, nearly 65 km from here on Friday night. "They desperately wanted to go home as it was quite some time since they met their kith and kin", a police officer said. They had a route map and planned to go via Tirunelveli and Chennai. The police official said since they suspected the guest workers might have entered the state from an area bordering Tamil Nadu, they sent them for 14 days observation. The workers did not carry any travel pass for their destination, the officer told PTI.  The health and revenue authorities were immediately informed and the workers were sent on 14 days quarantine at a centre near Kottarakara. "We told them there will be trains to Assam and they can board them either from Kollam or the state capital once they complete the quarantine," the official said. Recently, some workers had tried to walk all the way from Kannur to Bihar while some other workers had taken out protest marches demanding trains for their respective home states. At least 3.60 lakh workers had been put up in 20,826 camps in the southern state and 99 percent of them, hailing from West Bengal, Assam, Odisha, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, had wanted to return to their respective states.  Instead of providing just basic necessities such as food and accommodation for the workers, the state government had also made available televisions, carrom, chess boards in the camps for entertainment and even recharged their mobile phones so that they could keep in touch with their families. With the Shramik Special trains being introduced, many of the workers have returned to their home states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-workers-trying-to-cycle-3500-km-from-kerala-to-assam-stopped-by-police-841443.html
24-05-2020||National||Biggest spike of 208 COVID-19 cases in Bengal; death toll 200||The number of novel coronavirus infections in West Bengal rose by the highest margin of 208 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 3,667 on Sunday, the Health Department said. Three people -- two in Kolkata and one in Howrah -- have succumbed to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), raising the death toll due to the pandemic to 200, the department said. Of the 208 more people who tested positive for COVID-19, 52 were in Kolkata and 48 in Howrah. There are 2,056 active cases in Bengal, while the total has risen to 3,667, according to the bulletin. At least 58 more people have been discharged following recovery, taking number recoveries in the state to 1,339, it said. As many as 9,216 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and it took the total number to tests to 1,38,824, the bulletin said. Earlier, the government had attributed the death of 72 coronavirus patients to comorbidities and said COVID-19 in those cases was "incidental".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biggest-spike-of-208-covid-19-cases-in-bengal-death-toll-200-841447.html
24-05-2020||National||17 persons who came in contact with Sikkim's lone COVID-19 patient test negative||All the 17 persons who came in contact with the state's lone COVID-19 patient has tested negative for coronavirus infection, health officials said on Sunday. Sikkim reported its first coronavirus case on Saturday as a 25-year-old student who recently returned from Delhi tested positive. The samples of the 17 persons, including the driver of the state transport bus in which the student returned from Siliguri, tested by TruNat machines have come out as negative, officials said. However, they have been kept in institutional quarantine and their health parameters are being monitored, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/17-persons-who-came-in-contact-with-sikkims-lone-covid-19-patient-test-negative-841448.html
24-05-2020||National||India felt 'big jolt' with the sudden spike in cases due to Markaz incident: Harsh Vardhan||India felt a "big jolt" with the sudden spike in cases following the Nizamuddin Markaz incident, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday, asserting that the incident was a lesson for all communities that when a collective decision is taken by the country it must be followed with discipline. At the same time, he said there was no point talking about it now as strict contact tracing of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation participants was done and those who contracted coronavirus had been treated. In an interaction with BJP spokesperson G V L Narasimha Rao, Vardhan said that the state governments, the IT department, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Home Minister Amit Shah played an important role following the Tablighi Jamaat incident.  Asked by Rao if the incident was a take-off point, Vardhan said, "We feel bad raising the issue, but there is no doubt that around the second week of March when coronavirus was spreading rapidly across the globe and even after one and a half months had passed following the first case in India, the number of cases were very few, in a few states, when this unfortunate and irresponsible incident happened." "In Delhi, the law was such that more than 10-15 people could not have gathered. At that time, people from about one or one and a half dozen other countries were there," he said, adding social distancing was not followed. People coming from outside were bringing the disease with them and at such a time over 1,000 people were staying together without the knowledge of administration. When that information was received by authorities, these people were removed while many left on there own, the BJP leader said. "The country got a big jolt at that time when the cases increased suddenly and it resulted in the government deciding to take the drastic step of lockdown and other measures," he said. "It was an unfortunate incident and is a lesson for all sections and communities in the country that when a country takes a collective decision everyone should follow it with discipline as it is in everyone's larger interest," Vardhan said. A large congregation organised in March by the Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area of the national capital had emerged as a major hotspot. Some of the participants, who were later tested positive for coronavirus, had travelled to their home states and other areas.  Vardhan hailed the lockdown imposition as a bold decision which acted as a "potent social vaccine" against the virus and said it was taken at the right time. Many developed countries of the world put a lot of thought into taking this decision and decided to impose lockdown when the situation went out of control, he said. Vardhan also visited the Dedicated COVID-19 Health Centre (DCHC) at Chaudhary Brahm Prakash Ayurved Charak Sansthan (CBPACS) Najafgarh, where he said the testing capacity has also been ramped up and around 1,50,000 tests can be conducted every day. "Yesterday itself, we have conducted 1,10,397 tests. Till yesterday, we have conducted 29,44,874 tests," the minister said. India now has 422 government laboratories and 177 private laboratory chains, he said. Informing about the healthcare infrastructure set up across the country to deal with the pandemic, he said, “These have been divided into three categories viz. Dedicated COVID Hospitals (DCHs), Dedicated COVID Health Centres (DCHCs) and COVID Care Centres (CCCs) with adequate number of isolation beds, ICU beds and other facilities.” “A total of 968 Dedicated COVID Hospitals have been identified across the country with 2,50,397 beds (1,62,237 Isolation beds + 20,468 ICU beds); 2,065 Dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,76,946 beds (1,20,596 isolation beds + 10,691 ICU beds); and, 7,063 COVID Care Centres with 6,46,438 beds," he said. Talking about the protective equipment, he said the country is now making sufficient number of N95 masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) through the ramped up domestic manufacturing sector, and the requirements of the states are being sufficiently met. He f informed that states and UTs, as well as central institutions, have been provided with around 109.08 lakh N-95 masks and around 72.8 lakh PPE. Talking about the status of containment of COVID-19 in the country, Vardhan said, “Prior to lockdown, on March 25, 2020, the doubling rate was 3.2 when measured over a period of 3 days, 3.0 when measured over a period of 7 days and 4.1 when measured over a period of 14 days." "Today it stands at 13.0 over a 3-day window, 13.1 over a 7-day window and 12.7 when measured over a 14-day window. Similarly, the fatality rate stands at 2.9 per cent, while recovery rate has improved to 41.2 per cent. Clearly the situation has improved due to lockdown," he asserted. This also reflects on the quality of healthcare being provided to the COVID-19 patients, he said. Vardhan reviewed the arrangements at the centre for treatment of COVID-19 patients. While in the COVID-19 Health centre, the minister also interacted with a team of doctors and enquired about the wellbeing of COVID-19 patients. "Ayurveda is a traditional medicinal knowledge source from India and there is huge potential in it. Its inherent strength in holistic healing and wellbeing is being put to good use in treatment of the COVID-19 patients at this DCHC," Vardhan said. This knowledge and experience will surely prove beneficial to people all over the world, especially in the battle against COVID-19, he said. In his interaction with Rao, Vardhan said, "India has immensely benefited from the leadership of Prime Minister Modi in the fight against COVID as he swung into action preemptively and proactively. His decisions like lockdown and other advisories have worked as a potent social vaccine against the virus."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-felt-big-jolt-with-the-sudden-spike-in-cases-due-to-markaz-incident-harsh-vardhan-841449.html
24-05-2020||National||Fire at Noida school library, books and furniture gutted||A fire broke out at the library of a private school here on Sunday morning, gutting books and furniture, officials said. Nobody was injured in the fire that was reported around 8 am from the JBM Global School in Sector 132, the officials said. "The fire broke out in the library on the second floor of the private school. Around half-a-dozen fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the blaze was controlled by 10 am," Noida Chief Fire Safety Officer Arun Kumar Singh said. "Furniture and books in the library got destroyed in the fire," Singh told PTI. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained, he said. No activity was going on in the school and there were no children inside the premises due to the lockdown imposed in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-at-noida-school-library-books-and-furniture-gutted-841451.html
24-05-2020||National||COVID-19: No domestic flights in West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh on May 25||The airports in Kolkata and Bagdogra in West Bengal and Vizag and Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh will not handle any domestic flights on Monday while the ones at Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad will deal with a reduced number of domestic services, senior government officials said on Sunday. A day before the resumption of domestic commercial passenger flights across India, multiple meetings were held at the Civil Aviation Ministry among various stakeholders as states expressed their reluctance to deal with so many incoming flyers amid the coronavirus pandemic. Therefore, it was decided on Sunday evening that Kolkata and Bagdogra will each handle just 20 flights per day from Thursday, the officials said, adding that these two airports in West Bengal will not handle any flights between Monday and Wednesday. "It has been a long day of hard negotiations with various state govt to recommence civil aviation operations in the country," said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Twitter on Sunday night. "Except Andhra Pradesh which will start on 26/5 & West Bengal on 28/5, domestic flights will recommence across the country from tomorrow (Monday)," he added. The Hyderabad airport will deal with only 30 domestic flights per day from Monday, the government officials said, adding that 50 per cent of these will be departures and remaining would be arrivals. There will be no domestic services at the Vijaywada and the Vizag airports on Monday, and they will be handling only 20 per cent of the pre-lockdown flights from Tuesday onwards, the officials said. "As per the request of the state govt, operations in Andhra Pradesh will recommence on a limited scale from 26 May," Puri said. "For Tamil Nadu there will be max 25 arrivals in Chennai but there's no limit on the number of departures. For other airports in Tamil Nadu flights will operate as in other parts of the country," he added. Indian airlines, who had opened their bookings on domestic services 2-3 days ago, will have to cancel a significant number of flights to these cities where the central government curtailed operations on Sunday. The Mumbai airport, India's second busiest airpo rt, will handle only 50 flights per day from Monday, said officials, adding that all other airports in Maharashtra will deal with just one-third of the pre-lockdown domestic air traffic. The Mumbai airport's operator MIAL on Sunday said it will "resume 25 commercial passenger flight movements on departure and 25 on arrival".    Indian skies will open up for domestic passenger flights from Monday after a gap of two months. It was announced last Thursday that one-third of the pre-lockdown domestic flights will operate from Monday. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had on Saturday said she will urge the Centre to postpone the resumption of domestic flight services at the Kolkata and the Bagdogra airports by a few days. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Twitter on Sunday that it is "extremely ill-advised" to reopen airports in red zones. International commercial passenger flight services remain suspended in India. "Starting tomorrow, there will be limited flights from Mumbai & as per approved one-third schedule from other airports in the state. Limited operations to West Bengal will commence on 28th May 2020," Puri said on Twitter on Sunday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-no-domestic-flights-in-west-bengal-and-andhra-pradesh-on-may-25-841462.html
24-05-2020||National||Special train carrying 992 people from Pune reaches Manipur||A special train carrying 992 stranded people from Maharashtra's Pune arrived at Jiribam station of Manipur on Sunday, an official said. After the train reached Jiribam around 11 AM, the passengers were received by officials of the district administration and leaders of civil society organizations. The police served cooked food to the people inside the stationary train, the official said. State health department officials screened all the passengers for COVID-19 symptoms and sent them to their respective home districts in buses, he said.  As per norms, all the returnees will be placed in institutional or community quarantine centres, in their respective districts for 14 days. The Jiribam district administration is also expecting three more special trains from Mumbai, Goa and Delhi on Monday, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-train-carrying-992-people-from-pune-reaches-manipur-841466.html
24-05-2020||National||Tihar Jail reports first COVID-19 case as assistant superintendent tests positive||Tihar Jail reported its first coronavirus case after a 45-year assistant superintendent tested positive for the infection on Sunday, jail officials said. The assistant superintendent, posted at Central Jail No 7, is a resident of Staff Residential Complex of Tihar Jail, they said. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said the assistant superintendent had taken leave on Friday as he wanted to go home and meet his family but he did not show any symptoms. However, before leaving, he got himself tested for COVID-19 on May 22 in Amrapali Hospital and his results came positive on Sunday, he said. According to the jail officials, as the official was tested positive his contact tracing was done by jail authorities and it was found that one jail staffer, who is said to have been in close contact with the infected jail staffer, has been tested for COVID-19 but his results are awaited and he was sent for home quarantine.  While five others, including two other jail staffers, who also came in contact, have been sent on home quarantine while three inmates have been kept in an isolation barrack, senior jail officials said. As a precautionary measure, the infected official's nine neighbours, who also work at different Delhi jails, have been asked to quarantine themselves and not to attend duties even though none of them came in contact with him, they said. All the men are presently asymptomatic and authorities will keep a check on their medical condition, they added. Till date, 18 people from Rohini Jail have tested positive for COVID-19 while another case was also reported from Mandoli Jail after a deputy superintendent tested positive last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tihar-jail-reports-first-covid-19-case-as-assistant-superintendent-tests-positive-841476.html
24-05-2020||National||Chhattisgarh: Union minister threatens officials for 'attacking' man||Union minister and BJP MP from Chhattisgarh, Renuka Singh, has kicked up a row with her purported remarks directed at the state government officials, saying she will "hang" those responsible for meting out injustice to people of her constituency. In a video that has gone viral, the Minister of State for Tribal Affairs can also be heard saying that she knows "very well how to hit after pulling out a belt in a dark room The video was shot durng her visit to a quarantine centre in Chhattisgarh's Balrampur district on Saturday. The minister, who represents Surguja seat, was reportedly angry after a man placed in a quarantine centre was allegedly assaulted by officials when he raised objections over poor arrangements at the facility. In the video, Singh is seen standing in front of a quarantine centre saying that Balrampur janpad panchayat CEO and tehsildar had assaulted one Dilip (22) in the facility. The government officials present on the occasion were Balrampur Janpad Panchayat CEO Vinay Gupta and tehsildar Shabab Khan. "The youth is saying that he was abused and thrashed by the CEO and the tehsildar..If injustice is done to people of my area, I will hang (those who will be responsible)," the minister can be heard saying in the video. "The entire administration is engaged in covering up the (assault) incident...you decide your own punishment. Such 'dadagiri' will not be tolerated. Don't think that we (BJP) are not in power. We hd ruled here for 15 years..Don't think that these saffron-clad BJP workers are weak. Forget about discriminating against BJP workers by sitting in the district and tehsil offices," she is heard saying in the video. The minister further said: "I know very well how to hit after pulling out a belt in a dark room". She also questionned the officials about the "improper" upkeep of quarantine centres "despite the Union government sending enough money". On Sunday, Singh said the concerned youth had shot a video of the quarantine centre which became viral. "After that, a tehsildar and Janpad Panchayat CEO, instead of looking into the arrangements at the quarantine centre, thrashed him brutally (on May 16). On the same night, the youth was shifted to another quarantine centre (in Daura village). "When his father came to know about the incident, he approached me, following which I spoke to officials who denied any such incident had happened," she said. Singh demanded strict action against officials, saying the youth was being falsely implicated into a case of violation of quarantine protocols. Slamming Singh, Congress MP Chhaya Verma said that misbehaving with government employees, who are the frontline warriors in the fight against coronavirus, does not behove a Union minister. "Such language against them by Renuka Singh has exposed the real face and character of the ruling BJP at the Centre," she said. Meanwhile, the district administration has ordered an inquiry into the alleged assault on the youth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-union-minister-threatens-officials-for-attacking-man-841478.html
24-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: India among top 10 countries with highest number of cases||With more than 6,000 COVID-19 cases recorded for the fourth consecutive day, India on Sunday bracketed itself among the world's top 10 countries with the maximum number of novel coronavirus infections. The number of total cases in India is in excess of 1,37,000, whereas death toll has crossed the 4,000 mark. On the number of active cases, India with over 75,700 cases, stands fifth after the USA, Russia, Brazil and France.  Globally, the number of active cases are in excess of 28 lakh, out of which, more than 11 lakhs are in the USA. The surge happened during the 61-days of lockdown - announced by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 at 8 PM, giving a country of 133 crore people only four hours notice -  during which lakhs of migrant labourers moved from one place to another.     The two months of shutdown were also punctuated by super spreading incidents like the Tabilghi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi as well as spread from Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex in Chennai that took the infections to many places in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. Asia's biggest slum, Dhravi has now emerged as a problem area. On Sunday, Maharashtra reported more than 3,000 cases in a day for the first time. However, not everything is bleak. A disease prediction model run by scientists at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai recorded a lower R value even after relaxation of the lockdown, suggesting a drop in the disease growth rate. R, (reproduction number) is the number of persons that one infected person can spread the infection to. R value of 1.9 means that 10 infected persons will on average cause 19 new infections.  Till about a week, India's R value was in the range of 1.3. But when the model was run on May 20 - after the announcement of lockdown 4.0 - the scientists were pleasantly surprised - instead of going up due to the relaxation, the R value has declined. "When I last evaluated it on May 20,  the R seemed more like 1.22 (with an error margin of 0.04).  This is really surprising. I was actually expecting it to go up following the relaxation of the lockdown," Sitabhra Sinha, IMSc professor who worked on the model told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-among-top-10-countries-with-highest-number-of-cases-841479.html
24-05-2020||National||After HCQ to combat COVID-19, India now sends Iran pesticides to fight locusts, Pakistan again spurns offer||India is sending a consignment of pesticides to Iran to help the West Asian nation save its crops from being ravaged by swarms of desert locusts, although it has not yet received a positive response to a similar offer of support it made to Pakistan. Pakistan earlier sought to block attempts by India to work with all other South Asian nations and work out a regional strategy to counter the COVID-19 pandemic.  The Hindustan Insecticides Limited (HIL) – a public sector undertaking under the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers of the Government of India – is now in the process of production and supply of 25 MT of “Malathion Technical” pesticide to support locust control programme in Sistan-Balochistan and South Khorasan provinces of Iran. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has asked the HIL to produce and supply the consignment of the pesticides to the West Asian nation, after Tehran positively responded to New Delhi’s proposal for a coordinated response to the menace of desert locusts. Pakistan, however, cold-shouldered India’s proposal to strengthen bilateral institutional mechanisms to coordinate responses to attacks by the locusts as well as its offer to supply pesticides. It rather indicated that it would rely on its “all-weather friend” China. China so far donated 300 tons of locust control pesticides to Pakistan, along with 350 vehicle-mounted sprayers. The Chinese Government also sent a team of locust control experts to Pakistan to help local officials deal with the menace. Even as the world is grappling to contain the Covid-19 pandemic and bracing to deal with its impact on the economy, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations has warned Kenya, Ethiopia, Somalia, Iran, Pakistan and India about an invasion by the swarms of desert locusts, which, according to it, is going to be much worse than normal, possibly the worst in decades. The FAO reported that hopper bands of the locusts were maturing along the southwestern coastal plains in Iran, while another generation of breeding was underway in the southeast of the West Asian nation with hatching taking place on the coast and in the interior of the country’s Sistan-Baluchistan province. The adult groups were migrating from spring breeding areas in Balochistan province of Pakistan to summer breeding areas near the country’s border with India. The hopper groups were also present in Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in Pakistan, according to the UN agency. The adult groups and small swarms already reached India from Pakistan in the past weeks, ravaging crops in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan and posing a grave threat to Maharashtra as well. The desert locust is the most dangerous and voracious migratory pest of the world, with a geographical range that could cover the equivalent of 20 percent of the surface of the earth. The swarms of desert locusts can travel up to 150 kilometres every day in search of food, migrating across long distances and even spreading from one continent to another. India already has an existing institutionalized mechanism with Pakistan for bilateral cooperation to deal with raids by desert locusts, including holding six meetings on the border between plant protection advisors and other officials of the two nations for exchange of information. The two sides also maintain wireless communication between officials in Jodhpur (India) and Karachi (Pakistan) every year during the period from June to November every year. New Delhi offered to build on the mechanism to coordinate a stronger response to the swarms of locusts, which, according to the experts, might pose a grave threat to food security in South Asia. Pakistan, however, did not respond to the offer from India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-hcq-to-combat-covid-19-india-now-sends-iran-pesticides-to-fight-locusts-pakistan-again-spurns-offer-841481.html
24-05-2020||National||No signs of Indian, Chinese troops backing off as standoff persists in eastern Ladakh||Indian and Chinese troops appeared heading for a long haul as their tense standoff in the disputed areas of Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh showed no signs of abating even as efforts to de-escalate the tension through talks continued. In the midst of the flare-ups, the Indian Army on Sunday categorically rejected reports that Indian patrol teams were detained by Chinese troops in Eastern Ladakh in the last few days, but did not provide any details of the current situation in the region. "There has been no detention of Indian soldiers at the borders. We categorically deny this. It only hurts national interests when media outlets publish unsubstantiated news," the Army said in a statement. People familiar with the situation in the region said the two sides were engaged in trying to resolve the dispute, but there was no indication of a positive outcome yet as both the armies continued to bolster their positions in disputed areas of Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley and Demchok. The Chinese side has particularly strengthened its presence in the Galwan Valley, erecting around 100 tents in the last two weeks and bringing in heavy equipment for construction of bunkers. The Indian side has conveyed its strong objection to China pitching tents and bringing in heavy equipment during the meetings between local commanders of the two armies last week. There have been reports of multiple incidents of transgressions by Chinese troops in several areas in Eastern Ladakh and soldiers from the two sides were involved in scuffles on at least two occasions, sources said. The sources said the Indian Army has also been increasing its strength in both Pangong Tso lake, Galwan Valley and Demchok. The Indian troops are also resorting to "aggressive patrolling" in several sensitive areas including Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldi, they said. The situation in Eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to "disengage" following a meeting at the level of local commanders. Over 100 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in the violence. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in North Sikkim on May 9. India on Thursday said the Chinese military was hindering normal patrolling by its troops and asserted that India has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also strongly refuted China's contention that the tension was triggered due to trespassing by Indian forces on the Chinese side. India's response came two days after China accused the Indian Army of trespassing into its territory, claiming that it was an "attempt to unilaterally change the status" of the LAC in Sikkim and Ladakh. On May 5, the Indian and Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. China has been critical of India's reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir, and has particularly criticised New Delhi for making Ladakh a union territory. China lays claim over several parts of Ladakh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping held their first informal summit in April 2018 in the Chinese city of Wuhan, months after the Doklam standoff. In the summit, the two leaders decided to issue "strategic guidance" to their militaries to strengthen communications so that they can build trust and understanding. Modi and Xi held their second informal summit in Mamallapuram near Chennai in October last year with a focus on further broadening bilateral ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-signs-of-indian-chinese-troops-backing-off-as-standoff-persists-in-eastern-ladakh-841486.html
24-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: Division in Opposition ranks comes out in open once again||Division in the Opposition ranks came out in open once again with BSP, which skipped a joint meeting of the non-BJP parties, targeting Congress for the plight of migrant workers during COVID-19 lockdown. The Opposition also got a piece of advice from former senior BJP leader Yashwant Sinha who said "mere 'statementbazi' (releasing press statements) will not suffice any more" as the BJP government is "blind to the suffering of the poor". BSP chief Mayawati took to Twitter on Saturday to target the Congress, a day after top leaders of 22 Opposition parties met in Delhi to chalk out a strategy to corner Narendra Modi on its "failed" COVID-19 response, as she put the blame on the Grand Old Party. 3. साथ ही, बीजेपी की केन्द्र व राज्य सरकारें कांग्रेस के पदचिन्हों पर ना चलकर, इन बेहाल घर वापसी कर रहे मजदूरों को उनके गांवों/शहरों में ही रोजी-रोटी की सही व्यवस्था करके उन्हें आत्मनिर्भर बनाने की नीति पर यदि अमल करती हैं तो फिर आगे ऐसी दुर्दशा इन्हें शायद कभी नहीं झेलनी पड़ेगी। "Congress is the real culprit in the plight of crores of migrant workers due to coronavirus. Had it provided enough employment opportunities, no worker would have to leave villages for cities in search or livelihood," she said. Taking a dig at the video of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi interacting with migrant workers in Delhi, she said it appeared more of "theatrics". Instead, she said, Rahul should have informed how many people his party actually helped.  Advising the BJP, she said the saffron party would not face Congress' predicament if it helps the migrant workers by making them self reliant. Her comments came after the 22 "like-minded" parties asked the government to spell out its exit strategy for lockdown and demanded announcement of a "true fiscal stimulus" by junking the "misleading" Rs 20 lakh crore package, which was a "cruel joke" played on the people. The leaders had decided to approach the government with its demands but Yashwant Sinha believes it is of now use. Taking to Twitter, he said, "Opposition parties should hit the streets instead of petitioning the govt which is deaf and blind to the suffering of the poor. Mere 'statementbazi' will not suffice any more." Opposition parties shd hit the streets instead of petitioning the govt which is deaf and blind to the suffering of the poor. Mere statementbazi will not suffice any more. "This is the most incompetent government of independent India. Everything it touches, it mismanages.  Look what is happening to the trains, as if the migrants have not suffered enough already," the former Finance Minister during A B Vajpayee government said. Besides BSP, the Samajwadi Party also declined the invitation to join the meeting, taking some sheen out of the joint Opposition meet, the first after the Covid-19 lockdown was announced.  Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP was not invited to the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-division-in-opposition-ranks-comes-out-in-open-once-again-841296.html
24-05-2020||National Politics||Mayawati prepares to go solo in next UP assembly polls||Struggling to remain politically relevant and ensure complete hold over 'dalits', her core vote bank in Uttar Pradesh, BSP supremo Mayawati is preparing to go solo in the next state assembly polls, due in little less than two year's time. Mayawati, who had allied with arch rival Samajwadi Party (SP) in the state in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, has been critical of both Congress and BJP, and though she has so far avoided directly attacking SP president Akhilesh Yadav, the latter has made it clear that his party will not have any alliance in the next UP assembly polls. The BSP supremo has singled out Congress, especially after its general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took charge of the grand old party, and has not let go any opportunity to attack it. Whether it was the Congress' offer to provide one thousand buses to ferry the stranded migrant workers home or it is former president Rahul Gandhi's interaction with the workers and the subsequent release of the video on the same, Mayawati has been quite scathing in her criticism of the Congress. ''It is the Congress, which is responsible for the plight of the migrant workers....the policies of the successive Congress governments have always been anti-poor,'' Mayawati said. According to the political observers here, Mayawati's attack on the Congress was aimed at ''keeping intact'' her core 'dalit' vote bank.  ''Dalits have traditionally been voters of the Congress and the latter is again trying to woo them aggressively....Mayawati will certainly not allow that,'' said J.P.Shukla, a Lucknow based analyst while speaking to DH. ''Congress' attempt to bring dalit leader Chandrashekhar alias Ravan has also not gone down well with Mayawati, who has dubbed the former a BJP agent,'' he added. Congress leader P.L.Punia, who hailed from the SC community, said that Mayawati did not raise her voice, when 'dalits' were 'targetted' by the BJP government.  ''Dalits will support the Congress in the next polls,'' he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mayawati-prepares-to-go-solo-in-next-up-assembly-polls-841389.html
24-05-2020||National Politics||‘BJP worked on Ajit after Sharad Pawar said no to Modi’s proposal’||Nobody will dispute NCP chief Sharad Pawar's special knack to read the tea leaves correctly and it appears he had the first inkling of his nephew Ajit Pawar jumping the ship when Shiv Sena, Congress and his party were close to seal a power deal, two days after a meeting he had with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss farmers' issue. Pawar's meeting with Modi on November 20 last year in the midst of hectic parleys for government formation in Maharashtra had set the tongues wagging as the latter had extended a hand of friendship to the Maratha strongman. But Pawar said a firm 'no' to the proposal, which prompted the BJP to switch to Plan B or ‘Mission Ajit Pawar’, a new book '36 Days: A Political Chronicle of Ambition, Deception, Trust and Betrayal' by journalist Kamlesh Sutar. Shiv Sena had come out of the NDA over the issue of rotational chief minister after the Sena-BJP coalition won a majority in Maharashtra Assembly elections. Pawar then took the leadership to install a non-BJP government in the state and hectic parleys were held between Sena, NCP and Congress. On November 22, the three parties had met at Nehru Centre in Worli where they had decided on Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray as Chief Minister. Pawar got curious as the way the things unravelled. Ajit had left this meeting soon after the senior Pawar stormed out of the deliberations following a verbal duel with senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge over the issue of Speakership. Pawar had instructed his nephew and other party leaders to sit through the meeting before leaving the meeting. At that time, Pawar has no clue what his nephew was up to in the next couple of hours. Coming out of the meeting mid-way, the book says, Ajit changed his car and drove straight to an “undisclosed location” for a discussion with senior BJP leader and then party president Amit Shah’s emissary Bhupendra Yadav. This culminated in Ajit attempting a coup on his uncle by joining hands with the BJP. Pawar first ignored Kharge’s suggestion on giving Speaker post to Prithviraj Chavan, whom the NCP chief was in no good terms. Second time when he raised the issue, Kharge reminded Pawar that he had promised the post to Congress, the book says. Pawar was "visibly offended” at Kharge’s tone and tenor and the former wrapped up his files and left saying, "what are you trying to suggest? Are you trying to suggest I am lying? I am not interested in talking any further if this is how the talks are going to be." Ajit jumped into the argument but "hurriedly left" soon after, with other leaders thinking that he was angry because of the heated exchange. "However, that wasn't the case." According to the book, Ajit had come out of the meeting and changed his car. BJP's Yadav was waiting for him and they met an "undisclosed location to finalise the swearing-in" of Devendra Fadnavis as Chief Minister and Ajit as Deputy Chief Minister. "Ajit had already consented to join hands with the BJP a few days ago. Immediately after Pawar’s refusal to Narendra Modi, ‘Mission Ajit Pawar’ was expedited by the BJP. An NCP leader who was friends with a top state BJP leader had already tipped Fadnavis on how Ajit Pawar had once insisted on the possibility of thinking of BJP as an option in the initial days of the political logjam. The lines of communication with Ajit Pawar were opened from then and there," the book says. "Bhupendra Yadav started working the deal with Ajit. During Ajit’s visit to Delhi, a meeting was also organized between him and Amit Shah to give Ajit the confidence that the BJP’s top leadership was closely involved in the developments. Ajit had since started to identify MLAs who would join him in the coup. It was not going to be an easy rebellion. After all, it was going to be against one of the most astute politicians," it says. The senior Pawar was not the one to not keep a track of what was happening. Soon after he left the meeting, the book says, a "curious" Pawar made a call to Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut asking him what happened after he left and whereabouts of Ajit. Raut told him Ajit too had left immediately after him while NCP leader Jayant Patil told him that his nephew had gone to meet a lawyer. Both Pawar and Raut called Ajit but they could not get a response while none of his staff or close aides knew where he was. While Ajit gave a shocker to the senior Pawar by swearing in as Deputy Chief Minister with around a dozen NCP MLAs in attendance in Raj Bhavan. But Pawar was not the one who was ready to lose the battle and managed to bring back all the MLAs back. Eventually, Ajit too came back and a coalition government of Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP was formed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-worked-on-ajit-after-sharad-pawar-said-no-to-modi-s-proposal-841402.html
24-05-2020||National Politics||After Palghar, BJP targets Uddhav Thackeray on Nanded sadhu murder||"The murder of the sadhu was shocking and painful," Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said. The Lingayat seer,  Shivacharya Nirvanarudra Pashupatinath Maharaj, was killed in Umri in Nanded district.  The accused also killed another suspect in the case - in the shocking incident of double murder. "It is my request to the State Government that all the accused must be immediately arrested and to ensure that they are severely punished," said Fadnavis, a former Chief Minister. State BJP President said that the Palghar mob lynching incident, involving two sadhus, and Nanded incident are shocking. "Sadhus and saints are not safe," Patil said targetting the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-palghar-bjp-targets-uddhav-thackeray-on-nanded-sadhu-murder-841470.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Children shelter home evacuated after complaint of COVID-19 case in building||Children living in a shelter home in Nabi Karim area were evacuated by the Delhi government after it received a complaint that a coronavirus case was found in the building which housed the children's home. On Friday, Women and Child Development Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam received a complaint from Vishwajeet Ghoshal, the Director of Prayas JAC Society, stating that a COVID-19 case has been reported in the building that housed one of the Society's shelter homes, a government statement said. The complaint also stated that the children were facing hardships since the area has been declared a containment zone.  Within 15 minutes of the receipt of the representation, the minister directed Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) to promptly act on the complaint, it said. In the light of this health emergency among children, the minister directed DCPCR to make arrangements to shift the children to another shelter home in Peeragarhi.  "Nabi Karim is a containment zone which posed a health emergency to the children living in the shelter home. Timely evacuation by DCPCR with the help of the District Magistrate and other local bodies was needed. It is our duty to ensure safety and protection of children," Gautam said. Ghoshal thanked Gautam for timely action in the matter.  "We place our sincere thanks on records for your timely support in making it possible, the shifting of children from Nabi Karim to Peeragarhi shelter home," he wrote. Gautam coordinated with four different stakeholders and ensured the full safety of the children within less than 10 working hours, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/children-shelter-home-evacuated-after-complaint-of-covid-19-case-in-building-841216.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Congress alleges breach of social distancing norm at BJP event||The Congress on Saturday targeted the ruling BJP for alleged violation of social distancing norms during an event where a group of Congress workers joined the saffron party. More than 200 Congress workers from Sanchi assembly constituency on Saturday joined the BJP at the party's state headquarters `Deendayal Parisar' here, said BJP media-cell in-charge Lokendra Parashar. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, state BJP president V D Sharma and several other leaders were present during this event. MP Congress Chief Kamal Nath later took potshots at Chouhan on Twitter, saying that during a review of coronavirus situation on Friday "you were giving strict warning to the people on following the rules." Even the number of people that can attend weddings and funerals has been fixed and people are following these norms, the former chief minister said. "But in the presence of your and other responsible BJP leaders, a crowded program is held amid the lockdown today in BJP office," Nath said. Sharing pictures of the event, Nath asked, "Are the rules of Modiji's lockdown only meant for the poor and the common man? These rules do not apply to the leaders of your party? Will its culprits be prosecuted like the common people?" The BJP, however, claimed that social distancing norms were followed at the event. Those who joined the BJP were followers of former Minister and ex-Congress MLA Prabhuram Choudhary. Choudhary joined the BJP along with former union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-alleges-breach-of-social-distancing-norm-at-bjp-event-841230.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||UP corona count: 3 more die, 288 infected; total deaths 155, cases 6,017||Three more persons died of COVID-19 while 288 more tested positive for the infection in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, raising the total fatalities due to the disease to 155 and total cases to 6,017 in the state, an official bulletin said. One death each was reported from Firozabad, Aligarh and Bulandshahr, UP’s Joint Director-cum-State Surveillance Officer, Dr Vikasendu Agrawal, for the state’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) said in a statement here. Agra leads the death tally in the state with total 33 deaths till date, followed by 21 in Meerut, 11 deaths each in Moradabad and Aligarh, nine in Kanpur Nagar, seven in Firozabad, besides other districts. Among the fresh infected cases reported on Saturday, 32 were from Jaunpur, 25 from Rampur, 18 from Sultanpur, 17 from Gautam Buddh Nagar, 16 from Meerut, 12 each from Ghaziabad and Varanasi, 11 from Lucknow and 10 from Hardoi. The count of active COVID-19 cases in the state stood at 2,456 on Saturday, said the bulletin, adding so far, 3,406 COVID-19 patients have been cured and discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-corona-count-3-more-die-288-infected-total-deaths-155-cases-6017-841235.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: 3 passengers onboard Shramik Special trains dead||Three persons onboard separate Shramik Special trains lost their lives due to various ailment, officials said here on Saturday. "Family members of the deceased said all were suffering from serious ailment. The travel history of all the three deceased passengers was taken,” Kanpur District Magistrate Brahma Deo Ram Tiwari said. Giving details about the deceased, he said Naichinalyu Disang (23), a resident of Nagaland, was going from Delhi to Dimapur. "She was suffering from liver ailments," Tiwari said. As she coughed and vomited in the train, other passengers got terrified, he added. The district magistrate said the body reached Kanpur Central Station at around 10.00 am. “Sample has been taken to check for the presence of novel coronavirus. She was working at a spa in Himachal Pradesh,” he said. Tiwari said Rajendra Prasad (50), a resident of Unnao, died on the Lucknow-bound special train from Andhra Pradesh. Munni Devi (80), a resident of Siwan district in Bihar, died onboard the special train going from Surat to Siwan, the senior official informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-3-passengers-onboard-shramik-special-trains-dead-841248.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt to hire 200 taxis to strengthen its ambulance services||The hired taxis, 110 from Ola and 91 from Uber, will be used for carrying non-critical and non-COVID-19 patients to and from hospitals, a Delhi government order said. The taxis to be used as ambulance vehicles will be placed under the CATS director who is responsible for managing the Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) ambulances. Such a decision was taken in view of high demand of CATS ambulances for ferrying coronavirus patients due to which more vehicles were needed to serve those suffering from other ailments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-hire-200-taxis-to-strengthen-its-ambulance-services-841253.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi airport to resume operations from May 25, with around 380 domestic flights||As India is set to resume its domestic civil aviation operations from May 25, the Delhi airport will be handling around 380 flights on Monday, a senior official said. As per the directions of the Civil Aviation Ministry, domestic flight operations will resume after remaining suspended for about two months following the nationwide lockdown imposed to constrain the COVID-19 pandemic. "Delhi airport will be handling around 380 domestic flights on Monday. There will be 190 departures and around 190 arrivals," a senior government official said. On Saturday, the Delhi airport's operator DIAL said it has taken several measures including the installation of automatic hand sanitizer at various places, putting floor markers, allocation of entry gates and check-in islands for departing passengers. These steps have been taken to enforce social distancing norms and minimize human contact at the airport, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-to-resume-operations-from-may-25-with-around-380-domestic-flights-841268.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||52 fresh cases, 1 more death due to COVID-19 in Rajasthan||One death due to coronavirus and 52 fresh positive cases of the disease were reported in Rajasthan on Sunday, according to the state government. With one death reported from Chittorgarh, the number of fatalities in the state has gone up to 161 on Sunday morning, an official said. The number of coronavirus positive cases has increased to 6,794 in the state. Of the new positive cases, Jaipur and Ajmer have reported the maximum number of 18 each, the official said. Nagaur and Dungarpur recorded four cases each while two cases each were reported from Bikaner and Barmer and one case each reported from Jhunjhunu, Kota, Dausa and Jodhpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/52-fresh-cases-1-more-death-due-to-covid-19-in-rajasthan-841273.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Bihar girl, who carried her father for 1,200 km on cycle may become health ambassador||The gutsy girl from Bihar, Jyoti Kumari, who brought her ailing father from Gurugram to Darbhanga, pedalling over 1200 kms, is likely to get the tag of health ambassador. An indication in this regard was given by Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, Ashwini Choubey. “Jyoti’s courage and determination is exemplary. The Health Ministry may consider her making its brand ambassador,” said Choubey. Jyoti has been floored with offers from the Centre, State Government as well as Cycle Federation of India (CFI) after news of her cycling for seven days and carrying her ailing father (on the cycle’s carrier) from Haryana to Bihar, covering a distance of around 1200 kms, was published in a vernacular daily. Later, the 15-year-old gutsy girl got global attention too when Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka tweeted about her courageous feat. “This beautiful feat of endurance & love has captured the imagination of Indian people and the cycling federation!” tweeted Ivanka, who is also an advisor to President Trump and has visited India twice: in 2017 and then again in February 2020. The Cycle Federation of India, meanwhile, has offered her to come over to New Delhi to appear for a trial next month. “If Jyoti qualifies in the trial, she will be selected as a trainee at the State-of-the-art National Cycling Academy at Indira Gandhi International Stadium complex in New Delhi,” said CFI chief Onkar Singh. Jyoti has, however, sought one-month time from the CFI to think over the offer as she is currently “mentally and physically exhausted.” “More than anything, I am happy to have got admission in Class IXth in Darbhanga,” says Jyoti, who had to discontinue her education after Class VIIIth due to family problems. Of all the five brothers and sisters, Jyoti had been taking care of her father Manoj Paswan, who used to drive an e-rickshaw at Gurugram in Haryana but was out of work after an accident and had to return his vehicle to the owner. “I told my father we would die of hunger, if we stayed in Haryana. So, I started for Bihar (with my father on the cycle carrier) on May 8th evening and reached Darbhanga on May 15th night,” she signs off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-bihar-girl-who-carried-her-father-for-1200-km-on-cycle-may-become-health-ambassador-841274.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Flight carrying 93 Indians stranded in United Kingdom arrives in Indore||An Air India flight carrying 93 Indians who were stranded in the United Kingdom arrived at the Indore airport in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday morning, an official said. As part of the Centre's 'Vande Bharat' mission, the flight from London reached here via Mumbai at 8.04 am, Indore's Devi Ahilyabai Holkar International Airport Director Aryama Sanyal said. The special flight carried 93 Indians from the UK, she said. A health checkup of the passengers was conducted and their belongings were sanitised, she said. The passengers will be kept under the mandatory 14-day quarantine, the official said. Indians stranded abroad due to travel restrictions following the coronavirus outbreak are being flown back home under the central government's 'Vande Bharat' mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/flight-carrying-93-indians-stranded-in-united-kingdom-arrives-in-indore-841282.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi court allows ED to interrogate Christian Michel||A Delhi court has allowed the Enforcement Directorate to interrogate alleged middleman Christian Michel at the Tihar central jail here, where he is lodged in connection with the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam case. Special Judge Pulastya Pramachala on Saturday allowed the ED to interrogate Michel on May 25 and 26 in the jail premises. The court allowed the ED's plea moved by the agency's special public prosecutor N K Matta after he submitted during a hearing held through video conferencing that the accused was required to be confronted with certain documents during its ongoing probe in the case. Michel, extradited from Dubai, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on December 22, 2018. On January 5, 2019 Michel was sent to judicial custody in the ED case. He is also lodged in judicial custody in the CBI case related to the scam. He was arrested in the UAE and extradited to India on December 4, 2018. The next day, he was produced before the court which allowed his custodial interrogation by the CBI.  Later, he was arrested by the ED. Michel is among the three alleged middlemen being probed in the case by the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The others are Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa. The CBI has alleged that there was an estimated loss of Euro 398.21 million (about Rs 2,666 crore) to the exchequer in the deal that was signed on February 8, 2010 for the supply of VVIP choppers worth Euro 556.262 million. The ED, in its charge sheet filed against Michel in June 2016, had alleged that he received EUR 30 million (about Rs 225 crore) from AgustaWestland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-allows-ed-to-interrogate-christian-michel-841297.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown casts shadow on Eid celebrations in Kashmir valley||The festival is being celebrated across Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala on Sunday, while the rest of the country will celebrate Eid on Monday. No Eid prayers were offered for the second consecutive time in major mosques and shrines of Kashmir as police enforced restrictions in most parts of the valley including Srinagar city, officials said.  People preferred to offer Eid prayers at home -- either individually or in small groups comprising family members, the officials said.  However, there have been reports of congregation Eid prayers being offered in mosques located in the interior parts of cities and towns.  Police personnel made announcements early in the morning on public address systems, appealing people not to congregate for Eid prayers as restrictions were still in place as part of the lockdown. Last year, Eid-ul-Azha prayers could not be offered  in Kashmir as authorities had imposed strict curfew in the wake of abrogation of Article 370 and division of then Jammu and Kashmir State into two union territories. Eid marks the end of the fasting month of Ramzan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-casts-shadow-on-eid-celebrations-in-kashmir-valley-841299.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi sees 30 more deaths due to COVID-19, 508 new cases||Thirty more deaths were added to COVID-19 toll in Delhi on Sunday, taking the total to 261 even as over 500 cases were reported for the sixth consecutive day. In the past two days, Delhi has added 53 deaths to the official toll but the state government has not provided details about when these deaths happened and in which hospitals. According to the medical bulletin, Delhi now has 13,418 cases, out of which 9,899 or 73.77% of the total cases were reported in May alone. On Sunday, 508 cases were reported. No deaths were reported in the past 24 hours with officials saying the 30 deaths added to the official toll were old cases, which were now cleared by the Death Audit Committee after receiving case sheets from hospitals. The latest medical bulletin, however, did not throw any light on the time period when these deaths happened. This is the highest addition of deaths on a single day in the toll. Delhi government has earlier this month faced allegations of hiding data after a mismatch was detected with the official toll and the deaths reported by various hospitals. The government had blamed it on hospitals saying they were erroneous in the reporting of deaths and issued a Standard Operating Procedure for intimating such incidents. Though the reporting of deaths was streamlined, the Delhi government has so far not provided details like the actual date of deaths. Similarly, it is also not providing details of hospital-wise deaths. The medical bulletin said 273 people have been discharged in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 6,540. However, there are 6,617 people still under treatment, including 3,314 under home isolation. Delhi has so far conducted tests on 1.69 lakh samples, including 4,826 fresh samples.  Since May 19, Delhi has been reporting more than 500 cases and it has been rising since then. However, on Saturday, the numbers have slightly declined. On May 18, there were 299 cases while May 19 had reported 500 cases, May 20 with 534 cases and May 21 with 571 cases. May 22 reported 660 cases, the biggest spike in a single day, while on May 23, the numbers declined to 591.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-30-more-deaths-due-to-covid-19-508-new-cases-841315.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||UP govt banned mobile phones inside COVID-19 hospitals to hide their poor condition: Akhilesh||In a tweet in hindi, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said: "If infection spreads through mobile phones, then they should be banned across the country. Mobile phones provide mental support and help cope with loneliness.” “In fact, the ban has been put in place, so that the truth about the poor condition of hospitals does reach the common public. The need is to sanitise mobile phones and not impose a ban on them," he said. Director General Medical Education K K Gupta has directed all the medical universities, institutes, private and government hospitals to ban the use of mobile phones by COVID-19 patients admitted in L-2 and L-3 COVID-19 hospitals. He also directed in-charge of COVID-19 hospitals be provided two mobile phones, so that patients admitted there could speak to there family members and vice-versa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-banned-mobile-phones-inside-covid-19-hospitals-to-hide-their-poor-condition-akhilesh-841342.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||SHO suicide: Rajasthan Police registers abetment to suicide case against unidentified people||The police here have registered a case of abetment to suicide against unidentified people after the SHO of Churu district's Rajgarh Police Station ended his life by hanging himself, an official said on Sunday. The body of inspector Vishnu Dutt Vishnoi was handed over to family members after post-mortem on Sunday. The family has taken the mortal remains to Sriganganagar for the last rites. On the basis of a suicide note and allegations of family members that Vishnoi was “under pressure”, a case under section 306 of IPC (abetment to suicide) was registered late on Saturday night at the Rajgarh Police Station. Vishnoi’s relatives were promised a judicial inquiry into the matter and a government job to a family member on compassionate grounds. The staff of Rajgarh Police Station gave a written application to Inspector General of Bikaner range Jose Mohan requesting him to transfer them elsewhere due to the “pressure” created by local Congress MLA Krishna Poonia, who keeps lodging “unnecessary complaints” against them to senior police officials. BJP leaders including deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore and others have accused Poonia of pressuring Vishnoi. The Congress legislator could not be reached for comments over the issue. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police, Churu Tejaswini Gautam said that she was talking to the staff of Rajgarh Police Station to ascertain the facts. “I am talking individually to all staffers to ascertain the facts. Some have said that it was an emotional decision to sign the application,” she said. The SP said that the SHO’s family has been assured that the collector will refer the matter for a judicial inquiry to the state government and a family member will be given government job on compassionate grounds despite the cause of death being suicide. “The family members were pacified. The body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem today,” she said. The SHO was found hanging from the ceiling in his quarter on Saturday morning. He left two suicide notes, one addressed to his parents and the other addressed to SP, Churu. In the suicide note addressed to SP, Churu, he said he was not able to bear the pressure which was created around him. He said that he tried to give his best to Rajasthan Police and that he was not a coward but could not bear the stress anymore. He, however, did not hold anyone responsible for taking the extreme step. As soon as the news of his suicide spread on Saturday, a large number of locals assembled outside the police station while BJP leaders, who too reached the spot, blamed the local Congress MLA. A screenshot of a purported WhatsApp chat between Vishnoi and his activist friend went viral on Saturday wherein the SHO revealed that he was “trapped in dirty politics”. Vishnoi was one of the top inspectors of Rajasthan Police and was popular in his department and among general public for his work and honesty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sho-suicide-rajasthan-police-registers-abetment-to-suicide-case-against-unidentified-people-841344.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases cross 13,000-mark in Delhi, death toll rises to 261||The novel coronavirus death toll in Delhi rose to 261 on Sunday, while the number of infections climbed to 13,418 with 508 new cases, the government said. A total of 6,540 patients have recovered, while 6,617 are undergoing treatment, according to a health bulletin. The city has 86 containment zones. On Saturday, the number of coronavirus cases in the city was 12,910 and fatalities 231.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-cross-13000-mark-in-delhi-death-toll-rises-to-261-841351.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Two vital bridges dedicated to India in Arunachal Pradesh||Two vital bridges constructed by Border Roads Organisation (BRO) which will help in the faster movement of people and armed forces to the Indo-China border were on Saturday dedicated to the nation. The 50-metre-long Tawang Chhu Bridge constructed over Tawang Chhu river in Tawang district and the 45-metre-long Sukha Bridge across Sukha Nallah in West Kameng district were dedicated to the nation by Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu. "Both the bridges will allow faster movement of civilians and military towards the McMahon line," Khandu said. The chief minister lauded the BRO for securing the borders of the country and also providing employment and business opportunities to locals through their activities in constructing roads and bridges. Khandu dismissed fears of the locals on the possibility of transmission of COVID-19 in Arunachal Pradesh through the personnel of the central paramilitary forces, Army and the BRO. The forces have their own standard operating procedures (SOPs) which are being followed strictly, the chief minister said. Later in the day, the chief minister also inaugurated a police station at Jang, in presence of local MLA Tsering Tashi, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-vital-bridges-dedicated-to-india-in-arunachal-pradesh-841352.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||One new death, 152 more COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan||Rajasthan reported one death due to the novel coronavirus and 152 cases of the disease on Sunday, bringing the number of fatalities to 161 and the virus count to 6,894 in the state, officials said. The new death was reported from Chittorgarh, an official said. A maximum of 27 fresh cases is from Jodhpur, followed by Jaipur and Rajsamand which reported 24 new infections each.  Nineteen fresh cases were reported from Ajmer, 18 from Udaipur, seven from Pali, six from Barmer, five from Nagaur, four from Dungarpur, three each from Dholpur, Bikaner, Sikar and Sirohi and one each from Bhilwara, Dausa, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu and Kota. One person from outside the state also tested positive for the infection, according to the official. There are 2,917 active COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-new-death-152-more-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-841355.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh issues SOP for air, train travellers amid coronavirus pandemic||The Chhattisgarh government has issued standard operating procedure (SOP) for medical screening and quarantining of people arriving in the state on domestic flights and trains amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. A directive about the SOP was issued by the General Administration Department Secretary Dr Kamalpreet Singh on May 22, a public relations department official here said. The people interested to return to Chhattisgarh from other states must register themselves with the state portal, and district collectors would inform the nodal officers of the concerned gram panchayat or urban wards to ensure compliance of quarantine protocols after the arrival of the passengers, he said quoting the directive. With domestic air services resuming from May 25, the Raipur Municipal Corporation commissioner will coordinate with the Airport Authority of India (AAI) and local police to set up facilitation centres for passengers at the Swami Vivekanand Airport here, he said. Health desks will be set up in these facilitation centres, and passengers will be subjected to a medical check-up, including thermal screening, and those showing coronavirus symptoms will be admitted in the airport's isolation kiosk, he added. Those showing no symptoms would be placed in 14-day quarantine at government centres, homes or paid facilities, the official said, adding that passengers will have to submit a written undertaking they will strictly follow isolation norms. "Baggage will be sanitised at the airport and only select vehicles whose details are with the transport department will be allowed to pick and drop passengers," he said. "Similarly, the district administration would work in co-ordination the railways to set up facilitation centres at stations. The SOP for medical screening and quarantining for train passengers will be the same as air travellers," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-issues-sop-for-air-train-travellers-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-841370.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||54 more test positive for coronavirus in Uttarakhand, tally rises to 298||Fifty-four more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand on Sunday taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 298. All the new patients had returned from outside, a state health department bulletin here said. The maximum number of positive cases were reported from Nainital where 32 new patients were diagnosed with the infection on Sunday. Nainital has alone accounted for 117 COVID-19 cases so far. Dehradun reported seven new cases, Almora five, Chamoli and Tehri Garhwal three each and Champawat and Pauri districts one each. Out of 54 positive cases, one was confirmed by a private lab, the bulletin said. Three COVID-19 patients have died in the state but according to the health department none of them died due to coronavirus as they were suffering from other diseases before testing positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/54-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-uttarakhand-tally-rises-to-298-841375.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Many migrant workers feel cheated by parties, govt amid coronavirus lockdown||Nineteen-year-old Roshan Shrivastav was looking forward to finally being able to vote since he turned adult a year ago, till enduring pain and suffering as a migrant during the lockdown shook his faith in the system. A native of Siwan district in Bihar, Roshan arrived in Delhi soon after Holi this year to find a job and support his family. He is now desperate to return home, an endeavour that has turned out to be his biggest struggle in the city. On Friday evening, Roshan along with his nephew Shivam Shrivastav (19) and friend Prince Gupta (21) were turned back by police when they attempted to cross the Delhi-UP border near Ghazipur in the hope of somehow reaching their homes in Bihar. The trio, who lived in a rented single-room flat in west Delhi's Baljeet Nagar, said their landlord was "kind" to them and did not ask for rent. "But politicians play games with us around election times with fake, hollow promises, sympathise with the poor and then forget us," an anguished Roshan told PTI. "The way villagers and poor migrants are literally dying in the streets, some on railway tracks, some in road accidents, as if their life does not matter to anyone, it has shaken me," he said. Feeling that people like him have been "abandoned by the government" in this time of crisis and having "lost faith in the system", Roshan said he has decided to either not cast his vote at all or choose the NOTA option in future elections. "I have just become eligible to vote but I have vowed to not vote for any party or politician. Be it the coming Bihar polls, next general elections, or any other elections in future. We feel cheated," he said. While agreeing with Roshan, Shivam said he would not exercise his franchise at all in any election. Echoing similar feelings of hurt and discontentment, Prince said, "This coronavirus crisis has exposed the fault lines. I have decided to either not vote at all or choose NOTA from here on". Roshan said once they reach their homes they would tell people in their hometown to "not waste their votes on scheming politicians and unscrupulous political parties". It took Adesh Singh and his wife Manju, along with their three small children, three days to reach their hometown Shahjahanpur in UP after they left their accommodation in south Delhi. "We work hard to earn our living, we don't beg, borrow or steal. We may be poor, but we are also citizens of this country with equal rights granted to us. But perhaps we are the lesser equals because we are not rich," said a teary-eyed Manju, her mouth covered with a dupatta, as the couple haggled with taxi drivers at the Delhi-UP border to take them home without charging an exorbitant fare. "This government was talking about bringing people from foreign countries under the CAA, but it is clear they can't handle their own population and are still trying to get more people into our country from abroad," she said. "Why should we vote for any of these parties? All of them are of the same ilk. We don't need sympathy, we need dignity," rued Adesh, who worked in a factory in Delhi. "The purpose of lockdown is understood, but poor people who have been left stranded with no jobs or money, should they just die of starvation?" he asked. After an arduous journey, the family finally reached home on Saturday morning. Bareilly native Mahendra Singh, stranded in Delhi since the lockdown began, said he has made several attempts to leave the city but in vain. "We hoped that government of Delhi or UP or the central government, any of them would help us. But they all disappointed us. Now we don't have faith in any of them. We just believe in our two feet now ('ab bas apne pair par vishwas hai')," Singh said, willing to walk all the way to his home, almost 300 km away. Lakhs of migrant workers stranded in Delhi and other big cities, far from their homes, have been attempting to reach their native places since the lockdown was imposed about two months ago. A large number of them have been walking on foot for scores of kilometres after they could find no mode of conveyance. A migrant woman recently delivered a baby on the road while walking from Nashik, Maharashtra to Satna in MP, over 1,000 km apart. She rested for two hours after delivery and then walked another 150 km with her family, prompting the National Human Rights Commission to send notices to the Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh governments. Roshan and Shivam said they both write and sing songs in Hindi and their native tongue Bhojpuri. "We have written a few lines on lockdown crisis too -- 'Hum mazdooran ke ghar bhejwa da sarkar, nahin to ketna log hiyan par ho jai bimar' (please send us home or else many would fall sick here). Maybe we will complete this song after we reach home, but first we need to complete our journey," Shivam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/many-migrant-workers-feel-cheated-by-parties-govt-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-841377.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi residents abstain from shopping on Eid, save money to help migrants amid coronavirus lockdown||Every year, Shama Khan would buy jewellery, clothes, lots of sweets and organise parties for relatives on the occasion of Eid, but not this time. "These are not normal times," the 30-year-old, who runs an NGO in Zakir Nagar in Southeast Delhi says. "In my home and extended family, no one purchased jewellery, clothes or sweets. Every year, the family would organise parties for relatives, but there is none this year. How can we celebrate when crores of people are sleeping on an empty stomach," she says. Like Khan, many Muslim residents in the national capital have abstained from buying new items and clothes on Eid-ul-Fitr. They are using the money to help the COVID-19 lockdown-hit needy and migrants instead. Not much activity was witnessed in areas such as Shaheen Bagh, Jamia Nagar, Zakir Nagar and Batla House, as only a few people stepped out of their homes to buy new items to celebrate Eid, which marks the end of the fasting month of Ramzan, on Monday. Markets are largely empty. Only those who want to buy dry fruits, condensed milk and sugar for "kheer" can be seen in the markets, Khan says. Mohammad Muslim, a resident of Jamia Nagar, and his friends have also decided not to purchase new items on Eid this year and use the money to buy essentials for the needy. "There are around 50 such people in our group who have pooled in money to buy essential items for homeless people and migrants who have no means to earn their bread due to the lockdown,” he says. "It is not necessary we wear new clothes to offer namaz on Eid. What's important is that the clothes should be clean. Also, a lot of money can be saved if people don't buy perfume and jewellery," the social activist says. How can he celebrate Eid when lakhs of his homeless, jobless countrymen are struggling for a meal, he asks. Shakeel-ur-Rahman, who runs a travel agency in Zakir Nagar, says his family and friends resolved to celebrate Eid in a simple way. "Eid is about making the needy and poor happy. If you are able to save some money on the festival and use it to help the migrants who are stuck without shelter and food, you will be more happy and satisfied," he says. Rahman says it will also prevent huge crowds in markets and thus help prevent the spread of the coronavirus infection. Khatib Tihami, the president of the Okhla Vidhan Sabha Market Association, says business ahead of this Eid has been lean, primarily due to the lockdown and people keeping away from shops due to the fear of contracting coronavirus. "Many shopkeepers have not been able to pay the rent of their shops, many have been asked to evacuate. Most of the stock has become outdated," he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-residents-abstain-from-shopping-on-eid-save-money-to-help-migrants-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-841379.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Mayawati a ‘Twitter behanji’ and ‘undeclared spokesperson of BJP’: Congress||The Congress on Sunday described BSP chief Mayawati as a "Twitter behanji" and “undeclared spokesperson of the BJP”, “angry with” the grand old party’s “proactive” efforts to mitigate migrant workers’ miseries amid the coronavirus lockdown. Congress leader PL Punia hit back at Mayawati a day after the BSP described Rahul Gandhi’s meeting with migrant workers a “drama”, in a language allegedly similar to that of the BJP. "The language and the tweets, which the 'Twitter behanji' is using clearly indicates that she makes the press note for the BJP and sends it,” Punia told reporters. “She feels angry over the proactive efforts of the Congress and its general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (in mitigating the poor’s plight amid the lockdown),” he added. Punia also accused the BSP of having a “tacit understanding” with the BJP while the Congress’ SC cell chairman Brijlal Khabri said, “Mayawati is the undeclared spokesperson of the BJP.” “There seems to be a tacit understanding between the BSP and BJP, as the both have termed Rahul Gandhi’s meeting with poor labourers as drama,” said Punia. Punia also accused Mayawati of being silent amid alleged rise in incidents of attacks on Dalits during the Yogi Adityanath government’s tenure in Uttar Pradesh. "The list of attacks on Dalits is long, and it is taking place under the patronage of the government. We have been raising questions and fighting on this. But why is the self-proclaimed leader of Dalits silent?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-a-twitter-behanji-and-undeclared-spokesperson-of-bjp-congress-841382.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh to home quarantine air travellers, outsiders on brief visit exempted||As domestic flights resume on Monday, Uttar Pradesh government said air travellers to the state will be home quarantine for 14 days unless they are staying for less than a week or if they clear the coronavirus test earlier. Principal Secretary Medical and Health Amit Mohan Prasad said passengers will have to follow the laid-down home quarantine protocol. They can get themselves tested for the virus on the sixth day from their arrival and end their quarantine if the results come out negative, he said on Sunday. If the passengers do not have adequate facilities at home, they will be kept at a quarantine centre. Outsiders on visits of less than a week to the state need not go into quarantine if they furnish details of their return journey, he said. But they will not be allowed to enter containment zones. All passengers coming to UP will have to register themselves on http://reg.upcovid.in and furnish details of themselves and family members travelling with them. A message will be displayed on their phones after this and CISF personnel will let them leave the airport only after checking it. Chief Secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said passengers will be advised to maintain social distancing, wear masks, wash hands and not gather under any circumstances. Domestic flights on some routes resume Monday, amid uncertainty over quarantine protocols to be followed by destination states. Many states are insisting on some form of quarantine for passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-to-home-quarantine-air-travellers-outsiders-on-brief-visit-exempted-841400.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi govt to issue SOP for passengers arriving in flights||The Delhi government on Sunday directed officials to ensure compliance of the Union Health Ministry's guidelines on domestic travel, according to an order. The order by Chief Secretary Vijay Dev also said that the Delhi government's Department of Health & Family Welfare may issue a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for implementation of these guidelines. Domestic air passenger services are resuming from Monday after a two-month gap due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The Union Health Ministry has issued guidelines for domestic travel, advising passengers to download the Aarogya Setu application on their mobile devices and asking states to ensure thermal screening at departure points of airports, railway stations and bus terminals.   In its order, the Delhi government has directed the officials concerned to ensure compliance of guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in "letter and spirit". The Union Health Ministry said that states can also develop their own protocol with regards to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-govt-to-issue-sop-for-passengers-arriving-in-flights-841411.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Heatwave sweeps Haryana, Punjab; mercury touches 45 deg C in Narnaul||Heatwave conditions prevailed in Punjab and Haryana, where Narnaul recorded a maximum temperature of 45 degrees Celsius on Sunday. The maximum temperature at Narnaul settled four notches above the normal limits, the Meteorological Department here said. Among other places in Haryana, Hisar sizzled at 43.6 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal limits while Ambala recorded a high of 42.6 degrees Celsius, up four degrees against normal. Karnal recorded a high of 41.6 degrees Celsius, up two notches. In Punjab, Patiala recorded a high of 42.6 degrees Celsius, up three degrees. Amritsar and Ludhiana also recorded above normal maximums of 41.2 degrees Celsius and 41.9 degrees Celsius, respectively. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also experienced a hot day with a maximum of 41.7 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal limits. According to the MeT department forecast, the maximum temperature is likely to rise by 2-3 degrees with development of intense heatwave conditions over many parts of Haryana and Punjab over next few days. Severe heatwave at isolated parts over southern and southwestern parts of both states is also likely during next 48 to 72 hours. The maximum temperature is likely to reach 44-47 degrees Celsius over districts in southern and southwestern parts of Punjab and Haryana during this period, according to the MeT department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heatwave-sweeps-haryana-punjab-mercury-touches-45-deg-c-in-narnaul-841425.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 Lockdown: Mayawati slams BJP, Congress for plight of migrants||The BJP and the Congress are responsible for the current plight of migrant workers and the two parties should start working for their welfare rather than indulging in a blame game over the issue, Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati said on Sunday. She said had the ruling BJP helped the businesses in time, workers would not have faced survival issues. The former UP chief minister also claimed that had the central government given advance indications of a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the workers would have made their own arrangements to leave for their home states.  Hitting out at the Congress, Mayawati said that for decades the party ruled the Centre and various states but did little to create job opportunities. This made people leave their home states for bigger cities for survival, she said in a statement. She said it is time the BJP and the Congress and their respective governments at the Centre and the states end blame game and focus on the welfare of the migrant workers. Mayawati said when recently she had observed that the Congress was more responsible for the plight of workers than BJP governments at the Centre and the states, she was accused of aligning with the ruling party at the Centre.   She said the BSP will not contest any election with the two parties as it opposes the politics of capitalism and casteism being followed by the BJP and the Congress. She also slammed states for their claims that returning migrant workers would spread the virus. Mayawati said those returning cannot falsely be blamed for a spike in the cases. She said quarantine facilities set up by states would make even a healthy person sick.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-mayawati-slams-bjp-congress-for-plight-of-migrants-841436.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Aatma Nirbhar Bharat: Delhi govt to disallow global tenders up to Rs 200 crore||In a bid to promote domestic business, the Delhi government has asked all its departments to desist from issuing global tenders of contract value up to Rs 200 crore, an official said on Sunday. The Delhi government's move comes days after the Centre announced the 'Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' or 'Self-reliant India Mission' under which global tenders up to Rs 200 crore were recently disallowed. According to an official, the finance department of the Delhi government has asked all heads of departments, commissioners of municipal corporations and autonomous bodies to adopt the Centre's amended General Financial Rules (GFR). The move will benefit micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). "The Delhi government has endorsed the amendment in GFR made by the Department of Expenditure under Union Ministry of Finance, and forwarded it to HODs for necessary action," the official said. Earlier this month, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced an economic support package for MSMEs, which includes disallowing global tender for government procurement up to Rs 200 crore. Also, the definition of MSMEs has been changed by the central government from a pure investment-based one to that which provides for higher investments and turnover for companies to remain as small businesses and avail financial and other incentives. Small and mid-sized businesses in India account for about a third of gross domestic product and employ more than 11 crore people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aatma-nirbhar-bharat-delhi-govt-to-disallow-global-tenders-up-to-rs-200-crore-841439.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi private hospitals, nursing homes told to reserve 20% capacity for COVID-19 cases||The Delhi government has directed private hospitals and nursing homes with 50 beds or more to reserve 20 per cent of their total capacity for novel coronavirus patients, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday. "The Delhi govt felt an imperative need to increase the no. of beds, dedicated to COVID19 patients," Jain tweeted. "Hence, all 117 pvt hospitals/nursing homes with a capacity of 50 beds or more have been directed to reserve 20% of their total bed strength for COVID19 patients," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-private-hospitals-nursing-homes-told-to-reserve-20-capacity-for-covid-19-cases-841444.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Recovering from COVID-19, AAP MLA pledges to donate plasma||AAP's Delhi MLA Vishesh Ravi tested positive for COVID-19 on May 1 and is now on the path of recovery with the latest tests reports showing him to be negative for the virus infection. On Sunday, the Karol Bagh MLA tweeted that he has tested negative for COVID-19 on Saturday and would be donating plasma for other serious patients once he fully recovers. "I want to inform you all on twenty second day of quarantine, my Corona Test has come negative. However, I still have a little cough, so according to the advice given by the doctor after taking rest for a few more days, I will be ready to donate plasma and return back to work," Ravi, who celebrated his birthday on May 19 in home isolation, said. His decision to donate plasma came following Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's appeal to people who have recovered from COVID-19 to donate blood for plasma therapy. On May 2, he had tweeted, "I had a fever from last one or two days, as per doctor’s advice I went for COVID-19 test. The report on Friday said I tested positive. With God’s blessings, the health is fine but due to mild symptoms, I have home quarantined myself." Ravi said the health administration in the capital has been in regular touch with him for the last 22 days and has also conducted visits at regular intervals.  "On the advice of the doctors and healthcare staff, I have isolated myself and have been taking all precautions and a regular diet. It was on May 22 that the healthcare team conducted my test at my home which came out to be negative the next day. Once I recover fully, I will be ready to donate plasma for the service of the people," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recovering-from-covid-19-aap-mla-pledges-to-donate-plasma-841452.html
24-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh in grip of blistering heat, Prayagraj hottest at 46.3 degrees Celsius||Blistering heat gripped the Uttar Pradesh capital on Sunday as the mercury soared to 43 degrees Celsius, three notches above the normal, according to the meteorological department. Prayagraj was the hottest place in the state with a high of 46.3 degree Celsius, five notches above the normal, followed by Agra 46 degrees Celsius, Jhansi 45.7 degrees Celsius, Banda 45.6 degrees Celsius, Orai 45.5 degree Celsius and Kanpur 45 degrees Celsius. Aligarh registered a maximum temperature of 44.6 degrees Celsius, closely followed by Varanasi at 44 degrees Celsius, Etawah 43.8 degrees Celsius, and Sultanpur 43.1 degrees Celsius. The weatherman has forecast dry weather in the state and warned of a heatwave in isolated places over the next few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-in-grip-of-blistering-heat-prayagraj-hottest-at-463-degrees-celsius-841467.html
24-05-2020||Opinion||After lockdown, the loan mela, and planetary exploration, anyone?||By now, almost everyone, including those who read out the Modi government’s ‘stimulus’ package in all its detail over five days, has realised that it is nothing more than the announcement of a loan mela. MSME, dying and want to survive? Take a loan; farmer in distress? Take a loan; big corporate going under? Take a loan, we have reduced the interest rate for you. Middle class and suffered a salary cut or job loss? Stay home, stay safe, bang the plates, light the diyas and wait for Modi to come on TV at 8 pm. And typical of the Modi government’s solutions to problems, this is going to worsen the existing NPA problem of banks down the line. For instance, the Rs 3 lakh crore of loans for MSMEs without collateral and with the government standing guarantee for all of it is an open invitation to people to borrow and not bother to repay. Be that as it may, in other countries, governments have announced actual cash and income support to large sections of their populations (US, $1,200 per person) and workforces (UK, 80% of wages of private sector employees) as a substantial part of their relief packages, realising that people need immediate cash/income support in the wake of job losses and salary cuts. And by some sheer coincidence, the relief packages announced in some of the advanced countries all seemed to amount to more or less 10% of their respective GDP numbers. The Modi government caught on, albeit after several weeks of agonising over how to do it – 10% of GDP. Hmmm…somehow, we have to come up with a figure that’s 10% of GDP. And so, Modi came on TV at 8 pm and said he would give Indians a package of Rs 20 lakh crore, “more or less 10% of GDP.” But there really was devil in the detail. Truth is, the Modi government has no money to give anyone, no matter the level of distress one is in. Those in the know will tell you that when the top grey suits of certain industry lobbies approached the government seeking sector-specific help, they were told in no uncertain terms, “Look, if we can find some money to help the poor, that will be a big achievement for us. As for you in the industry, we have arranged for cheap loans. Go and take loans, and survive as well as you can. There is nothing more we can do for you.” Of course, the government did do more for industry in the dark of the lockdown and in the name of ‘reforms’ that were inserted into the ‘stimulus’ package, but more on that another day. The question is, why does the government have no money despite it claiming all along until now that all was hunky-dory with the economy under Modi, that we were the fastest growing economy in the world, that he is now going to transform India into a $5 trillion economy by 2024, that post-demonetisation, more people are paying taxes? It is time to recognise the truth: Narendra Modi has destroyed the Indian economy to such an extent with his whimsical handling of it that his government has no money to help even the poorest of India’s people at this hour of need. The destruction of the economy started with demonetisation, the reckless, but deliberate, sucking out of the lifeblood of the economy that led to the beginning of the end of demand, especially rural demand, in the economy. Then, too, it was with four hours’ notice to the nation. Then, too, millions of migrant workers had to suddenly flee the cities back to their villages, as key sectors such as the construction industry were paralysed. But that’s not all: with the economy in doldrums since demonetisation, tax collection has fallen greatly year by year. To make up for the shortfall, the government has been sucking money from the RBI and nationalised banks as well as the public sector units at a much higher rate than the UPA government did. Under the UPA, the government took in on average about Rs 50,000 crore a year in such dividends, except during 2013-14 and 2014-15, when it rose to nearly Rs 90,000 crore. Since 2015-16, the Modi government has sucked in over Rs 1.1 lakh crore annually, rising to nearly Rs 2 lakh crore in 2019-20 and still at close to Rs 1.55 lakh crore in 2020-21. So, there’s no more to squeeze the banks and PSUs for, either (except maybe the RBI’s surplus, built up over the decades). And last, but not the least, you and I have been paying for petrol and diesel at the same or higher rate during the six years of Modi (when oil prices have ranged from a low of $29 a barrel in 2016 to about $65 last year; currently, they are at about $30) than we did in 2013 when international oil prices were at $108 a barrel. In short, the Modi government has sucked in money from every source it can for six years, and yet, it has no money to help any section of society today. But Modi does have Rs 20,000 crore to spend on putting his own stamp on Delhi’s Central Vista, and the gumption to sell you dreams of start-ups conducting planetary exploration. Well, I suppose, Modi is from Saturn, the rest of us are from Mars. (S Raghotham lives the life of an owl, and can turn his head 270°  @sraghotham)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/after-lockdown-the-loan-mela-and-planetary-exploration-anyone-841222.html
24-05-2020||Opinion||Mango happiness in the time of Coronavirus||One afternoon, not so long ago, a family moved in opposite our house. That same evening, India went into lockdown. They came in on the day which, in hindsight, was the last day of free movement as we knew it. I also remember it as the time when the three mango trees in our yard were bending over with fragrant, juicy ripening mangoes. You know that delicious smell that you can sniff from a mile away. We were harvesting about fifty mangoes a day, sometimes a hundred. There were buckets full. Only this scorching summer, there was no one to share them with. See, in our neighbourhood, pretty much everybody has mango trees. As we do in India, we share them around. We all do it -- when something special is cooked in our house -- payasam, kheer, laddoos, chicken curry; or a new special recipe is tried and it comes out well, our neighbours are the first ones to get it. Right? So, there’s always jackfruit, bananas, coconuts, drumstick, mangosteen, rambutan coming our way or making its way out from ours to friends, relatives and neighbours. This year was different. People were cautious. There was no movement. And so, we didn’t say hello to the new family, either. We’d see the man reading on the terrace in the morning; the teenage sons busy on their smartphones, probably playing PUBG or some such, the mother would sweep the verandah. We’d wave at each other, but that was about it. Then one day, when the man saw me, he gestured for me to wait. He then shouted out a mobile number. I ran back inside, got a pen and a piece of paper and wrote it down. We called. His wife answered. They were new to Kochi. He’d been transferred from Kozhikode. The sons had been enrolled in a school but there were no classes. They knew a few people in town but hadn’t been able to connect. So, we were introduced to the Pillais. Meanwhile, the coconuts began to ripen on the trees. Usually, men come round to the houses when the time is right to pick them. Somehow they know, miraculously. The mango trees continued to bear fruit. I never thought I’d say this, but we grew a bit bored with eating mangoes. After all, how much of the same variety can you eat every day. Mangoes are delightful because of the variety available in India. Bored of Banganapalli, let’s get Imam Pasand. Enough of Sindhooram, let’s buy Alphonso. Too much of Mallika, let’s choose Mulgoa. The family opposite were settling in. Our waving to each other turned into phone conversations. A few days later, the phone rang. It was our new neighbour lady. “Hello,” she said. Pause. “Erm...,” she hesitated. I heard her sons whisper in the background: Come on, Amma, ask. “Can we have some of your mangoes,” she almost blurted out as if she feared she would change her mind again about asking. At last, someone to share the mangoes with. That evening, we were ready with a bucket full of mangoes. The father and the sons were ready with their mundus folded up to their knees on their terrace. I threw a mango. Good catch. Another. Then another. One after another, they caught the mangoes like seasoned cricket fielders. We all went back inside, happy with our performance. The next morning, the phone pinged. There were pictures of the new neighbours enjoying the Neelam mangoes, juice trickling down their chins. I smiled. Mango happiness in the time of Coronavirus. (Anubha George Can keep a secret even while telling the story@anubha.george)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mango-happiness-in-the-time-of-coronavirus-841223.html
24-05-2020||Opinion||Has China’s moment arrived?||A number of recent events indicate that China’s leadership thinks that its time has come, this is the moment to enhance its role in the regional and global order at a time when the current hegemon, the United States, appears to be shirking from its global responsibilities. China’s actions post-January 23 in controlling the Covid-19 epidemic in Wuhan and across the country has been touted as a success to be emulated by other countries, although lack of transparency has resulted in other countries accusing China of fudging the numbers of Covid-19 infections and deaths and, worse, spreading the disease to the rest of the world. China quickly adapted to the call by over 120 for an “impartial and independent” investigation of the origins of Covid-19 at the recent World Health Assembly (WHA) meeting. It not only agreed to the “evaluation” at a distant date but also, for added effect, promised $2 billion in medical aid to affected African countries over the next two years. China has been exerting itself in its region, as evident in its military forays in the South China Sea, action in the Taiwan Straits, repeated transgressions on the Japanese-administered Senkaku Islands, and in the India-China border areas. Structurally, this suggests major changes in China’s posturing that are expected to be unveiled further in the coming years. First, unlike former patriarch Deng Xiaoping’s dictum of “keeping a low profile” so as to attract foreign companies, today’s leadership in China is shifting towards “accomplishing something” in the regional and global order. Packaged as the “China Dream” and “rejuvenation,” China intends to occupy the “centre stage” in the global order. Second, taking a cue from the larger strategic direction from the leadership, there is emerging a new phenomenon of “wolf-warrior” diplomats in China today. Reportedly egged on by Foreign Minister Wang Yi, the spokesperson Zhao Lijian (who earlier served in Pakistan) accused the US military of planting the coronavirus in Wuhan during the global military sports event there in October last. Others in the foreign ministry have taken on President Trump and US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, signalling a new low in relations with the US. Third, China has recently assessed that the US is in decline and therefore it provides an opportunity for Beijing to fill the regional and global vacuum. Indeed, in the last decade, as China became the world’s second largest economy, such assessments on US decline have become the mainstream view, despite advice by Singapore’s late leader Lee Kwan Yew to the contrary. The US-China stalemate at the WHA is likely to be the template as the competition between the two intensifies. Fourth, rising nationalism in China provides the support and back-up for any adventurous undertaking by Beijing in the coming years. The Communist Party turns and uses nationalist sentiments towards specific targets at any given time – it was aimed at Japan till recently, it could be turned against the US and India. However, in the current contest with the US and emerging challenges to globalisation due to Covid-19, Chinese nationalism could prove to be a double-edged sword, as noted Sinologist Wang Gongwu has reminded. Fifth, Beijing has exhibited unprecedented coercive diplomacy with its neighbours and others recently that will test its resolve in the coming years. China banned beef and other imports from Australia as the latter took the lead in demanding the investigation into the origin of COVID-19. Weaponising trade issues is not new to China. It banned the export of rare earth metals to Japan citing territorial disputes. Recently, Beijing signalled to the US that crucial medical supplies could be affected. However, the current round of trade friction is acquiring global dimensions with China arm-twisting European countries to implement Huawei’s 5G telecoms technology. China’s South-East Asian neighbours have also witnessed pounding pressure from Beijing both on Haiyang Shiyou and the HD-8 rigs deployment in the contested South China Sea. In its “creeping silently” strategy towards SE Asia, China is dividing the ASEAN countries even as it pushes through its own discriminatory code of conduct in those seas. As for India, the Wuhan and Chennai summits notwithstanding, China is probing, deploying and dominating all across the India-China border, as reflected in the Asaphila, Longju transgressions in Arunachal Pradesh, Nathu La in Sikkim and Pangong Tso and Galwan areas in Ladakh. All the above suggest the ongoing transformation in China’s diplomacy, first from the anti-imperialist struggle against the US to adjusting to the 1990s’ “one superpower, four major powers” to graduating to a G-2 with the US in the 2000s to the emerging ‘Cold War’ with it. But China might have made a mistake in being hasty, and it could find it to be a costly one. (Srikanth Kondapalli has been Peking behind the Bamboo Curtain for 30 years @SrikanthKondap8)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/has-china-s-moment-arrived-841224.html
24-05-2020||Opinion||Therapy is not a cave||Two years ago, an ordinary summer’s day in May, I woke up one morning, as usual, got down the stairs, as usual, poured myself a cup of tea from the waiting teapot, as usual, walked out into the patio, as usual, sat my cup down and sat myself down, as usual, lit a cigarette, as usual, and before I could begin with any pleasantries to my daughter’s father, I began to weep, not tea, although that wouldn’t have been unexpected of me, but proper, big, fat, salty, silent tears. All this was still alright -- Section 144 of our ‘happy marriage’ allows us both the right to weep at sight. That day, that time, the problem lay in me not knowing why. How could I be just so fine and yet feel so fragile? But of course, at 44, I was grown-up enough to know this was my ‘mental health’ May Day moment. A few phone calls later, to two friends and my ObGyn, my distress signal reached, WhatsApp speed, one of Delhi’s, arguably India’s, best-known, most benevolent, and busiest psychiatrist-psychotherapists, and an appointment was secured. After hours of diving deep into my ’history’, that ordinary folk like me accumulate as just years, and hours of ‘clarifying questions’, I was determined to be quite capable, you’re welcome, of finding my way by feeling my way through my feelings. No, COVID-19-like, there is no magic medication yet made for my particular strain of “corrosive melancholy” which also mutates. I say this with some emphasis because, like many of us in my generation, I grew up less with visions of the joke of a Tejo Mahalaya in Agravan and more with the threat of a loony bin in Agra. In fact, I did a bit worse with a perennially politically precipitous Punjabi mother who dismissed anyone she didn’t much care for as a ‘psychiatric case’! I was asked if I was in for what was going to be plain good old-fashioned hard work, of ‘clarifying questions’, and more and more, a lifetime. The alternatives, although unknown, didn’t seem exactly attractive so ‘in’ I was. It’s two years, on and off, and I’ll never know if I’m inching closer to the right answers, but at least I’ve now got help with not asking myself the same set of wrong questions, again and again. That was my ‘corrosive crisis’, looking back, long time coming. When I realised I was now in my own way of being functional, despite being moderately successful and “insanely sane”, I did five things: I squared up to my reality; I took full responsibility for it; I sought qualified help, heck, I paid good orange remonetised Indian rupees for the best help money can buy; I subjected myself to a series of terrifyingly troubling and tiring inquisitions that dug deep into all my creative truths, my crafty little lies, my hidden agendas, my vicarious victimhood, and my delusional dishonesties. I took charge. Silently sloganeering “Indu khatre main hai” (translated ‘Indu is in danger’), I went into maximum government-maximum governance mode. The thing is that professional therapy is not a cave, it’s not yoga, it’s not ayurveda, it’s not a glug of ‘gau-mutra’, it’s not even ‘vipassana’, those must have their place like those little sugar pills called homoeopathy does. No, even a double dose of chloroquine won’t do the trick. Professional therapy is not a placebo. It is not a well-packaged, hyperbolic ‘stimulus’. It has no ‘feel-good’ factor for your personal stock market. It is not unkind, but it endlessly asks you ‘why’. Professional therapy is a long, cold, hard stare in the mirror to see if one’s smile reaches one’s eyes. India’s doesn’t, and who but the government, the role model of all role models, can take that crucial first step and get itself help — qualified, professional help. The majority will not think even once before also deciding to migrate, even burst crackers to celebrate. Recovering atmanirbhars like me know this is all very hard but continuing to pretend to know it all on all of India’s behalf hasn’t been very smart. And before you begin, kindly remove that mask. My Rolodex is ready, and surely, PM CARES can fund a round or two of therapy. I will pay the price for the rest. We already are paying. (Indu Anand gives melancholic one-star reviews to marriage, motherhood, most men, and midlife @Indu.A.Anand)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/therapy-is-not-a-cave-841225.html
24-05-2020||Opinion||Finding language for intimacy||The ‘Bois Locker Room’ fracas in Delhi has added another woeful episode to the nightmare that is the heterosexual male’s relationship with women. As we know, there were morphed nude photos of underage female students that were circulated in the chatroom that were outed. Alleged perpetrators were questioned; there is a police investigation underway. Some group members spoke about raping some of their female classmates. Over those messages, they mauled the personalities of the girls. In doing so, they hauled their own selves over the coals as human beings. Once more, Indian maleness gets implicated in the web of women’s violation. Whether they admit to it or not, innocent boys and men are part of a wider gender-violent, misogyny-enabling discourse. This event, in a way, in the crème-de-la-crème of India’s capital, denotes the twilight of the heterosexual man. In public perception, in the last two years and more, the image of men has been plummeting in the eyes of women, though it was rarely good at the best of times. One hazards men’s collective comeuppance may be due soon: An equal counter to misogyny? Maybe. It’s tempting to think that now even innocent men might be prejudged by women as silent witnesses or complicit actors in the perpetuating of toxicity towards them. How are we to now see hetero maleness? For North India, it’s even more dismaying. Despite the controversial changes in rape laws post-Nirbhaya, there haven’t been signs of thought-process progress. Generations of gender violence and inequality don’t vanish with bolstering a law or two. In her work and writings, the creative feminist Paromita Vohra has often argued for an urgent reordering of our education and values. She has also put herself in the shoes of “regular” men. She has humanised the ‘macho’ performative complexes of the middle-of-the-road Indian male. Male violence against women, in speech and thought, masks the fear, the uncertainty, the confusion, indeed the self-violence that men indulge in while thinking and talking about women. What are the social forces that make such men? Vohra and her organisation ‘Agents of Ishq’ raise these matters with gravity and play. In their workshops, they try to make men think about how they think about women and their own selves. She has argued for a new “literacy in intimacy” for men. Even today, a majority of India’s 1.3 billion props up a popular culture that refrains from humanising intimacy as a subject: It’s kept mystified, abstract, satirised, and the foundation is laid for the noose of matrimony. Such a stifling set-up stands oddly against our forebears who created the amorous spectacles of Belur, Halebid, the Kama Sutra, Khajuraho, Konark and temple gopurams where the human nude and myriad sexual orientations found space. In my view, one of the truest stories about woman-man desire in contemporary India is the Neeraj Ghaywan film Masaan (2015). In it, two young consenting adults book a room at a hotel in their hometown of Varanasi – that alleged cultural capital of Hinduism – and as they begin making out, cops along with the manager barge in and charge them with “indecent behaviour”. Soon their lives are wrecked, their families defamed, the boy goes on to take his life, the girl shamed, later brazenly propositioned, leaves town. Masaan is fictional but its emotions feel like they are facts: North India is hell for its youth. How can a country of 1.3 billion be sexually frustrated and repressed? Our ancestors pass their pathologies to us. While it’s nightmarish for women with its many stated and unspoken curbs on their freedom, in many ways, it’s hellish for boys and men, too. Do they have support to lean on? In their social worlds, they inhabit a climate of toxic hypocrisy around love and hormones; they become clones of their parents. The wider culture shuts out openness. So, segregating women and men, is made the norm. If the interaction with the opposite sex is so rare, consider the scope for stereotyping and othering them. With all its poison and filth, the ‘Bois Locker Room’ also amplified male angst. While boys hurled abuses at girls, they pleaded their own emotional illiteracy and devastation. (Rahul Jayaram believes we are living through the apocalypse @RaJayaram)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/finding-language-for-intimacy-841226.html
24-05-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan turns 75; PM Narendra Modi, Nitin Gadkari extend greetings||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday turned 75, but it was a quiet birthday for him as he continued with official work and COVID-19 related matters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari, actor turned politician Kamal Haasan and Malayalam superstar Mohanlal greeted the Chief Minister. In a tweet, Modi extended his birthday greetings to the Chief Minister, wishing him good health. "Birthday wishes to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi Ji on his birthday. May he be blessed with good health and a long life," the Prime Minister tweeted. Gadkari also took to twitter to greet Vijayan. "Birthday greetings to Chief Minister of Kerala Shri @vijayanpinarayiJi," he said. Mohanlal did likewise, tweeting "Birthday wishes to our Honourable Chief Minister, Shri @vijayanpinarayisir". Kamal Haasan took to Twitter and mentioned the CPI(M) leader's speech at the Kerala Assembly in 1977, holding up his bloodstained shirt. Vijayan, along with other party leaders, was arrested and taken into custody on September 28, 1975 during the Emergency and reportedly beaten up. Upon his release two years later, Vijayan rushed to the state legislative assembly with his bloodied shirt from that day and spoke against the state's "excesses." "Then, he created a storm by talking with a bloodstained shirt. Now he has made his state the object of adulation in the country. The CM of Kerala emphasised our bond, calling us brothers, keeping the borders open. Our Heartfelt birthday wishes to our comrade @vijayanpinarayi," Kamal Haasan tweeted. Meanwhile, a senior official at the Chief Minister's Office said Vijayan continued with official work and evaluating the COVID-19 situation "Comrade has never held any celebrations on his birthday. Today is no different. He evaluated the COVID-19 situation and was checking office files at his residence, the Cliff House, here," the official told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-turns-75-pm-narendra-modi-nitin-gadkari-extend-greetings-841329.html
24-05-2020||South||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams to auction 50 immovable properties in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has decided to auction 50 immovable petty properties located at different places in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Rishikesh in Uttarakhand, a top functionary of TTD said on Sunday. The immovable properties which are set to be auctioned include tiny houses and house plots measuring between 1 cent and 5 cents and farming lands between 10 cents and below one acre, said YV Subba Reddy, Chairman of TTD Board, which governs the famous hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala. He said properties donated by devotees to the hill shrine several decades ago were non-maintainable and non- revenue generating for TTD as they were very petty and unviable. Andhra and Tamil Nadu have 26 and 23 such properties respectively and one land in Rishikesh, he added. A total income of about Rs 24 crore is expected to fetched from the auctions, Reddy said. The TTD Chairman alleged that some vested interests including some sections of the media and political parties in Andhra Pradesh have been deliberately making false propaganda among the devotees against the Board's move to auction unviable properties. He further said that in the past too on several occasions TTD during different regimes in the state had auctioned tiny properties. The TTD Chairman also appealed to devotees not to be carried away by the false propaganda by vested interests aimed to create confusion and play with their sentiments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirumala-tirupati-devasthanams-to-auction-50-immovable-properties-in-andhra-pradesh-tamil-nadu-841373.html
24-05-2020||South||5 more fresh COVID-19 cases push count to 29 in Puducherry||The total number of active cases of COVID-19 in Union Territory of Puducherry rose to 29 on Sunday with five fresh cases reported while one patient got discharged from a hospital here. The five cases, included a man and his mother who was already undergoing treatment for coronavirus, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters. He said the rise in the number of cases was witnessed since the lockdown-related restrictions were relaxed on May 17. The last five days have witnessed a surge in the number of patients causing concern to the health authorities, the Health Minister said.  He said it was not practically possible for the government to deny permission to those belonging to Puducherry and those returning from abroad and other states and districts in the country. "We have decided to exercise utmost vigil at the border points and residents of Puducherry returning to the Union Territory will be kept under compulsory quarantine for 14 days either in the government designated centres or at their homes," he said. Rao appealed to the people to ensure that the Union Territory did not become a comfortable place for the spread of the pandemic. Director of Health and Family Welfare Service S Mohan Kumar said 12 patients have so far been discharged after recovery in the Union Territory and the total cases reported since the outbreak of the pandemic was 41.  Health Minister accompanied by the officials of his department later visited the medical college hospital to ascertain how many health staff, including nurses, had downloaded the Arogiya Setu app in their mobiles. Meanwhile, a press release from the health department said the Health Minister, who found out that lesser number of staff had patronised the mobile app, asked all the staff to download the apps without any further delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/5-more-fresh-covid-19-cases-push-count-to-29-in-puducherry-841378.html
24-05-2020||South||Cancer patient who tested positive for COVID-19 dies in Kerala; Toll rises to 5||A 53-year old woman cancer patient died on Sunday, days after she tested positive for COVID-19 on her return from Dubai, taking the toll due to the deadly virus in the state to five, a top official said. The condition of the woman had been critical since arrival on May 20 and she was on ventilator support and the end came this afternoon at the Government Medical College Hospital here, health department sources said. "A COVID-19 test was conducted on her and she had tested positive. So though the cause of death is malignant cancer, we will consider this as COVID death," State Health Secretary Dr Rajan Khobragade told PTI. The woman, hailing from Kalpetta in Wayanad district, along with her husband had reached Kerala from Dubai on May 20 for cancer treatment. She was first admitted to a private hospital and later shifted to the medical college hospital after testing positive for the coronavirus. With her death, the COVID-19 fatalities in the state has risen to five. 53 new cases, 47 of them returnees from abroad and other states, were detected, taking the aggregate tally of infections in the state so far to 847. Totally 322 people are presently undergoing treatment for the virus, while 520 have been cured and discharged, Health Minister K K Shailaja said in a press release. Over 95,000 people are under observation. A 73-Year-old woman, who had returned to the state from Mumbai, had died after testing positive for the infection in Thrissur on Thursday night. Earlier, three people, including a four-month-old baby girl, had died of COVID-19 in the state, which has been witnessing a spike in new cases in recent days. Meanwhile, an 18-year-old boy who had returned to Kannur from Chennai and was under quarantine died at a hospital on Sunday. He had been admitted to the hospital following fever and headache. His first test had returned negative, health department sources said. As a precautionary measure one more sample had been sent for testing, they said.  While 12 people each from Thiruvananthapuram and Kannur tested positive for the virus, Malappuram and Kasaragod had five cases each, Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Palakkad districts had four cases each, 3 from Kollam, 2 from Pathnamthitta and one from Kozhikode have tested positive on Sunday, besides a person from Tamil Nadu.     Eighteen people (3 from Oman, 11 from UAE, 3 from Saudi Arabia and one from Kuwait) who had come from abroad and 29 (Maharashtra-19, Gujarat-5, TN-3, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh- one each)from other states have tested positive. Five people, including a health worker from Palakkad, have been infected due to contact,while five people, who were under treatment for the virus, have been cured and discharged. Totally 93,404 people have come to the state. While 7,847 have come by air, 1,621 through sea, 79,908 via checkposts and4,028by trains have come to the state. At least 95,394 people are under observation, of which94,662 are at home and institutitonalquarantine while 732 are in hospitals. At least 188 were admitted to the hospital today. So far, samples of 53,873 people have been sent for testing, of which results of 52,355 are negative. The total number of hotspotsin the state has gone up to 55 with 18 new areas being brought in today. In Kannur, 67 people are undergoing treatment for the virus, the highest in the state, followedby Malappuram (49) and Palakkad (48). On May8, Kerala had reported a solitary case and just 16 people were under treatmentandChief Minsiter Pinarayi Vijayan had declared that the state had flattened the COVID-19 curve. However, with more people coming to the state from abroad and other states,the number of coronavirus cases has seen a sudden spike in the past few days. While on Friday, 42 cases were reported, on Saturday it went up to 62 and on Sunday 53 cases have been reported taking the total to 157 in the past threedays||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cancer-patient-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-dies-in-kerala-toll-rises-to-5-841390.html
24-05-2020||South||TikTok video helps in reuniting missing disabled man with family in Telangana after 2 years||A 60-year-old hearing and speech impaired man, who had gone missing over two years ago from Telangana, has been traced in Punjab and reunited with his family on Sunday thanks to a video shared on TikTok, police said. Police traced to Ludhiana the location of R Venkateshwarlu, who went missing from Bhadradri-Kothagudem district in April 2018, after the man's daughter and son saw him taking food in a visual posted on the video sharing platform. The man's son Peddiraju reached Ludhiana on Sunday and was returning with his father to their native place, police said. Earlier, Police traced the video to a police constable of Ludhiana, who had posted it. Later police traced the location of the missing man and his son recognised him during a video call was made to verify the identity of Venkateshwarlu, a police official told PTI. Peddiraju left for Punjab in a vehicle after a pass was issued for the travel, the official said adding the the father and son would reach Telangana by Monday. A missing case was registered after Venkateshwarlus family members filed a complaint, but he remained untraced till they stumbled on the video. They expressed their happiness and thanked everyone who helped them in reuniting the man with his family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tiktok-video-helps-in-reuniting-missing-disabled-man-with-family-in-telangana-after-2-years-841440.html
24-05-2020||South||Uncertainty looms over resumption of flight operations in Tamil Nadu||Uncertainty prevailed over resumption of domestic flight services in Tamil Nadu effective Monday as the state government, which has opposed allowing the operations till May 31, was yet to announce its final decision and notify the Standard Operating Procedure. As the nationwide domestic passenger flights are set to resume after a gap of two months amid the fourth phase lockdown, airport sources here said "We are ready to operate, the airlines are also ready, but the state's final nod is awaited." The state government's nod signifying concurrence on operation of flights and the SoP on handling passengers were being awaited, they told PTI.  Besides Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and West Bengal have also opposed allowing domestic flights in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases in these states. The Tamil Nadu government, which had shown inclination recently to allow departures rather than arrivals was, however, yet to announce its final stand and also has to clarify on "quarantine" aspects as well (in the SOP), the sources said. Citing increasing COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister K Palaniswami had on May 11 came out against resumption of a passenger train and air services till May 31 and the stand was reiterated later as well by the government. The state on Sunday recorded eight deaths due to COVID-19, taking the death toll to 111 while 765 fresh cases saw it's total infections breaching the 16,000 mark. Meanwhile, when asked about an "SoP," that was circulated on social media for air passengers arriving in Tamil Nadu, a senior state government official said it was "incorrect, not official." However, the official did not elaborate if the government will notify the SoP and extend support for passenger movement. Officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation, which coordinated logistics and quarantine of passengers who arrived here as part of the Vande Bharat Mission also declined to comment. "We are ready to coordinate and work. But the word go has to come from the state government," an official said. While purported "flight schedule," to and from Tamil Nadu was being shared in social media, the official said airport authorities have not officially communicated about it to anyone.  Adding to the uncertainty, there were several comments about resumption of flights in the microblogging site Twitter. While Congress MP Manickam Tagore tweeted #Madurai Airport will resume operations from tomorrow, DMK MP S Senthilkumar, replying to a twitter user said "June first week can expect the operation of flights to TN." Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Twitter on Sunday that it is "extremely ill-advised" to reopen airports in red zones. Echoing similar sentiments, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said she will urge the Centre to postpone the resumption of domestic flight services at Kolkata and Bagdogra airports by a few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/uncertainty-looms-over-resumption-of-flight-operations-in-tamil-nadu-841458.html
24-05-2020||South||Man kills wife using snake to bite her in Kerala: Police||In a chilling plot, a man allegedly killed his 25-year old wife by letting a cobra bite her in her sleep near here early this month with police cracking it following suspicions raised by her family as it was the second time she suffered a snake attack in three months. Police said after investigations by the crime branch they arrested Sooraj, a private bank employee from Adoor in Pathanamthitta district, and a snake-catcher who supplied the cobra and Russell's viper, both highly poisonous, on charges of killing the woman. Parents of the woman had approached the police saying there was something suspicious about the death of their daughter on May 7 as barely a couple of months ago she had survived a snake bite. The couple were married for around two years and some financial angle was suspected behind the shocking killing, police said adding Sooraj had received 98 sovereigns of gold jewellery as dowry.  "One guy who provided the snakes and the husband who initially attempted to kill his wife with a poisonous snake and later succeeded in killing her, in the same manner, have been arrested," Kollam police chief K S Hari Sankar told media persons here on Sunday. Police found digital evidence on the man's mobile phone using which he had been watching snake-related videos on YouTube since the last three months, apparently to get trained in handling them, he said. Police said Sooraj bought Russell's viper from Suresh and on March 2 he attempted to kill his wife at their house in Adoor using the snake. The woman was hospitalised and discharged on April 22 after which she had returned to her parent's home in Anchal in Kollam district. Sooraj once again contacted Suresh and purchased an Indian cobra and on May 6 night he had dropped it on his wife while she was sleeping.  "He watched the snake bite her twice. On May 7 morning, he got out of the room as usual and her mother found her unconscious," police said, quoting his interrogation. She was declared dead on arrival at a hospital while the snake found in the room was later killed. Police said the snake catcher had been involved in illegal trade of the reptiles and the forest department which has been informed will file a separate case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-kills-wife-using-snake-to-bite-her-in-kerala-police-841464.html
24-05-2020||South||No jobs in Goa without bribe, says SSC question paper query; earns BJP's ire||A controversial question in the English question paper of the ongoing SSC examinations in Goa, has earned the ire of the ruling BJP in Goa, which has demanded action against the persons responsible for the process of formulating the question paper, which nearly 11,000 students appeared for on Saturday. The controversial question is a grammer-related query whose passage - a conversations between two youngsters -- suggests that it is not easy for native Goans to get jobs in the state without bribery or influence and therefore, migrating to Portugal is the most convenient option. Published on page 10 of the English question paper, the controversial passage says: Report what was said by Rayson and Kedan by using appropriate reporting verbs:"What are your future plans my friend"? (Rayson to Kedan) I have applied for a Portuguese passport as there are few job opportunities in Goa". (Kedan to Rayson) "You have taken the right decision. Without influence and money, it's very difficult for Goans to get jobs in Goa." (Rayson to Kedan) Leader of Opposition and senior Congress leader Digambar Kamat has said that the query mirrors the sorry ground realities in Goa. "This question in English paper of SSC examination is a reflection of current situation in Goa under @BJP4Goa. No job opportunities here & then step motherly treatment to those who go abroad for earning bread & butter & contribute to our economy. Hope @goacm takes note. @INCGoa," Kamat tweeted.   Goa was one of the oldest colonies of the Portugal and was liberated by the Indian army from colonial yoke in 1961. After the liberation, all Goan natives were granted Indian citizenship by the Union Home ministry via a common notification. However, the departing Portuguese, preferred not to snip the umbilical cord with its colonials by allowing those living in Goa during the Portuguese regime to register their birth in Portugal and avail of citizenship and Portuguese travel identity documents, which allows easy transit to Europe and the United States of America for employment opportunities. The privilege was later extended to two more generations of Goans, as a result of which hundreds of native Goans apply for the coveted Portuguese passport annually. BJP's state general secretary Narendra Sawaikar, however, claims that the controversial query was inserted in the question paper with a motivated agenda. "It is apparent that the objectionable questions and the form in which they have been asked is an intentional attempt by the paper setter and the scrutinizer to influence the young minds with a motivated agenda," the state BJP official told reporters. "Inspite of the fact, that the paper setter is employed in Goa and draws his salary from the taxes paid by the Goans, is attempting to pollute the children. Such mindset should not be tolerated in the education sector and more particularly in examination system," he also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-jobs-in-goa-without-bribe-says-ssc-question-paper-query-earns-bjps-ire-841465.html
24-05-2020||State||Spike in Karnataka COVID-19 cases due to Maharashtra returnees||Karnataka reported a whopping 216 cases and two deaths on a single day on Saturday. Of the 216, 187 are returnees from Maharashtra, making up 86% of the cases.  The rest are from Delhi (2), Tamil Nadu (2), Gujarat (2), Rajasthan (1), and Andhra Pradesh (1). Some suffered from severe acute respiratory illness (1), influenza-like-illness (3); a few patients’ contacts were still being traced (2); and a few patients were contacts of previously diagnosed patients (15).   A 32-year-old from Bengaluru’s Nagawara died on Saturday. He was emaciated before admission to the hospital on May 19, suffered from co-morbidities like TB and died after a cardiac arrest on Saturday. The second death was reported from Dakshina Kannada district. Though the patient ended his life on Thursday at a quarantine centre in Kadandale, his swabs tested positive on Saturday.  A four-month-old baby is among Saturday’s cases. Yadgir (72), Raichur (40), Mandya (28), Chikkaballapur (26) and Gadag (15) accounted for most of the cases. Now, the state has 1,307 active cases and 608 discharges. The death toll stands at 42 along with two suicides. Thirteen patients are in ICU. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey told DH, “We had anticipated these cases from Maharashtra that is why we took strong decisions despite criticism to mandatorily quarantine people from six high-risk states. In these seven days, we will at least come to know of those who test positive.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/spike-in-karnataka-covid-19-cases-due-to-maharashtra-returnees-841210.html
24-05-2020||State||1 wrong COVID-19 test lands more than 1,000 in quarantine in Karnataka||On May 19, authorities in the town of Mudigere, Chikkamagaluru district, were shocked after the swab sample of a doctor in a Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC) tested positive for COVID-19. The positive diagnosis immediately set off alarm bells. Authorities scrambled to complete the contact tracing and eventually quarantined a total of 485 primary contacts and 961 secondary contacts of the doctor. But there was a twist to the drama. Almost all subsequent samples of P-1295 tested negative, which baffled authorities. All 28 close contacts of the doctor also tested negative. The throat swab sample of the doctor, who had earlier tested positive, has tested negative for COVID-19. He was tested six times. The sample was wrongly diagnosed for Covid-19 on May 19, said Deputy Commissioner Dr Bagadi Gautham, talking about the four confusing days. Although the doctor tested positive, suspecting something amiss, said the DC, samples of the doctor were tested at the district hospital on May 20. The results were negative. The next day, a sample was again collected and tested at the hospital. Another negative diagnosis. Puzzled at the results, samples were sent to labs in Shivamogga and Hassan, where they tested negative. Not content, the samples were sent to Bengaluru, where two labs threw up two results.   The swab sample was tested at NIMHANS and the result confirmed COVID-19. But the same sample was tested at the NIV, Bengaluru, twice and results were negative, said Gautham. After the NIV test, the doctor, whose diagnosis mystified authorities, was discharged from hospital. The DC said that all his contacts had been sent back home from quarantine centres. Positive case turns negative in Udupi A 17-year-old girl being treated for blood cancer at KMC Manipal has tested negative on Saturday for Covid-19 after testing positive earlier. As a precautionary measure, the swab samples of the girl, while being admitted to the hospital, was sent to the laboratory at Wenlock for testing. According to the results made public a few days ago, the girl had tested positive for Covid 19. The swab samples were sent again to KMC lab twice for testing. Both the samples tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/1-wrong-covid-19-test-lands-more-than-1000-in-quarantine-in-karnataka-841211.html
24-05-2020||State||Coronavirus: Karnataka govt tweaks containment rules yet again||Karnataka state authorities have changed the containment zone guidelines, relaxing some stringent rules issued earlier, particularly in the cases of apartment complexes. The latest order on containment zones issued on May 21 nullifies the two previous orders given by the state. It notes that the containment zones remain one if 10 people, or less, who are primary and secondary contacts of a positive patient, stay under home quarantine. Containment zones will be denotified if they do not report fresh cases for 28 days. The new order, issued amidst an influx of people from elsewhere and spike in COVID-19 cases, has redefined the containment areas. The guidelines are clearer when it comes to apartment complexes. “The particular apartment unit in which the COVID-19 positive patient resided will be sealed off, and so will be the level, plus one floor below and one floor above. The apartment complex will serve as a buffer zone,” B H Anil Kumar, BBMP commissioner, said. The civic body had earlier ordered the sealing of the apartment block where the COVID-19 positive patient lived. In the case of independent houses or villas, the whole street will be made a containment zone. If the patient’s home is in the main or arterial road, the local urban bodies will decide the parameters. While a buffer zone of 200 metres will be created, the containment area will not include neighbouring streets. As for slums, the alleys to the front and the back of the affected place will become part of the containment zone. Local authorities will decide the suitable measures in rural areas. Villages having a positive case will become buffer zones in their entirety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-karnataka-govt-tweaks-containment-rules-yet-again-841244.html
24-05-2020||State||Coronavirus: No test yet for many in Karnataka who came from other states||The government’s changing stance on quarantine rules has caused anxiety among passengers who arrived in Bengaluru from other states. Quarantined in institutions, many of them are complaining that the authorities are not testing them despite repeated requests. The state government on Friday decided to discharge inter-state passengers after seven days if they test negative for Covid-19 and allow them to be quarantined at home. But many passengers who arrived in Bengaluru from Delhi on May 17 have not been tested yet. DH spoke to passengers quarantined in two different hotels and found that more than 30 of them were not subjected to the first Covid-19 test even seven days after the arrival. “Many of us want to go home and have been requesting the authorities to test us. We fear that any one of us may be carrying the virus and will spread it to people in our hometowns,” said Adeeth Cariappa, a resident of Kodagu, who arrived from Haryana and who is quarantined at a hotel near Ramaiah Hospital. Cariappa and 13 others held a protest for three days by not paying the daily hotel rent. “We protested against the substandard food and the delayed testing. Two days later, a woman came and did a thermal check on us. None of us has been tested for COVID-19 even now,” he said. A 23-year-old woman from Somwarpet, who is quarantined at a hotel near Kumara Park, narrated a similar story. “There is a complete lack of coordination among the authorities. They all give different information. We were told that the first test would be done by the fifth day. But there has been no information even after we completed seven days,” she said. Ravi Kiran and 12 others, who arrived by the same train, convinced the officials to send them to Hassan the next day, saying they cannot afford the hotel tariff in Bengaluru. “We were tested within hours of arriving in Hassan district. But there was no coordination among officials in arranging our accommodation. We finally managed to get a decent quarantine centre in Arkalgud after spending two days in the district hospital,” he said. To a question, Bengaluru Urban District Health Officer Dr Srinivas G A promised the tests would be conducted on Sunday. “The tests in the district administration limits have been completed. We will coordinate with officials if there are delays in the quarantine centres in the BBMP limits,” he said. A senior official, however, said that the BBMP had been struggling to complete the Covid tests due to a shortage of lab technicians and a high number of people put inquarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-no-test-yet-for-many-in-karnataka-who-came-from-other-states-841255.html
24-05-2020||State||Karnataka govt’s COVID-19 policy could endanger senior citizens: Experts||The government’s new mantra of “living with the coronavirus,” even as it opens up economic and social activity is said to potentially pose a devastating danger to senior citizens and those with comorbid conditions. As of Saturday evening, 168 out of the 1,959 novel coronavirus cases registered so far in the state are senior citizens over the age of 60, who have disproportionately borne the brunt of fatalities: 26 out of the 42 deaths registered so far (excluding two suicides). There are fears that these numbers could increase in the days to come. With the government’s loosening of lockdown restrictions coupled with the lack of a vaccine, experts warned that the risk posed by the disease to senior citizens and even middle-aged individuals with comorbidities is greater than ever. On the face of things, 60% of people infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus are those in the age group of 20 to 49. This demographic has enjoyed a 99.6% recovery rate, barring five patients who succumbed to the disease, including Patient 1270, a malnourished 32-year-old resident of a slum in Nagavara who died on Saturday.  However, according to Dr Vishal Rao who is involved in COVID-19 plasma therapy, these figures can be misleading. He pointed out that recovery rates vary depending on age category.  “Since a lot of the young people are getting the disease and are mostly immune, there is a belief that the Sars-CoV-2 virus is not really a threat. However, this does not take into account that young people afflicted with the disease can pass it on to their elderly relatives or those with comorbid issues, such as cancer, TB, hypertension, diabetes,” Dr Rao said. “Most people now returning to work are between the ages of 20 to 49. What happens when they contract the virus and go back home, where elderly people are also living?” he added, warning that the state could find itself in a Sweden-like position.  The nordic country of 10 million has suffered a death toll of 3,925 people so far, out of which 3,476 are senior citizens over the age of 60. It is a scenario disputed by Pankaj Paney, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare who said that the state is putting in sturdy surveillance and social distancing measures to prevent this from happening. However, the commissioner did not elaborate on these measures. Reverse Quarantine Needed Experts, including Dr Giridhar Babu of the State Covid Task Force, proposed the idea of a “‘reverse quarantine” where people susceptible to the virus are protected. Dr Arvind Kasturi, Head of Community Healthcare, St. John’s National Academy, called on the government to introduce a policy making people clearly aware of what steps to take if they develop symptoms.  “There must be a policy to home quarantine those with asymptomatic or mild symptoms. At the same time, we should have a mechanism to rehouse elderly people in that household with other relatives,” he said. He added that the government should introduce a policy mitigating the current uncertainty about institutional quarantine, which is potentially making people less inclined to report the disease to authorities. The young infecting the old Novel coronavirus case histories are replete with young individuals infecting elderly relatives, often with fatal consequences. Such was the case with Patient 228, a 13-year-old boy from Vijayapura who infected three people including a 62-year-old woman who died on May 5.  Often, the disease can prove ravaging if not caught in time, as a cluster in Bantwal reveals.  Patient 390, a 50-year-old woman who died before she could get proper treatment, ended up triggering a cluster of 13 people, within which, three people died. All were women aged, 58, 78 and 80. Two had comorbidities in the form of hypertension and tuberculosis, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-s-covid-19-policy-could-endanger-senior-citizens-experts-841269.html
24-05-2020||State||Karnataka: Total lockdown declared in Mangaluru||The total lockdown announced to check the unnecessary movement of people to check the spread of COVID-19 was observed effectively in Mangaluru on Sunday. Except for milk parlours and a few shops, all other business establishments remained closed.  The lockdown is being observed from 7 pm of Saturday till 7 am of Monday.  Though the authorities had allowed the vegetable, meat and fish selling shops to remain open, a majority of the shops including fish markets remained closed.  Police personnel had strengthened security across the city to strictly enforce the lockdown. Even the main roads too remained deserted with only a few vehicles plying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-total-lockdown-declared-in-mangaluru-841300.html
24-05-2020||State||Two more Covid-19 positive cases surface in Tumakuru||Two more cases of Covid-19 have surfaced in Tumakuru district over the weekend. With this, the total number of people who have tested positive for the virus in the district rose to 26 on Sunday.  On May 5, three of the 13 people who had come from Gujarat had tested positive for the pandemic and the other 10 were placed in quarantine. Another person who was with them tested positive for the disease on Sunday after his throat swab samples were sent to the laboratory and the reports came back. He has been admitted to the Covid-19 hospital since.  Tiptur case The other case is a 50-year-old man of Tiptur who had been to Nanded in Maharashtra and come home recently. His throat swab samples were sent for tests and came back positive for Coronavirus infection. Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Kumar said that Gandhinagar in Tiptur city, where this person was living, has now been declared a containment zone and blocked on all sides on Sunday.  The DC said that five people who had come into primary contact with the pregnant woman who has contracted the virus had been identified on Friday and quarantined. He added that the 35 people who had come into primary contact with the 66-year-old man (P-1685) earlier, have also been quarantined.   Tally up to 26 With all the recent developments, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has risen to 26. Of these two are dead, and five have recovered. The number of 'active' cases in the district currently stands at 19. They are being treated at the Covid-19 hospital. The DC has appealed to people to immediately notify the authorities if they get to know of people who have come to Tumakuru from other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-more-covid-19-positive-cases-surface-in-tumakuru-841401.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||First 'Sunday curfew' gets underway in Karnataka||The first 'Sunday curfew' imposed by the Karnataka government to try and contain the spread of COVID-19 got underway in the state today, with people, by and large, adhering to norms, roads wearing a deserted look and almost no vehicular traffic, barring essential services. With barricades being up across most roads in the state, people ventured out only to purchase groceries, vegetables and medicines. Instances of violation of Sunday curfew lockdown norms were reported in COVID-19 hotspots of Shivajinagar and Rayapura in Bengaluru and Nelamangala and Devanahalli. Temples, malls, bars, eateries and small food joints remained shut throughout the state. In most parts of the state buses, autorickshaws and cabs did not ply. In Bengaluru, the ever-bustling Majestic area, which houses the central city bus stand, intercity bus stand, Metro Railway Station and the City Railway Station, did not see any activity as buses did not ply and all shops were shut, police said. Reports from Mysuru, Tumakuru, Kolar, Mangaluru, Udupi and other towns across the state said there were no lockdown violations. Amid the rigid curfew, marriages were conducted in a simple manner in various parts of the state like Gollarahatti and Yashwanthapura in Bengaluru and also in Davangere. Families of the brides and grooms invited only a few people for the event, adhered to social distancing norms and wore masks. In Gollarahatti, the event organisers cleaned the road, after which the invitees, who were hardly 25 to 30 in number, sat down to have a feast. The Karnataka government had eased restrictions during Lockdown 4 for the start of economic activities like city buses, inter-district bus service, intrastate train services, the opening of shops and markets. However, the government had made it clear that there will be 'Janata Curfew' every Sunday during which only essential services would be permitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/first-sunday-curfew-gets-underway-in-karnataka-841295.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka doubles number of COVID-19 tests, says Minister for Medical Education Dr K Sudhakar||Karnataka has doubled the number of coronavirus tests conducted from one lakh to two lakh, state Minister for Medical Education Dr K Sudhakar said on Sunday. "After clocking one lakh tests on May 8, we have doubled the number of tests in just 16 days. As on this morning, we conducted 2.03 lakh tests across our 57 ICMR COVID-19 testing labs. I congratulate doctors & lab technicians on this achievement," Sudhakar tweeted. Till Sunday morning, 2,056 people were tested positive for COVID-19, including 42 deaths and 1,378 active cases and 634 discharges. Till now, 1,96,196 samples have been tested of which 1,92,127 have tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-doubles-number-of-covid-19-tests-says-minister-for-medical-education-dr-k-sudhakar-841354.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||More trains from June 1, says Minister Suresh Angadi||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi on Sunday said that the Railways would introduce more trains from June 1. “The Railways will run as many as 2,600 trains in the next 10 days to facilitate 36 lakh migrant labourers to reach their native places,” he told reporters here. Angadi said that the Railways had run special trains to send over 31 lakh migrant labourers to their native places so far. Steps had been taken to operate trains within states based on the consent of the respective states. “The South Western Railway hasn’t received good response for the service of special trains between Belagavi and Mysuru. One of the reasons for the poor response may be lack of awareness. Passengers will travel in large numbers once they realise that the special trains runs regularly between the two cities,” he said. Angadi requested passengers to ensure social distancing while using the train services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-trains-from-june-1-says-minister-suresh-angadi-841429.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Nurses to ensure biomedical waste handlers wear PPEs||Covid-19 biomedical waste (BMW) generated from quarantine centres/camps, isolation wards, sample collection centres and laboratories should be disposed of safely, so that it does not harm the human health or environment, says a circular by the government. Fever clinics/Covid care centres (hotels)/dedicated Covid hospitals which are already authorised should intimate the starting of Covid services to the respective common biomedical waste treatment facility and the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board.  The nodal officer designated for biomedical waste management is responsible to ensure safe management and disposal of the BMW.  Designated space should be provided for waste bins at all these facilities. Dedicated sanitation workers should be deputed separately for biomedical waste and general solid waste, so that the waste can be collected and transferred in time to the temporary waste storage area. The sanitation worker shall be provided with adequate PPEs and it should be ensured that he/she is using the PPE properly and regularly. The use of PPE by the waste handler should be monitored by the nurse/lab technician working at the Covid ward/lCU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nurses-to-ensure-biomedical-waste-handlers-wear-ppes-841430.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt's Covid policy endangers senior citizens: Experts||The government’s new mantra of “living with the coronavirus,” even as it opens up economic and social activities, is said to potentially pose a danger to senior citizens and those with co-morbid conditions. As of Saturday afternoon, 168 out of the 1,939 Covid cases registered in the state are people over the age of 60. The senior citizens have disproportionately borne the brunt of fatalities with 26 out of the 42 deaths reported so far, (excluding two suicides). There are fears that these numbers could increase in the days to come. With the government relaxing lockdown restrictions coupled with the lack of a vaccine, experts warned that the risk posed by the disease to senior citizens and even middle-aged individuals with comorbidities is greater than ever. Interestingly, 60% of people infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus are those in the age-group of 20 to 49. This demographic has enjoyed a 99.6% recovery rate, barring five patients who succumbed to the disease, including Patient 1270, a malnourished 32-year-old resident of a slum in Nagavara who died on Saturday.  However, according to Dr Vishal Rao, who is involved in Covid plasma therapy, these figures can be misleading. He pointed out that recovery rates vary depending on the age category.  “Since a lot of the young people are getting the disease and are mostly immune, there is a belief that the Sars-CoV-2 virus is not really a threat. However, this does not take into account that young people afflicted with the disease can pass it on to their elderly relatives or those with comorbid issues, such as cancer, TB, hypertension, diabetes,” Dr Rao said. “Most people now returning to work is in the age-group of 20 to 49 years. What happens when they contract the virus and go back home, where elderly people are also living?” he added, warning that the state could find itself in a Sweden-like situation. The nordic country of 10 million has suffered a death toll of 3,925 people, so far. Out of which 3,476 are over the age of 60. It is a scenario disputed by Pankaj Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, who said that the state was putting in sturdy surveillance and social distancing measures to prevent this from happening. However, the commissioner did not elaborate on these measures. Reverse quarantine  Experts, including Dr Girhdar Babu of the State Covid task Force, propose the idea of a ‘reverse quarantine’ where people susceptible to the virus are protected. Dr Arvind Kasturi, Head of Community Healthcare, St. John’s National Academy, called on the government to make the policy-making people clearly aware of what steps to take if they develop symptoms.  “There must be a policy to home quarantine those with asymptomatic or mild symptoms. At the same time, we should have a mechanism to rehouse elderly people in that household with other relatives,” he said. He added that the government should introduce a policy mitigating the current uncertainty about institutional quarantine, which is potentially making people less inclined to report the disease to authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govts-covid-policy-endangers-senior-citizens-experts-841432.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KPCL engineer's ‘blunder’ may halt ops in thermal plants||Karnataka’s three thermal power plants, which generate 40% of the total state output, have been put in a tough spot due to non-compliance with emission rules while remedial measures by KPCL have been delayed as an engineer tried to sabotage tenders worth Rs 1,600 crore to favour one of the bidders. Following a 2017 order by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change that amended emission norms for thermal power stations in the country, installation of Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) system became compulsory to check air pollution and water consumption. The deadline for implementation of the project was December 2019. The Central Electricity Authority had set deadlines for each unit of the three thermal power stations (TPSs) in Karnataka - Bellary TPS,  Raichur TPS and Yermarus TPS. For some of the total 13 units, the deadline was fixed as early as December 2020 and most of them were to have the FGD system by the end of 2021. The KPCL issued a tender to build the FGD system for Bellary TPS in 2018. However, the tender had to be cancelled as the lone bidder quoted 60.5% more than the estimated cost of Rs 850 crore. For the Raichur and Yermurus TPS, tenders were called for FGD works worth Rs 1,660 crore. The state-owned Bharath Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) and Bridge and Roof Co Limited as well as private firms EDAC Engineering Limited and Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Private Limited participated. Sources told DH that even as the tender was about to be finalised, an engineer in the office of the Chief Engineer Thermal Design started leaking confidential documents to one of the bidders. The documents, obtained by DH, show that the financial bid was opened and Shapoorji Pollonji quoted 13.56% below the estimated cost for RTPS and 8.07% below the estimated cost for YTPS and emerged as the lowest bidder (L1), offering to complete the work at Rs 650 crore lesser than L2. However, the tender faces closure as companies that lost the bid are trying to influence the process. “By making false allegations against evaluation, an attempt has been made to influence the tender process,” the document placed before the Board said.  KPCL (Karnataka Power Corporation Limited) managing director V Ponnuraj said a third party committee was set up to look into allegations of irregularities in the tender process. “The committee examined the documents, including the conditions and technical evaluations, and gave a green signal. Some of its observations were cleared by the legal team. However, since there were allegations raised by disqualified and unsuccessful bidders, we have left it to the Board to decide on cancelling the tenders,” he said. To a question on action taken against the engineer, Ponnuraj said an enquiry has been initiated. While Karnataka still imports power as per the purchasing agreements, the three thermal plants account for 40% of the power produced by the state. In the summer it goes up to 50% as demand surges while the share of hydro-power goes down. Officials said the state is already late in constructing FGD systems and any further delay may attract stringent measures, including temporary closure of TPSs, by the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kpcl-engineers-blunder-may-halt-ops-in-thermal-plants-841433.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Navy man succumbs to injuries||A staffer of the INS Sumedha, the third Saryu class patrol vessel of the Indian Navy, who had sustained severe injuries in a mishap, passed away on Sunday.  Gaurav Dutt (27), who hailed from Jhajjar in Haryana was the artificer in the engine room. The mishap occurred when the patrol vessel was on duty in the Arabian Sea. Soon after the mishap, the vessel was directed to reach Seabird naval base. Dutt had breathed his last by the time the vessel reached the naval base. “A departmental inquiry has been ordered into the incident. The final rites will be conducted on Monday at Dutt’s native place,” a spokesperson of the naval base sai||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/navy-man-succumbs-to-injuries-841434.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Udupi sees 23 fresh cases; 3 policemen test positive||The coastal district reported 23 fresh infections, including three police constable and a pregnant woman, on Sunday.  With this the number of Covid-19 cases in the district increased to 76. Three constable attached to Karkala Rural, Ajekar and Brahmavar police stations contracted virus after coming in contact with the infected at containment zones. All three police stations have been sealed. Those who came in contact with the infected cops have been quarantined. Udupi Deputy commissioner G Jagadeesh told reporters, "The police stations will be sanitised as per the government guidelines and will be operational after 48 hours." He said the primary and secondary contacts of the police personnel had been quarantined and the infected were admitted to T M A Pai Hospital for treatment. A woman from Karkala, who's in her nine months pregnancy, has tested positive for Covid-19. Efforts are underway to trace her source of infection. All primary and secondary contacts of the woman have been identified and sent to quarantine.  The deputy commissioner said, "As many as 18 persons with travel history to Maharashtra, Telangana and UAE, including three kids, have contracted virus. Contact tracing of one more is underway."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/udupi-sees-23-fresh-cases-3-policemen-test-positive-841441.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Flight service to resume from Hubballi to Bengaluru, Delhi||The Hubballi Domestic Airport is expected to receive its first flight, after almost two months, on May 25 at 1:00 pm when the Star Air’s Bengaluru-Hubballi flight will touch down here. From May 25 onwards, the Star Air will operate two routes from Hubballi: Hubballi-Hindon (Delhi) at 1:30 pm and return journey from Hindon at 4:45 pm, and the second route between Bengaluru and Hubballi, which will depart Bengaluru at 12:00 noon, and arrive at 1:00 pm, and return to Bengaluru at 7:55 pm. Pre-lockdown, 17 flights used to either land or take off from Hubballi airport connecting cities such as Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Indore, Kishangad, Tirupathi, Hyderabad, Kannur, Kochi, Chennai, Goa, Mangaluru, and others. However, since March 24, no flight has touched down or took off from the Hubballi airport. Sources in Hubballi Airport informed DH that all precautionary measures, as per the guidelines issued by the Civil Aviation Ministry, are being followed at the Airport. The official also said, it would take another month or so to ensure that pre-lockdown timetable is followed. Air India is expected to start its service in last week of June, while Indigo may commence its service in mid June. Speaking to DH, Hubballi Airport Director Pramod Kumar Thakre said, as of now, only two flights will operate from Hubballi. Schedule for other flights will be informed soon. He also stated that as per the new guidelines issued by the government, flights can travel even after 7:00 pm and there will be no restriction on that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/flight-service-to-resume-from-hubballi-to-bengaluru-delhi-841457.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Maharashtra returnees add to COVID-19 rise in south districts||Maharashtra returnees contributed to a rise in fresh cases in three south Karnataka districts - Chikkaballapur, Mandya and Hassan. The three districts recorded a combined 56 new cases - more than 40% of the total infections reported in the state in the last 24 hours (ending 5 pm on Sunday). Bagepalli taluk accounted for all 27 cases reported from Chikkaballapur. As many as 26 cases have a travel history to Maharashtra. On May 19, 109 migrant workers had returned to the taluk from Mumbai. They were quarantined at various centres. Among them, 26 have tested positive for COVID-19. Also, a 24-year-old pregnant woman from ward 22 in Bagepalli has contracted the novel coronavirus. The woman has no travel history and investigations are underway to trace her source. The ward has been sealed after the woman tested positive.  As many as 99 Mumbai returnees have tested positive for the virus in the district in less than a week. The district’s COVID-19 tally has gone up to 126. Gauribidnur alone has accounted for 75 cases followed by Bagepalli at 37, Chikkaballapur at nine and Chintamani at five cases. KR Pet taluk in Mandya continued to show a rise with 14 fresh cases. Pandavapur taluk reported one case. Of the 15 cases recorded in Mandya district on Sunday, 11 are Mumbai returnees and four are contacts of Patient 869, a 22-year-old man from Maruvanahalli in KR Pet taluk with a travel history to Mumbai. Patent 869 has turned out to be a super spreader. As many as 10 people who came in contact with him have contracted COVID-19. At 252 cases, Mandya district is 14 short of Bengaluru Urban, which has reported the highest number of cases. Mandya, however, has more active cases than Bengaluru with 226. Hassan district reported 14 new cases on Sunday, all of them with interstate and inter-district travel history. A KSRP constable with travel history to Bengaluru is among those who tested positive.  As many as 24 new cases were reported in Yadgir district of Kalyana Karnataka region. All 24 are Maharashtra returnees and are natives of Arakera Tanda, Kurkunda, Kanyakolur and Allipur Tanda in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/maharashtra-returnees-add-to-covid-19-rise-in-south-districts-841459.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Fake tweet in MP’s name on M’luru man’s suicide triggers flutter||A 28-year-old man from Kalladka committed suicide by jumping into River Nethravathi at Panemangaluru, in Bantwal on Sunday. The youth was identified as Nishanth (28). A group of youths - Shamir, Mohammed, Tausif, Zahid, Jayeed, Muqtar and Arif – who were nearby, jumped into the river to rescue him. After the youths brought him to the banks of the river, he was given first aid and was taken to the government hospital in Bantwal, where he was declared dead. The video of the youths jumping into the water to rescue the man has gone viral on social media. The reason for the man taking the extreme step is not known. A case was registered at Bantwal town police station. Shobha clarifies A fake tweet in the name of Udupi-Chikmagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje said, “received an information that Jihadis had allegedly murdered Hindu organisation’s Nishanth from Kalladka. I have already asked Amit Shah to initiate action against Jihadis.” MLA U T Khader, condemning the tweet, urged the MP to give a clarification. Later, Shobha clarified that she hadn’t tweeted anything on the incident. She said, “edited tweet has been projected as my tweet. I have urged the Mangaluru Commissioner of Police to initiate strict action against those who circulate anything that aims at disturbing peace in the society.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fake-tweet-in-mp-s-name-on-m-luru-man-s-suicide-triggers-flutter-841483.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K’taka sees 130 fresh cases; tally goes past 2000-mark||In keeping with the trend, the state continued to see 100-plus fresh cases in a single day and most of them with an interstate travel history. A total of 130 new infections on Sunday took the state past the benchmark of 2,000 Covid-19 cases.  According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare, as many as 100  cases had a travel history to Maharashtra, two from Andhra Pradesh, one each from Rajasthan and Telangana and two international travellers - from Dubai and the United Kingdom. The highest caseload was in Chikkaballapur district with 27 new cases, followed by Yadgir 24 cases, Udupi 23 and Mandya, the mainstay of interstate travellers, reported a relatively smaller number of 15 cases on Sunday. Meanwhile, Hassan registered 14 cases, Kalaburagi and Bidar six cases each while Davanagere recorded four cases. Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga and Tumakuru districts reported two cases while Dakshina Kannada, Vijayapura, Kodagu and Dharwad saw one case each. Among the infected are a one-month-old baby and 80-year-old man. In the midst of these heady case numbers, the state saw 46 patients walk out of the hospitals post-recovery, on Sunday. The longest under-care patient within this batch was Patient 607, 23-year-old woman from Badami with a severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), had spent 22 days under hospital care.  The patient with the shortest care duration was Patient 850 - a 33-year-old Davangere man spent 14 days in the hospital. He is a survivor of a cluster which saw two patients with SARI succumb to Covid-19. The Department of Health and Family Welfare released new SOPs for interstate passengers coming into Karnataka. The document, dated May 22, makes it mandatory for travellers to secure an e-pass from the Seva Sindhu website. Applicants will be notified about the pass via SMS and a phone call. Only seven categories of ‘other state’ people are allowed entry into Karnataka, provided that they have a compelling reason, including: a death in the family, terminally ill and needing medical care, pregnant women or the elderly, laid off migrant workers, students whose educational institutions have closed, stranded pilgrims and tourists and foreign returnees.  In addition, those granted entry into the state include: business on urgent work for a few days, medical staff, international arrivals by air or sea, domestic air and rail passengers, all as per instructions by the Government of India. All entrants into the state face 14 days mandatory quarantine, although there are exceptions. Businessmen on urgent work can stay in hotels, but are required to carry ICMR test negative certification not older than two days before the arrival date. All international arrivals face mandatory institutional quarantine for 14 days. The existing exceptions are pregnant women, children below the age of 10, persons over the age of 80 and terminally ill who can go for home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/k-taka-sees-130-fresh-cases-tally-goes-past-2000-mark-841484.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Muslims face rare conundrum: How to offer Eid namaz at home? ||Two sets or four? Twelve extra chantings or none at all? These are just some of the questions that Muslims are asking about praying what’s going to be their first-ever Eid namaz at home. The most important public aspect of Eid-ul-Fitr is the special morning prayer offered in Eidgahs, which are large open spaces. Dressed in their best clothes, sporting colourful caps (topi) and smelling of Itr (perfume), the devout pray to the Almighty in gratitude for blessing them with the holy month of Ramzan. Eid-ul-Fitr will be celebrated in most parts of India on Monday. The Eid namaz is unlike other prayers in Islam. While Muslims can offer the daily prayers individually or at home during emergencies or in case of their inability to make it to the mosque, the Eid namaz is a mass prayer. But as Covid-19 turns lives upside down, Muslims grapple with a problem they never faced before: how to offer Eid namaz athome? “I had promised my little daughter that I’ll take her to the Eidgah this year,” says Mohammed Dawood Shaikh, who works at a private college. “She’s asking me, ‘Abbu, when will we go to the Eidgah.’ I have no answer.” Like other Muslims, Shaikh says he will also pray at home. The Karnataka State Board of Auqaf stated as much in an order last week. Maqsood Imran Rashadi, the imam of City Jamia Masjid, the most prominent mosque in Bengaluru, has offered a solution. If there are at least four people at home, they can pray the two sets (rak’aat) of Eid namaz together, complete with the 12 extra Takbeerat (chantings). But if there are fewer people, they can pray any Nafl (optional) namaz or none at all, he explains. The Eid namaz also has the ubiquitous practice of hugging and shaking hands. So integral is hugging to Eid and its concept of brotherhood that Urdu poets have often used it as a metaphor for a union of love birds. ‘Eid ka din hai, gale aaj to mil le zaalim/rasm-e-duniya bhi hai, mauqa bhi hai, dastoor bhi hai,’ the poet says to his beloved. (It’s the day of Eid, hug me o my tormentor. It’s a tradition, an occasion and a convention) But not this time. “No hugging or shaking hands,” Rashadi said. “A day’s recklessness can ruin months of hard work (of social distancing).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/muslims-face-rare-conundrum-how-to-offer-eid-namaz-at-home-841485.html
24-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Curfew relaxed for air passengers, staff||The state government permitted the movement of air passengers, airline and airport staff and crew members to and from the airport even during the curfew period. The exemptions were made in an order by Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, which deleted ‘domestic air travel of passengers’ from the list of prohibited activities during lockdown. The order, issued Sunday, allowed “unhindered/unrestricted movement of air passengers with valid air ticket, and airline staff/airport staff/crew members with valid IDs”, during curfew period - between 7 pm to 7 am on all days and throughout Sunday when 24-hour curfew is in place till May 31. The directions were as per the prevailing guidelines and SOPs issued by the central and state governments. The Centre recently permitted the resumption of domestic air travel in the country from May 25. Karnataka had agreed to resume flights with a few riders, which included seven-day institutional quarantine followed by home quarantine for passengers from six states, registration on Seva Sindhu portal and others. Praveen Sood, Director General of Police, Karnataka, had announced the same in a tweet Saturday. The six states are Maharastra, Rajasthan, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/curfew-relaxed-for-air-passengers-staff-841487.html
24-05-2020||West||Man arrested in Mumbai for `threatening to kill' UP CM||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has arrested a 25-year-old man here for allegedly threatening to kill Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a police official said here on Saturday. Kamran Khan, a resident of Chunabhatti in eastern suburbs, was arrested by the Kalachowki unit of ATS, the official said. Uttar Pradesh Polices social media help desk had received a call in the early hours of Friday in which the caller threatened to kill Adityanath in a bomb blast, he said. A case was registered at Gomatinagar Police Station against an unidentified person under IPC section 506 (criminal intimidation), said Vikram Deshmane, Superintendent of Police, ATS Maharashtra. UP police alerted Maharashtra ATS after the call was traced to Mumbai, he said, following which the caller was tracked down and Khan was arrested, the SP said. He will be produced before a court here and handed over to UP police's Special Task Force on transit remand, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-arrested-in-mumbai-for-threatening-to-kill-up-cm-841233.html
24-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Pune tally at 5,436, death toll touches 264||Pune district's COVID-19 tally reached 5,436 on Saturday after 269 people tested positive for novel coronavirus, while the death toll touched 264 as seven people succumbed to the infection, an official said. Pune city accounted for 202 of the 269 new cases, followed by Pimpri Chinchwad with 46 and cantonment and rural areas with 21, he added. "Pune city has 4,673 COVID-19 cases, Pimpri Chinchwad 299 and rural areas 464," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-pune-tally-at-5436-death-toll-touches-264-841237.html
24-05-2020||West||Nashik COVID-19 tally touch 936, Malegaon death toll 44||Thirty-four people tested positive for novel coronavirus and one person died of the infection in Nashik in Maharashtra on Saturday, taking the district's COVID-19 count to 936, and death toll to 47, an official said. Of the 34 new cases, 11 are from hotspot Malegaon, nine from Nashik city and 14 from other parts of the district, he added. "The number of COVID-19 cases in Nashik district is now 936, of which 696 are from Malegaon. The death that took place on Saturday was also from Malegaon, which accounts for 44 of the 47 deaths in the district," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nashik-covid-19-tally-touch-936-malegaon-death-toll-44-841238.html
24-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Maharashtra says no to opening airports in red zones||The Maharashtra government on Sunday reiterated that it would not be able to open airports in red zones for domestic flights from Monday. "It's extremely ill-advised to reopen airports in red zone," state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. Three big airports of Maharashtra - the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Airport in Mumbai, and the airports in Pune and Nagpur - all fall under red zone areas. "Mere thermal scanning of passengers inadequate without swabs. Impossible to have buses,  taxis,  autos plying at this stage," he said. Adding a positive passenger will add to the COVID-19 stress to the red zone, he said. "Getting passengers to come from a green zone to a red one will put them under the risk of exposure, doesn't make sense," he added. Deshmukh also pointed out that keeping a busy airport up and running with all coronavirus-safety measures will need huge staff presence and compound risk in the red zone. On Saturday, the state government had indicated that it was not possible to open domestic flights. "Our order dated May 19 is not amended yet. The guidelines issued on May 19 for lockdown till May 31 said all domestic and international air travel of passengers, except for domestic medical services, domestic air ambulance and for security purpose or purposes as permitted by Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA)  will continue to remain prohibited across the state," according to the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-says-no-to-opening-airports-in-red-zones-841247.html
24-05-2020||West||11 new COVID-19 cases in Goa; state tally rises to 66||With this, the number of active cases in the coastal state has gone up to 50, they said, adding that 16 people have been so far been discharged after recovery. As many as 263 passengers, who alighted from the Rajdhani Express at Madgaon railway station in South Goa district on Saturday, were tested. Of them, reports of 11 came out positive in the TrueNat (rapid) tests, a senior health department official said. "Repeat tests of the 11 people at the virology lab of state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital also came out positive, he said. All the eleven passengers, including a five-year-old boy, have been shifted to Margao-based ESI hospital, which is the designated facility for treatment of COVID-19 patients, the official said. So far, over 12,000 samples have been tested for coronavirus infection in the state. Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane is scheduled to meet Chief Minister Pramod Sawant during the day, in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the coastal state, an official said. Rane is likely to urge the chief minister for more stringent protocols, including mandatory COVID-19 negative certificates from authorised private labs for fliers who arrive in the state from Monday, following the Aviation Ministry's decision to resume domestic flight services.  At least 15 flights are scheduled to arrive at the Goa airport on Monday.  Goa's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 66, new cases: 11, deaths: nil, discharged: 16, active cases 50.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/11-new-covid-19-cases-in-goa-state-tally-rises-to-66-841285.html
24-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Lingayat seer from Karnataka murdered in Nanded||A Lingayat seer from Karnataka was found murdered in his mutt in the Nanded district of Marathwada region of Maharashtra on Sunday. Another body of one - who is suspected to be a follower of the seer or an accomplice of a suspect - was found in the washroom of a nearby school. The incident took place in an ashram in Umri in the Nanded district, around 650 km off Mumbai. Identified as Shivacharya Nirvanarudra Pashupatinath Maharaj, the seer who had settled in the district for over a decade. "The second victim, Bhagwan Shinde, was missing since morning,' Nanded district's Superintendent of Police Vijaykumar Magar said, adding that his footwear was found near the school and a search was conducted. "It appears that Shinde and the suspect had a dispute and the later bumped him off,  but detailed investigations were in progress," added Magar.  The robbers quickly grabbed Rs 69,000 cash, his laptop and other valuables from his bedroom, all worth approximately Rs 1.50 lakh, besides his car keys. "Robbery is the key motive behind the murder....there is no communal angle,  no other angle in it," Magar told DH.  "We are still looking for the accused who is on the run since he left the murder spot...he has been identified and we will zero on him soon," said Magar. Asked whether there are more suspects,  he said: "As of now it does not appear so....we are still speaking to witness". Five crack teams have been formed to track down the accused - and the sensational double-murder is being personally investigated by Magar. On Saturday night, the accused entered the mutt and overpowered the seer, took the cash and the laptop and other valuables.  He took the body out of the seer inside the ashram car's dickey. While he was trying to speed out of the ashram complex,  he rammed the gate resulting in a big noise. The ashram sevadars rushed down towards the gate and sped off in a parked motorbike. The murder of the seer has come as a shocker - as last month two sadhus of the Varanasi-based Juna Akhada and their driver were lynched to death in Palghar district near Mumbai. While talking to a TV channel, PWD Minister Ashok Chavan, said that the murder should not be politicised.  He said that the motive of the murder is not clear yet, and that an investigation has been launched in the incident. The post-mortem report is awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-lingayat-seer-from-karnataka-murdered-in-nanded-841298.html
24-05-2020||West||BJP demands arrest of Lingayat seer's murder accused||The BJP on Sunday demanded the arrest of accused behind the murder of Nanded-based Lingayat seer. "Incident of the brutal murder of a Sadhu and other sevekari in Nanded district is shocking and painful," Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said. "It is my request to the State Government that all the accused must be immediately arrested and to ensure that they are severely punished," said Fadnavis, the former Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-demands-arrest-of-lingayat-seers-murder-accused-841338.html
24-05-2020||West||Bombay High Court asks police to delete AIMIM supporter's hate speech video||The Bombay High Court has directed police to delete a video uploaded by AIMIM supporter Abu Faizal that allegedly incites violence and hatred between two religious communities. A division bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and Abhay Ahuja gave the direction on Friday while hearing a petition filed by one Imran Khan, seeking a direction to police to take action against Faizal for uploading a hate speech on social media. The petitioner's lawyer said Faizal was a supporter of the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul- Muslimeen (AIMIM). The plea sought deletion of the video uploaded by Faizal two weeks back, and also a permanent ban to be imposed on him from posting anything on social media so as to avoid such an incident in future. According to the plea, the video would incite violence between two religious communities. In the video, Faizal is seen asking members of a particular community to assault doctors from other communities working to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The bench directed the police to look into the allegations and also go through the video clip uploaded on YouTube and Facebook. The police are also directed to undertake investigation against Faizal, if they find any substance in the allegations made by the petitioner, the court said. In the meanwhile, the authorities are directed to block Faizal's video and also delete its clips, if uploaded on any other social media platform, the court said. The bench directed the state government and police to file an affidavit in response to the petition, and posted the matter for further hearing on June 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-asks-police-to-delete-aimim-supporters-hate-speech-video-841358.html
24-05-2020||West||HC questions Gujarat govt over COVID-19 testing in state||The Gujarat High Court has questioned the state government's decision to not allow private laboratories to conduct COVID-19 tests, saying whether this is meant to "artificially control" the data of number of coronavirus cases in the state. It has directed the state to procure maximum testing kits to enable both private and government hospitals to carry out coronavirus tests at government rates.  A division bench of Justices J B Pardiwala and I J Vora in its order on Friday also said the argument that "more number of tests will lead to 70 per cent of the population testing positive for coronavirus, thereby leading to fear psychosis," should not be a ground to refuse or restrict the testing. It directed the government to dispel panic among the public by way of publicity, and ensure home isolation is adhered to. The court said testing must be mandatory prior to discharge of a COVID-19 patient, as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guideline for doing away with tests for patients with mild, moderate or no symptoms for three or more days is not explained by "scientific data, or research or reasoning". The court questioned the Gujarat government for not allowing private laboratories, even the ones earlier permitted, to conduct RT-PCT (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction tests), saying it raises the issue whether the government was trying to "artificially control the data qua (in relation to) the number of cases in the state". This raises the question whether these 12 private laboratories as well as 19 government labs are "sufficient and good enough" to conduct COVID-19 tests, it said. The court said any laboratory that fulfils the criteria related to infrastructure and can get registered with the National Accreditation Board for Laboratories (NABL) should be permitted to conduct these tests.  The rates for testing by private laboratories must have a ceiling cap, which in the present case is Rs 4,500, the high court said. The state government earlier told the court that it has decided to conduct tests only in government laboratories free of charge, as in many instances, private laboratories were conducting "unnecessary testing making patients bear unnecessary expenditure". "Private laboratories shall be allowed to perform the tests, if and when the capacity of government labs is exhausted," it said. The court said "the ICMR guideline (on not conducting tests on a certain group of patients before discharging them) is absolutely contrary to its earlier guidelines. There is no scientific data or research or reasoning explained for the sudden change in the guidelines." "Assuming that the wisdom of ICMR cannot be doubted, even in such circumstance following precaution would be required -- testing prior to discharge must be mandatory," the court observed, in a suo motu PIL filed on measures taken by the state government to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. The court also said that even in the event of such a patient being permitted to be discharged, his place of residence should carry a board specifying his isolation period, and his wrist should be marked with indelible ink about the last day of isolation. Observing that even when there is "no dearth of testing kits", prior approval from the state authorities for COVID-19 tests was making it hard for doctors to conduct tests even on patients suspected to be infected by the virus, or those who require such tests before other treatment or surgeries to avoid post-treatment complexities. While everyone must be permitted to have a COVID-19 test done, it should be made mandatory for those who have been hospitalised for the coronavirus disease and who want to have a test done post discharge from the hospital, as well as family members of the disease patients and those with a written prescription issued by a doctor. "Eventually, it is the patient who suffers. For a COVID-19 patient to wait for three to five days sometimes would prove fatal. For non-COVIDpatient requiring other medical treatments also it leads to inconvenience and sometimes may lead to a lot of problems," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-questions-gujarat-govt-over-covid-19-testing-in-state-841376.html
24-05-2020||West||Gujarat govt inefficient in handling COVID-19 crisis, its healthcare system sick: Congress||The Congress on Sunday said the Gujarat government's "inefficiency" in handling the coronavirus crisis has rendered it "undermining, underconfident and underachieving", as the number of COVID-19 cases in the state rose rapidly. "In Gujarat, today we don't have a health care system, we have a sick system," Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said. He quoted a Gujarat High Court judgement to target the BJP-ruled Gujarat which is also the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, and said such words have never been used by the judiciary against the state authorities.  At a press conference through video conferencing, Singhvi also sought to know why the prime minister or the home minister did not intervene, chastise or punish the Gujarat government. "We would respectfully ask the prime minister, home minister, the Government of India, chief minister of Gujarat and the government of Gujarat - Are they even aware of what is happening in their own home state? "If so, have they ever intervened, chastised or punished the Gujarat government or does the latter have Covid immunity vaccine because they belong to the BJP?" he posed. Singhvi also asked why the Gujarat Governor did not use similar standards like those adopted by the West Bengal governor against the state government and whether similar inspection teams were sent to Gujarat by the Centre, as has been done for West Bengal. "Why has the Gujarat Governor not adopted the same intrusive standards for the Gujarat Government as his West Bengal counterpart did?" he asked. Singhvi said if powerful people, including leaders and "controllers of the central government", themselves are "unable to provide medical justice" to the poor and the needy of their home area, "what Covid justice can the rest of India's teeming millions expect from them". "Sadly, we and the nation seek answers about which we are confident and pessimistically sure we will never get," he said. The Congress leader alleged that the High Court of Gujarat has used "some of the severest, most scathing and harshest strictures" against the state government, alleging that references have been made to "sinking of the Titanic", the "extremely bad shape" of the hospital and the state government's "bizarre intent to artificially control the data of the number of cases". "The inefficiency of the Gujarat government in handling the COVID-19 crisis depicts that it is undermining, underconfident, and underachieving," Singhvi said.  "Is it not true that by such methods of suppressed testing, transparency the true nature of the problem is critically compromised, distorted and misrepresented for purposes of personal image?" he asked. Singhvi also alleged that the Gujarat government was making profits out of N-95 masks. "Why is the Government of Gujarat, close on the heels of the 'non-existent ventilator scam', selling N-95 masks admittedly at Rs 65 per mask as against the admitted procurement cost to it of Rs 49.61 per mask i.e. at a straight profit arbitrage of 31 per cent?" The Congress spokesperson also sought to know why the Gujarat government "is on one hand profiteering from an essential item like N-95 mask, and is levying steep penalty on those who do not wear masks in public". "Why it is making public hospital spaces like City Hospitals a death trap?" he asked. The Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad contributed to 62 per cent of the total deaths in Ahmedabad which has over 85 per cent deaths of all COVID-19 fatalities in Gujarat, He said quoting the High Court judgment. It also said that the death rate at Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad, is almost double than that of two other government/municipality-run hospitals in the city itself. The number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 13,669 after 396 new cases were reported on Saturday, while death toll rose to 829 with 27 new fatalities. In Ahmedabad district alone, the number of cases crossed the 10,000-mark after 277 new instances of the infection was reported on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-inefficient-in-handling-covid-19-crisis-its-healthcare-system-sick-congress-841392.html
24-05-2020||West||It was wrong to impose lockdown suddenly: Uddhav Thackeray||In perhaps the first open criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that imposing lockdown suddenly was worng. "It was wrong to impose the lockdown suddenly...it will be equally wrong to lift it in one go...it will be a double whammy for our own people," Thackeray said in his webcast message.Thackeray, however, did not name Modi. Thackeray also indicated that the lockdown in Maharashtra will continue after May 31.  "Let us not see(extension of) lockdown,  we are slowly opening,  reopening....we have to take every step cautiously," he said. Thackeray said his government never felt any burden of migrant labourers. "Almost seven lakh labourers have been sent back to home-states by 481 trains.  Whether the Centre would pay 85 per cent of the cost of tickets for fare for these labourers or delays it, state Government has paid 100 per cent cost for tickets so far by paying more than Rs 85 crore," he said.  He made it clear that despite the demand by state for 80 trains a day, state is getting only 30 to 40 trains for sending labourers back to their states.  In addition to Railways, with more than 32,000 buses, 3.80 lakh labourers have been sent either till border of the states or till Railway stations. For this, state Government has spent Rs 75 crore, he said. "We need to ensure that while doing away with lockdown, people should not violate social distancing and exhibit indiscipline so that relaxations are forced to be withdrawn," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/it-was-wrong-to-impose-lockdown-suddenly-uddhav-thackeray-841414.html
24-05-2020||West||COVID-19 Lockdown: 25 flights to be operated from Mumbai airport, says Maharashtra minister||A total of 25 flights will be operated in and out from the Mumbai international airport beginning May 25, when domestic flights resume partial operations in the country, state Minorities Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday. Interestingly, this statement of Malik, a senior NCP leader, came hours after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that he had sought more time from the Civil Aviation Ministry to restart the operations at the Mumbai international airport. Earlier in the day, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, also of the NCP, said that it was "extremely ill-advised" to reopen airports in red zone amid the coronavirus pandemic.  "The Mumbai International Airport will operate 25 flights in and out on daily basis starting Monday onwards. The number of flights will be increased steadily," Malik told news channels. In an online briefing, Thackeray had said, "I spoke to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri today and told him that the Mumbai international airport needs more time to resume its operations.  "Till the time MIAL (Mumbai International Airport Limited) plans and fine-tunes the airport operations, the aviation ministry should initiate minimum possible domestic flights from Maharashtra from May 25th, which are purely emergent in nature like for international transfer of passengers, medical emergencies, students, and cases on compassionate grounds". Puri had announced resumption of domestic flight services from May 25 as part of the Centre's efforts to gradually open the air travel that was suspended nearly two months ago due to a lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-25-flights-to-be-operated-from-mumbai-airport-says-maharashtra-minister-841426.html
24-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: J&K govt brings back over 89,000 migrants stranded outside UT||Over 89,000 stranded migrants have been brought back to Jammu and Kashmir from other states and Union territories in the last few days, an official spokesman said on Sunday. Of the total 89,773 stranded migrants who returned to J-K, 66,024 arrived in buses, 23,097 reached via 28 special trains and 652 people came through flights, he said. According to the spokesman, 652 passengers, including students, came under the Vande Bharat Mission through COVID special flights.  After strictly observing all necessary preventive measures, 66,024 migrants who were stranded in other states/UTs due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown were brought back in buses and 23,097 through 28 special trains, he said. Eleven trains, carrying 9,634 stranded migrants, have reached Jammu, while 13,463 people reached Udhampur in 17 special trains, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-jk-govt-brings-back-over-89000-migrants-stranded-outside-ut-841428.html
24-05-2020||West||No need for state economic package: Maharashtra CM's snub to BJP||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday dismissed the opposition BJP's demand for a package from the state government to tide over the COVID-19 crisis, saying that previous such measures had failed to give any tangible benefits. During an online briefing earlier in the day, the CM stressed the need to create additional healthcare facilities and offer treatment to people along with distribution of food grains. "Earlier, packages worth lakhs of crores of rupees were given, but very little impact was see on the ground," he said. Meanwhile, the CM said the 'Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Aarogya Scheme' of the state government will now cover all the people, provided they seek treatment in the registered hospitals. Commenting on the state government's efforts to help stranded migrant workers, Thackeray said, "We are taking good care of these workers and their ticket fare is also borne by the government. We are even giving meals at just Rs 5 per plate under the state's Shiv Bhojan scheme". He said about 5 to 6 lakh labourers from other states are being provided breakfast and two meals at shelter homes. "The state government never felt any burden of these labourers but they wanted to go back to their home states, and after getting due sanctions almost seven lakh labourers have been sent back on 481 Shramik trains," he said. Thackeray said whether the Union government pays 85 per cent of the cost of tickets for these labourers or delays it, the Maharashtra government has paid 100 per cent of the fare for tickets worth more than Rs 85 crore. "Despite our demand for operating 80 (Shramik Special) trains a day, we are getting only 30 to 40 trains for sending labourers back to their states," he said. A total of 3.80 lakh migrant labourers have been ferried up to the borders of their states or to railway stations in more than 32,000 ST buses, which has cost Rs 75 crore, the CM said. He said a total of 70,000 industries have been allowed to resume operations amidst the lockdown and 50,000 of them have actually started operations with six lakh people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-need-for-state-economic-package-maharashtra-cms-snub-to-bjp-841475.html
