25-05-2020||Comment||Remembering my father...||It’s been seventeen years since my father passed away.  He was a skilled surgeon with a legion of patients. They all swore that he had a healing touch and long before key-hole surgery became popular, he performed small incision surgery that healed with an almost invisible scar. He had trained several young surgeons and treated rich and poor patients alike. A self-made man, he lost his father at age fifteen and worked his way up through college and medical school. His Australian-born Professor so loved him that he made sure my father set up his practice before he left India.   Our house was an open house in those days and because father lived in the big city of Madras and was a surgeon, there was a constant stream of visitors coming in--to recuperate, deliver babies, undergo surgery, pursue college or find a job through his contacts. Perhaps not possible in times like these. Among many memories, I remember him talking about the time when fear of widespread plague gripped the city and people evacuated their homes. On some earlier death anniversaries, I have been in transit or travelling but this time I was home-bound due to the lockdown. There was no priest coming in to do the rituals and veggies and fruits were in short supply. I lit a lamp and offered my father his favourite fruit--apples. I would have made some of his favourite badam-kheer had we not run out of almonds, but instead offered some cake that the grocery shop boy had sent by mistake instead of soda that I had put down in my list two days ago. Maybe he knew that my father liked cake. Sacrilege you might think but my father and I have always defied convention. After all, being the only surviving child at the time of his passing I lit his funeral pyre Simple offerings made I sat down in front of the picture of my parents and had a brief chat with my father. I thanked him for the kind of role model he was, for all that he provided--the education, upbringing and the values and qualities that I imbibed from him. I remembered the decisions my mother influenced such as the school I would go to--farther than the one my father wanted to put me in, down the road.  This was a different way of commemorating his passing. There were no rice balls, til seeds and darba. It was a change without a doubt, but it was heartfelt.  Who would have thought something like the Corona outbreak would have engineered it?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/remembering-my-father-841521.html
25-05-2020||Davangere||COVID-19 suspect ends life in hospital in Davangere||According to police, the deceased has been identified as Manjunath, resident of Aanekonda, which has been declared as containment zone.  He was put in hospital quarantine on May 24. His throat swab was sent to a laboratory for COVID-19 test. But he took the extreme step even before the arrival of the test result.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/covid-19-suspect-ends-life-in-hospital-in-davangere-841638.html
25-05-2020||First Edit||Decisions that defy all logic||While Karnataka’s overall handling of the COVID-19 pandemic has drawn wide praise, the quixotic decisions of the government on various fronts have left people completely confused, leading to total chaos. One among the many such irrational orders is that of the Sunday curfew that came at a time when the government itself has considerably watered down lockdown guidelines to kickstart the economy. As offices reopened and the lock down was eased, this would be the first Sunday that households could venture out to shop for non-essentials after a long time. Besides, being the penultimate day of Ramzan, establishments which had shut down for about two months, especially small businesses, could have benefitted immensely from festive shopping. To add to the woes, travel restrictions that were relaxed were re-imposed for a day on Sunday, prohibiting people from entering and leaving the state or even using their vehicles. Such unreasonable decisions have become the order of the day. One circular that the government issued on May 22 for resident welfare associations was withdrawn two days later.  The flip-flop on decisions regarding Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) for stranded people returning home from outside the state is even worse. On arriving in Karnataka, many were shocked beyond belief when they realised that the earlier order mandating 14 days of home quarantine was abruptly changed to compulsory institutional quarantine. The rules were once again modified to permit home quarantine for returnees from some states. Recently, DGP Praveen SOOD tweeted that people travelling through Bengaluru to catch international flights would not be quarantined. But the fact remains that international flights are not yet operational. Such contradictions and lack of clarity have led to disarray at the district-level where the decisions of deputy commissioners are often in conflict with the state government’s diktats. Former Udupi MLA Pramod Madhwaraj, for instance, has been in a constant feud with the local administration for allegedly wrongly quarantining people and restricting free movement. Important orders that impact the common man are issued in bits and pieces, and then amended even before the ink on the paper dries. No doubt, the situation is dynamic and requires politicians and bureaucrats to think on their feet, but that does not preclude them from appreciating the situation both holistically and judiciously, instead of acting without proper application of mind. The manner in which orders are passed and then rescinded or modified, leaves no one in doubt that various departments of the government are working in silos without even going through the pretension of consulting each other. It is high time Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa cracked the whip and instilled some discipline during these challenging times, lest people lose all faith in the administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/decisions-that-defy-all-logic-841670.html
25-05-2020||First Edit||Slipping on child mortality goals||India has done well to reduce its child mortality rate, but the health and wellbeing of infants and children still remains a major challenge. Studies on child survival by the India State Level Disease Burden Initiative have found that the country’s under-5 mortality rate dropped by 49% between 2000 and 2017, but there is a six-fold variation in the rate between states and an 11-fold variation between various districts. Neonatal mortality rate (deaths within a month after birth) dropped by 38% since 2000, but there is a five-fold variation in the rate between the states and eight-fold variation between the districts. Under-5 deaths fell from 2.2 million in 2000 to about 1 million in 2017 and neonatal deaths from about 1 million to 0.57 million in that period. It is the first district-level study of under-five and neonatal mortality, and it has shown that India is unlikely to achieve the target of reducing under-five child mortality to below 23 per 1,000 live births by the year 2025. The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) may also be missed.  The study has again confirmed that child and maternal malnutrition is the main cause of high child mortality rates in India. Poverty alleviation programmes and the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) have not helped to improve the nutrition levels of all children, pregnant women and mothers. All women who needed the most support have not gained from these services. Persisting problems of economic and social inequalities and prejudices against women and girl children are aggravating factors. Many studies have shown that the health and nutritional needs of girl children receive much less attention than those of male children. Lack of nutrition and basic health services, unsafe water and poor sanitation and increasing pollution are other contributing factors. The study is important because it shows the differences between various states and districts in maternal and child health. The traditionally backward districts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Assam have fared badly, though some districts have done better than others. The study helps in better targeting of the programmes aimed at improving maternal and child health. It has identified the districts which need better attention. Policies and programmes need to be tailored to the particular needs of these districts and implemented accordingly, and the gains made in others should be retained. This is particularly important because the fight against the coronavirus may lead to diversion of attention from other public health issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/slipping-on-child-mortality-goals-841802.html
25-05-2020||In Perspective||New path for migrant labourers to tread ||The fear of the Covid-19 has frozen economic activities in urban India. Nearly 80 million migrant workers who were engaged in factories, construction companies, retail outlets, entertainment industries, malls, hotels and restaurants etc lost hope, income, and shelter.  Government support, community kitchens, and voluntary agencies’ efforts have failed to stop the exodus. As the death toll is increasing in every passing day,  it is difficult to forecast when the economy will restart; the migrant workers may continue to return home in large number despite the risk.  Before the virus outbreak, urban centres gave them a regular income. Raju, a plumber from Odisha, used to get salary of Rs 12,000 per month from a housing society in Hyderabad. “I can’t earn even Rs 3,000 per month in Odisha,” he says.  Carpenters, painters, electricians, marble cutters and tile fitters earn minimum Rs 1,000 per day in Hyderabad. Pramod, a carpenter from Gorakhpur, works for a petty contractor in Hyderabad and earns Rs 22,000 per month. “I won’t get Rs 8,000 in Gorakhpur,” he laments.  Skilled workers in Hyderabad happily earn Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 per month which they cannot earn in small towns and villages. A large number of migrants from UP, Bihar, North East and Odisha used to run eatable shops, drive autorickshaws, work in malls, factories and serve as security guards in Mumbai. Except for good housing facility, Mumbai gave them income and hope to sustain their families 2,000 km away. Sustainable income opportunities bring migrants to cities.  It is estimated that the net migrant flows at the all-India level have averaged close to nine million annually between 2011-12 and 2016-17. A report by Working Group on Migration has identified 54 districts that account for half the male inter-state out-migration in the country. The entry of nine to 10 million people in the urban centres every year not only crumbles urban infrastructure but creates an acute shortage of farm labour. The corona outbreak may reduce the rate of migration. The unorganised sector, transparent supply chain, good governance and the corona package may help migrants settle down in villages. Around 400 years ago, a group of artisans migrated from Rajasthan to Nirmal of Adilabad to make paintings and carve on woods for local nobles. Today, nearly 50 artisans struggle to keep the famous craft tradition survive.  Though the artisans add high value to their products, they don’t get the share of the profit margin they always deserve. They cannot start their business because they don’t get the raw material, the poniki wood freely. Like the artisans of Nirmal, thousands of weavers in the Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha work for traders and middlemen for a daily wage varying from Rs 100 to Rs 500 per day.  A horn artisan of Cuttack can convert an ordinary horn piece worth Rs 20 into an amazing piece of art which can fetch Rs 3,000 in the craft bazaar. Over a decade, those artisans have left their profession due to low wages and social apathy. The artisans of Ramadugu village of Telangana make stone idols of gods and goddesses which are sold in the Indian and foreign markets. Today hardly 60 artisans are left to work for idol traders on a daily wage basis.  Hapless weavers A handful of Paithani saree weaver of Aurangabad can still make a saree which will fetch more than Rs 1 lakh in the market. Traders and middlemen exploited those hapless weavers to their bones. The famous Bidri craft of Bidar has met a similar fate as senior artisans never knew the actual profit margin.  Some of the chikankari artisans of Lucknow are pulling rickshaws as the chikankari artisans have never received the profit margin they deserve nor have they got any social recognition. Many of the complicated chikankari stitcheries have almost disappeared. How to preserve the original skill and artistry is the biggest challenge before the states.  Every district has exclusive products which do not find a place in the domestic supply chain. Locally made rasgolla of Cuttack district is tastier than the sweet sold under some well-known brand names.  The famous kheera, rabidi, khaja, malpua and rasabali of Puri, specially made small vada, piaji and chenapoda of Cuttack, the puranpali and wakarwadi of Maharashtra have not established their place in the domestic supply chain. Parwal or pointed gourd of Odisha has high demand in all big cities. But, it is not found in many of the malls in big cities.  There are hundreds of vegetables, food grains, herbs, shrubs and biodegradable handicrafts which do not reach the supply chain. Monopoly, corruption, mismanagement, lack of quick transportation facility, illiteracy among original producers and lack of market research block many local products.  Barring a few eatables like dosa, vada and idli, a large number of delicious native foods of different regions have not reached the food plates. The unorganised sector contributes more than 50% to the GDP.  This is high time to handhold the unorganised sector which will create jobs in small towns and villages to absorb the migrant labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/new-path-for-migrant-labourers-to-tread-841520.html
25-05-2020||In Perspective||India needs to be in continuous dialogue with Nepal||It’s a battle of the maps now. The Nepalese government has released its new political map which shows Kalapani, Lipiyadhura and Lipulekh as its own territories. As these territories fall under the Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand, New Delhi was quick to react, arguing that “such artificial enlargement of territorial claims will not be accepted”. But beyond this back and forth, it is Nepalese Prime Minister KP Oli who has upped the ante by being undiplomatic at a time when diplomacy should have been the central means to resolve an escalating dispute between two neighbours amicably. In his statement to the Himalayan nation’s parliament on these tensions, Oli went overboard in blaming India for the spread of coronavirus cases in his country, saying that the “virus from India looks more lethal” than the Chinese and Italian virus. In a statement that was clearly meant to provoke India, Oli said "those who are coming from India through illegal channels are spreading the virus in the country and some local representatives and party leaders are responsible for bringing in people from India without proper testing.” If the aim is to resolve the issue, then clearly this was not the way to go. While the dispute over Kalapani and Lipulekh goes all the way back to the Treaty of Sugauli, which was signed in December 1815 by the East India Company and the Kingdom of Nepal after the end of the Anglo-Nepalese War in which Nepal lost one-third of its territory, recent tensions have more contemporary cause. Tensions have been growing ever since India released its new political map following the creation of the two Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh from the erstwhile State of Jammu & Kashmir a little more than six months back. Nepal had protested over the inclusion of Kalapani in India’s map, with New Delhi refusing to concede any boundary alterations. Earlier this month, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a Link Road from Dharchula to Lipulekh to help pilgrims going to Kailash-Mansarovar in the Tibet Autonomous Region. Nepal’s foreign ministry summoned the Indian envoy to protest against the construction of the road. This is a road that has been under construction for the last several years with the full knowledge of Nepal. India's Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane added another dimension last week when he suggested that Nepal's objections to the road were at “the behest of someone else.” He was hinting at the possible role of China in instigating these border tensions between India and Nepal at a time when multiple clashes have been taking place between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC. China’s growing role in Nepal is no secret and it has taken on an altogether new dimension under the Nepal Communist Party (NCP), which is only two years old and which emerged from the two dominant communist parties of Nepal -- the Marxist-Leninist and the Maoist – at the behest of the Chinese Communist Party. Earlier this month, too, as factionalism grew in the ruling NCP, it was the Chinese ambassador in Nepal that managed the crisis and helped in defusing it. Oli’s performance as Nepal’s Prime Minister has been underwhelming, to put it mildly. As a consequence, his reflexive anti-India agenda serves him well in shoring up his nationalistic credentials. His performance as an administrator has come under intense scrutiny and criticism at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic and he was losing public support. What better way to burnish his credentials than by upping the ante on the border question with India. This is not to suggest that New Delhi has managed the episode well. As a bigger power, it is natural that its smaller neighbours will be very touchy about sovereignty and territorial issues and it is incumbent upon New Delhi to manage them with diplomatic finesse. It is true that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s outreach to Nepal has been serious over the last few years and it has indeed made it possible for India to have a sense of normalcy in ties even with a leader like Oli who has been very vocal in his criticism of India and very comfortable in the company of his fellow Chinese communists. But with a country like Nepal and, in fact, with other smaller neighbours, India should be in a continuous process of dialogue to remove any apprehensions and doubts that might clog the system from time to time. In this case, it was not done with the effectiveness that was needed. And the results are there to see. Now, India should make the first move by initiating high-level contacts and the Nepalese leadership should recognise that negative rhetoric will only jeopardise the possibility of an amicable resolution to a historical conflict. The India-Nepal relationship is far too important to be left to the vagaries of misperception and miscommunication. (The writer is Director, Studies, at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and Professor of International Relations, King’s College, London)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/india-needs-to-be-in-continuous-dialogue-with-nepal-841804.html
25-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Yadgir reports 15 COVID-19 positive cases, Kalaburagi 14 new infections||While Yadgir recorded 15 fresh cases with a travel history to Maharashtra, Kalaburagi district saw 14 cases. All have returned from Maharashtra.   A man with International travel history tested positive in Bidar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/yadgir-reports-15-covid-19-positive-cases-kalaburagi-14-new-infections-841696.html
25-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: Flight operations resume from Kalaburagi Airport||Star Airlines landed at Kalaburagi Airport after two months. The flight with 25 passengers, which took off from Bengaluru's Kempegowda International Airport at 8:40 am, landed at Kalaburagi Airport at 9:30 am.  On the return journey, it took off from Kalaburagi with 20 passengers to Bengaluru at 10:29 am, said airport authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/coronavirus-lockdown-40-flight-operations-resume-from-kalaburagi-airport-841704.html
25-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two more persons test positive for COVID-19 in Mandya||Mandya had reported 15 cases on Sunday.  There were no fresh cases reported from Hassan in the morning bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mandya-841713.html
25-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Houses turn into places of worship this Ramzan||For the first time in the recent past, no mass prayers were held at mosques and Eidgah Grounds for Ramzan festival, in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts, as social distancing has become the new norm. As per the lockdown norms, there is no provision to conduct mass prayers at mosques. Hence, mosques and Eidgahs in all the three districts, which used to see hundreds of people gathering for prayers, wore a deserted look, on Monday. Houses turned into places of worship on Eid-ul-Fitr, which marks the end of the holy month of Ramzan. The people belonging to Muslim community complete their month-long fasting by participating in mass prayers, at Eidgah Maidans every year. But, this year was different, the coronavirus has snatched away the sheen of Ramzan festival, which highlights the message of peace and brotherhood. Sharing sweets and holding grand Ramzan lunch for friends, was missing. Special namaz was limited to their respective houses, only with the family members. With coronavirus casting its shadow, shopping for clothes, footwear and others was affected. Religious clerics of the respective districts too had advised about holding prayers and namaz at their houses, and also to abstain from hugging and shaking hands, to extend greetings. The clerics had advised the people to celebrate the festival in a meaningful manner and abide by the norms, as the whole country is affected due to Covid-19. Police security was beefed up in all places for a peaceful Eid celebration. The people too extended total cooperation, abiding by the norms and celebrating the festival indoors. The Police department had held meetings with the religious heads of the community a few days ago in this regard, advising them to abstain from hugging and maintain social distancing during the festival. They had told them to hold prayers at homes and celebrate the festival to prevent spreading of the Covid pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/houses-turn-into-places-of-worship-this-ramzan-841776.html
25-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid effect: Ramzan celebrations confined to homes||Ramzan was celebrated with religious fervour, but the festivities were confined to their respective homes, in the wake of lockdown, due to coronavirus or Covid-19 in the city on Monday. Police bandobast was provided at sensitive areas, across the city. Sir Khazi Mohammed Usman Shariff said that a call was given to all to offer the Ed-ul-Fitr prayers from their respective homes. “We had asked the faithfuls to abide by the guidelines of the lockdown, stay at home and celebrate the festival in a simple way. We prayed for peace and prosperity of the society and also for a check on the spread of the Covid pandemic and good health for all,” he said. President of Mili Council, Mysuru unit, Mohammed Zakaullah Siddiqi said that most of the people have not bought new clothes and other accessories this year. “A call was given to all, to help the poor with groceries and also with cash, instead of spending the money on clothes and other things, which are not basic necessities,” he said. He said, "Even though he is a Moulana, he too did not offer prayers at the mosque, even though the police had allowed opening of the mosque and had given a provision for three persons to offer prayers there." Many people offered prayers at the house of their family elders. In some houses, families of brothers and sisters gathered for prayers. The faithfuls visited the houses of relatives and friends, to get the blessings of elders, in their own localities. They shared food and sweets among each other. However, a section of the people complained that they could not visit the cemeteries to pay homage to their elders and ancestors, as it is a custom, after offering prayers at either mosque or Idgah Maidan. “Police personnel were camping near the cemeteries, including Bada Makan at Tipu Circle on Bengaluru Road. Thus, we paid homage to our elders from a distance and returned,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-effect-ramzan-celebrations-confined-to-homes-841777.html
25-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid: 2 test positive in Mandya, 1 in Hassan||After a spurt in Covid cases since the past few days, Mandya reported two positive cases and Hassan one case, on Monday. While one case from Mandya has a travel history to Maharashtra, the other has a contact history with Patient (P) 869. P-2100 is a 65-year-old male from Maharashtra and P-2138 is a 14-year-old boy with contact history of P-869. With this, the total number of positive cases increased to 254. Patient 2182, a 47 year-old male from Hassan has reported positive, and has a travel history of Maharashtra. The total number of cases is 99 in Hassan. All are being treated at the designated Covid hospitals in Mandya and Hassan districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-2-test-positive-in-mandya-1-in-hassan-841778.html
25-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ch'nagar remains the only Covid-free dist||As Ramanagar district reported the first Covid positive case on Monday, Chamarajanagar has earned the credit of becoming the only Covid-free district in the state, as on May 25. The people of the district have expressed their happiness over retaining the green zone tag, on the social media through WhatsApp and Facebook. Messages comparing Covid-19 to cricket matches is widely circulated. The messages posted are, ‘Chamarajanagar lifts the corona cup’, ‘Chamarajanagar wins the green cup in the Covid-19 20:20 match’; ‘Ee sala cup namde’; ‘Not only CM and politicians, even corona fears our district’ and others, are widely circulated. When Chikkamagaluru tested positive, there were messages like ‘Chamarajanagar and Ramanagar in finale, as Chikkamagaluru is run out’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chnagar-remains-the-only-covid-free-dist-841779.html
25-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Eid ul-Fitr prayers offered at houses||Muslims celebrated Eid ul-Fitr across the district on Monday. They offered prayers at their houses as there was ban on mass prayers at masjids due to Covid-19. The district administration had deployed additional forces at Eidgah Maidan to prevent violation of the lockdown guideline. They wore new dresses and exchanged greetings using mobile phones.  Children hugged each other and greeted. After the mass prayers, the mawlawis would deliver discourses every year. As there was ban on the mass prayers at the Eidgah Maidan this year, the mawlawis used the mobile phones to deliver the messages. They called upon the community members to donate materials to the poor and ensure equality in society. They also stressed religious harmony in society. They also called upon the Muslims to offer prayers against Covid-19. All business establishments operated by the Muslims were shut down. There was less movement on the roads. The police had tightened situation at localities housing Muslims. People stood in long queues to buy meat. Special dishes were prepared at the houses. After the prayers, they consumed food together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/eid-ul-fitr-prayers-offered-at-houses-841758.html
25-05-2020||Main Article||A local governance mandate   ||The emergence of Coronavirus disease across the globe has resurrected the criticality of local government institutions (LGIs). Globally, nationally and locally, the response to the crisis of COVID-19 is largely a centralised one including the lockdown.  The reluctance and political unwillingness of national governments across the globe to empower local governments have taken a heavy toll on the economy, polity and society. This has made the lockdown an inevitable option for the governments to go for it in spite of its huge expenditure in terms of employment loss and people’s livelihood.  To illustrate, according to the estimates of International Labour Organisation (ILO), the lockdown measure has affected 2.7 billion workforces constituting 81% of the global workforce. In USA alone, 3.3 crore people have lost jobs just in just two months. This figure is 12.2 crore in India. Set in this context, it is necessary to understand the importance of local governance in containing the pandemic in its current and future forms.    Being closer to the citizens, the LGIs are uniquely placed and equipped to respond to the crisis situations in a timely manner. The delay in the national governments’ approach and response to the crisis has drawn the countries to force measures like lockdown. It is sad that even during such crisis situations, empowerment of local governments was ignored or neglected in spite of the potential of the LGIs to address the pandemic in an effective way both economically and ecologically. The decentralised governance is necessary not just to deliver goods and services effectively but also to contain the spread of virus. The LGIs and civil society organisations (CSOs) can act as preventive barricades for the virus containment in following ways: 1. Accurate information provider: As a first step, the LGIs along with CSOs and local media (both print and electronic), can quicken the dissemination of information related to the virus, its symptoms and measures to be taken to contain the virus spread further. They can also play the role of monitoring by preventing the spread of false information or rumours. If possible, this information can be disseminated in the local language.  2. Ensuring the effective delivery of food and medicines: The LGIs and CSOs have to play a key role in ensuring the effective delivery of food, medicines and other essentials to the common public and to the needy. They also need to oversee that the benefits will reach the needy only, especially the foodgrains, medicines (sanitisers, masks) and other such requirements.  3. Engage Self-Help Groups (SHGs): The LGIs can mobilise local SHGs in distributing food supply and even in preparing food items locally. This will strengthen to ties between the SHGs and LGIs.  4. Coordination between departments: The LGIs, CSOs can bring coordination between various departments such as health, water supply, sanitation, Public Distribution System (PDS) and civil supplies to ensure timely delivery of food and other necessities.  5. Strengthen internal committees: The LGIs, along with the support of local district administration, need to empower the GP committees such as health, water and sanitation and hygiene monitoring. This is imperative to contain further spread of the virus in the village and among the community.  6. Developing crisis management plans: A crisis management plan must be included in the annual budget and the Gram Panchayat Development Plans (GPDP). There must be a mandatory fund allocation for crisis management.   7. Coordination among departmental heads: The LGIs can work towards bringing an effective coordination among various departmental heads such as nutrition, health, water and sanitation. The effectiveness of the LGIs’ response depends upon the smooth coordination.  8. Mobilisation of local resources: There is a need to mobilise local resources such as food, water and medicines during the crisis situation not only to contain the virus spread but also to prevent the same.  9. Identifying the needs of people such as senior citizens, single parents, differently-able persons, widows etc. Efforts should be made to ensure food, water and medicine and other necessities for these people. Decentralised approach The dispersed nature of the virus demands a decentralised approach and local governance at the panchayats and municipalities than the centralised mechanism at the state or national levels. The trend and pattern of the virus spread across the globe and in India indicate that the urban areas are affected more than the rural parts. Even within the urban area, only a few areas show more virus spread than the other areas.  In the context of decentralised governance, even progressive states such as Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Tripura need much more to be done to empower the LGIs. However, the LGIs in Kerala have performed well in containing COVID-19. The large size of GPs, better awareness among the citizens, neighbourhood groups such as Kudumbasree, People’s Planning Campaign (PPC) and adult literacy programmes are some of the factors contributed towards the successful prevention of the virus spread in Kerala.    The COVID-19 episode provides a loud message to the political and bureaucratic elites about the immediate need of the devolution of powers and authority to the LGIs. This is more so in the case of urban local governance. The local governments in India are made to be highly dependent upon the Union and state governments for their sustenance and survival.  The subjects delineated in the XI and XII Schedules of the Constitution are the functional domains of the LGIs. However, these functions are devolved without necessary financial, functionaries and critically the freedom or autonomy. Let us hope that the Union and state governments realise the potential of LGIs for the future well-being of the citizens.  (The writer is PhD Fellow, Centre for Political Institutions (Governance and Development), Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-local-governance-mandate-841519.html
25-05-2020||Main Article||A supreme failure||It is said that history repeats itself. In 1976, at the peak of Emergency excesses in India, the High Courts stepped up to protect the precious rights of those detained under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA) and other preventive detention laws. The Supreme Court accepted the submissions of the Indira Gandhi government despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary and opined that the government was providing motherly care to the détenues. ADM Jabalpur may stand overruled on paper, but in practice, it still appears to be the guiding light for the Supreme Court. Nothing else explains the bizarre orders and observations currently being reported from the Supreme Court. The country-wide lockdown necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic was announced with less than four hours’ notice to the nation. This has resulted in an unprecedented humanitarian crisis in the country. Sheer helplessness has gripped the most vulnerable members of our society. Suddenly deprived of a livelihood and left with no alternative, lakhs of migrant workers have been forced to start a long march back home, often being forced to walk for hundreds of kilometers, with little children and their belongings in tow. To add salt to the wound, the brutal actions of police and other government officials in banning interstate travel of such helpless people has resulted in a crisis of the scale nearly parallel to the one seen in the aftermath of Partition in 1947. The visuals and news reports are there for the entire nation to see. This is most unfortunate in a country that prides itself on being a vibrant democracy, governed by the rule of law and an independent judiciary that is meant to act as a counter-majoritarian institution. In fact, it would not be an exaggeration to say that it appears that these poor migrant workers have become invisible in plain sight and not even a word has been spoken regarding their plight by the top functionaries of the government. The Supreme Court has so far refused to intervene in the matter or even pose pertinent questions to the executive and hold it accountable for its policies (or lack thereof) to abate the crisis. Even as the government is making patently false statements in court, including the statement by the Solicitor General recorded in the order dated March 31, passed in Alakh Alok Srivastava vs Union of India that as of 11 am that day, no person was walking on the roads to reach their home/village. Not only has the court abdicated its judicial responsibility, it has also demonstrated an unprecedented apathy and heartlessness to the plight of the most vulnerable citizens of the country. It was the Supreme Court which interpreted the fundamental right to life enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution to mean the right to live with dignity and not mere animal-like existence. The nation expects its rights jurisprudence to advance with each successive generation of its Justices. It is, however, extremely distressing to see statements from the Chief Justice, according to whom as long as migrant workers are being provided food, they do not need to be paid wages, or the absolutely callous manner in which the Court stated that “it cannot monitor the activities of those walking on the road.” Just as it happened during the Emergency, instead of the Supreme Court setting the example for the High Courts to follow, the High Courts have risen to the occasion even in the absence of any leadership from the Supreme Court. The High Courts of Odisha, Karnataka, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Madras have shown the way ahead and refused to take the submissions advanced by their respective state governments at face value or as gospel truths. In an extraordinary order, the High Court of Madras reminded us why the judiciary is the protector of the fundamental rights of the people as it asked the state government to respond to some extremely pertinent questions, such as on the measures taken for the welfare of the migrant workers, and to furnish data on the plight of the migrant workers. What is impressive about the order is that it is not dismissive of the reports of the mass exodus of the migrant workers and their plight as ‘isolated incidents’ or ‘fake news’. The foundation of the order is that the government had failed in providing even the most basic care to the workers, who have been deprived of their livelihood due to the lockdown and are unable to sustain themselves and their families in the city. Constitutional obligations, precedents laid by the rich public interest litigation (PIL) jurisprudence and, indeed, even basic empathy seem to have inexplicably deserted the Supreme Court at this crucial moment in India’s history. It is not without reason that the Supreme Court of India is often called the “most powerful court in the world.” It can hold the executive accountable, entertain letters as petitions or indeed take suo motu cognisance of an issue it thinks requires intervention. On the day he disposed of the petition seeking relief for migrant workers, the Chief Justice of India stated in an interview to a media outlet that “undoubtedly, the executive can't allow the lives of citizens to be endangered. When that happens, surely the court jurisdiction will intervene.” We do not know when or if that day will come. Till then, the migrants continue their walk. ADM Jabalpur will no longer be remembered as the darkest moment of the Supreme Court. That infamy now belongs to the Court’s response to the preventable migrant crisis during the COVID-19 pandemic. (The writer is a former Supreme Court judge)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-supreme-failure-841803.html
25-05-2020||Mysuru||Man arrested for double murder in Mysuru||The police arrested a man for killing two people in connection with a minor accident. The accused killed the duo on Sunday and the police arrest him early on Monday. Jayapura police arrested Yogesh, 23, of Kote Hindi. Yogesh had killed T Manjunath (33) and R Manjunath (35) of Yedahalli village in the taluk. According to the Police, Yogesh stabbed the duo after a goods autorickshaw and passenger autorickshaw met with an accident near Kote hundi on Manamdavadi road, here. The duo and another Murthy were travelling in goods and Yogesh was travelling in passenger auto. A clash broke out between the two groups as the vehicles met with an accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/man-arrested-for-double-murder-in-mysuru-841621.html
25-05-2020||Mysuru||Ramzan celebrated with religious fervour in Mysuru, but within homes||Sir Khazi Mohammed Usman Shariff said, a call was given to all to offer the Eid-ul-Fitr prayers from their respective homes. “We had asked the faithful to abide by the guidelines of the lockdown, stay at home and celebrate the festival in a simple way. We prayed for peace and prosperity of the society and also for a check on the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and good health for all,” he said. President of Mili Council, Mysuru unit, Mohammed Zakaullah Siddiqi said, most of the people have not bought new clothes and other accessories this year. “A call was given to all, to help the poor with groceries and also with cash, instead of spending the money on clothes and other things, which are not basic necessities,” he said.  He said, even though he is a Moulana, he too did not offer prayers at the mosque. This was even as the Police had allowed the opening of the mosque and had given a provision for three persons to offer prayers there. Many people offered prayers at the house of their family elders. In some houses, families of brothers and sisters gathered for prayers. The faithful visited the houses of relatives and friends, to get the blessings of elders, in their own localities. They shared food and sweets among each other. However, a section of the people complained that they could not visit the cemeteries to pay homage to their elders and ancestors, as it is a custom, after offering prayers at either mosque or Idgah Maidan. “Police personnel were camping near the cemeteries, including Bada Makan at Tippu Circle on Bengaluru Road. Thus, we paid homage to our elders from a distance and returned,” they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/ramzan-celebrated-with-religious-fervour-in-mysuru-but-within-homes-841636.html
25-05-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: Mysuru-Bengaluru flight services start after 2 months||The flight services between Mysuru and Bengaluru commenced on Monday but the services to Belagavi was suspended temporarily. Mysuru Airport Director Manjunath said, a flight from Bengaluru will arrive at Mysuru Airport at 5.30 pm and it departs at 6.15 pm from Mysuru. The flight will reach Bengaluru at 7.15 pm. The airlines cancelled the service to Belagavi due to some reasons, the Director said.  The Director said the passengers will be screened twice. Once while entering the airport and while boarding the flight. Social distance has to be maintained and contact-less checking will be done, he said. According to him, as of now, as many as 10 passengers have booked tickets to Bengaluru from Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-lockdown-40-mysuru-bengaluru-flight-services-start-after-2-months-841708.html
25-05-2020||National||SC to hear Centre, Air India's plea against Bombay HC plea seeking response on safety norms||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday an urgent plea by the Centre and Air India against the Bombay High Court seeking their responses in a plea for not maintaining adequate safety measure to check COVID-19 in flights to bring back Indian stranded abroad. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy would take up the matter through video conferencing at 10.30 am on May 25. The top court is otherwise not sitting on Monday on account of Eid-ul-Fitr. Two separate petitions have been filed at around 9 pm on Sunday. Both -- the Centre and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation and Air India -- are aggrieved against the Bombay High Court's order of May 24 questioning them over not keeping middle seat vacant in flights used to bring back stranded Indians from abroad. A pilot, Deven Yogesh Kanani and others have moved the High Court saying the circular issued on March 23 for keeping the middle seat vacant was not being adhered to by Air India. The plea claimed the airline neglected the safety protocol. Special flights were being operated since May 7 to evacuate Indians stuck abroad through Vande Bharat mission. Domestic flights are set to start from May 25. The Air India counsel claimed the previous circular has been superseded by another circular issued on May 22, allowing use of middle seat while keeping precautions. The High Court, however, felt the May 22 circular apparently applied to the domestic flights. It sought a response from both the Centre and Air India and kept the matter for consideration on June 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-centre-air-indias-plea-against-bombay-hc-plea-seeking-response-on-safety-norms-841515.html
25-05-2020||National||Maharashtra govt deceived migrant workers who build state: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday accused the Shiv Sena-Congress government in Maharashtra of deceiving migrant workers who, he said, built the state with their blood and sweat. “The migrant workers who built Maharashtra with their blood and sweat only got deceit from the the Shiv Sena-Congress government of the state. They were only deceived amid the lockdown and left to fend for themselves, forcing them to leave the state,” said the chief minister in a Tweet in Hindi. “Humanity will never pardon Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for this inhuman act," Adityanath added in his tweet. The chief minister sought to assure migrant workers returning home that their home state will take proper care of them. “All our brothers and sisters reaching home will be taken care of,” said Adityanath in his Tweet while asking Thackeray not to feign concern about workers after forcing them to leave. Had the Maharashtra government acted even as a step-mother and given workers some succor, they would not have been forced to return, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-deceived-migrant-workers-who-build-state-yogi-841526.html
25-05-2020||National||Need to convert development into mass movement: NITI Aayog's Rajiv Kumar||There is a need to convert development into mass movement, and India should aspire to become second or third largest economy in the world by 2047, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said on Sunday. Addressing a webinar organised by Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal, Kumar pointed out that private sector investment is necessary for the economic growth of India. "Today we need to convert development into Jan Andolan (mass movement)... India should aspire to become second or third largest economy by 2047," Niti Aayog Vice Chairman said. Presently,  India is the fifth largest economy in the world. Kumar also said if India generates enough employment opportunities then economic growth will happen. He pointed out that COVID-19 pandemic has shown weaknesses of Indian society. "80 per cent of our workers are below the radar, we don't have data about them. "We will have to go back to the drawing board and business as usual will not do," Kumar noted. Referring to rising protectionism across the world, he said for a very long time, India will have to import technology because the country has lost lots of time. Kumar also stressed on removing mistrust between the government and entrepreneurs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-convert-development-into-mass-movement-niti-aayogs-rajiv-kumar-841530.html
25-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 25, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-25-2020-edition-841533.html
25-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 25||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,45,206 as of May 25. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 4,148   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 57,720 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-25-841534.html
25-05-2020||National||Arunachal Pradesh: BRO to bring labourers for road construction amid lockdown||The Border Roads Organisation would bring in labourers from within and outside the state for constructing roads and maintenance work near the Sino-India border amid the lockdown, BRO sources said here on Sunday. The decision was taken following a meeting between the Arunachal Pradesh government and the BRO, they said. Troops of India and China were involved in a fierce face-off and many of them sustained minor injuries in a clash near Naku La in the Sikkim sector along the Sino-Indo border on May 9. Arunachal Pradesh shares a 1,080 kilometres long international border with China. The state government recently issued a circular allowing central paramilitary forces and the Border Road Task Force "to bring labourers to the state for their approved activities like road construction and maintenance works", the sources in BRO's Project Arunank said. The Project Arunank has a vital role in the development of strategic roads and in a larger perspective, the overall communication system, designed for the socio-economic development of Arunachal Pradesh. The circular came at a time when the nationwide lockdown is in force and Arunachal Pradesh is still a green zone. "Large numbers of labourers are expected to be brought by BRO and other central agencies into the state to resume their work in the state. These labourers are required to be camped in quarantine facilities arranged by the BRO at Kimin and Bhalukpong," the circular said. It said the workers will stay in those camps till the result of their swab testing is known. All deputy commissioners and district medical officers have been asked to coordinate with the BRO and CPMFs to ensure strict compliance of COVID-19 guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arunachal-pradesh-bro-to-bring-labourers-for-road-construction-amid-lockdown-841543.html
25-05-2020||National||4 COVID-19 vaccine candidates may enter clinical trial phase in 3-5 months: Harsh Vardhan||Four out of the 14 COVID-19 vaccine candidates from India may enter the clinical trial stage in the next three-five months, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday. In an online interaction with BJP spokesperson GVL Narasimha Rao, Vardhan said the entire world was working on developing a vaccine to halt the novel coronavirus pandemic. "There are more than 100 candidates for developing a vaccine that are working at different levels. The WHO is coordinating the efforts," the health minister said. "India is also actively contributing to that effort. We have 14 vaccine candidates that are working on different levels," he said. "Industry, academic world are contributing to it and our Ministry of Science is helping the Department of Biotechnology in all such efforts." Financial support and regulatory clearance will be provided to those who are working on this, Vardhan said. "Out of these 14, four vaccine candidates, in the next three-five months, may enter the clinical trial stage. Right now, they are in the pre-clinical trial phase," the minister said.  "It's very difficult to predict when a vaccine will come, but as a doctor, I can say that the process it involves, one year would be a modest estimate," he said. "Till the vaccine is not developed, people should use social vaccines like the mask and social distancing." The Centre and private firms have stepped up efforts to develop a vaccine to halt the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. The PM CARES Fund Trust has decided to allocate Rs 100 crore in efforts to develop a COVID-19 vaccine. A PMO statement had said that a coronavirus vaccine was the most pressing need and Indian academia, start-ups and industry had come together in cutting-edge design and development. The Department of Biotechnology has been made a central coordination agency to identify pathways for vaccine development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-may-enter-clinical-trial-phase-in-3-5-months-harsh-vardhan-841546.html
25-05-2020||National||Haryana speaker complains to CM about govt officials' non-responsive attitude||Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Sunday complained to Chief Minister M L Khattar that some government officials were not responding to the phone calls of MLAs. Gupta said Khattar took cognizance of the matter and instructed government officials to pay attention to the queries of legislators. "I met the chief minister and gave feedback regarding the video-conferencing I had with the legislators over two days on various issues in view of the present COVID-19 situation. I apprised the CM that all MLAs cutting across party lines have extended their cooperation in the state's fight against coronavirus," the speaker said. "The legislators had complained that some officials, especially those in districts, do not respond to their phone calls. I brought this matter to the chief minister's notice," he said. On Friday, Haryana's Home Minister Anil Vij had said that the officials have to listen and respond to queries of members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) and work with them, warning them not to “ignore” legislators. “If (officials) they have to work in Haryana, then they will have to listen to what MLAs have to say,” Vij had warned. Gupta had told reporters last week that the MLAs complained of officials' non-responsive attitude during a video conference that he held with 20 lawmakers of different parties to know the situation in their respective areas amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The speaker had said some MLAs complained that some officials do not respond to their phone calls and don’t give answers to their queries. The legislators pointed out that being public representatives, they were answerable to the people of their constituencies. Gupta had also said if officials do not give response to public representatives, it amounts to breach of privileges of the elected members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-speaker-complains-to-cm-about-govt-officials-non-responsive-attitude-841550.html
25-05-2020||National||More patients than beds in Mumbai as India faces surge in coronavirus cases||When Manit Parikh's mother tested positive for the new coronavirus, she was rushed by ambulance to Mumbai's private Lilavati Hospital, but officials told the family no critical-care beds were available. Five hours and dozens of phone calls later the family found a bed for her at the private Bombay Hospital. A day later, on May 18, Parikh's 92-year-old diabetic grandfather had breathing difficulties at home and was taken to the city's Breach Candy Hospital, another top private facility, but there were no beds. "My dad was pleading with them," Parikh told Reuters. "They said they didn't have a bed, not even a normal bed." Later that day, they found a bed at Bombay Hospital but his grandfather died hours later. His test results showed he was infected with the virus. Parikh said he believes the delays contributed to his grandfather's death. Officials at Lilavati and Bombay Hospital declined to speak with Reuters. Representatives of Breach Candy hospital did not respond to requests for comment. For years, India's booming private hospitals have taken some of the strain off the country's underfunded and dilapidated public health network, but the ordeal of Parikh's family suggests that as coronavirus cases explode in India, even private facilities are at risk of being overrun. India on Sunday reported 6,767 new coronavirus infections, the country’s biggest one-day increase. Government data shows the number of coronavirus cases in the world’s second-most populous country are doubling every 13 days or so, even as the government begins easing lockdown restrictions. India has reported more than 131,000 infections, including 3,867 deaths. "The increasing trend has not gone down," said Bhramar Mukherjee, a professor of biostatistics and epidemiology at the University of Michigan, referring to India’s cases. "We've not seen a flattening of the curve." Mukherjee's team estimates that between 630,000 and 2.1 million people in India - out of a population of 1.3 billion - will become infected by early July. More than a fifth of the country’s coronavirus cases are in Mumbai, India's financial hub and its most populous city, where the Parikhs struggled to find hospital beds for their infected family members. India's health ministry did not respond to a request for comment on how it will cope with the predicted rise in infections, given that most public hospitals are overcrowded at the best of times. The federal government has said in media briefings that not all patients need hospitalization and it is making rapid efforts to increase the number of hospital beds and procure health gear. The federal government's data from last year showed there were about 714,000 hospital beds in India, up from about 540,000 in 2009. However, given India's rising population, the number of beds per 1,000 people has grown only slightly in that time. India has 0.5 beds per 1,000 people, according to the latest data from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), up from 0.4 beds in 2009, but among lowest of countries surveyed by the OECD. In contrast, China has 4.3 hospital beds per 1,000 people and the United States has 2.8, according to the latest OECD figures. While millions of India's poor rely on the public health system, especially in rural areas, private facilities account for 55% of hospital admissions, according to government data. The private health sector has been growing over the past two decades, especially in India’s big cities, where an expanding class of affluent Indians can afford private care. Mumbai's municipal authority said it had ordered public officials to take control of at least 100 private hospital beds in all 24 zones in the city of almost 20 million people to make more beds available for coronavirus patients. Still, there is a waiting list. An official at a helpline run by Mumbai's civic authorities told Reuters that patients would be notified about availability.   SHORTAGE OF STAFF It is not just beds that are in short supply. On May 16, Mumbai's municipal authority said that it did not have enough staff to operate beds required for patients critically ill with COVID-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus. As a result, resident doctors will receive less time off than what is prescribed by the federal government, the authority said. Some medical professionals told Reuters they already are overburdened and treating patients without adequate protective gear, exposing them to a higher risk of infection. Several hospitals in Mumbai, western Gujarat state, the northern city of Agra and Kolkata in the east have in recent weeks shut partially or fully for days because some medical staff were infected with the virus. The federal government has not reported any deaths of medical staff from the virus. "In our country, healthcare has never gotten priority," said Dr Adarsh Pratap Singh, head of the 2,500-strong resident doctors association at New Delhi's top public hospital, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. "The government is now realizing the reality, but it's already too late." The AIIMS group has in recent weeks protested about the lack of health gear and publicly rejected Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for doctors to donate a part of their salaries to his coronavirus fund. Some health experts say India's struggle to treat virus patients is the result of chronic underinvestment in healthcare. The Indian government estimates it spends only about 1.5% of its GDP on public health. That figure is higher than it was - about 1% in the 1980s and 1.3% five years ago - but India still ranks among the world's lowest spenders in terms of percentage of GDP. This year, Modi's federal government raised its health budget by 6%, but that is still short of the government's own goal of increasing public health spending to 2.5% of GDP by 2025, according to New Delhi-based think tank Observer Research Foundation.   'TOO MANY PATIENTS' Keshav Desiraju, a former Indian health secretary, said more investment in the health system before the virus outbreak might have made the health system more resilient. "At the times of a crisis, all the holes show up," he told Reuters. Dr. Chaitanya Patil, a senior resident doctor at King Edward Memorial government hospital, one of Mumbai's largest, said the facility had a shortage of medical staff and the 12 coronavirus wards catering to about 500 patients were almost full. "There are just too many patients coming in," said Patil, "It is lack of preparedness or a lack of insight of the people planning." Last week Rajesh Tope, health minister of the state of Maharashtra, which contains Mumbai, said the lack of hospital beds for critically ill patients will not last long. "In the next two months, more than 17,000 vacant posts of doctors, nurses, technicians and other health workers will be filled," he said in a public address. India's United Nurses Association, which represents 380,000 medics, took a list of 12 issues they said they are facing - including lack of protective gear and accommodation - to the Supreme Court in April. The court told them they can lodge complaints on a government helpline. Some nurses are leaving the big cities. Earlier this month, about 300 nurses working at hospitals in Kolkata city left for their hometowns 1,500 km (930 miles) away in India's remote northeastern state of Manipur. A group representing them said they had left because of irregular salaries and inadequate safety gear, among other issues. "We love our profession," said 24-year-old Shyamkumar, who quit his nursing job in one of Kolkata's hospitals and is planning to head back to Manipur. "But when we are going to work, please give us proper equipment."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-patients-than-beds-in-mumbai-as-india-faces-surge-in-coronavirus-cases-841555.html
25-05-2020||National||Nurse working at private hospital in Delhi dies due to COVID-19||A nurse working at a private hospital in west Delhi died due to coronavirus, an official said on Sunday. The nurse, a native of Kerala, was working at the Kalra Hospital in west Delhi's Kirti Nagar. According to the official, who requested anonymity, the nurse was not reporting for work for the last few days and hospital authorities learnt on Sunday that she succumbed to COVID-19. He said patients are screened at the clinic outside the hospital and only those who do not have fever are allowed to enter the facility. The United Nurses Association (UNA), a professional association of registered nurses in Kerala, expressed condolences over the demise of the nurse. "A Nursing officer working in a private Hospital (Kalra ) in Ramesh Nagar ,staying at Rajouri Garden,Delhi, passed away due to Covid -19,Native of Kerala and admitted in Safdarjung hospital Delhi. May her soul Rest in peace. Heartfelt condolences," UNA said in a Facebook post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nurse-working-at-private-hospital-in-delhi-dies-due-to-covid-19-841567.html
25-05-2020||National||Three-day-old baby succumbs to COVID-19 in Chandigarh, state death toll rises to 4||A three-day-old girl died of coronavirus in Chandigarh on Sunday, taking the COVID-19 death toll in the union territory to four, a medical bulletin said. The sample of the child was taken after death and the report came back positive for novel coronavirus, it said. The report of her mother's sample was awaited, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, twenty-three people tested positive for COVID-19 in the city on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in Chandigarh to 256, it said. A six-year-old girl and a 12-year-old boy were among the 23 fresh cases and most of them are residents of Bapu Dham colony, the worst affected area in the union territory, according to the bulletin. A total of 3,904 samples have been tested so far and of them, 3,514 returned negative. There are 67 active COVID-19 cases in the city, it said. Seven coronavirus patients including a six-month-old girl and seven-year-old boy were discharged from hospital after they recovered from infection, the bulletin said. With this, a total of 186 coronavirus patients have so far recovered from the virus here, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-day-old-baby-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-chandigarh-state-death-toll-rises-to-4-841577.html
25-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Domestic flights resume after two months||The first flight to take off was an IndiGo aircraft to Pune, flying passengers stranded in the national capital since the lockdown was announced on March 24. Passengers were screened at the airport with electronic thermometers, and revised protocol for air travel that included santisation of luggage through ultra-violent scanners, and maintaining physical distancing.  Only asymptomatic passengers were allowed to enter the airport. Passengers were also seen wearing face masks and face shields given to them at the embarkation point by the airline to minimise the chances of infection while onboard. The first flight arrived at Delhi Airport from Ahmedabad – a SpiceJet aircraft – at around 8:00 am. BJD Lok Sabha member Anubhav Mohanty was among those who took the Air Vistara flight to Bhubaneshwar that departed Delhi airport at 6:50 am. The first flight to take off from Mumbai was an IndiGo aircraft that departed for Patna at 6:45 am, while passengers from Lucknow were the first to reach the financial capital on an IndiGo aircraft that touched down at 8:20 am. The food & beverage and retail outlets, which were closed for the past 63 days, opened at Terminal 3 of Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport. The flight services resumed after a day of long and hard negotiations between the Centre and the states on Sunday. All states finally agreed to accept at least some flights but announced different quarantine and self-isolation rules for arriving passengers to address apprehension about infections being brought in from other cities. The Centre had issued guidelines for all modes of domestic travel that advised all asymptomatic passengers to self-monitor their health parameters for 14 days on completion of the journey and report to health authorities if they displayed any symptoms for COVID-19. However, the Centre had allowed state governments to prescribe their own health protocols for disembarking passengers which led to differential guidelines across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-domestic-flights-resume-after-two-months-841578.html
25-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets people on Eid-ul-Fitr||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday extended greetings on Eid-ul-Fitr, hoping that the special occasion furthers the spirit of compassion and harmony.  Eid Mubarak! Greetings on Eid-ul-Fitr. May this special occasion further the spirit of compassion, brotherhood and harmony. May everyone be healthy and prosperous. "Greetings on Eid-ul-Fitr. May this special occasion further the spirit of compassion, brotherhood and harmony. May everyone be healthy and prosperous," the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-eid-ul-fitr-841580.html
25-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Exams from home, the new normal in the times of COVID-19||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, DH journalist Samiksha Goel talks about companies that offer exam software giving out new features to provide enhanced security for exams-from-home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-exams-from-home-the-new-normal-in-the-times-of-covid-19-841596.html
25-05-2020||National||Home Minister Amit Shah extends Eid greetings||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday extended his greetings on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr and wished that the festival will bring peace and happiness to all. "Extend my warm greetings on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr. May this festival bring peace and happiness in everyone's life," Shah tweeted. Eid-ul-Fitr is being celebrated across the country on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-minister-amit-shah-extends-eid-greetings-841599.html
25-05-2020||National||Another Maharashtra cabinet minister tests positive for coronavirus||A senior Congress leader who is a minister in the Maharashtra cabinet has tested positive for novel coronavirus, sources and a Health official said on Sunday. The minister has been travelling between Mumbai and his home district in Marathwada frequently, he said. "He contracted the infection a few days back and is now undergoing treatment," the official said. Earlier, NCP leader and Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad had tested positive for coronavirus. He recovered after remaining admitted in a hospital in Mumbai for more than two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/another-maharashtra-cabinet-minister-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-841602.html
25-05-2020||National||Hockey India pays tribute to legend Balbir Singh Sr||Hockey India on Monday condoled the demise of the legendary Balbir Singh Sr, saying the sport has lost its "guiding light" and his life will remain an example for generations to come. "Today, we have not only lost our greatest hockey legend but we have also lost 'our guiding light'," Hockey India President Mohd Mushtaque Ahmad said. "While his achievements in post-independent era have been well-documented, Balbir Sr remained the greatest fan of the sport and was always there when we needed his advice. Hockey has lost its brightest star and everyone at Hockey India is pained by this news." The legendary centre-forward was 96 and is survived by his daughter Sushbir and three sons Kanwalbir, Karanbir, and Gurbir. His sons are settled in Canada and he used to live here with his daughter and grandson Kabir. "Balbir Singh Sr's exemplary achievements, his passion for the sport, his life as an icon of the game will remain an example for generations to come. On behalf of the Federation, I express my deepest condolences to his family," Ahmad said. Balbir Sr was the most decorated athlete in Indian sports history with Olympic medals in 1948, 1952 and 1956 Summer Games. He coached the Indian team which won the bronze medal at the 1971 World Cup and was manager of the Indian team that won the gold Medal at the 1975 World Cup. He had scored five goals in India's 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Olympics. Under his captaincy, India scored 38 goals and conceded none on its way to the Gold medal in 1956 Melbourne Olympics. Beating England 4-0 in their own backyard during the Final of the 1948 Olympic Games as an independent nation was Balbir Sr's 'greatest moment’. Hockey India secretary general Rajinder Singh too expressed his condolence. "Balbir Sr's achievements in hockey cannot be emulated. It is difficult to mention him in past-tense because for us he was always there. One could call on him for advice at anytime, his spirit and adulation for the game will be missed. I am sure even in his absence, his life as a hockey legend will inspire many generations," he said. For his stellar contribution to the game, Balbir Sr was awarded the Padma Shri, India's fourth-highest civilian honour in 1957 and was conferred with the Major Dhyan Chand Life Time Achievement Award by Hockey India in 2014. Balbir Sr also became the only Asian male and only Indian among 16 athletes to be chosen as "Iconic Olympians" by the International Olympic Committee across the modern Olympics' history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hockey-india-pays-tribute-to-legend-balbir-singh-sr-841612.html
25-05-2020||National||States wanting migrants from Uttar Pradesh will need to seek permission from UP govt: CM Yogi Adityanath||Facing flak from different quarters over the plight of the migrant workers returning home from other parts of the country, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, in an apparent bid to douse the criticism, said that henceforth the states wanting to hire labourers from UP would need to obtain permission from the state government. Adityanath, during a meeting with top bureaucrats here on Sunday, said that a 'Migrant Commission' would be formed in the state, which would be entrusted with the task of providing employment to the returning migrant workers. ''Migrant workers cannot now be hired by other states without our permission,'' the chief minister said. The UP government was conducting a skill mapping of returning migrant workers in order to provide them meaningful employment, sources said. Sources also said that so far around 23 lakh migrant workers had returned to the state from industrial towns in Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat and other parts in the country. About the commission, Adityanath said it has been proposed to look into various factors associated with migrant workers' rights and to prevent exploitation while providing an official framework to ensure socio-economic-legal support for them. "Insurance, social security, re-employment assistance, provision for unemployment allowance are some of the factors that will be looked into by the commission," he said.            Upset that migrant labourers were "not properly taken care of" by various states in the wake of the coronavirus lockdown, Adityanath said, "These workers are our biggest resource and we will give them employment in Uttar Pradesh as state government is going to set up a panel for their employment. They are our people... and if some states want them back, they have to seek permission from the state government," he said. There is a need to ensure their socio-legal-monetary rights, the chief minister said. During an interaction with the RSS-affiliated publications 'Panchjanya' and 'Organiser' on Sunday, he said that as per feedback received from migrant workers who reached Uttar Pradesh, safeguarding their rights should get utmost attention and importance. The chief minister, however, did not elaborate as to how the state government planned to do so. The officials said that it would not be possible for the state to prevent anyone from accepting employment in the other state. They also said that providing meaningful employment to such a large number of migrant workers would be a very difficult task.  Sources added that the legal aspects of the decision were also being studied to ascertain if it could stand judicial scrutiny. The opposition parties termed the decision a ''political gimmick'' aimed at silencing criticism over handling of the migrant workers crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-wanting-migrants-from-uttar-pradesh-will-need-to-seek-permission-from-up-govt-cm-yogi-adityanath-841614.html
25-05-2020||National||Record 6,977 new COVID-19 cases in India in last 24 hours; death toll climbs to 4,021||India recorded its biggest ever spike in COVID-19 cases as it reported 6,977 fresh infections on Monday taking its total tally to 1,38,845 patients, the 10th highest across the world. Monday’s sharp increase is the fourth-straight day that India has reported more than 6,000 COVID-19 cases in a single day, with Maharashtra contributing 43% to the daily increase of 6,977 cases. The death toll from the highly infectious disease rose to 4,021 after 154 people died as on Monday morning, the health ministry said. A separate DH COVID-19 Tracker put the total confirmed cases at 1,44,367 and the death toll at 4,151 at 8:30 PM on Monday.  As many as 57,720 patients have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals, pegging the recovery rate at 41.57%. COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Tamil Nadu with over 600 people testing positive as of Monday. At 16,277, Tamil Nadu had the highest number of Covid-19 patients after Maharashtra. Gujarat surged past the grim-milestone of 14,000-mark as it reported 392 fresh cases on Monday. The total number of confirmed cases in the state rose to 14,056. Gujarat had the most number of deaths after Maharashtra as the virus has claimed 999 lives in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-6977-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-in-last-24-hours-death-toll-climbs-to-4021-841622.html
25-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Parliament Standing Committee meetings likely to restart soon||Naidu held a meeting with Birla, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and senior officials on Saturday regarding the availability of rooms and the norms to be followed in the context of coronavirus-induced regulations, sources said.  Nine rooms in the Parliament House and annexe have been identified for holding regular meetings of the 24 Department Related Standing Committees and another six rooms for other Committees of both the Houses. Sources said only the Main Committee Room in the annexe enables meetings of the Committees with adherence to social distancing norm, following which Naidu and Birla instructed officials to arrange for extra seating to maintain social distancing in other rooms.  The Department Related Standing Committees have 31 MPs -- 21 from Lok Sabha and 10 from Rajya Sabha -- while other panels of both the Houses have much less number of MPs. Both the Rajya Sabha Chairman and the Lok Sabha Speaker also said that participation of officials from both the secretariats and the ministries appearing before the Committees would be kept to a bare minimum to comply with social distancing norm. Sources said Naidu also directed the officials of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat to draw up a schedule for enabling the taking of oath after Lockdown 4.0 by 37 new members who were elected unopposed. He spoke to the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad in this regard. Naidu also spoke to the Election Commission of India about the elections for 18 more vacancies in seven States which were deferred after the COVID-19 outbreak. He was informed that the Commission was examining the matter. Earlier this month, both Naidu and Birla had asked Secretaries General of both the Lower and Upper Houses to submit a report on the possibilities of virtual meetings and time needed to enable secure technology platforms.   Earlier, Standing Committee Chairmen Anand Sharma (Home), Shashi Tharoor (Information Technology) and Bhartruhari Mahtab (Labour) had sought meetings of committees through video conference but both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha Secretariats have rejected their demand. In a letter, Mahtab told the Lok Sabha Speaker that at least Parliaments in 23 countries have been conducting virtual meetings despite being under COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-parliament-standing-committee-meetings-likely-to-restart-soon-841623.html
25-05-2020||National||Bihar records 180 new COVID-19 cases, tally nearing 2,600||Bihar has reported 180 new cases of COVID-19 from 15 districts, pushing the tally to 2,574 in the state, the health department said. Of the fresh cases, Nawada and East Champaran accounted for 11 each and the state capital Patna recorded four new infections, it said. The health department, in a tweet late on Sunday evening, said,"63 more COVID-19 +ve cases in Bihar taking the total to 2,574... We are ascertaining their trail of infection". Earlier on Sunday, the state had registered 117 new positive cases and two fatalities due to the contagion, taking the death toll to 13. A 60-year-old man from Siwan died at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Patna, while another 48-year-old COVID-19 positive patient from Saran passed away on Saturday, but the health department informed about the death on Sunday. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of those who died due to COVID-19. The state now has 1,859 active cases, while 702 patients have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals, the bulletin said. Patna tops the state's COVID-19 list with 200 cases followed by Rohtas at 165. Migrant labourers, who started returning to Bihar from the first week of May, constitute 62 per cent of the total confirmed cases in the state, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-records-180-new-covid-19-cases-tally-nearing-2600-841627.html
25-05-2020||National||Pending class 10, 12 board exams to be held at 15,000 centres across country||The pending class 10 and 12 board exams will be conducted by CBSE at 15,000 centres across the country instead of 3,000 centres planned earlier, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Monday. The exams, which were postponed due to a nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of COVID-19, will now be held from July 1 to 15. "The class 10, 12 exams will now be conducted at over 15,000 exam centres across India. Earlier, CBSE was slated to hold exams at only 3,000 centres," Nishank said. The decision has been taken to ensure social distancing at exam centres and minimise travel for students. The HRD ministry has already announced that students will appear for exams at schools in which they are enrolled rather than external examination centres. According to home ministry guidelines, there will be no exam centre in COVID-19 containment zones and states will be responsible for making transport arrangements for students to reach their respective centres. Usually, board examinations are held at designated test centres to ensure minimum bias from schools and enable independent external invigilators to monitor the examination process. While Class 12 exams will be conducted across the country, the Class 10 exams are only pending in North East Delhi, where they could not be held due to the law-and-order situation in the wake of protests against the amended citizenship act. The CBSE class 10 and 12 board exam evaluation is being carried out from home.  The HRD ministry had earmarked 3,000 evaluation centres from where answer sheets would be distributed to teachers at their homes for evaluation and then collected. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Later, a 21-day nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day. It has now been extended till May 31. The board was not able to conduct class 10 and 12 exams on eight examination days due to the coronavirus outbreak. Due to the law-and-order situation in North East Delhi, CBSE was not able to conduct exams on four examination days, while a very small number of students from and around this district were not able to appear in exams on six days. The board had last month announced that it will only conduct pending exams in 29 subjects which are crucial for promotion and admission to higher educational institutions. The modalities of assessment for the subjects for which exams are not being conducted will be announced soon by the board. The schedule has been decided in order to ensure that the board exams are completed before competitive examinations such as engineering entrance JEE-Mains, which is scheduled from July 18-23 and medical entrance exam NEET that will be held on July 26. PTI GJS DPB||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pending-class-10-12-board-exams-to-be-held-at-15000-centres-across-country-841644.html
25-05-2020||National||Son, wife of Jammu and Kashmir Lt Guv's advisor test COVID-19 positive||The son and wife of an advisor to the Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, officials said on Monday. The advisor to Lt Governor G C Murmu has gone into self-quarantine at the super-speciality hospital in Reasi district where his son and wife are being kept at an isolation ward, they said. The officials said the advisor's wife and son had returned from Delhi a few days back and were staying at a guest house. The results of their samples came on Sunday night and they had tested positive for the disease, theys said. The advisor's samples have been sent for testing. Contact tracing is also being done at the guest house and samples will be collected, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/son-wife-of-jammu-and-kashmir-lt-guvs-advisor-test-covid-19-positive-841645.html
25-05-2020||National||Migrants walk through 'hell' to reach 'heaven' in Bihar, but stare at uncertain future||They had left their homes for greener pastures in faraway Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan. The coronavirus lockdown having shattered their dreams, they are now walking, cycling and hitchhiking hundreds of miles under an unforgiving sun blazing down at over 40 degrees to reach their homes in an impoverished Bihar, where an uncertain future awaits them. Hungry and exhausted, these migrant workers are arriving at Sonathu and other villages in Bihar's Aurangabad district from places as far-off as Surat, Mumbai, Delhi, Jaipur and Chennai every day, carrying tales of trauma and tribulation. But nobody comes to embrace them and all are curtly directed to forlorn government schools and other buildings that pass off as institutional quarantine centres that would be their home for the next 21 days. Sonathu gram panchayat, with a population of around 10,000, has already received over 400 migrant workers, its head Poonam Devi told PTI over the phone. The area, about 60 km from state capital Patna, was a naxalite hotbed until a few years ago. Every returnee has a story to tell about how they made it back to their village, says Poonam Devi. "Coronavirus has forced people to walk through hell to reach heaven (home)," Moti Kumar, who hails from Dhamni village, said after returning from Chennai. Kumar and 11 others--a fellow villager and the rest from Banka district--commenced their daunting journey from Chennai on foot on May 13. It took them nearly 11 days to reach home. In the southern metropolis, the migrants from Bihar worked in a factory manufacturing rubber items for cars. "Losing our jobs and left with no money to pay for room rent, we started walking towards Bihar. But police drove us back from the Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border. "We were determined to reach home. So we sneaked our way through a forest and reached a national highway," Kumar, who is now in home quarantine, said. Kumar's group hitched rides on trucks to reach Jharkhand, from where they again set out on foot, and finally reached their village. His relative Gyanendra Kumar Singh said every day they see people trundling down the roads lugging suitcases and bundles clanking with utensils, betraying their migrant status. Satyendra Kumar, an advocate and social worker based in Daudnagar in the district, said 16 young men recently pedalled over 1,000 km from Delhi to reach their homes. At least 1,200 returnees have been housed in four quarantine centres in Daudnagar sub-division, he said. Some worked in cloth mills in Gujarat, while others were engaged in carpet making in Jaipur. Those in Delhi worked as masons and also in cable manufacturing units, Kumar said. All of them have managed to escape hunger and hoplessness in cities they had made their home. These cities, bustling with commercial activity and throbbing with life, fed their dreams of a better future that their tiny, somnolent villages cannot offer. Poonam Devi said jobs under MGNREGA and agricultural activity that are far less paying are their only options. "While the returnees are still in quarantine centres, their families have started approaching us for jobs under MGNREGA," she said. Satyendra Kumar said under the state government's instructions, MGNREGA job cards have been readied for 1,100 of the 1,200 returnees housed in the quarantine centres in Daudnagar. Many of these migrants were earning between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 a month outside Bihar. Shafalta Singh, a college principal and resident of Dhamni village, said, "These are difficult times but our village has the culture of accommodating everybody." Looking at the brighter side of the reverse exodus of the migrant labourers, Satyendra Kumar said it may end the migration of "ropanniya" (seed planters) from Sitamarhi district in Bihar and Palamau and Latehar districts in Jharkhand to Aurangabad. The "ropanniya" outsiders take contract to plant paddy and get paid handsomely. Like Aurangabad, lakhs of migrants have returned to the villages of Bihar and many more are set to arrive on 'Shramik Special' trains, while in a departure from the trend, over 2,200 migrants from Khagaria district have returned to work in Telangana. The the exact number of migrants from Bihar working in other states is not yet known. In the initial days of homeward migration, Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi had put the number at 27 lakh. His estimate was based on the number of people who had received the state government's assistance of Rs 1,000 per head and others who applications were being processed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrants-walk-through-hell-to-reach-heaven-in-bihar-but-stare-at-uncertain-future-841648.html
25-05-2020||National||Jet Airways offers two Boeing aircraft for evacuating Indians stranded overseas||Jet Airways, which suspended services more than a year ago due to cash crunch, has offered two of its Boeing planes for operations under the Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate Indians stranded in foreign countries, according to a communication. The once-storied full service carrier is undergoing insolvency process and its affairs are being managed by insolvency resolution professional Ashish Chhawchharia. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) is being implemented by the corporate affairs ministry. Besides offering two aircraft, Chhawchharia has mentioned about the need for funds commencement of proposed repatriation flights. In a letter written to Corporate Affairs Secretary Injeti Srinivas on May 20, Chhawchharia said two Boeing 777-300 ERs can be used for Vande Bharat Mission. "As desired by you, I have now evaluated if Jet Airways, with its fleet of wide bodied long haul aircraft (Boeing 777-300ERs) can assist the Government of India (under its Vande Bharat Mission) to evacuate Indians stranded in different countries (due to the COVID-19 pandemic). "Based on the preliminary assessment, I am reasonably confident that Jet Airways should be able to offer two Boeing 777-300ER aircraft to start with, going up to four aircraft, within a reasonable period of time, to participate in the Vande Bharat Mission...," the letter said. A copy of the letter has also been marked to Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola, aviation regulator DGCA's chief Arun Kumar and State Bank of India Chairman Rajnish Kumar. The current status of the proposal could not be immediately ascertained. Srinivas and Chhawchharia were not available for comments. Currently, Jet Airways has 12 aircraft that are either owned outright or are under a financing arrangement. "Out of the existing fleet, one Airbus A330-200 aircraft is currently operated by Air Serbia (under a sub-lease arrangement), while one Boeing 777-300ER aircraft is currently parked in Amsterdam. The remaining 10 aircraft are parked at various airports in India," the letter said. The deadline for completion of Jet Airways's insolvency resolution process has been extended till August 21 due to the lockdown. Earlier this month, fresh Expressions of Interest (EoIs) for the airline were invited and the deadline for submission is May 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jet-airways-offers-two-boeing-aircraft-for-evacuating-indians-stranded-overseas-841653.html
25-05-2020||National||SC allows Air India to fly for ten days with middle seats filled in scheduled aircraft||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed the Centre and national carrier Air India to keep operating its scheduled flights with the middle seats filled for the next ten days while observing that the government should be more worried about the health of citizens rather than the health of commercial airlines. The top court asked the Bombay High Court to decide the plea against DGCA circulars expeditiously and said Air India and other airlines will have to follow the order given by the HC with regard to safety measures including maintaining of social distancing inside aircraft by keeping middle seats vacant between two passengers in a row. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde conducted an urgent hearing on Eid holiday through video conferencing to hear the appeals of the Central government and Air India against the Bombay High Court order. “You should be worried about the health of citizens, not about the health of commercial airlines,” the bench, also comprising AS Bopanna and Hirshikesh Roy, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who appeared for the Centre. The high court had on May 22 sought response from Air India and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on a petition of an AI pilot claiming that the airline was not following safety measures for COVID-19 while bringing back Indians stranded abroad. The High Court had directed Air India and DGCA to file affidavits clarifying their stand and posted the petition for further hearing on June 2.  The pilot, Deven Kanani, in his plea claimed that a circular issued by the Government of India on March 23, 2020 laid some conditions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 while bringing back Indians stranded abroad due to the pandemic. However, the condition pertaining to keeping the middle seat between two passengers empty was not being followed by the Air India, he said in the plea. Kanani submitted photographs of an Air India flight operated between San Francisco and Mumbai where all seats were occupied. Air India, however, opposed the plea of the pilot and told the high court that the circular of March 23 has been now superseded with a new circular issued by the Government of India on May 22, 2020 that permitted domestic flights to operate from May 25. The new circular does not say that the middle seat needs to be kept empty, Air India told the court. The High Court had directed Air India and DGCA to file affidavits clarifying their stand and posted the petition for further hearing on June 2. The court had also allowed Kanani to amend his petition to challenge the circular of May 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-air-india-to-fly-for-ten-days-with-middle-seats-filled-in-scheduled-aircraft-841656.html
25-05-2020||National||Govt's wheat procurement surpasses last year's level of 34.1 million tonnes despite COVID-19 hurdles||The government's wheat procurement so far in the 2020-21 marketing year has surpassed the last year's 34.13 million tonnes, surmounting all impediments in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Wheat procurement target has been set at 40.7 million tonnes (MT) for the 2020-21 marketing year. Although the wheat marketing year runs from April-March, the bulk of procurement is normally done in the first three months. State-run Food Corporation of India (FCI) and state agencies undertake purchase of wheat at the minimum support price. In a statement, the food ministry said the overall wheat procurement has touched 34.15 MT as on May 24 in the current marketing year, surpassing last year's figure of 34.13 MT. Out of which, 12.58 MT of wheat has been procured in Punjab, 11.33 MT in Madhya Pradesh, 7.06 MT in Haryana, 2.03 MT in Uttar Pradesh, 31,000 tonnes in Uttarakhand, 21,000 tonnes in Gujarat, 12,000 tonnes in Chandigarh and 3,000 tonnes in Himachal Pradesh, it said. Highlighting measures taken for smooth procurement, the ministry said wheat harvesting generally starts towards the end of March and procurement commences in the first week of April every year. However, with the imposition of the lockdown with effect from March 24, all operations came to a standstill. The crop had ripened by then and was ready for harvesting. Considering this, the central government gave relaxation to start agricultural and related activities during the lockdown period, and the procurement could start from April 15 in most of the procuring states. Haryana started little late on April 20, it said. Stating that the biggest challenge was to ensure that procurement is done in a "safe manner" during the pandemic, the ministry said this was achieved through a multi-pronged strategy of awareness creation, social distancing and deployment of technology. The number of purchase centres was increased substantially reducing the farmer footfalls in individual purchase centres. New centres were set up using every facility available at gram panchayat level and the numbers were increased sharply in the major procuring states like Punjab where it went up from 1,836 to 3,681, 599 to 1,800 in Haryana and from 3,545 to 4,494 in Madhya Pradesh, it said. Using technology, farmers were provided specific dates and slots to bring their produce which helped in avoiding overcrowding. Strict social distancing norms were followed and sanitisation activities were undertaken regularly, it said. In Punjab, every farmer was allotted specific spaces earmarked for dumping of stocks and no one else was allowed to enter those areas. Only people who were directly associated were allowed to be present during daily auctions. In addition to the threat of spread of virus, the ministry said procuring agencies faced three major challenges. The first one was availability of jute bags. As all the jute mills were closed, production of jute bags used for filling of procured wheat stopped, creating a major crisis. This was tackled by using more plastic bags, supplemented by used bags with very strict quality conditions. Through continuous monitoring and timely actions, it could be ensured that the procurement was not stopped due to lack of packaging materials anywhere in the country, the ministry said. The second challenge was to save wheat crops from unseasonal rains in major producing states. This posed a major threat to the farmers as such stocks could not be procured under normal specifications. The central government and FCI intervened immediately and after conducting detailed scientific analysis, specifications were re-fixed to ensure that no farmer is put to distress while making sure that the produce so procured meets the minimum quality requirements of the consumers, the ministry said. Third challenge, the ministry said was the tight labour supply position as well as the general fear created among the masses about the virus. This was addressed by taking a series of confidence building measures at the local level by the state administration. Labour was provided with adequate protection safety gears like masks, sanitisers etc and other precautionary measures were also taken to ensure their safety, it said. "With the concerted and well-coordinated efforts by Government of India, FCI, State Governments and their agencies, procurement of wheat could be undertaken very smoothly in all surplus states, helping farmers and replenishing stocks in the central pool," it added. The Union Agriculture Ministry in its third estimate has pegged wheat output to reach an all-time record level of 107.18 MT in the 2019-20 crop year (July-June) as against 103.60 MT in the previous year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govts-wheat-procurement-surpasses-last-years-level-of-341-million-tonnes-despite-covid-19-hurdles-841658.html
25-05-2020||National||Coronavirus pandemic proves to be a roller-coaster ride for trafficking survivors||“We need help urgently. Food and medicines for HIV are the most important things and I do not see this situation easing anytime soon. Officials need to visit our villages and see the situation,” says Mehrunissa, 29, a survivor of sex trafficking who now lives in Andhra Pradesh with her daughter. Survivors of human trafficking have never been a part of an “inclusive society”. With the lockdown in place, they feel totally left out. Lack of work, food supplies and ration cards make getting food tough and medicines impossible. Haseena, 34, another survivor of sex trafficking, says that the pension given by the government to single women should be extended to the sex trafficking community as well. Bhanupriya, 25, another survivor, feels that the government should assess their living conditions and problems they face, and then come up with solutions, and adopting a top-down policy where the need and relief provided do not match does not help anyone.  These survivors have been deprived of rehabilitation services, compensations and legal aid. Haseena’s story sums up the ordeal. “My husband is a labourer and my brother an auto driver. Both have been jobless due to the lockdown. My brother is unwell. His treatment costs us Rs 15,000 a month and we do not have funds. We cannot go to the town to get his medicines because of the lockdown. Interest on loans is also very high.” Some like Indumathy, 23, a survivor of forced labour from Tamil Nadu, have been getting support from local NGOs like the one she works for as a moderator at Rights Educational And Development Centre. She says she is focusing on her studies and has some savings to carry her through. But many of the survivors are not so lucky. Some of them have been going without their regular HIV medicines which can be dangerous, suggests the Indian Leadership Forum Against Trafficking, a forum that has been formed by survivors to fight human trafficking.  Ram Mohan Nimmaraju, secretary, HELP Organisation, AP, says state governments need to prepare a plan for rehabilitation and social entitlements for the survivors. He suggests temporary ration cards and monetary support for them without delay. He adds that action must be taken against house owners demanding that they either pay or vacate the houses immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pandemic-proves-to-be-a-roller-coaster-ride-for-trafficking-survivors-841661.html
25-05-2020||National||No Eid sweets exchanged by BSF with Pakistan; done with Bangladesh||The customary exchange of Eid sweets between the Border Security Force (BSF) and its Pakistani counterpart, Pakistan Rangers, did not not place along the India-Pakistan border on Monday, officials said. The event was given a miss as the relations between the two countries are strained at present, they added. Incidents of cross-border terrorism are continuing as usual on the Western front and hence, the exchange of sweets did not take place at any location along the India-Pakistan international border from Jammu to Gujarat, the officials said. The BSF guards this border. The force, the officials said, had attempted to undertake the customary gesture during Diwali last year, on its raising day (December 1) and Republic Day (January 26), but the move was not reciprocated by the Pakistani side. However, the force exchanged sweets with its Bangladeshi counterpart, Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB), all along the eastern front. India and Bangladesh share a 4,096-km-long international border. "BSF and BGB share a very cordial relationship. Both the countries share a similar culture, traditions and festivals. "The warmth and bonding between the countries and border-guarding forces reflect during several occasions, when they share the joy of festivals, including during Eid," a statement issued by the south Bengal frontier of the BSF said. This frontier guards 903 kms of the India-Bangladesh border and is headquartered in Kolkata. "BSF troops up to the border post level conveyed their best wishes to their companions of Bangladesh. The pleasantries for BGB headquarters were shared at Petrapole (land-border crossing in West Bengal)," the statement said. The BSF, during these events, convey its best wishes and good health to its partner, the BGB, with a hope of a better future ahead, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-eid-sweets-exchanged-by-bsf-with-pakistan-done-with-bangladesh-841674.html
25-05-2020||National||Students, migrants in India take flight home after weeks of coronavirus lockdown||Hundreds of people wearing face masks and gloves boarded early morning flights to their hometowns and workplaces from the Delhi airport on Monday as India resumed domestic services after two months. Flight operations had remained shut for two months owing to the nationwide lockdown necessitated by the coronavirus pandemic. Those who took first flights from the Indira Gandhi International Airport included paramilitary personnel, army men, students, and migrants, who failed to book a ticket on the special trains being run by the railways. Many said they shelled out more to reach the airport as there were limited public transport options available. With trains running full and inter-state buses remaining off the roads, Sandeep Singh, 19, spent Rs 5,500 to reach Delhi from Dehradun where he studies. "I remained stuck in my PG (pay guest accommodation). Mummy and papa were worried. I am taking the first flight home," he said. Aamir Afzal, a mechanical engineer, who had come to Delhi on an official visit on May 23, was among those who took an early morning flight to reach Patna to celebrate Eid with family and friends. “I had been staying in a hotel in Mahipalpur with my co-worker. The hotel charged us Rs 900 per day. We could not get a confirmed ticket on a train back home,” he said. Due to the lesser number of trains, the tickets get sold out within 5-10 minutes. It is difficult for a person to book a ticket using a mobile phone, Afzal said. Afzal’s friend Rahid Ali said he was happy he would be able to join his family in Bihar’s Begusarai district on Eid. “But it will be a muted affair as so many homeless and hungry migrants who cannot afford to travel on train or flight are still stuck in various parts of the country. It doesn’t suit one to celebrate the festival in such circumstances,” he said. Scheduled commercial passenger flights were suspended on March 25, when the Centre imposed a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. It was announced last Thursday that one-third of pre-lockdown domestic flights will operate from Monday. International scheduled commercial passenger flights remain suspended. Delhi airport saw its first departure at 4.45 am to Pune while Mumbai airport's first departure was at 6.45 am to Patna, according officials, who also said that the country will see around 600 services on Monday. A few people travelled long distances only to find that their flights had been cancelled. Naik Satish Kumar’s Kolkata-bound flight got cancelled as the state decided not to resume operations till May 28. “I travelled all the way from Ambala (in Haryana) on a bus to take a 6 am flight to Kolkata. When I reached here, I got to know the flight had been cancelled. I am returning home now,” he said. Excited to meet his two-year-old daughter, Santu Mandal, a resident of West Bengal’s Bardhaman district, reached the airport along with his brother, Nasiruddin Mandal, at 1 am, unaware that the flight to Kolkata had been cancelled. The Mandal brothers, who are engaged in hand embroidery, spent Rs 12,000 to book the tickets “because we could not get a confirmed train ticket”. It is the first time Sudhir Kumar will be on a plane. The army man posted in Punjab’s Bhatinda district says he never considered taking a flight home earlier as train travel was convenient and cheap. But trains are full already, he said. The airport staff wearing face shields and masks were seen asking passengers to follow social distancing norms. A few travellers reached Terminal-3 wearing full personal protective gear. Airline crew present at the terminal said the check-in process, printing of boarding pass, and frisking has been made contact-less. Air hostesses were seen wearing protective gear, security officials at the entry gates wore face masks, face shields and gloves, while passengers maintained physical distance in queues. The Union Health Ministry in its guidelines issued for domestic flights has advised airlines not to board anyone showing symptoms of the novel coronavirus. All passengers are required to wear face masks and download Aarogya Setu application on their mobile phones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-migrants-in-india-take-flight-home-after-weeks-of-coronavirus-lockdown-841679.html
25-05-2020||National||Sporadic protests continue over restoration of power, water supply in cyclone-hit Bengal||Sporadic protests over demands for restoration of power and water supply continued in several cyclone Amphan-hit parts of West Bengal for the fifth consecutive day on Monday while normalcy has returned in other affected areas of the state. Agitators in several areas in Kolkata blocked roads with branches of uprooted trees and placed barricades to restrict the movement of vehicles to press for their demand. On the other hand, the army and NDRF teams, assisted by personnel of the state disaster relief force, made significant progress in removing uprooted trees from the city's arterial roads. Residents of Garfa area in south Kolkata hit the streets demanding restoration of power supply while people in Behala in the southwest part of the city demonstrated against increased water prices amid rising mercury levels. "There is no electricity in our area for the last five days. Our mobile phones got switched off and we are unable to get any news," said Bikash Palit, a resident of Garfa. Cyclone Amphan ravaged West Bengal on May 20, claiming 86 lives. The Army was deployed in Kolkata and the city's neighbouring districts on Saturday, hours after the West Bengal government sought its help for immediate restoration of essential infrastructure and services in the state. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh was on Monday seen removing uprooted trees from roads near his residence in Salt Lake area of North 24 Parganas district. He, along with his security personnel, was seen cutting the uprooted trees blocking the roads. "The roads were blocked even five days after cyclone Amphan struck the state. The residents are facing a lot of problems. So, I along with some other people decided to remove these uprooted trees on our own," Ghosh said. The West Bengal government had on Sunday instructed the two power utilities of the state, WBSEDCL and CESC, to take firm action in restoring power supply to the cyclone-hit areas. The cyclone had blown away electric poles, damaged transformers and uprooted trees that fell on electric wires, disrupting power supply in several parts of the state, including Kolkata. Mobile and internet services are yet to be restored in several parts of South and North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore districts. On Friday, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had described the situation as "more than a national calamity" and put the estimated loss at more than Rs 1 lakh crore. She had stated that more than six crore people had been affected by the cyclone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sporadic-protests-continue-over-restoration-of-power-water-supply-in-cyclone-hit-bengal-841687.html
25-05-2020||National||HC orders seizure of plant; directors not to leave country||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has ordered the seizure of the premises of LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam, where there was a gas leakage, and also barred entry into the plant by all except the committees appointed by the state government. The court had, in its order on May 22, ordered the company's directors not to leave the country without courts permission and instructed the authorities not to release their surrendered passports without its permission. A division bench comprising Chief Justice JK Maheshwari and Justice Lalitha Kanneganti was hearing a bunch of PILs including seeking justice on its own to the affected people and also shifting the factory from the present location, taking action against the culprits, among other prayers. The premises of the company shall be completely seized and no one is allowed to enter into the premises, including the directors of the company, the court said. As many as 12 people, including a minor, were killed when styrene vapours leaked from the LG Polymers plant on May 7, while several hundred fell ill after inhaling the poisonous chemical at RR Venkatapuram near Visakhapatnam. We further directed that none of the assets, mobile or immobile, fixtures, machinery and contents shall be allowed to be shifted without the leave of the court," the bench said in its interim order. As stated before the court, the directors of the company have surrendered their passport and they are in India, however, we direct that their passports shall not be released without the leave of the court and they be not allowed to go outside India," the bench said in its order. The committee, if any appointed, wants to inspect the premises they are at liberty to do so, however, they shall put a note on the register maintained at the gate of the company regarding the inspection and while returning another about the activities done on the premises should be noted, the court said. The court sought replies from the State government and Centre before May 26 and posted the matter for further hearing on May 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-orders-seizure-of-plant-directors-not-to-leave-country-841690.html
25-05-2020||National||Suspected 'spy' pigeon from Pakistan captured along International Border in Jammu and Kashmir||A pigeon, suspected to be trained in Pakistan for spying, was captured along the International Border (IB) in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Monday. They said the pigeon, carrying a "coded message", was captured by residents of Manyari village in Hiranagar sector soon after it flew into this side from Pakistan. Security agencies concerned are working to decipher the "coded message", the officials said. "The villagers handed over the pigeon (to the local police station) yesterday. A ring was seen attached to one of its legs with some numbers on it and a probe is on," Senior Superintendent of Police of Kathua Shailendra Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspected-spy-pigeon-from-pakistan-captured-along-international-border-in-jammu-and-kashmir-841694.html
25-05-2020||National||Manufacturing of PPEs, N95 masks ramped up; ensuring quality through stringent protocols: Health ministry||India has significantly ramped up its production capacity of PPEs and N95 masks with three lakh units each being manufactured daily and their quality is being ensured through stringent protocols, the Union health ministry said on Monday. The statement comes following some new reports expressing concern about the quality of personal protective equipment (PPE) coveralls. "There are some reports in a section of the media expressing concern about the quality of personal protective equipment (PPE) coveralls," the ministry said, clarifying that the products referred to in the reports have no relevance to the procurement being made by the central government. HLL Lifecare is the procurement agency for hospitals and healthcare organisations under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The ministry said that the PPE coveralls are being procured from manufacturers/suppliers only after getting them tested and approved by one of the eight labs nominated by the Ministry of Textiles (MoT) for testing the same. "It is only after their products qualify in the test prescribed by the technical committee (JMG) of the Ministry of Health that they are procured," the statement stated. Further, the HLL is also undertaking random sampling of the supplies being made for which a testing protocol has been devised, it said. "In case of any failure, the company is being disqualified for any supplies," the ministry said. All the states and UTs have been asked to ensure procurement which is being carried out at their level after following the prescribed testing for PPEs from the labs nominated by the MoT. In addition, manufacturers who have got their products qualified from these labs are also being on-boarded on Government e-Marketplace (GeM). The manufacturers who have got PPEs qualified have been advised by the MoT to on-board on to the GeM so that the procurement by states can be carried out accordingly. For the private sector also, the dynamic information of manufacturers whose products have qualified the tests is available on the MoT website.  "India has significantly ramped up its domestic production capacity of PPEs and N95 masks, and the requirements of the states and UTs are being sufficiently met. Today, the country is producing more than three lakh PPEs and N95 masks per day," the ministry said. It said that states and UTs as well as central Institutions have been provided with around 111.08 lakh N95 masks and around 74.48 lakh PPEs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manufacturing-of-ppes-n95-masks-ramped-up-ensuring-quality-through-stringent-protocols-health-ministry-841695.html
25-05-2020||National||Lockdown extensions economically disastrous, create another medical crisis: Anand Mahindra||Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra on Monday said lockdown extensions are not just economically disastrous but also create another medical crisis. While acknowledging that choices are not easy for policymakers, he said a lockdown extension will not help.  "Lockdown extensions aren't just economically disastrous, as I had tweeted earlier, but also create another medical crisis," Mahindra said in a tweet. He was referring to an article that highlighted "the dangerous psychological effects of lockdowns & the huge risk of neglecting non-COVID patients". Mahindra, who had earlier proposed a comprehensive lifting after 49 days of lockdown, further said, "The choices aren't easy for policy makers but a lockdown extension won't help".  He said, "The numbers (coronavirus cases) will continue to rise & the focus must be on rapid expansion of field hospital beds with oxygen lines". He further said, "The army has enormous expertise in this". On March 22, before the government announced nationwide lockdown, Mahindra had proposed such a move expressing concerns over reports that India was likely to have already reached stage 3 of coronavirus transmission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-extensions-economically-disastrous-create-another-medical-crisis-anand-mahindra-841715.html
25-05-2020||National||Supply chyawanprash, kadha to people for free if these can help prevent COVID-19: Akhilesh Agarwal||'Chyawanprash' and 'kadha' (decoction) should be supplied to people for free if these are scientifically proven remedies to prevent coronavirus infection, Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav said on Monday. "The Ministry of AYUSH is showing on TV that decoction and chyawanprash should be taken to avoid coronavirus. If these are scientifically proven remedies, then in times of crisis the government should supply them free of cost," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "People will be encouraged if these are given as an award for using 'Arogya Setu' application," the SP leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supply-chyawanprash-kadha-to-people-for-free-if-these-can-help-prevent-covid-19-akhilesh-agarwal-841716.html
25-05-2020||National||3 fresh COVID-19 cases in Tripura; count rises to 194||Three more persons have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Tripura, taking the virus count in the state to 194, Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb has said. All the three new patients had recently returned to the state from Delhi by the Rajdhani Express, he said. Deb tweeted late on Sunday evening: "991 samples have been tested today in Tripura for COVID-19. Among them, 3 persons found COVID19 positive. All of them have returned from Delhi by Rajdhani Express." Of the 194 patients, 165 have recovered and were discharged from the state-run G B Pant Hospital here while 29 people are undergoing treatment.  Meanwhile, senior minister and Cabinet spokesperson Ratan Lal Nath on Monday said, "We are testing the swabs of 4,863 people per 10 lakh population. The recovery rate of COVID-19 patients in the state is 86.39 per cent, the highest in the country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-tripura-count-rises-to-194-841727.html
25-05-2020||National||Akali leader shot dead in Punjab's Batala||A 24-year-old local Akali leader was allegedly shot dead after an argument in Punjab’s Batala, police said on Monday. The incident took place on Sunday evening at Chak Kulian village when victim Manjot and his two friends tried to stop one Joginder Singh from filling a pond with sand. The issue led to an altercation between Manjot and Joginder. In the meantime, Joginder's son Gurdeep Singh brought a pistol from his home and allegedly fired at Manjot and his friends, a relative of the victim alleged. Local Akali leader Ravi Karan Singh Kahlon alleged that Gurdeep is a Congress worker. Gurdeep is an advocate by profession. Deputy Superintendent of Police Balbir Singh ruled out any political motive behind the killing. The victim’s friends-- Lovedeep Singh (35) and Arshpreet Singh (18)—too sustained bullet injuries, police said. Batala Senior Superintendent of Police Opinderjit Singh Ghumman said a case has been registered against Gurdeep Singh, Joginder Singh and three others under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and the Arms Act. No arrest has been made so far, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akali-leader-shot-dead-in-punjabs-batala-841740.html
25-05-2020||National||Cyclone Amphan: Govt releases Rs 1,000 Cr to West Bengal||The Centre has released Rs 1,000 crore to the West Bengal government, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and a team of the Union government will visit the state soon to assess the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan. The rescue-and-relief operations in West Bengal were discussed at a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, here on Monday. As announced by the prime minister after his aerial survey and review of the relief efforts with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, a sum of Rs 1,000 crore has already been released to the state government, an official statement said. The Ministry of Home Affairs will be sending a team to the state soon to assess the damage caused by the cyclone, it added. Continuing with the coordination efforts and restoration measures in the areas of West Bengal affected by "Amphan", the NCMC met for the fifth time in connection with the natural calamity. The chief secretary of West Bengal thanked the Centre for the support provided for relief and restoration. Restoration of the power and telecommunication infrastructure was stated to be a priority in the cyclone-affected areas of the state. While telecom connectivity has been restored in most areas, the damage to the local power distribution network has affected the restoration of complete supply in some areas. Central agencies are deployed in these efforts, along with teams from neighbouring states, the statement said. Meanwhile, the Army has also been pressed into service in Kolkata to help in road clearances, along with teams of the National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force. Taking note of the progress made in the restoration work, the cabinet secretary advised that complete power connectivity, telecom service and drinking water supplies need to be restored on a priority basis. The central agencies are ready to provide any further assistance that may be required by the state. Adequate stocks of foodgrains have been kept ready for supply. The cabinet secretary also suggested that the West Bengal government may indicate its additional requirements, if any, and directed officers of central ministries and agencies to work in close coordination with the state government to provide all required assistance expeditiously. The West Bengal chief secretary participated in the NCMC meeting through video-conference. Senior officers from the ministries of Home Affairs, Power, Telecommunications, Food and Public Distribution, Health, Drinking Water and Sanitation, NDMA and NDRF also attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-amphan-govt-releases-rs-1000-cr-to-west-bengal-841741.html
25-05-2020||National||80% of essential services restored in West Bengal post cyclone Amphan, says CM Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said that 80% of essential services have been restored in the state after it was hit by cyclone Amphan. Describing the cyclone as “Bengal’s grimmest disaster ever”, the Chief Minister in a release said that important services have been restored in majority of the urban areas in the state. “All major hospitals, water treatment plants, water supply units, irrigation and drainage pumping facilities, power sub stations have been made operational. These works will continue till normalcy is restored,” said Banerjee. According to the release, 2,35,200 personnel have been directly deployed by the state government. The Chief Minister also thanked state government employees, policemen, the army, NDRF, SDRF, Odisha government personnel who are tirelessly working to restore power and water supply and clearing the roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-of-essential-services-restored-in-west-bengal-post-cyclone-amphan-says-cm-mamata-banerjee-841756.html
25-05-2020||National||China to evacuate its citizens from India amid rise in coronavirus cases||The Embassy of China in New Delhi asked the communist country’s citizens in India to register with it by Wednesday so that a special aircraft could be arranged to fly them home. China apparently moved to airlift its citizens in the wake of a steep spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in India. It, however, also came at a time, when tension escalated along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh, with both the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) deploying additional troops. It fuelled speculation if China’s plan to evacuate its citizens from India was also linked to its prognosis about further escalation of tension along the site of the military build-ups by the both sides or elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control – the de facto border between the two nations. The notice issued by the Embassy of China in New Delhi on evacuation of the Chinese from India had no reference to the situation along the LAC near the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake in Ladakh. It, however, stated that the evacuees from India would have to pay for their airfare as well as for their mandatory stay in quarantine facilities for 14 days after their arrival in China.      “Under the unified arrangement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and relevant departments, the Chinese embassy and Consulates in India will assist students, tourists, and temporary businessmen in India who have difficulties and are in urgent need of returning home to take temporary flights back to China,” the notice issued by the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi said.  It said that people with the COVID-19 infection or having symptoms of COVID-19 – temperature and cough– will not be allowed to board the aircraft.  India evacuated its citizens from Wuhan, the “ground zero” of the COVID-19 pandemic, in central China in January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-to-evacuate-its-citizens-from-india-amid-rise-in-coronavirus-cases-841759.html
25-05-2020||National||Took lessons from swine flu outbreak, devised 'intelligent testing strategy' against COVID-19: ICMR||The government devised an "intelligent testing strategy" and scaled up its preparedness to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, taking lessons from the 2009 swine flu outbreak that had "exposed glaring gaps" in the country's diagnosis infrastructure, the ICMR said on Monday. The apex health research body said to cater to the increasing need for testing, India developed an "intelligent testing strategy to remain ahead of the virus" by significantly shoring up its diagnosis infrastructure. The country now has 610 laboratories -- 432 public and 178 private which are currently testing 1.1 lakh samples daily. The testing capacity has been increased to 1.4 lakh samples per day, which is being further raised to 2 lakh, it said. Keeping in view the revised understanding of the virus and the research work being done in India and elsewhere, testing criteria was widened to include returnees from abroad, migrant labourers and COVID-19 frontline workers.  Most states have been working with the National Tuberculosis Elimination Program (NTEP) to deploy TrueNAT machines for COVID-19 testing. Through this machine, testing is done in such areas/ districts where modern virological laboratory in private or public doesn't exist, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said.  "Due to this, the testing infrastructure is not overwhelmed in any state to date. No state has a significant backlog of samples to be tested. More labs are being set up and additional machines are deployed in states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal as well as in the rest of the country to meet the possible higher requirement," it said. "A decade ago, when India witnessed one of the worst flu pandemics -- swine flu in 2009 -- the public health system was paralyzed due to severe dearth of infrastructure for molecular diagnosis of viral infections... public health professionals helplessly watched the pandemic quickly escalating to all parts of the country," the ICMR said. Though the country was equipped to carry out serology-based ELISA or rapid blood tests, the virus was challenging and could not be detected in the blood.   Molecular virological test was the only option for detection of H1N1 and it was available only in two institutions -- National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, it said.  "The event was an eye-opener for the public health system of the country wherein glaring gaps in testing capacity were brought out," the health research body said adding that this, in turn, paved the way for strengthening molecular diagnostic facilities for viruses in India through the Virus Research & Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) Network. "Contrary to 2009, in January 2020, when the threat of COVID19 epidemic knocked at our doors, the government could immediately scale up its preparedness by standardizing diagnostic assays at ICMR – NIV, Pune, and immediately commissioning diagnostic facility in 13 VRDLs based on their location in cities with International airports." It said that COVID-19 being an imported infection, the labs were mapped based on their presence in cities where flights from China and other countries with reported coronavirus infections would land.  The government took a number of steps including the difficult decision of lockdown to slow down the spread of the virus and prepare healthcare infrastructure "to trace, track, test, quarantine, treat and save precious lives of people", the ICMR said. With the country lacking adequate testing facilities in every district, it adopted an "intelligent testing strategy" to trace and track the virus and anticipate areas where testing would be required and all possible institutions both in the public or private like laboratories, universities and private medical colleges were identified. AIIMS-like institutions were roped in, to handhold these institutions especially private medical colleges and private labs while lab technicians were trained to handle the sample and carry out tests with accuracy.  Supply of testing kits was ensured and Indian companies were helped to develop and scale up indigenous production of testing kits while ensuring they adhered to the quality and standards. The government has been always sensitive not only to the present requirement but also about future needs of testing both of its scale and regions. All such areas were mapped which are under-served and suitable strategy developed, the ICMR said. This led to developing COVID-19 molecular diagnostic capacity in 'difficult to reach' areas like Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Sikkim, Ladakh, Goa, Andaman and Nicobar Islands among other, it said, adding that from 13 laboratories in the first week of February and 123 laboratories on March 24, India now has 610 COVID-19 testing labs.  Taking cognizance of the expected surge in cases due to influx of migrant workers in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha, the ICMR has proactively followed up these states to expand testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/took-lessons-from-swine-flu-outbreak-devised-intelligent-testing-strategy-against-covid-19-icmr-841765.html
25-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Indian Railways transport 40 lakh migrant workers via Shramik Special trains||Indian Railways operated 3,060 “Shramik Special” trains since May 1st across the country and ferried 40 lakh passengers including migrant workers.  On May 24 alone, total 265 Shramik Specials operated transporting 3.1 lakh passengers. The top five States/UTs from where maximum trains originated are Gujarat (853 Trains), Maharashtra (550 Trains), Punjab (333 Trains), Uttar Pradesh (221 Trains) and Delhi (181 Trains). Uttar Pradesh received the highest number of trains (1,245 trains) followed by Bihar (846 trains) and Jharkhand (123 trains). Though some rail route which witnessed congested on May 23 and 24 was addressed.  The congestion had occurred due to convergence of more than two-thirds rail traffic on routes to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and late clearance of the terminals due to health protocols etc that needed to be completed by state authorities. The matter was resolved through active consultation with state governments and also finding other feasible routes for the journey, the statement said. In addition to Shramik specials, the railways are running 30 pairs of special trains connecting New Delhi and plans to start 200 more time tables trains on 1st June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-indian-railways-transport-40-lakh-migrant-workers-via-shramik-special-trains-841766.html
25-05-2020||National||Heatwave intensifies in northern India, Churu hottest at 47.5 deg C||Heatwave conditions intensified in most of the northern states of India on Monday, with Churu in Rajasthan scorching at 47.5 degrees Celsius and the mercury breaching the 46-degree mark in parts of the national capital. While the daytime temperatures in most of Rajasthan were around 45-47 degrees Celsius, Punjab and Haryana too sizzled, with Narnaul recording the highest of 45.8 degrees Celsius. Allahabad was the hottest in Uttar Pradesh at 46.3 degrees Celsius. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), which had issued a red colour-coded alert for north India for May 25-26 when the prevailing heatwave conditions are expected to peak, said dust and thunderstorms are likely to bring some relief on May 29-30. The heatwave continued to sweep the national capital, with the weather office issuing an "orange" warning for parts of Delhi on Tuesday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a high of 44 degrees Celsius, four notches more than normal. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said some respite from the stifling heat is expected on May 28 due to a fresh western disturbance and easterly winds at lower levels. In Rajasthan, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot appealed to the people to stay indoors and drink as much water as possible. Intense heat wave conditions were likely at some places in Jodhpur, Bikaner, Jaipur, Ajmer, Bharatpur and Kota divisions, the weather office in Jaipur said. Due to the activation of the western disturbance, light rains are expected in Jodhpur, Bikaner, Jaipur and Bharatpur on Friday and Saturday, it added. Stifling heat gripped Punjab and neighbouring Haryana. In Haryana, Hisar sizzled at 45 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal limits while Bhiwani recorded a high of 43.1 degrees Celsius. Karnal, too, braved intense heat at 43 degrees Celsius, up five notches against normal limits. In Punjab, Patiala recorded a high of 43.6 degrees Celsius, up by five degrees. Amritsar and Ludhiana too recorded above-normal maximums of 42.8 degrees Celsius and 43.1 degrees Celsius, respectively. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also experienced a hot day at 42 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal limits. In Uttar Pradesh, day temperatures rose appreciably over Varanasi, Faizabad, and Lucknow divisions as blistering heat gripped many parts of the state. The weatherman has forecast dry conditions in the state and warned of heatwave at isolated places over the next few days. The weather office said rain and thunderstorm were "very likely" at isolated places over eastern Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. Heat wave conditions are also likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Chhattisgarh, interior Odisha, Gujarat, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathawada, interior Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bihar and Jharkhand during the next two-three days, the IMD said. In large areas, a heat wave is declared when the maximum temperature is 45 degrees Celsius for two consecutive days and a severe heat wave is when the mercury touches the 47-degree Celsius mark for two days on the trot. In small areas, like Delhi, heat wave is declared if the temperature soars to 45 degrees Celsius even for a day, according to the IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heatwave-intensifies-in-northern-india-churu-hottest-at-475-deg-c-841770.html
25-05-2020||National||Prices of N-95 masks down by close to 47% after NPPA advisory||Leading manufacturers and importers of N-95 masks have reduced prices by up to 47 per after regulator NPPA stepped in to ensure the availability of this respiratory protection device at affordable rates in the country, the government said on Monday. N-95 masks were earlier being sold in the market for Rs 150 to 300 per unit and after the advisory by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), prices have been cut.  To address the issue of higher prices of the N-95 masks, the NPPA intervened to ensure their availability at affordable prices in the country, the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers said in a statement on Monday. "NPPA issued an advisory on May 21, 2020 to all the manufacturers/ importers/ suppliers of the N-95 masks to maintain parity in prices for non-government procurements and to make available the same at reasonable prices," it added. The NPPA has also submitted before the Bombay High Court on the plea on bringing price cap on the protective device that it is looking at mismatch in the demand-supply of N-95 masks in the country and has advised manufacturers, importers and suppliers to cut prices voluntarily, the statement said. "After issuing such an advisory, major manufacturers/ importers of N-95 masks have reduced their prices significantly up to 47 per cent leading to availability of N-95 masks in the country at affordable prices," it added.  As reported by other manufacturers and importers of N-95 masks, it is expected that they will also follow the advice of the government and roll down the prices in the larger public interest, the statement said.  "Government is striving to ensure uninterrupted supply of N-95 masks in adequate quantity in the country. For this, the government is procuring largest chunk of the N-95 masks directly from the manufacturers/ importers/ suppliers at bulk rates," the statement said.   The government has notified N-95 masks as an essential commodity under Essential Commodities Act, 1955. Earlier the NPPA had directed all state governments to ensure sufficient availability of surgical and protective masks, hand sanitisers and gloves at prices not exceeding the maximum retail price printed on the pack size. It also directed state drug controllers/food and drug administrations to take appropriate actions against the hoarders and black marketers of N-95 masks, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prices-of-n-95-masks-down-by-close-to-47-after-nppa-advisory-841774.html
25-05-2020||National||COVID-19 Lockdown: Domestic flight services resume in India after 2 months amid 630 cancellations||Domestic air travel resumed on Monday after two months even as a number of states were unenthusiastic about opening up their airports in view of rising COVID-19 cases causing around 630 flights to be cancelled. According to aviation industry sources, around 630 domestic flights of Monday were cancelled due to the Centre's Sunday night announcement that there would be no flights in West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, and limited operations at major airports such as Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad.  Consequently, many passengers reached the airports on Monday only to be told by the airline staff that their flights have been cancelled. Many people took to social media to vent their anger. Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Monday evening, "From no domestic passenger flights yesterday to 532 flights and 39,231 passengers today, action has returned to Indian skies. With Andhra Pradesh set to resume operations from tomorrow & West Bengal from 28 May, these numbers are all set to increase further." According to a source, on May 22, bookings had opened for around 1,100 domestic flights for Monday. The airlines, which were allowed to operate one-third of their pre-lockdown domestic services, have been busy since Sunday night to further rework their flight schedules. The first flight on Monday took off from Delhi for Pune at 4.45 am under strict regulations recommended by civil aviation authorities. The first flight from Mumbai was to Patna at 6.45 am. States like Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, which are home to some of the busiest airports in the country, were reluctant to allow domestic flight services from their airports, citing swelling COVID-19 cases there. West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh governments did not relent to the requests by the Civil Aviation Ministry to allow flight services from Monday. It was decided on Sunday that Kolkata and Bagdogra airports in cyclone-hit West Bengal will not operate any domestic flight between May 25 and 27 but will handle 20 flights each daily from May 28.  Moreover, Vijayawada and Vizag airports in Andhra Pradesh will handle just 20 per cent of their pre-lockdown flights from May 26. Mumbai airport, which is India's second busiest airport, will handle only 50 flights daily from Monday, the Centre said, adding Chennai airport will see only 25 arrivals per day. There were no limits set on departures from Chennai airport. Moreover, Hyderabad in Telangana will handle just 30 flights every day from Monday, the government said. IndiGo president and chief operating officer Wolfgang Prock-Schauer visited the Delhi airport to observe operations on Monday. He said the airline's operations were running smoothly and passengers were feeling relaxed as there was much less air traffic on Monday. "We visited some of the boarding gates. Passengers are well informed (about rules and regulations). Despite the short lead time we got from the central authorities and the states, we were able to disseminate this information," he added. An IndiGo spokesperson said 20,000 passengers will travel on Monday on board the airline's flights. SpiceJet said its first flight on Monday took off from Ahmedabad at 6.05 am and reached Delhi at 7.10 am. The budget carrier said it also operated 20 flights on Monday on routes awarded under the government's regional connectivity UDAN scheme. SpiceJet chairman and managing director Ajay Singh said,"We are delighted to have resumed our flight operations in a completely smooth manner and by following every safety guideline and protocol laid down by the government." Airlines were jittery in resuming services as multiple states have put in place separate norms and conditions for quarantining passengers arriving there by domestic flights. With the aviation sector reeling under severe stress due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown that began on March 25, the government had last week announced resumption of domestic flight services from May 25 under specific rules and guidelines. It had set a cap on ticket pricing, made wearing of face masks by passengers mandatory, no food served onboard planes and making available details of medical conditions by travellers through the Aarogya Setu app or by filling up of a self-declaration form. The app gives colour-coded designation to users according to their health status and travel history. It helps the users know if they were near anyone who tested COVID-19 positive. Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab, Assam and Andhra Pradesh, among others, have announced their own quarantine measures for passengers arriving at their airports. Some states have decided to put passengers in institutional quarantine while several others have talked about putting them in-home quarantine. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday had questioned the need for quarantine if a passenger shows green status on the Aarogya Setu app. The green status signifies that a passenger is safe. The Maharashtra government had requested the Centre on Sunday to keep air services in the state at a minimum possible level. "It has been a long day of hard negotiations with various state govts to recommence civil aviation operations in the country," Puri tweeted on Sunday night, adding, "Except Andhra Pradesh which will start on 26/5 and West Bengal on 28/5, domestic flights will recommence across the country from tomorrow (Monday)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-domestic-flight-services-resume-in-india-after-2-months-amid-630-cancellations-841780.html
25-05-2020||National||India has HCQ stocks to last next three months: Gowda||India has enough stocks of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to last another three months, Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda said Monday. “The HCQ requirement is 95 lakh tablets every month. We have stocks for the next three months. Any exports will be done after ensuring we have what’s required for domestic use,” Gowda told reporters. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recommended HCQ as a preventive medicine for all asymptomatic healthcare workers working in COVID and non-COVID hospitals. In addition, the medicine has been recommended for use in surveillance workers deployed in containment zones, police and paramilitary personnel involved in COVID-19 related activities and asymptomatic household contacts of confirmed cases.Gowda also said that the country had sufficient stock of azithromycin. “This is an antibiotic. The yearly requirement is 2.2 crore tablets against which we currently have 9.6 crore tablets. So, there’ll be no problem,” he said. “Paracetamol, which is used for everything including minor fever, we have 482 crore tablets in stock.”  Gowda said the inventory is reviewed once in three days. “The idea is to achieve PM Narendra Modi’s vision for Atma Nirbhar Bharat; we shouldn’t depend on anyone. Imagine the US President asking India for HCQ, and when Italy, Germany and Japan have placed demands,” Gowda said. Gowda was speaking after chairing a meeting with Karnataka’s Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar and others. He was told by the state government that RT-PCR, RNA extraction and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits were needed. “I will immediately raise this with the Ministry of Home Affairs and ICMR,” Gowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-hcq-stocks-to-last-next-three-months-gowda-841782.html
25-05-2020||National||Indian, Chinese armies appear heading towards biggest face-off after Doklam||Indian and Chinese troops remained engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation in several disputed areas along the Line of Actual Control in Eastern Ladakh, signalling that the confrontation could become the biggest military face-off after the Doklam episode in 2017. India has rushed additional troops to eastern Ladakh, after China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) deployed nearly 5,000 soldiers closer to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two nations on the north-bank of the Pangong Tso lake. The Indian Army has also stepped up vigil along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir to pre-empt any offensive by the Pakistan Army to take advantage of the escalation of tension along the India-China disputed boundary. Even as the military leaders and the diplomats of India and China are in touch to diffuse tension, the build-ups by the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA along the LAC on the north-bank of the Pangong Tso lake continued on Monday. No new incident of scuffle was reported though after the ones that had taken place on May 5 and 6. The PLA deployed nearly 5000 soldiers in a large camp set up recently at Galwan Valley within the territory claimed by China –  to support the smaller number of troops, who had transgressed the LAC in at least three locations and entered into the areas claimed by India. Sources in New Delhi told the DH that the Indian Army had also rushed soldiers “in adequate numbers” as a countermeasure to the deployment by the Chinese PLA. "The strength of the Indian Army in the area is much better than our adversary," said a top military official told PTI on the condition of anonymity. The biggest concern for Indian military has been the presence of Chinese troops around several key points including Indian Post KM120 along the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. "It is serious. It is not a normal kind of transgression," former Northern Army Commander Lt Gen (Retd) DS Hooda told PTI. He particularly emphasised that Chinese transgression into areas like Galwan was worrying as there was no dispute between the two sides in the area. Strategic Affairs expert Ambassador Ashok K Kantha too agreed with Lt Gen Hooda. "There have been multiple incursions (by Chinese troops). This is something that causes concern. It is not a routine standoff. This is a disturbing situation," Kantha said. It has not yet turned into a face-off like the one that had happened in Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan in June-August 2017, when Indian and Chinese soldiers had been engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation for almost 72 days.   Sources said diplomatic efforts must be ramped up to resolve the escalating tension between the two armies and that both sides are eyeball-to-eyeball in several areas including Pangong Tso, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie. The Indian Army and the Border Security Force also stepped up vigil along India’s Line of Control (LoC) as well as the undisputed stretch of the border with Pakistan, in view of the belligerent statements by military and civilian leaders of the neighbouring country. “A befitting response will be given to India if it goes for any misadventure against Pakistan,” Shah Mahmood Qureshi, Foreign Minister of the neighbouring country, was quoted saying in a report by Radio Pakistan. Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa too raised the pitch of the rhetoric against India. “Kashmir is a disputed territory and any attempt to challenge the disputed status including any political-cum-military thought related to aggression will be responded with full national resolve and military might,” he told Pakistan Army personnel during a visit to the forward bases along the LoC. The Chinese side has particularly strengthened its presence in the Galwan Valley, erecting around 100 tents in the last two weeks and bringing in heavy equipment for construction of bunkers. The sources said Indian troops are resorting to "aggressive patrolling" in several sensitive areas including Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldi. The situation in Eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to "disengage" following a meeting at the level of local commanders. Over 100 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in the violence. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in North Sikkim on May 9. India last week said the Chinese military was hindering normal patrolling by its troops and asserted that India has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also strongly refuted China's contention that the tension was triggered due to trespassing by Indian forces on the Chinese side. India's response came two days after China accused the Indian Army of trespassing into its territory, claiming that it was an "attempt to unilaterally change the status" of the LAC in Sikkim and Ladakh. On May 5, the Indian and Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. China has been critical of India's reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir, and has particularly criticised New Delhi for making Ladakh a union territory. China lays claim over several parts of Ladakh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping held their first informal summit in April 2018 in the Chinese city of Wuhan, months after the Doklam standoff. In the summit, the two leaders decided to issue "strategic guidance" to their militaries to strengthen communications so that they can build trust and understanding. Modi and Xi held their second informal summit in Mamallapuram near Chennai in October last year with a focus on further broadening bilateral ties.   (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-armies-appear-heading-towards-biggest-face-off-after-doklam-841813.html
25-05-2020||National||India, Israel to conduct joint R&D for rapid coronavirus testing||India and Israel will put in joint research and development efforts for rapid testing of coronavirus to enable normalisation of life amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the embassy of Israel here said on Monday. The two sides discussed joint R&D for rapid diagnosis of coronavirus based on big data and artificial intelligence, the Office of the Principal Scientific Advisor said. "India and Israel to conduct joint R&D for rapid testing to allow normalisation of life under COVID-19," Avigail Spira, the spokesperson of the embassy, also tweeted.    "I'm proud to connect brilliant minds from India and Israel so they can jointly develop life changing solutions for the whole world, and especially in fighting the #COVID19 pandemic," Israel's envoy to India Ron Malka tweeted. On the Indian side, PSA Prof. K Vijay Raghavan, officials from the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO), Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and Sanjeev Singla and the Indian Ambassador to Israel participated in the discussions with the head of the Directorate of R&D in Israel's Ministry of Defence Daniel Gold and Malka. "Discussed joint R&D for rapid diagnosis based on big data & AI technology, to enable a rapid return to routine. This is part of vision of @IsraeliPM & @PMOIndia for wide-ranging scientific cooperation between India and Israel.  "@kvijayraghavan, @DRDO_India, & @CSIR_IND held discussions with Head of Israel's Directorate of R&D in @Israel_MOD, Dr. Dani Gold, Amb.@DrRonMalka & Amb. Sanjeev Singla @Indemtel about high-level scientific cooperation between India & Israel to address #COVID19,” the Office of the PSA tweeted. Earlier this month, Israeli Defence Minister Naftali Bennett said scientists at the country's main biological research institute have made a significant breakthrough in developing an antibody to the novel coronavirus. During Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's visit to India in 2018, the two sides resolved to step up cooperation in the field of science and technology, including in the areas of big data analytics in health care and security in cyber space.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-israel-to-conduct-joint-rd-for-rapid-coronavirus-testing-841818.html
25-05-2020||National||Delhi HC exempts lawyers from wearing coats||The Delhi High Court on Monday exempted lawyers from wearing coats, gowns, sherwani and jackets while attending virtual hearings before it and district courts during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the lawyers should be dressed in a sober and dignified manner, an administrative order issued by the court said. "In order to further contain the spread of COVID-19, it is hereby notified that till further orders, while appearing before this High Court or its subordinate courts, through video-conferencing or otherwise, the advocates are exempted from wearing gowns, coats, sherwanis, achkans, chapkans and jackets," it said. "However, they shall be dressed in a sober and dignified manner and expected to adhere to the rest of the dress code, as prescribed...," the order added. These directions shall come into force with immediate effect, it said.  The high court has been conducting hearing through video-conferencing since March 25, due to the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). During the lockdown, the benches usually assemble at the residences of the judges and the lawyers are allowed to join the video-conferencing from their homes or offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-exempts-lawyers-from-wearing-coats-841819.html
25-05-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi should be quarantined till lockdown ends: Parvesh Verma||West Delhi BJP MP Parvesh Verma targeted the Gandhi family on Monday, saying Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra should be "quarantined" till the lockdown ends in order to stop them from triggering "panic" among people already hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Congress retaliated to Verma's assault, asking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to answer people over the issues of migrant workers' plight and "unplanned lockdown", instead of personal attacks on its leaders. Verma said since the lockdown was imposed in the country on March 25, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were "finding faults" in it and triggering panic among people, who are already facing challenges on many fronts. "Now they have started declaring the lockdown as a failure and triggering panic at a time when people are already troubled due to the disease and loss of livelihood. I think they should be quarantined till the lockdown ends for working like a virus," Verma told PTI.  The top Congress leadership has been critical of the Narendra Modi government's handling of the pandemic and more so after lakhs of migrant workers started moving from urban centres to their home states across the country. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar said as a responsible Member of Parliament, Verma should ask the government why lakhs of migrants have been forced to go through this humanitarian crisis, if the lockdown is a success. "Instead of attacking our leaders, he should also tell people why our economy is destroyed, people have lost their means of livelihood and still the cases of coronavirus are rising, if the lockdown has been so effective," he said. Kumar said Congress leaders were fulfilling their duty of a vigilant opposition by questioning the government over the "shortcomings" in its strategy to fight the pandemic and Verma, as a ruling party MP, should address it, instead of issuing "nonsense" statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-sonia-gandhi-priyanka-gandhi-should-be-quarantined-till-lockdown-ends-parvesh-verma-841827.html
25-05-2020||National||Modi 2.0 first anniversary: BJP to hold virtual rallies to mark year of 'historic achievements'||The BJP will hold "virtual rallies" across the country and organise over 1,000 conferences online as it readies to celebrate the first anniversary of the Modi government's second term whose "historic achievements", the party said, will be written in golden letters. In a communication to state units and other senior office-bearers, BJP general secretary Arun Singh said all big state units will hold at least two virtual rallies and smaller units will hold one, adding that more than 750 people should attend each of these programmes. There will also be 1,000 conferences using internet, he said. The spread of coronavirus, which has resulted in lockdown and ban on political meetings, has prompted the BJP to resort to using technology to mark the first anniversary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government's second term. It had taken office on May 30 last year. The party described Modi as the world's "most popular leader" and said his government in the first year has fulfilled people's decades-long aspirations and dreams. The events organised by the party to mark the day will begin on May 30 and may continue for a month, sources said. The year has been full of "historic achievements", the party said in the communication, listing nullification of Article 370, which had given the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir special powers, and the law against triple talaq among its successes. The path to the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya has also been cleared, it said. "All these achievements will be written in golden letters in history," it said. The party has asked its members to inform the masses about Modi government's work to combat COVID-19 and told them to carry a letter penned by the prime minister about his resolve to make 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' to 10 crore families. The letter also carries the prime minister's suggestions about combating the coronavirus infection and what India has done so far. Party members have been asked to share the highlights of the Rs 20-lakh-crore package announced by the government and also told to distribute sanitisers and masks among the masses on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-20-first-anniversary-bjp-to-hold-virtual-rallies-to-mark-year-of-historic-achievements-841831.html
25-05-2020||National||Domestic flights take to skies amid chaos on ground||Domestic flight operations resumed across the country on Monday amid chaos and confusion triggered by last-minute cancellations. The euphoria over flights was severely dented by thousands of passengers stranded at airports nationwide, and the change in post-arrival quarantine rules in multiple states. Seventy-four scheduled flights were cancelled at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in Bengaluru, the country’s third busiest. At the Delhi airport, 80 flights did not land or take off as planned, triggering anger and frustration among passengers, some of whom had travelled from as far as Meerut.  Furious passengers, who had been waiting for nearly two months, vented their anger at the airline personnel in Delhi. At KIA too, many passengers who were informed of the cancellation of an Air India flight to Hyderabad late, protested outside the terminal. “AirIndia Flight AI516, Bengaluru to Hyderabad, cancelled at the last moment, after travelling 60 km to the airport. People are suffering because of improper planning by governments and airlines,” said Rishabh Agarwal, a passenger. Last-minute negotiations for restart of flight operations and the subsequent decision by states to limit flights led to cancellations that caught flyers unawares. “Bookings have been trending at almost 40% of the pre-Covid levels. However, there is a lot of confusion among travellers due to different state protocols, leading to rescheduling/cancellations of flights,” Dhruv Shringi, co-founder and CEO of Yatra.com, told DH. The first flight to touch down at KIA was an IndiGo plane from Chennai at 7.35 am. However, it took the over 150 passengers more than an hour and half to step out of the terminal as they had to complete all mandatory checks. By 5 pm on Monday, KIA had 43 departures and 31 arrivals. Despite the cancellations, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri saw a silver lining. “From no domestic passenger flights yesterday to 532 flights and 39,231 passengers today, action has returned to Indian skies,” he said.  With Andhra Pradesh set to resume operations on Tuesday and West Bengal on May 28, these numbers are all set to increase further, he said. indigoThe first flight to depart KIA was an AirAsia India service to Ranchi at 5.15 am. The first flight from the capital was a Delhi-Pune IndiGo service at 4.45 am. All passengers had to wear face masks and face shields supplied by the airlines. In Mumbai, the first flight took off to Patna at 6.45 am. Passengers were screened at airports with electronic thermometers. A revised protocol for air travel was followed, including sanitisation of luggage through ultraviolet scanners and enhanced social distancing. At KIA, a tech-enabled contactless parking-to-boarding process was followed for heightened safety. All four major airports in Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, began operations on Monday. A Delhi-bound Indigo flight was the first to take off from Chennai, while an aircraft from the same airline from Bengaluru was the first to land in Tiruchirapalli. A total of 16 flights were scheduled to arrive in Chennai and 19 departures were planned. On Tuesday, the airport will handle 21 arrivals and 20 departures. Coimbatore, Tiruchirapalli and Madurai airports also began domestic operations with all precautions in place. However, all the flights had fewer passengers. Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, wanted more time to prepare Mumbai Airport, the second busiest in the country, to handle passengers. The state government agreed to accept flights late Sunday but set a cap of 50 per day, as against the 900 odd operations it used to handle pre-lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-flights-take-to-skies-amid-chaos-on-ground-841840.html
25-05-2020||National||Modi greets UAE crown prince, Bangladesh PM on Eid-ul-Fitr||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday conveyed Eid-ul-Fitr greetings to Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan and Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, and discussed the situation emerging out of the coronavirus pandemic. "Conveyed Eid-ul-Fitr greetings to His Highness @MohamedBinZayed and the friendly people of UAE," Modi wrote on Twitter. The prime minister also thanked the crown prince, who is also the deputy supreme commander of the United Arab Emirates armed forces, for the cooperation extended to Indian citizens in the UAE. "India-UAE cooperation has grown even stronger during the COVID-19 challenge," he said. During his conversation with Prime Minister Hasina, Modi wished her and the people of Bangladesh a happy and prosperous Eid-ul-Fitr. "We discussed the impact of cyclone Amphan and the present COVID-19 situation. Reiterated India's continued support to Bangladesh in this challenging time," he said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-greets-uae-crown-prince-bangladesh-pm-on-eid-ul-fitr-841844.html
25-05-2020||National Politics||BJP attacks Congress over FIR against Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga||The BJP Sunday hit out at the Congress over the registration of an FIR in Chhattisgarh against BJP Delhi unit spokesperson Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga for his remarks against Rajiv Gandhi and said it will only "expose" the former prime minister.  "I have just got to know that the Congress has registered an FIR against Sardar Tajinder Bagga also. These 'Congressi' will drag the name of Rajiv Gandhi through court and expose him. Let's have one more case. Friends, do you believe or not that Gandhi had a hand in the 1984 riots," BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra tweeted.  He also took a swipe at the Congress, saying the party is now lodging an FIR against Sikhs for speaking the "truth" on the anti-Sikh riots in 1984.  Patra's reaction came after the Youth Congress tweeted a copy of the FIR, claiming the "virus of hate" will not be tolerated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-attacks-congress-over-fir-against-tajinder-pal-singh-bagga-841561.html
25-05-2020||National Politics||Sanjay Raut takes jibe at Piyush Goyal over train diversion; NCP goes soft||In a dig at Railway Minister Piyush Goyal over the diversion of the Vasai Road-Gorakhpur Sharmik Special train via Odisha, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday said their only request is that train carrying migrants should reach its destination as announced. Shiv Sena's alliance partner NCP, however, took a different stand, saying Goyal and his ministry are under pressure and their efforts should be appreciated. The Vasai Road-Gorakhpur Sharmik Special train to Uttar Pradesh, which left from Palghar on May 21, was diverted to a different route via Odisha due to heavy congestion. It reached Gorakhpur two-and-a-half days later, when it should have reached the destination in about 25 hours. Amid the political slugfest over the Shramik Special trains, Goyal on Sunday night said, "We are ready to provide 125 Shramik Special trains to Maharashtra." "Since you have said that you have a list ready that is why I am requesting you to please provide all information like from where the train will run, the list of passengers according to the trains, their medical certificate and where the train is to go, to the General Manager of Central Railway within the next hour, so that we can plan the time of trains, the railway minister tweeted. Commenting on it, Raut on Monday tweeted, Maharashtra government has given you a list of workers who wish to return home. The only request is that the train should reach the station, as announced earlier." "The Gorakhpur bound train had reached Odisha," the Sena Rajya Sabha member further said. However, when asked if the railway minister was politicising the issue, senior NCP leader Praful Patel said the Indian Railways and Piyush Goyal are also under pressure to run the trains. "Their efforts should be respected. We appreciate that they are providing trains so that people can reach home," Patel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sanjay-raut-takes-jibe-at-piyush-goyal-over-train-diversion-ncp-goes-soft-841683.html
25-05-2020||National Politics||Opposition leaders likely to decide next course of action against Modi government's handing of COVID-19 on Tuesday||A core group of top Opposition leaders on Tuesday are likely to take a call on the next course of action on the government's "faulty" COVID-19 response after 22 non-BJP parties joined hands to target the Narendra Modi dispensation. During the Friday meeting, it was decided that a core group consisting of senior leaders of Congress, NCP, CPI(M), RJD and DMK would put their heads together to soon to decide the next step. The core group includes senior Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Ahmed Patel as well as CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury. The opposition parties had on May 22 announced an 11-point charter of demands, including junking the "misleading" Rs 20 lakh crore package for a new one that reflects "true fiscal stimulus", cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month for six months to non-Income Tax paying people and free food grains for the needy. Sources said one of the options before them would be the letter while they would also discuss ways of protest to register their demands. There have been vocal demands for aggressively targeting BJP, with top RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav saying that the Opposition should "aggressively advertise" BJP's failures in handling the COVID-19 crisis. Former BJP leader and a Modi-critic Yashwant Sinha also said on Saturday that there is a need for the Opposition to be aggressive. "Opposition parties should hit the streets instead of petitioning the govt which is deaf and blind to the suffering of the poor. Mere 'statement-bazi' (issuing press statements) will not suffice any more," Sinha tweeted referring to the joint statement issued by the 22 parties. While SP and BSP refused to be part of the joint Opposition programme, AAP was not invited to it. BSP chief Mayawati also launched an attack on Congress putting the blame on the plight of migrant workers on it. This was the first meeting of joint meeting of the Opposition parties this year, especially after national lockdown was imposed since March 25. Opposition parties are also concerned about the manner in which some states have gone ahead with suspending labour laws, which included measures like increasing working hours from eight hours to 12 hours. Congress-led Rajasthan government has now withdrawn the order allowing employees to make their employees work up to 12 hours. The joint statement issued by the Opposition parties also said the government should "present a clear and meaningful economic strategy focused on revival and poverty alleviation instead of propaganda. The Rs 20 lakh crore package and its contents mislead the people of India. We demand that government present a revised and comprehensive package that will be a true fiscal stimulus in order to stimulate demand in the economy". It also raised questions about the official COVID-19 data and demanded that accurate and relevant information on Covid-19 infections and goalposts vis-a-vis testing, infrastructure and containing spread should be provided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-leaders-likely-to-decide-next-course-of-action-against-modi-governments-handing-of-covid-19-on-tuesday-841832.html
25-05-2020||National Politics||Nitish Kumar may not be CM next time: Former MP||Veteran Socialist and former JD (U) Rajya Sabha member Shivanand Tiwary has predicted that Nitish Kumar may not become Chief Minister of Bihar again after October-November Assembly polls in the State. Tiwary, who is at present national vice-president of the RJD and has been close to both Nitish as well as Lalu Prasad, feels that by the time the Assembly polls are held later this year, the BJP may change its chief ministerial face. The former MP cited two prime reasons why despite Amit Shah declaring that “the NDA would go to polls in Bihar under the leadership of Nitish”, there is a cloud of uncertainty over Nitish donning the mantle again. “I feel there are two prime reasons for my apprehensions that the BJP may dump Nitish as the NDA’s CM face. First, Nitish has been at the helm for 15 years. But the lockdown and Covid-19 crisis has dented his ‘good governance’ image. Secondly, Bihar is the only State in the Hindi heartland, where the BJP has so far, since its inception, failed to have its Chief Minister. I, therefore, have a strong feeling that BJP may have a new CM face soon,” said Tiwary, who served as a Cabinet Minister in Rabri Devi regime before becoming a JD (U) Rajya Sabha member and eventually returned to the RJD fold in 2015. The JD (U) has taken umbrage at Tiwary’s prediction. “It will be better if Tiwary minds his own business and remains concerned more about the RJD rather than thinking about the opponent’s camp,” said Nitish’s key aide and Bihar Minister Neeraj Kumar. The BJP too hit back at Tiwary. “It's advisable that you plan for the RJD and its alliance partners. This may help you retrieve the lost political ground,” said senior BJP leader and Nitish’s Cabinet colleague Nand Kishore Yadav.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-kumar-may-not-be-cm-next-time-former-mp-841833.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||MP Congess man arrested for pasting 'missing' posters of Scindia||A Congress functionary was arrested on Sunday after 'missing' posters of BJP leader and former Guna MP Jyotiraditya Scindia with a reward of Rs 5,100 were put up at the gates of the latter's Jai Vilas palace in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, police said. Scindia recently joined the BJP and the resignation of 22 supporter MLAs from the Congress and the MP Assembly led to the fall of the Kamal Nath government on March 20, and return of Shivraj Singh Chouhan as chief minister on March 23. After BJP workers filed a complaint, Congress leader Siddharth Singh Rajawat was arrested while hunt was on for other accused, Jhansi Road police station City Superintendent of Police M Rajoria said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-congess-man-arrested-for-pasting-missing-posters-of-scindia-841525.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Mandatory COVID-19 test at Chandigarh airport for all travellers bound for Punjab||With the Centre resuming domestic flight services from May 25, the Mohali district administration said on Sunday that all air travellers bound for Punjab shall be tested for COVID-19 upon their arrival at the Chandigarh airport and then mandatorily stay quarantined in home for 14 days. It, however, clarified that COVID-19 tests shall be done only on passengers whose destination is Punjab. Those moving through the airport on way to Union Territory of Chandigarh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh shall be dealt with as per the protocol of the recipient state, the district administration said. "In the wake of directions of Ministry of Home Affairs to resume air travel from May 25, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan has issued orders that all passengers belonging to Punjab shall be tested for COVID-19 at the airport," a government release stated. All such persons shall be required to undergo mandatory home quarantine for 14 days from the date of arrival. In case, the test comes out to be positive, the person shall be shifted to an isolation facility, it said. If the test is negative, the person shall still be required to undergo home quarantine for 14 days, the order stated. This is being done in line with the directions of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, which specifically mentions that "states can develop their own protocol with regard to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mandatory-covid-19-test-at-chandigarh-airport-for-all-travellers-bound-for-punjab-841528.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Rail Bhavan reports 4th coronavirus case in less than a week||A senior officer posted at the Rail Bhavan in Central Delhi has tested positive for coronavirus, the fourth case in less than a week at the railway headquarters. The officer, who was diagnosed positive on Sunday, had last attended work on May 20. At least 14 officials who worked closely with her have been sent to home quarantine. The latest case comes days after another senior officer working at the railways headquarters, also called Rail Bhavan, had tested positive for coronavirus, which was the third case from the building. The officer was working on the cadre restructuring of the Railway Protection Force Service. She had last come to work on May 13. After May 13, the Rail Bhavan was shut for sanitisation purposes for two days as an RPF staffer had tested positive for the disease, officials said. The railway officer stays at Commonwealth Games Village apartments, where many senior officers of the railways reside, they said. The officials said that a joint secretary-level officer working closely with her has been sent to 14-day home quarantine, while some junior staffers have been asked to isolate themselves and rejoin office on June 4. Sources said the officer is diabetic and had taken all precautions required to protect herself from coronavirus. However, she only has a mild fever and is under watch at home. A junior staffer at the RPF office on the fourth floor of Rail Bhavan was the first to be infected with coronavirus in the building. This was followed by another case where a langur handler hired to chase away monkeys around the building had tested positive. In the wake of these cases, the Railways had shut down the building for deep sanitisation on May 14 and 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rail-bhavan-reports-4th-coronavirus-case-in-less-than-a-week-841542.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh up by 294 to 6,665; death toll at 290||Madhya Pradesh on Sunday reported 294 new COVID-19 cases, including 75 from the worst-hit Indore, and nine deaths, taking the total case count to 6,665 and fatalities to 290, Health officials said. Three deaths each were reported from Indore and Bhopal, while two others succumbed to the viral infection in Ujjain and one in Neemuch, they added. So far, 3,408 persons have recovered from the infection in the state which now has a total of 2,967 active cases. The number of cases in Indore, the worst-hit district, shot up to 3,008 with 75 new cases in the day, taking the number of fatalities to 114. Bhopal now has 1,241 COVID-19 patients, Ujjain 553, Khandwa 222, Burhanpur 271, Jabalpur 209, Khargone 117, Dhar 111, Gwalior 98, Neemuch 88 Mandsaur 87, Dewas 80, Morena 71 and Sagar 68.  With three deaths in Bhopal, the toll in the state capital has risen to 45, the state Health bulletin said. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 6,665, active cases 2,967, new cases 294, deaths 290, recovered cases 3,408, total number of tested people is 1,35,889.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-in-madhya-pradesh-up-by-294-to-6665-death-toll-at-290-841545.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||BJP playing dirty politics over COVID-19 figures: Aam Aadmi Party||The Aam Aadmi Party accused the BJP on Sunday of playing dirty politics over the number of deaths in Delhi due to the novel coronavirus pandemic after the high court refused to entertain a plea in this regard. "I am glad that honorable Delhi High Court has put an end to ugly politics being played by some opposition leaders on such a sensitive issue," Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said. "Delhi govt is providing correct figures related to Corona(virus) everyday to the people." AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha also sought an apology from the Bharatiya Janata Party. "The BJP chose to play dirty politics even in the time of such a massive health and humanitarian crisis by levelling baseless allegations against the Delhi government regarding death figures," Chadha said in a statement. The Delhi High Court had on Friday refused to entertain a plea seeking direction to the Delhi government to come out with actual figures of COVID-19 cases and the death count without any delay and to scrap the death audit committee. "The BJP must apologise to the people of Delhi and the government of Delhi for indulging in baseless, motivated and malicious campaign when the entire world in coming together to serve the people," the MLA said. "I think this HC judgement is a tight slap on the face of BJP and they should immediately apologize for this absolutely frivolous and politically motivated allegation," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-playing-dirty-politics-over-covid-19-figures-aam-aadmi-party-841552.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Landlord arrested for killing tenant over using 100-watt bulb in Delhi||A 38-year-old landlord was arrested for allegedly killing his tenant after an argument broke out between them over a 100-watt bulb, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Friday evening in northeast Delhi's Harsh Vihar, they said. The deceased identified as Jagdish was an e-rickshaw driver and lived with his wife and an eight-year-old daughter on the first floor of a building, while his landlord Amit stayed with his family on the ground floor, police said. According to police, Jagdish's wife was in the kitchen when the landlord arrived at their house at 7.45 pm and raised objections over using a 100-watt bulb as it consumes more electricity. He replaced the bulb with an LED light bulb, following which an argument ensued between Jagdish and his landlord Amit. The landlord slapped Jagdish twice and he fell unconscious on a couch, a senior police officer said. His wife then took him to a hospital with the help of a relative. But Jagdish died during the course of treatment at the hospital, the officer said. The victim did not sustain any external injury but during post-mortem, doctors learnt that he had sustained an internal injury on his head which led to bleeding, he added. A case was registered on the complaint of his wife and the landlord was arrested, police said. The body was handed over to the family after postmortem, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/landlord-arrested-for-killing-tenant-over-using-100-watt-bulb-in-delhi-841556.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||SC to hear urgent plea of Centre, Air India on Bombay HC's order on not adhering to safety norms during evacuation of Indians||A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy would take up the matter through video conferencing at 10.30 am on May 25. The top court is otherwise not sitting on Monday on account of Eid-ul-Fitr.  Two separate petitions have been filed at around 9 pm on Sunday. Both - the Centre and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation and Air India - are aggrieved against the Bombay High Court's order of May 24 questioning them over not keeping the middle seat vacant in flights used to bring back stranded Indians from abroad. A pilot, Deven Yogesh Kanani and others have moved the High Court saying the circular issued on March 23 for keeping the middle seat vacant was not being adhered to by the Air India. The plea claimed the airline neglected the safety protocol. Special flights were being operated since May 7 to evacuate Indians stuck abroad through Vande Bharat mission. Domestic flights are set to start from May 25. The Air India counsel claimed the previous circular has been superseded by another circular issued on May 22, allowing the use of middle seat while keeping precautions. However, the high court felt the May 22 circular apparently applied to the domestic flights. It sought a response from both the Centre and Air India and kept the matter for consideration on June 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-hear-urgent-plea-of-centre-air-india-on-bombay-hcs-order-on-not-adhering-to-safety-norms-during-evacuation-of-indians-841564.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Nearly 3.7 lakh stranded people ferried to their native places in state buses: Rajasthan Minister||Nearly 3.7 lakh people stranded at various places in Rajasthan were facilitated to reach to their native places through state roadways buses during the lockdown period, the state government said on Sunday. The buses conducted 11,500 rounds to ferry migrants, labourers, students to their destinations during the lockdown for free, according to Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariawas. He said that an expenditure of Rs. 15.20 crore was incurred on this. The minister said that the buses took the stranded people to various state borders and sometimes to their home districts in other states with the permission of concerning state. The minister thanked the roadways staff, drivers and conductors for their services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-37-lakh-stranded-people-ferried-to-their-native-places-in-state-buses-rajasthan-minister-841570.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||4 fresh cases of coronavirus reported in Himachal Pradesh; tally rises to 208||Four more people have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh, taking the number of cases in the state to 208, while a 72-year-old woman died due to the disease at a hospital here, officials said on Monday. With the latest fatality, the death toll due to COVID-19 has increased to five in the state. The woman had tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Saturday and she died at the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla around 10:15 pm on Sunday, the hospital's senior medical superintendent, Janak Raj, said. The woman, who was suffering from multiple ailments, had been referred to the IGMC from Hamirpur, he said. She tested COVID-19 positive on Saturday two days after her husband was found infected by the novel coronavirus, a Hamirpur district official said. The woman had gone to Jalandhar in Punjab for treatment for her ailments. On her return from there, she was admitted to the government medical college in Hamirpur, he said. She was referred to the IGMC after her condition worsened. Her sample was taken there and her report came positive on Saturday, the official said. Prior to this, a 52-year-old patient from Hamirpur district died from COVID-19 at the Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Hospital in Mandi on May 15, while on May 5, a 21-year-old man from Sarkaghat in Mandi died due to the disease in Shimla. On April 2, a 70-year-old woman, who was a resident of Delhi and had been staying at a factory's guest house in Solan since March 15, died due to COVID-19 at the PGIMER in Chandigarh. On March 23, a 69-year-old man who had returned from the US died of COVID-19 at the Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) in Kangra district. Of the fresh COVID-19 cases in the state, three people are from Shimla district, Raj said, adding that their samples were sent for testing from the district's Matiana area. They had returned from Mumbai on May 18, the officials said. The fourth case was reported from Hamirpur, where a 25-year-old woman tested COVID-19 positive, Deputy Commissioner Harikesh Meena said. She had returned to her in-laws house from Mumbai on May 22, he said. Her 29-year-old husband tested COVID-19 positive a few days ago and was admitted to a COVID care centre in Hamirpur district for treatment, Meena said.  The number of active COVID-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh is 140 and 63 people have recovered so far, according to the officials. Hamirpur has the highest number of active cases in the state at 57 followed by 37 in Kangra, 13 in Una, 11 in Solan, nine in Mandi, four in Bilaspur, three each in Shimla and Chamba, two in Sirmaur and one in Kullu, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-fresh-cases-of-coronavirus-reported-in-himachal-pradesh-tally-rises-to-208-841590.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Two AuGH militants killed in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Two militants of Ansar Gazwat-ul-Hind (AuGH), an affiliate of Al Qaeda in Kashmir, were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Monday. The gunfight erupted early Monday morning after army’s 34-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and search-operation at Mirwani Damhal, Hanjipora, Kulgam, 100 kms from Srinagar, following an input about the presence of two to three militants in the area, reports said. An official said that as the militants got trapped, security forces asked them to surrender. However, they opened fire, which was retaliated triggering an encounter, he said, adding that two militants were killed in the operation Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar while confirming the killing of two militants in the encounter said the identity of the slain was yet to be ascertained. However, sources said the slain militants were Adil Wani alias Abu Ibrahim and Shaheen Thoker, who belonged to the AuGH. Both Wani and Thoker hailed from the neighbouring Shopian district, they said. Wani was active from September 2017 while Thoker joined militancy last August. On October 23, J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh had claimed that AuGH had been wiped out from Kashmir with the killing of three local militants, including the group’s top commander Hamid Lelhari. After the killing of AuGH chief Zakir Musa last year, command of the terror outfit was given to Lelhari. However, a senior police officer told DH there is some indication that AuGH has succeeded in generating a preliminary base of militants. “The AuGH ideology has takers in Kashmir, especially young radicalized youth. In the coming months there is every possibility that more local youth may join the group,” the officer warned. Since the beginning of this year 75 have been killed across Kashmir in dozens of encounters with security forces. 154 militants were killed in gun battles across Kashmir in the first seven months of 2019.   In the next five months, only 20 militants were neutralized by the security forces as anti-insurgency operations almost came to a halt as security and communication clampdown was imposed to prevent civilian protests in the wake of revocation of Article 370 on August 5. Last week J Dilbagh Singh said that less than 240 militants were active in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-augh-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-841613.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Supreme Court pulls up Centre for allowing Air India to fill up middle seats in flights ||"The Centre should seek to maintain social distancing. This shoulder to shoulder sitting is dangerous," it said. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde told the Centre and the Air India represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that they should be more worried about the health of the citizens rather than that of the Airline.  They challenged validity of the Bombay High Court's order of May 24 questioning them over not keeping the middle seat vacant in flights operated during Vande Bharat Mission. Mehta said immense difficulty would be caused to passengers, who were stranded on foreign soil and were issued valid tickets. "A lot of anxiety would arise for them for want of proper shelter, money, etc. Moreover, in some cases, the travel plan of families would be disrupted because those allotted middle seats have to be offloaded," he said. The court then allowed Air India to operate its non-scheduled flights with the middle seats booking up to June 6, 2020. After conducting an emergency hearing through video conferencing on Eid holiday, the court said the Bombay High Court, which was already seized up with a plea, would decide about the danger of transmission of novel coronavirus if middle seats are also filled up. "We would consider it necessary for the High Court to arrive at a prima facie finding regarding the safety and health of the passengers in the wake of the COVID-19 virus, whether the flight is scheduled flight or a non-scheduled flight," the bench said. The court also said the Director General of Civil Aviation would be free to alter any norms, necessary during the pendency of the matter in the "interest of public health and safety of the passengers rather than of commercial considerations". The court disposed of petitions filed by the Centre, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation and Air India against the Bombay HC's order. During the hearing, Mehta, for his part, maintained that everyone who came from abroad in the flights, with all three seats occupied, will be quarantined compulsorily. The bench, however, said there should not be a difference between domestic and international flights. "It is common sense that maintaining social distancing is important," the bench said. Mehta insisted that the best practice was testing and quarantine, not seat difference. "How can you say it will not effect? Will the virus know it is in the aircraft and it is not supposed to infect?" the bench asked, adding the transmission will be there if you are sitting next to each other.  Background: A pilot, Deven Yogesh Kanani and others have moved the High Court saying the circular issued on March 23 for keeping the middle seat vacant was not being adhered to by the Air India. The plea claimed the airline neglected the safety protocol. Special flights were being operated since May 7 to evacuate Indians stuck abroad through Vande Bharat mission. Domestic flights have also resumed from Monday. The Air India counsel had then claimed the previous circular has been superseded by another circular issued on May 22, allowing the use of middle seat while keeping precautions. However, the high court felt the May 22 circular apparently applied to the domestic flights. It sought a response from both the Centre and Air India and kept the matter for consideration on June 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-supreme-court-pulls-up-centre-for-allowing-air-india-to-fill-up-middle-seats-in-flights-841625.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: First flight lands at Jammu airport from Delhi as domestic air travel resumes||After the restart of domestic air travel in the country, the first flight landed at the Jammu airport from Delhi on Monday morning. The Air India flight with 40 passengers on board arrived here at 8.40 am. "A total of five flight arrivals and an equal number of flight departures are scheduled for the day," an airport official said. He said elaborate arrangements are in place to follow the guidelines and standard operating procedures in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended since March 25 when the government imposed a nationwide lockdown to curb the coronavirus pandemic. It was announced last Thursday that one-third of pre-lockdown domestic flights will operate from Monday. International scheduled commercial passenger flights remain suspended.  The Jammu and Kashmir administration has appointed Jammu Municipal Corporation commissioner Avny Lavasa and Jammu Development Authority vice chairman Babila Rakwal to assist Deputy Commissioner Sushma Chauhan to make arrangements for handling air passengers arriving here. Last week, the administration had said all the inbound passengers at the Jammu airport would undergo a compulsory COVID-19 test and administrative quarantine till their report is received.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-first-flight-lands-at-jammu-airport-from-delhi-as-domestic-air-travel-resumes-841629.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Four more COVID-19 deaths in Rajasthan take toll to 167, state tally at 7,100||Four more people succumbed to COVID-19 in Rajasthan on Monday, taking the death toll to 167 as 272 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in the state, officials said. With these fresh cases, the number of COVID-19 infections in the state has gone up to 7,300, they said. "As many as 272 fresh cases were reported in the state," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said.  Fifty cases were reported from Pali, 48 from Nagaur, 47 from Jodhpur, 44 from Sikar, 17 from Churu, 13 from Jaipur and 12 from Udaipur, among others, the officials said. While there are 3,077 active cases in the state, a total of 3,559 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery, they said. According to state government data, Jaipur has recorded a maximum of 79 deaths and 1,828 positive cases followed by Jodhpur which has registered 17 deaths and 1,271 cases. Among the total positive cases in the state are 1,844 migrants who have recently returned to Rajasthan, the data said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-more-covid-19-deaths-in-rajasthan-take-toll-to-167-state-tally-at-7100-841633.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Two more COVID-19 patients die in J&K; toll rises to 23||Officials said that one each patient from Kashmir and Jammu, who died a few days back, tested positive for novel coronavirus on Monday.  They said an Income Tax lawyer from Jammu, who died on Sunday morning in a hospital, had tested positive for COVID-19. The lawyer was undergoing treatment for some other ailments in ASCOMS Batra hospital of Jammu where he breathed his last on Sunday morning. “After his death, samples for coronavirus test were taken, the report of which declared him positive on Sunday evening,” they said. Medical Superintendent SMHS hospital in Srinagar,  Dr Nazir Choudhary said a 65-year-old female patient from south Kashmir's Kulgam district, who died a few days back, was tested positive today. He said that the patient was suffering from pneumonia and was admitted in the hospital on May 22. The fresh deaths in Jammu and Kashmir have taken the total death toll across the Union Territory up to 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-two-more-covid-19-patients-die-in-jk-toll-rises-to-23-841635.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Send clear message on upholding international commitment on labour laws: ILO to PM Narendra Modi||Ten central trade unions on Monday sent a second petition to International Labour Organisation (ILO) urging it to "powerfully and effectively" intervene upon the Centre on suspension of labour laws by states even as the "deeply concerned" multilateral body asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to send a "clear message" to uphold the country's international commitments on workers. The latest letter by the trade unions, which came 11 days after the first letter, said there has been "umpteen number of instances" which reflects "refusal" by the Centre to the aims and procedures of the ILO as it has no obligation to the international body. "There are clear reasons to understand that with the endorsement from, rather insistence of the Central Government on so-called labour law reforms 'on priority basis' the state governments have dared to attack the basic rights of the workers," the trade unions said in the latest letter.  "These diabolical measures are being pushed taking advantage of the COVID-19 lockdown period when no industrial action by workers is possible. And most of the workplaces having been closed during this period, there is absolutely no relationship or import of all such measures with the task of containing the COVID-19 pandemic," it said.  In its first letter on May 14, the trade unions -- INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC -- said it was unfortunate that the Centre was supporting "blanket exemptions" to all establishments from all substantive labour laws for a period of three years by the state governments. They said it empowered the employers to hire and fire workers at their convenience, freezing collective bargaining rights and undoing the rights of occupational safety and health. Responding to this, ILO's Freedom of Association Branch chief Karen Curtis said in his letter on May 22 that ILO Director General Guy Ryder has immediately intervened expressing his "deep concern" at these recent events. He has appealed to the Prime Minister to "send a clear message to central and state governments to uphold the country's international commitments and encourage engagement in effective social dialogue".    States like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh had enhanced working hours from eight hours to 12 hours amid other provisions initially, though some of them backtracked later on some provisions. Certain states have also curbed workers' right to form unions besides other restrictions. In the latest letter, the trade unions have said that the Centre using the state governments to push this "retrograde anti-labour exercise" for "virtual nullification of most of the substantive laws". "This exercise has been aimed at total abrogation of the provisions of not more than eight hour- working day and Right to Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining," the leaders said in the letter and added that these were contravention of ILO conventions. "We feel that at this very turbid and uncertain situation, the ILO must powerfully and effectively intervene to prevail upon the Government of India to refrain from such exercise of abrogation of all basic labour rights unilaterally trampling underfoot the basic concept of social partnership and tripartism as espoused by ILO," it said. The letter also took exception of a press statement issued by the ILO's Decent Work Team (Asia) on May 13, which said certain states in India are moving towards relaxing labour laws with a view torevitalize the economy from the impact of COVID-19. "Such a statement tantamount to certifying by ILO, the retrograde actions of the state governments in connivance with the Government of India, in gross violation of ILO standards, as legitimate," it said.  .||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/send-clear-message-on-upholding-international-commitment-on-labour-laws-ilo-to-pm-narendra-modi-841641.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Ready to deal with situation if there is spike in cases of novel coronavirus: Delhi Arvind Kejriwal CM||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said if there is a spike in cases of the novel coronavirus in the national capital, his government is ready to deal with the situation. Kejriwal, however, said the situation is still under control in Delhi, even after several relaxations were given in the fourth phase of COVID-19-induced lockdown. Addressing an online media briefing, he said that around 3,500 COVID-19 cases were reported since the fourth-phase of the lockdown began. The centre imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus and it entered its fourth phase on May 18. "Government and private hospitals in Delhi have 4,500 beds for COVID-19 patients and out of these, only 2,000 are occupied," Kejriwal said. He said 2,000 new beds will be available in private hospitals from Monday for novel coronavirus patients. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday had said the Delhi government has directed private hospitals and nursing homes with a capacity of 50 beds or more to reserve 20 percent of their total bed strength for coronavirus patients. The chief minister said 3,314 coronavirus patients are getting treatment at their house while 2,000 are admitted at hospitals.  "Delhi has recorded 13,418 cases so far and out of these, around 6,540 have recovered," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ready-to-deal-with-situation-if-there-is-spike-in-cases-of-novel-coronavirus-delhi-arvind-kejriwal-cm-841655.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Three-fourth of COVID-19 cases in Delhi reported in May alone||Fifteen more deaths were added to the toll but the official medical bulletin did not make it clear whether these happened in the past 24 hours. The death toll has now risen to 276, including 68 reported in the last three days. An analysis of medical bulletins showed that May alone recorded 10,534 cases so far, which is 74.95% of the total cases. Since the lockdown 4.0 was put in place on May 18, there were 4,298 cases and this accounted for 40.8% of the cases reported this month alone. Among the cases is a person working in the office of Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain. He tested positive on Sunday and has been quarantined while the office of the Minister has been sanitised. Earlier, a driver working for the Health and Family Welfare Department at the Delhi Secretariat too had tested positive for COVID-19. While on Sunday 508 cases were reported, May 22 reported 660 cases, the biggest spike in a single day. Since May 19, Delhi has been reporting more than 500 cases and it has been rising since then. However, on Saturday, the numbers declined slightly. On May 18, there were 299 cases while May 19 had reported 500 cases, May 20 with 534 cases and May 21 with 571 cases. On May 23, the numbers declined to 591.   The medical bulletin said 231 people have been discharged in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 6,771. However, there are 7,006 people still under treatment, including 3,421 in home isolation. Delhi has so far conducted tests on 1.74 lakh samples, including 4,696 fresh samples.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the spike in cases was nothing to worry about as the administration was expecting a rise in cases following substantial relaxations in lockdown from May 18. "The situation is under control. There is nothing to worry. I will be worried if the number of deaths increases, which is not happening. I will be worried if the number of serious cases increases as it would collapse the hospital system. Most of the cases are with mild symptoms," Kejriwal said in a digital address. He said the Delhi government has now asked 117 private hospitals in the capital to earmark 20% of hospital beds for COVID-19 patients from Monday and this would add around 2,000 hospital beds to the existing ones. Around 5,500 hospital beds, including the new additions from the private sector, are vacant in the capital and there were no worries about accommodating people in hospitals, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-three-fourth-of-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-reported-in-may-alone-841675.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 situation in Delhi under control even after more lockdown relaxations: Arvind Kejriwal||The COVID-19 situation in Delhi is under control, a week after several relaxations were given in the fourth phase of coronavirus-induced lockdown, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday. Kejriwal asserted that he would be concerned only if two things happened -- either there is a significant increase in fatalities or the city's health care system collapses due to spike in COVID-19 cases. The chief minister further said that it is not a matter of concern if people are getting infected and recovering simultaneously from the dreaded virus as coronavirus will not go away in next one or two days. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal, said his government was ready to deal with the situation if there is a spike in the number of serious cases in the national capital. He said that there are currently 4,500 beds available for COVID-19 patients in both private and government hospitals and 2,000 new beds will be available in private facilities from Monday. He said that the AAP government is creating a system through which a COVID-19 patient will be able to find available beds in both state and private-run hospitals. Kejriwal said that he was expecting a slight increase in COVID-19 cases when several relaxations were given in fourth phase of lockdown. "It has been one week since the (fourth phase) lockdown began. After one week, I can say that the situation is still under control and there is no need to panic," he said, adding that there has been a slight increase in COVID-19 cases but it is not matter of concern. According to him, there were 9,755 COVID-19 cases in Delhi on May 17 and the number climbed to 13,418 with around 3,500 cases being recorded within seven days of implementation of fourth phase of lockdown. However, 2,500 people have also recovered from the virus during this period, Kejriwal said, adding that only 250 patients were admitted to hospitals in last seven days "I will be concerned when two things happen. First, there is significant increase in death cases and second thing is collapse of health care system due to sudden spike in cases due to which no bed is available in hospitals...," he said During the briefing, the chief minister said that 261 people have died of coronavirus in the city which has so far recorded 13,418 cases. Of these, 6,540 have recovered while 6,617 are active cases, he said. "Government hospitals have 3,829 beds for COVID-19 patients and of these, only 1,478 beds are occupied. Around 2,500 beds are still available. In government hospitals, we have 250 ventilators out of which 11 are occupied," he said. On Sunday, Delhi government directed private hospitals and nursing homes with a capacity of 50 beds or more to reserve 20 per cent of their total bed strength for coronavirus patients. Kejriwal said that with this move, 2,000 new beds will be available in private hospitals. The chief minister said 3,314 coronavirus patients are getting treatment at their house while 2,000 are admitted at hospitals. The government has issued a show-cause notice to a private hospital that denied treatment to a patient who later tested positive for COVID-19, Kejriwal said. "It is the hospital's duty to provide an ambulance to such patients and take them to a COVID-19-dedicated hospital," he said. He said that in Delhi, most COVID-19 patients are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. The chief minister said that the government has decided to reserve 1,500 beds for COVID-19 patients in state-run GTB Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-situation-in-delhi-under-control-even-after-more-lockdown-relaxations-arvind-kejriwal-841681.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||JNU strongly advises students stranded in hostels to return to their native places||The Jawaharlal Nehru University on Monday strongly advised students stranded in its hostels to return to their native places as special trains and some intra-state bus services have become operational following relaxations in COVID-19 lockdown norms. In a circular, Dean of Students Professor Sudheer Pratap Singh said the university had issued circulars in March informing students about the closure of the institute and advised them to return home. "However, many students requested to stay back in hostels at that time due to non-availability of public transport during the lockdown," the circular said.  It stated the Indian Railways has begun running some special trains and around 200 more trains will be made operational from June 1. Intra-state bus and taxi services have also been started by the state governments, it said. Moreover, some state governments have made transport arrangements for the return of students. "Further, as per the Ministry of Home Affairs and Delhi government guidelines issued from time to time, the university has announced that students can return to the campus on or after June 25 and till then all academic activities are closed.  "This is to underline that the Government of India updates daily about the COVID-19 pandemic situation. At present, the number of cases in Delhi is increasing swiftly day by day," the circular said. Keeping the facts in view, all students who are stranded and residing in the hostels are, hereby, strongly advised to return to their hometown and come back after the opening of the university, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-strongly-advises-students-stranded-in-hostels-to-return-to-their-native-places-841686.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||AIIMS sanitation supervisor dies due to COVID-19||A 58-year-old sanitation supervisor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus, has died, sources said. He was on ventilator and succumbed to the infection on Sunday around 7.30 pm. He was a permanent employee of AIIMS and was posted at the premier medical institute's outdoor patient department, they said.  "Another corona warrior sacrifices his life in service of the country," Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T, general secretary, AIIMS Resident Doctors' Association, tweeted with the hashtag 'IndiaFightsCOVID19'. "AIIMS has lost its proud warrior. The virus is dangerous, very communicable and doesn't spare anyone," he said. Kuldeep Dhigan, general secretary, AIIMS SC/ST Employees' Welfare Association, alleged that the supervisor had developed fever and mild respiratory discomfort following which he got himself examined at the AIIMS on May 16. "As his case did not fulfil the criteria for testing, he was not tested for COVID-19. He underwent routine blood tests, was counselled and briefed about the precautions to be taken and sent back home," he alleged. Due to sudden worsening of symptoms, the supervisor was taken to the Emergency on May 19, Dhigan claimed. "He had breathing difficulties and was hospitalised. He was then tested for COVID-19 and the results came out to be positive," he said.  The sanitation supervisor was then shifted to the Trauma Centre, which has been converted into a dedicated COVID-19 hospital, he said. "All frontline workers like us who have high risk of exposure due to handling of hazardous biomedical waste during the cleaning process should be tested even at slightest suspicion," Dhigan said. Srinivas remarked that the threshold for testing should be further lowered for individuals working in high risk locations like hospitals and those who may suffer inadvertent exposure to the virus despite taking adequate precautions like surveillance staff and police personnel.  “We are going to have a high level meeting with the director tomorrow discuss issues pertaining to the safety of healthcare workers at the institute," he said. Last week, a mess worker at the AIIMS from RPC canteen succumbed to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-sanitation-supervisor-dies-due-to-covid-19-841689.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Hamirpur district continues to have over one-fourth cases in HP||Hamirpur district continues to have the highest number of novel coronavirus cases in Himachal Pradesh with one more person, a Mumbai returnee, testing positive for the disease, deputy commissioner Harikesh Meena said on Monday. The number of infected people in Hamirpur district has risen to 63 out of total 210 in the state as of Monday morning, as per state government data. The district now has 57 active cases out of total 142 active cases in the state. One COVID-19 patient has died and five have recovered, according to the data.  Meena said a 25-year-old woman from Hamirpur's Pahloo village tested positive for COVID-19. She had returned to her in-laws house from Mumbai on May 22 and was quarantined at local medical college hospital, he said. Her 29-year-old husband tested positive for the disease a few days ago and was admitted to a COVID care centre, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-hamirpur-district-continues-to-have-over-one-fourth-cases-in-hp-841693.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||COVID cases cross 14K mark in Delhi; CM Arvind Kejriwal says situation in control even after more lockdown relaxations||As the number of coronavirus cases crossed the 14,000 mark in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday asserted that the situation in the national capital is under control and his government is ready to deal with any spike in the infections. Kejriwal said he was expecting a slight increase in COVID-19 cases when several relaxations were given in the fourth phase of the lockdown. "It has been one week since the (fourth phase) lockdown began. After one week, I can say that the situation is still under control and there is no need to panic," he said, adding that there has been a slight increase in COVID-19 cases but it is not matter of concern as people are recovering simultaneously . Addressing an online briefing, Kejriwal said coronavirus will not go away in next one or two days and he would be concerned only if there is a significant increase in fatalities or the city's health care system collapses due to the spike in COVID-19 cases. With 635 fresh cases of COVID-19, the overall tally stood at 14,053. The death toll stood at 276 in the national capital, a bulletin issued by the health department said.             The number of active patients of COVID-19 was 7,006 while 6,771 patients have either recovered and been discharged or migrated to other places, the bulletin added.           The highest spike in fresh cases -- 660 -- was reported on Friday. Delhi has been reporting 500 or more fresh cases every day for the last one week. Delhi currently has 88 containment zones where positive cases have been found leading to sealing of these neighbourhoods. “The government is ready to deal with the situation if there is a spike in the number of serious cases in the national capital,” Kejriwal said. He said there are currently 4,500 beds available for COVID-19 patients in both private and government hospitals and 2,000 new beds will be available in private facilities from Monday. According to him, there were 9,755 COVID-19 cases in Delhi on May 17 and the number climbed to 13,418 with around 3,500 cases being recorded within seven days of implementation of fourth phase of lockdown..  However, 2,500 people have also recovered from the virus during this period, Kejriwal said, adding that only 250 patients were admitted to hospitals in last seven days "I will be concerned when two things happen. First, there is significant increase in death cases and second thing is collapse of health care system due to sudden spike in cases due to which no bed is available in hospitals...," he said "Government hospitals have 3,829 beds for COVID-19 patients and of these, only 1,478 beds are occupied. Around 2,500 beds are still available. In government hospitals, we have 250 ventilators out of which 11 are occupied," he said. On Sunday, Delhi government had directed private hospitals and nursing homes with a capacity of 50 beds or more to reserve 20 per cent of their total bed strength for coronavirus patients. Kejriwal said with this move, 2,000 new beds will be available in private hospitals. The chief minister said 3,314 coronavirus patients are getting treatment at their house while 2,000 are admitted at hospitals. The government has issued a show-cause notice to a private hospital that denied treatment to a patient who later tested positive for COVID-19, Kejriwal said. "It is the hospital's duty to provide an ambulance to such patients and take them to a COVID-19-dedicated hospital," he said.  He said that in Delhi, most COVID-19 patients are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. The chief minister said the government has decided to reserve 1,500 beds for COVID-19 patients in state-run GTB Hospital. Meanwhile, senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh hit out at the BJP alleging that it was spreading lies about the AAP government's figures on COVID-19 deaths. He said that this kind of politics clearly shows that the BJP is trying to mislead the people of Delhi and spread fear among them through its false claims. Leaders of BJP-ruled civic bodies had alleged that the Delhi government was under-reporting the coronavirus deaths. They had cited records from crematoria and graveyards. On Friday, the Delhi High Court refused to entertain a plea seeking direction to the Delhi government to come out with actual figures of COVID 19 cases and the death count without any delay and to scrap the death audit committee. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, conducting the hearing through video conferencing, disposed of the petition and granted liberty to the petitioner to approach the court again at an appropriate time. The Delhi government's health bulletin reports cumulative death figures that refer to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19 by the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.  Meanwhile, the Jawaharlal Nehru University strongly advised students stranded in its hostels to return to their native places as special trains and some intra-state bus services have become operational following the relaxation in COVID-19 lockdown norms||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-cases-cross-14k-mark-in-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-says-situation-in-control-even-after-more-lockdown-relaxations-841697.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 Lockdown: Madhya Pradesh govt faces challenge of providing jobs to migrant workers||With more than 13.74 lakh migrant labourers having returned to their homes in Madhya Pradesh so far during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, the state government faces a big challenge of providing them jobs. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in a televised address last week said Madhya Pradesh's economy has collapsed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Labourers Chhidami Kushwaha (35) and his wife Sagun Devi (32), who returned to their native Gopalpura village in Tikamgarh district from Kanjhawala village in Delhi on May 18, claimed on Monday that they have so far not received any help from the Madhya Pradesh government. Chhidami Kushwaha's brother Suraj Kushwaha (28) also returned with them. "We three worked as building construction labourers in Delhi and Haryana. We have not received any financial help from the state government yet. My father Sukhlal Kushwaha is looking after our needs now," Chhidami Kushwaha told PTI. The three of them do not have active job cards under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in Tikamgarh, he said. "We migrated to Haryana a couple of years ago for a better livelihood. But, we had to return last week because of the coronavirus outbreak. So, we did not renew our job cards. If we had active cards we would have got Rs 202 wages a day for work under MGNREGA. Right now we are jobless," he said. Another migrant worker Parmanand Kushwaha, who worked as a welder in building constructions in Delhi, also returned to Gopalpura recently due to the lockdown. He also said that he has not yet received any financial help from the state government so far.  A panchayat secretary in Tikamgarh, who did not wish to be named, said jobs under MGNREGA have shrunk due to mordernisation of the construction sector. Nowadays, vehicles, machines are used in construction work and other things instead of workers, he rued. Tikamgarh is part of the impoverished Bundelkhand region. To make things worse for migrant workers who have returned home, local labourers are opposing their entry in workplaces due to the fear of COVID-19. Motilal Kewat (45), a farm labourer from Mohaniya village in the state's Sidhi district, said local labourers are against working with migrants as they feel those who have come back might be carrying the coronavirus disease and may infect others. However, Madhya Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary (panchayat and rural development) Manoj Shrivastava said the state government was facilitating jobs for migrant labourers who have returned to the state. The state government is working hard and providing jobs, food and health care on priority to migrant labourers who have returned home, he said. "More than 13.74 lakh labourers have returned to the state. Of them, over 10 lakh were home quarantined," the official said. An operation is underway to give them job cards and renew (non-active) them, he said. The migrant labourers on their return have been medically examined and taken care of, he said, adding that 198 labourers in the state have so far tested positive for coronavirus. He claimed Madhya Pradesh has provided jobs to 37 lakh labourers under MGNREGA, the highest by any state so far. The Madhya Pradesh government last month said it provided Rs 1,000 each to nearly 7,000 migrant labourers from 22 states who were stranded in view of the lockdown. Asked about complaints of migrant labourers that they have not received a monetary help of Rs 1,000 from the state government, Shrivastava said the labour department looks after giving financial help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-madhya-pradesh-govt-faces-challenge-of-providing-jobs-to-migrant-workers-841702.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus curfew extended till June 30 in Himachal Pradesh's Hamirpur, Solan||The authorities on Monday extended the coronavirus curfew in Himachal Pradesh’s Hamirpur and Solan districts till June 30. Though the order did not specifically mention the extension of the lockdown, it is implied. The curfew was imposed to enforce the nationwide lockdown. Hamirpur district has over one-fourth of the total virus cases in Himachal Pradesh. While Hamirpur has reported 63 cases so far, Solan has 21. The state has till now reported 214 cases, including five deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-curfew-extended-till-june-30-in-himachal-pradeshs-hamirpur-solan-841710.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||UP teacher sacked for citing 'Pakistan' as example for Noun in online class||A female teacher of a private school in Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur town, about 300 kilometres from Lucknow, was sacked after she cited 'Pakistan' as an example of Noun while taking an online class. The teacher had allegedly posted examples such as ''Pakistan is our motherland'' and ''I will join Pakistan Army''. Another post was ''Rashid Minhas (A Pak air force pilot) was a brave soldier''. According to the sources, all these posts were made by the teacher on a WhatsApp group of around 40 students of fourth standard while teaching them about Nouns. The matter snowballed into a huge controversy after some parents saw the posts and lodged a strong protest with the school. The school management suspended the teacher and sought an explanation from her. Sources said that the teacher pleaded innocence and said that she merely ''copy-pasted'' the examples without paying much attention to the meanings. ''I am a true patriot....it was a mistake...I did not do it deliberately,'' she said in her reply to the school management. She also said that she had immediately clarified in the group that she in fact meant 'India' but owing to 'cut-paste' she inadvertently mentioned Pakistan. She also sought forgiveness for the mistake. She was, however, sacked on Monday. The teacher had reportedly slipped into depression after the incident. The parents demanded that the teacher be booked on charges of sedition and arrested. No formal complaint had so far been lodged with the police in this regard, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-teacher-sacked-for-citing-pakistan-as-example-for-noun-in-online-class-841721.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Northeast Delhi overcomes riot scars to celebrate Eid in harmony||In northeast Delhi, Eid this year is a celebration of a long-time friendship that even stood the test of communal riots for some, while for many, it is shorn of any festivities. Exactly three months ago, when riots broke out in northeast Delhi's Old Mustafabad, Mahesh Gupta and Mohammad Ilyas, who have known each other for nearly 10 years, were in Gupta's shop. "The riots have not damaged our friendship. We still share the same bond, love and happiness. We stood together when the riots broke out and we are still together as a family as we fight the coronavirus pandemic.  "This Eid is not about new clothes or biryani. It is to reinforce our faith in humanity and live in harmony just like the old times," Ilyas, who owns a footwear shop a few shops away from Gupta's snacks shop, said. He recalled how he guarded his father's close friend, "Banwariya uncle", when around 25 outsiders tried to vandalise his medical shop on February 24 just because he was a Hindu. Gupta said business has been severely affected. "Since the violence, there was an atmosphere of fear, but with the security forces in place, things were slowly limping back to normal. But within days came this lockdown", he said. Most of the revenue came from the migrant labourers who worked in the area.  "Owing to the lockdown, most of them have left. I hardly have customers these days. My shop was mostly frequented by the labourers. Even after the lockdown, things are not going to change significantly," Gupta said. Entering Bhajanpura, one could see torched vehicles on the streets, while several gutted and damaged houses brought back glimpses of the horror that rocked northeast Delhi for nearly 48 hours in February. While most of the shops in Bhajanpura, Old Mustafabad and Shiv Vihar were closed due to the lockdown, there were also those that were completely damaged or burnt during the riots. These shops will first need to be repaired post the lockdown. Like many others in northeast Delhi, this Eid is not about biryani, sewaiya or kheer for Mohammad Furkan and his family. It is only going to be a simple vegetarian meal with the family members. Furkan, along with four brothers, has been running a sweet shop in Old Mustafabad for nearly 20 years. Usually, they are so overburdened that they end up doing six months' work to meet the demands of customers during the holy month of Ramzan, he said. Furkan opened his shop for the first time after nearly three months on Eid with the hope of making some money. Making kachori, he recalled how last year, the shop was flooded with customers and how he had to employ extra labourers to meet the demands. "Look at it now, do you see any customers around? We used to open the shop at 7 am and till 9 pm, we had customers coming in for sweets and the special delicacies on Eid. This year, due to the riots and then the lockdown, shops were closed and we have hardly earned anything in the last three months. How do we celebrate Eid when we hardly have money to purchase essentials? So I decided to re-open our shop and make only kachori since it also requires some initial investment," Fukran said. A few metres away, Sajid, who owns a biryani shop, is now selling it from a cart along with his younger brother Salman. A plate of biryani is for Rs 60 and Sajid and Salman have had hardly four-five customers since morning. "Usually on Eid, I open the shop at 7 am and there is such a high demand for the biryani that we run out of stock by noon," Sajid said. Children in the area looked disappointed with no festive fervour around. One of them, Irshan Khan, complained about wearing old clothes on Eid as "abba" could not buy new ones due to the shops being closed. He was also disappointed that he could not visit his close friends on Eid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/northeast-delhi-overcomes-riot-scars-to-celebrate-eid-in-harmony-841731.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Over 15 lakh migrants have returned to Uttar Pradesh so far in 1,174 trains: Official||Over 15 lakh stranded migrant workers have returned to Uttar Pradesh from different parts of the country on board 1,174 trains till now, a senior state government official said here on Monday. A total of 24 lakh people have returned to the state so far in buses, trains and other modes of transport, Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi said.  "Till Monday 2.00 pm, as many as 1,174 trains have come to UP, through which 15.62 lakh migrant workers have arrived. Buses are operating from Rajasthan and Haryana. So far, around 24 lakh people have come to UP through trains, buses and other modes of transport," he said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has reviewed the return of migrants to the state, Awasthi said. "The UP chief minister has directed that the 'Migration Commission' be renamed as 'Kamgar Shramik: Sewayojan evam Rojgar Kalyan Aayog'. This commission will work to provide employment to the labourers, while keeping in mind the skill-mapping and skill development of the labourers. The CM also directed that the constitution of the commission should be ensured in the next couple of days," he said.  The official also informed that the UP chief minister would undertake inspection of emergency services in the hospitals. Police patrolling is going on and there is peace in the state, he said, adding that people celebrated Eid from their homes. Awasthi said 57,449 FIRs have been lodged for violation of lockdown so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-15-lakh-migrants-have-returned-to-uttar-pradesh-so-far-in-1174-trains-official-841737.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Ghaziabad-Delhi border sealed again, essential services personnel allowed||The Ghaziabad administration on Monday sealed its border with Delhi again in view of the rising cases of the coronavirus in the district in the last few days, according to an official order. Essential services including doctors, paramedical staff, police, bank employees and media personnel are allowed to move across the two cities after showing identity cards, the order stated. “There has been a rise in COVID-19 cases in recent days.  A major part of these increased cases are linked to people commuting between Delhi and Ghaziabad. "Hence, on the recommendation of the chief medical officer (CMO), it has been decided to seal the Delhi-Ghaziabad borders like it was done earlier (April 26),” District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said. The restriction would be in place till next order, he said in a statement. Ghaziabad in western Uttar Pradesh has recorded 227 cases of COVID-19 till Sunday evening, according to an official statement. The district has 18 hotspots while the entire urban Ghaziabad has been categorised as a ‘red zone’, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghaziabad-delhi-border-sealed-again-essential-services-personnel-allowed-841750.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi gas operators seek tax relief, loan restructuring to deal with lockdown impact||Pummeled by evaporating demand and fall in business due to the lockdown, city gas operators such as Adani Gas, GAIL and Torrent Gas have sought tax relief and loan restructuring to tide over difficult times. Natrual Gas Society (NGS), which represents CNG and piped natural gas retailers in the country, has written to the Oil Secretary Tarun Kapoor seeking government support in expansion of the city gas distribution (CGD) business and the share of natural gas in the country's energy basket. "The CGD sector has been among the worst hit during the current lockdown with consumption reduced by over 80 per cent and now, the further extension of the lockdown, this will only bring additional hardship to the industry," it wrote. Barring supply of piped natural gas to households kitchens, all segments under the CGD have shown a sharp fall in gas offtake. "With falling demand, majority of the CGD entities are facing steep fall in revenue and margins and cash flow problems which could impact the ability to maintain the required investment/capex," it said. Slowdown in the overall economic activity, it said, can be a dampener for infrastructure capex plans especially under the newly awarded city gas licenses. The association sought exemption of the CGD sector from excise duty (14 per cent) and a deferment of statutory tax compliances at least till September-December, 2020. "Banks may be asked to restructure the loans and provide a moratorium on interest payments for at least another six months to help the sector to recover quickly," it wrote. NGS wanted government-priced controlled gas to be allocated to CGD operators. "Government should direct gas suppliers and transporters to bill CGD entities only for the quantities they consumed at normal prices / rates without any additional charges like excess gas, take-or-pay, imbalance etc," it said. The association sought waiver of penalty for not making committed investment in a city gas area. "It is proposed that a deferment of at least 24 months in minimum work programme (MWP) be allowed post lockdown period and till the restoration of normalcy period in the industrial activities." To help generate finances for investment and ease the financial stress being faced by the CGD entities, the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas may consider financial assistance to the sector, it said, adding this could be through creation of a special fund. This could be through funding from the Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB) and the oil regulator PNGRB reserve.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-gas-operators-seek-tax-relief-loan-restructuring-to-deal-with-lockdown-impact-841754.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Rail Bhavan to be closed for two days after fifth staffer tests positive for coronavirus||With several employees working in the Railway Board testing positive, the offices in the building will remain shut on May 26 and May 27, while fourth floor will be closed till May 29. The sanitisation will be carried out in the entire building. During this period employees will work from home, according to an order. This is second time that the Rail Bhavan was closed for sanitisation. On May 13 and 14, the building was closed after some of its employees working in the building tested positive. With the addition of one more staffer in the Rail Bhavan building testing positive on Monday, the number of employees testing positive for coronavirus in same building rose to five in less than two weeks. "The employee came to office last on May 19 and tested positive today," said an official in Rail Bhavan. On Sunday, a senior officer posted in the same building tested positive and 14 other officials who worked with her are under home quarantine. Earlier, a Railway Protection Force (RPF) staff working in Rail Bhavan tested positive. Another senior officer working on cadre restructuring of the Railway Protection Force Service also tested positive. She last came to work on May 13. A langur handler working under a contractor and tasked to chase away monkeys in the Rail Bhavan tested positive earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rail-bhavan-to-be-closed-for-two-days-after-fifth-staffer-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-841757.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Six flights carrying 562 stranded passengers arrive at Srinagar airport||With the resumption of domestic flight operations across the country, six flights carrying about 562 passengers, who were stranded at different parts of the country, landed at Srinagar International Airport on Monday. The arrival of flights started with the landing of Air Asia flight at 7:25 am. All passengers who arrived at the airport were thoroughly screened for COVID-19 and their samples taken, an official spokesperson said. He said elaborate arrangements had been made for the arrival, screening, sampling and dispatch of passengers. The airport has been equipped to receive the passengers strictly following the procedures and guidelines prescribed by the Union Ministries of Civil Aviation and Health and Family Welfare. “All passengers, on arrival, by air on Monday and for coming days, shall be kept in institutional or home quarantine for a prescribed period, sampling will be done of all passengers and test samples will be sent to SKIMS for results. Those passengers who test negative shall be sent to home and those testing positive, if any, will be sent to hospital for further treatment,” the spokesperson said. Principal Secretary, Housing and Urban Development, Dheeraj Gupta, who has been overseeing the arrangements of arrival at the airport, said that all facilities and other arrangements have been put in place, including SOPs for receiving the passengers. He said that for the convenience of passengers, special help desks have been established in order to capture first-hand information from the passengers after their disembarking.  Gupta added that for sample collection from the passengers for COVID-19 tests, 30 Test Koisks have been set up at the airport. Besides that, adequate transport facilities by SRTC have been made available at the airport for these passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-flights-carrying-562-stranded-passengers-arrive-at-srinagar-airport-841794.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||With over 10k tests per million, J&K number one in COVID-19 testing in country||Jammu and Kashmir has now become number one in the country in COVID-19 testing with a testing rate of over 10,000 per million population. The testing capacity in the Union Territory (UT) has gone up from just about 100 tests/day in March to 8000 tests/day on Monday. In the last one month alone it has gone up from 1800 tests/day to 8100/day – an increase of 350%. “The government has taken a slew of measures on the health, economic and welfare fronts. Jammu and Kashmir was probably one of the first states or UTs to take note of the emerging situation and initiate action and many of our interventions have not only been fast but effective too,” he said in a presser in Jammu. It may be recalled that the total number of COVID-19 cases in J&K is 1668. The number of active cases are 836. As many as 809 recoveries which include young children and 23 unfortunate deaths have also been reported. Kansal pointed out that while J&K had been able to achieve a low growth rate and a doubling rate of over three weeks, this should not become a cause of complacency.   Reminding that effective lockdown, strong containment policy, aggressive testing and cooperation by the people of J&K played a key role in containment of COVID-19, the government spokesperson said that there is no room for any laxity. “What we now need is to understand that there are enough worrying factors in the situation. 15 deaths have been reported in the last month alone. There is at least one district which has more than 200 active cases and at least one district with more than 150 active cases,” he said and added that  a number of local, indigenous cases for which contact chains are not yet fully clear have also been reported which is a cause of concern.  He said that over 90,000 stranded persons have already returned to J&K in the last four weeks alone, they include 66024 persons by road, 25400 by 30 ‘Shramik’ special and COVID special Rajdhani trains and 652 persons by air. “J&K is the one state/UT which has smoothly completed more than 85% of its evacuation process. The government has consciously adopted a policy of testing 100% of all returnees. All the returnees are being tested, and as a result of the strategy the administration has been successful in tracing 481 positive cases so far,” Kansal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-over-10k-tests-per-million-jk-number-one-in-covid-19-testing-in-country-841809.html
25-05-2020||North and Central||Lockdown 4.0: Manoj Tiwari goes to Haryana to play cricket, AAP blasts him||Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari on Monday came under fire from the Aam Aadmi Party for playing cricket in neighbouring Haryana by crossing the "borders sealed" due to the COVID-19 and allegedly violating lockdown norms. Tiwari, however, asserted he did not break any law. He hit back at the AAP for raising the issue to "divert attention" of media from allegations of corruption against its MLA Prakash Jarwal who is currently behind the bars. "I did not violate any norm. As per MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) orders on lockdown 4.0, sports grounds and stadiums have been opened without an audience. I had proper permission to travel to Haryana," Tiwari said. On an invitation from the owner of a stadium, the Delhi BJP president visited Ganaur in Haryana's Sonipat, 30 km from here, on Sunday and played cricket there. A video of Tiwari playing cricket and also singing went viral on social media, inviting flak from various quarters. Senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh attacked Tiwari, saying it was "utterly insensitive act" on the part of the Delhi BJP president, also an MP, to visit another state to play cricket by "violating" COVID-19 lockdown norms. "The BJP-ruled Khattar government in Haryana is stopping doctors and nurses of Delhi who live in the state. The BJP government has closed all roads connecting Delhi and Haryana. But it did not stop Tiwari who went there to play cricket," Singh charged. He also said the incident showed "insensitivity" of Tiwari who chose to play cricket at a time when a large number of migrant workers in the country were passing through a humanitarian crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown.  Ganaur Sub Divisional Magistrate Ravinder Patil said in the fourth phase of the lockdown, stadiums were opened for players with some riders. Wearing a mask is compulsory, he said. The SDM on Monday issued a notice to the stadium owner S Jain asking him to explain within 24 hours whether the stadium was sanitized, spectators were present, masks were worn and social distancing norms followed. If the authorities were not satisfied with the reply, action would be taken, the notice stated. Tiwari, however, attacked the AAP, alleging a "water tanker mafia" was being run in the city, and AAP leaders wanted to divert the attention from the arrest of MLA Prakash Jarwal in connection with suicide by a doctor. "The AAP is highlighting me playing cricket because they want to evade questions over the arrest of Jarwal and loot by the tanker mafia," he charged. Delhi BJP's media relations head Neelkant Bakshi said that Manoj Tiwari visited Gannaur with prior permission and with his Y+ security. "He played cricket on the request of the private stadium owners in absence of any spectators," Bakshi said. The Delhi BJP president has been on the ground since the lockdown was declared to help and feed the needy people that AAP leaders "failed" to do, he claimed. Neighbouring Uttar Pradesh has also sealed its borders with Delhi to contain the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-40-manoj-tiwari-goes-to-haryana-to-play-cricket-aap-blasts-him-841841.html
25-05-2020||Opinion||COVID-19 will activate old & new disputes in East Asia ||Japan-South Korea relationship One of the most significant flashpoints that seem to have been activated since COVID-19 is the Japan-South Korea dispute. The two countries have historically had a highly uneasy relationship. In many ways, it is the American security umbrella that has been the glue in this relationship. China’s rise only gave a reason to suspend the bilateral mistrust for the two.  There have been simmering tensions over the emotionally-driven territorial dispute in the Dokdo/Takeshima islands and the issue of reparations for Korean comfort women. Trade relations have soured in the last one year as the US-China trade war loomed large. It worsened even further when Japan put restrictions on exports of high-tech material to South Korea in July 2019 in response to failed negotiations over how to address the issue of Japanese use of forced labour during World War II.  This led to the strengthening of national sentiment in South Korea leading to reduced sales of Japanese products like beers and cars. Subsequently, South Korea also decided to end its intelligence-sharing pact with Japan. Thus, there were significant trust issues even before COVID-19 as such. After the outbreak of COVID-19, as both the countries imposed bilateral travel restriction, this relationship nosedived even further. Moreover, the recent act of sending a ritual offering to the controversial Yasukuni Shrine by Shinzo Abe is likely to heat up the sentiment.  Impact on Japanese economy Japan has also suffered a lot due to the postponement of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. It had already spent a substantial amount, to the tune of $12.6 billion, on the Olympics and it is estimated that the postponement will cost Japan another $5.7 billion. Media estimates suggest that the Olympics were to cost Japan closer to $28 billion. This was a flagship event for the Abe government to achieve economic recovery from the decade-long slowdown since the 2011 earthquake and everything that happened in its aftermath. None of that is going to be recovered anytime soon as tourism will languish even after the epidemic ends. This changes Abe Shinzo’s plans who will face the next general elections scheduled in October 2021. Perhaps as a response to this has been the package offered to Japanese companies to relocate back home. In April 2020, Japan's cabinet approved a Bill that would subsidise businesses that would move back to Japan to the tune of 248.6 billion yen ($2.33 billion). The manufacturing of high-added value products like medical equipment, automated robots etc. is going to be invited to relocate back to Japan and the other manufacturing may shift to Southeast Asia – Vietnam being the likely principal beneficiary of this policy. This will have significant impacts both economic and strategic. China in focus  China’s establishment of ‘administrative districts’ in the South China Sea has signalled to its Southeast Asian neighbours that negotiations are all but over. While it makes little material difference immediately, it makes it clear that China will continue to project benign foreign policy postures separately from nationalist projects like the territorial expansions in the South China Sea. ASEAN’s weakness is exacerbated due to halting of trade and once again there is little hope of a departure from dependence on trade with China. Not to be missed amidst all this are the development regarding Taiwan and Hong Kong, two of China’s core interests. First, there was a whole lot of politics about Taiwan's participation in the World Health Assembly. That seems to have been resolved with a bargain where China agreed for an inquiry into sources of COVID-19 after the pandemic. Second is the assertive posture by Tsai Ing-wen after her swearing-in recently and the recently passed Hong Kong national security legislation which showcases that China will trample the One Country Two Systems formula when democracy makes things uncomfortable for the party. This will certainly fuel Chinese nationalism further. All this creates a sense of unease as far as East Asia is concerned. First, the East Asian miracle has been on the basis of open economies and was not built by nativist governments. Second, COVID-19 has come in the era of inward-looking great powers. Moreover, as the US and Europe and now Russia face serious cases and slow recovery, their attention is almost all domestic which means they have less time or will to focus on global issues. All systems and powers around the world have had their reputations damaged due to COVID-19. As they try to resurrect those, most have resorted to nationalisms of one form or another. Competing nationalisms, as we know from history, have never facilitated harmony and engagement.  (Avinash Godbole is Assistant Professor, Jindal School of Liberal Arts & Humanities, Jindal Global University. He specialises in China Studies) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-will-activate-old-new-disputes-in-east-asia-841664.html
25-05-2020||Panorama||Hoping for a coronavirus-induced fertilizer reforms||Even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has declared his intent to use Covid–19 as an opportunity to implement big bang reforms, the government is silent on fertilizers – a sector that has been crying for reforms for far too long. To put things in perspective, let us take a look at some basic facts on existing policies.     Prior to the 1990s, both urea --main source of nitrogen (N)--and phosphate (P) and potash (K) fertilizers such as di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) and a whole range of complex fertilizers containing N, P&K in different proportion etc, fell under pricing and distribution controls. The maximum retail price (MRP) of each fertilizer was controlled at a low level and excess of cost of production and distribution over MRP was reimbursed to manufacturers as subsidy on unit-specific basis under a unique system called Retention Price Scheme (RPS)--introduced for urea in 1977 and for P&K fertilizers in 1980. Under this system, even as production and consumption of fertilizers showed phenomenal jump, in turn contributing to increase in food grain production, there was a substantial increase in fertilizer subsidy also as the cost of production and distribution increased sharply in the face of low MRP. Meanwhile, the balance of payment crisis of early 1990s forced the then government led by Narasimha Rao to kick off far-reaching reforms in fertilizers. On August 25, 1992, the government decontrolled P&K fertilizers and abolished subsidy even as it kept urea under control and even reduced its MRP. The resulting steep increase in the selling price of former (inevitable when manufacturers realize full cost from farmers with no subsidy support) invited strong reaction and within five weeks, it was forced to resurrect subsidy under a new incarnation ‘ad-hoc concession’ from October 1, 1992. But, unlike urea where every unit continued to receive subsidy specific to it, all manufacturers of P&K got a uniform concession/subsidy. Since then, the basics of the scheme--‘fixed’ and ‘uniform’ subsidy have remained unaltered even as the manner of calculating the amount as also the nomenclature have been changed (from ‘ad-hoc concession’ to ‘concession’ to ‘subsidy’). At present, manufacturers of P&K fertilizers get subsidy under the Nutrient Based Scheme (NBS) in vogue since April 2010. On the other hand, urea MRP continues to be under control even as manufacturers get unit-wise subsidy under the New Pricing Scheme (NPS)--an improvised version of the erstwhile RPS introduced in 2003.           The policy dispensation is heavily biased towards urea. Herein, subsidy accounts for 50-75% of production cost, input cost escalation normally absorbed by subsidy, movement cost up to the retail point is reimbursed and it gets priority in allocation of domestic gas (albeit cheaper).  In case of P&K fertilizers, subsidy is only 25-30% of the cost, cost escalation is passed on to MRP, cost of movement by rail to unloading rake point only is allowed and manufacturers have no access to domestic gas.  Decontrol of urea and direct benefit transfer (DBT) of fertilizer subsidy to farmers has been on the radar of our policy makers for over two decades. But, no government has dared to go for it. However, the economic crisis triggered by Covid–19 offers a golden opportunity.          Crude price About 90% of urea production in India is based on natural gas with nearly two-thirds of gas supply from domestic source and the other one-third imported gas. The price of domestic gas is benchmarked to its price at four international locations. These prices in turn, are linked to movement in price of crude oil. The price of imported LNG (liquefied natural gas) is also linked to crude.  Large scale destruction of demand in the wake of corona crisis has led to a steep decline in price of crude from a high of over $70 per barrel at the start of 2020 to a low of $20 per barrel. This has led to the corresponding reduction in the price of gas.  Considering that low gas price is likely to sustain for a couple of years, this could be a good time to crack the whip as after decontrol, the MRP (without subsidy) will not be significantly higher than what it is today. The poor farmers can be taken care of by crediting subsidy directly in their account using the database under PM–Kisan scheme. Concurrently, the government should reform taxation of fertilizers which is hamstrung by an inverted duty structure. At present, even as all fertilizers attract GST of 5%, the duty on raw materials and intermediates used in their production is much higher. Natural gas is ‘zero rated’ under GST implying that it continues to attract excise duty (ED) and value added tax (VAT) as in the past. Even as ED on gas is ‘nil’, VAT varies from state to state with a low of 5% in Rajasthan and high 21% in Uttar Pradesh. Imported gas attracts customs duty (CD) of 2.5% while CD on import of ammonia, phosphoric acid and sulphur is 5%. Ammonia and phosphoric acid attract GST of 18% and 12% respectively.         The tax on output (read: fertilizers) being 5% and that too on artificially suppressed MRP falls far short of input tax which is high due to higher tax - apart from the basic price of inputs itself being high. This results in unabsorbed input tax credit. The anomaly can be removed by bringing gas under GST and taxing it at 5%. A uniform tax across all states (unlike present VAT regime with wide variation in tax rate) will also help in smooth transition to urea decontrol.   The GST on ammonia and phosphoric acid also needs to be brought down from existing 18% and 12%, respectively, to 5% on each to correct the duty inversion in P&K fertilizers. Will Modi crack the whip? (The writer is a New Delhi-based policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/hoping-for-a-coronavirus-induced-fertilizer-reforms-841522.html
25-05-2020||Panorama||Off the record: 24 May||Yechury’s draft The Friday meeting of joint Opposition saw 22 like-minded parties in attendance. Top leaders from Sonia Gandhi to Sharad Pawar attended the meeting. Also, Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee, Uddhav Thackeray and Hemant Soren attended the meeting. In the end, the leaders came out with a strong joint statement with 11 action points. Six out of eight points raised by CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury found a place in the joint statement. Two of them--on communal profiling and arrest of protesters as well as release of political prisoners in Jammu and Kashmir--did not make it to the joint statement as the leaders were of the view that they should stick to the Covid-19 response at present and these issues could be taken up later. A senior leader said it was Yechury who drafted the joint statement as the meeting progressed but it was later read out by Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, to ensure that Trinamool Congress, an archrival of CPI(M), did not feel slighted. Shemin Joy, New Delhi A musical CM  Amid the Coronavirus pandemic, a video of Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma playing an Iron Maiden song on his electric guitar drew attention on social media platforms. Sangma, who was earlier seen playing football, played the iconic song “Wasted Years” of the English heavy metal band. “After a hectic 3 day Assembly session…unwinding with some Iron Maiden stuff. It’s been a long while I haven’t played so I guess a few mistakes,” wrote Sangma, after posting the video on his Instagram on Friday evening. The video has already been liked by hundreds and shared by many. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati Above rules? Bhopal is in the red zone for Covid-19, and the administration is very strict about enforcing social distancing norm. But BJP workers flagrantly violated the norm in presence of Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and other party leaders. A former minister Prabhuram Choudhary, who left the Congress with Jyotiraditya Scindia, led a crowd of his 200 supporters from neighbouring Raisen district to the state BJP headquarters in Bhopal on Saturday. They boisterously joined the party in presence of the chief minister. Within an hour photographs of the function showing BJP workers jostling to come close to Chouhan flashed on social media. Former Chief Minister Kamal Nath wondered aloud whether the norm of the social distancing is applicable for only the poor and whether BJP workers are above it. A BJP spokesperson admitted the violation, attributing it to over-enthusiasm of some workers.  Rakesh Dixit, Bhopal  Off with her head? West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is known for her mercurial temper. But on Saturday she seemed to be not just a bit angry but also exasperated due to the double stress of dealing with the Covid-19 outbreak and cyclone Amphan. Annoyed with the agitations in several parts of Kolkata and other affected districts Banerjee said that, “you can either have patience or cut off my head!” She said that all Government officials were working round the clock and one should remember that they are also human beings. Taking a swipe at Opposition leaders, she said, “you will all have a lot of opportunities to do politics against me during elections. But please don’t do politics in a crisis situation.” Soumya Das, Kolkata Showing the way! India’s stars are supplementing the efforts of Centre and state governments in many ways in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. But, one who stands out, is Bollywood actor Sonu Sood. The 46-year-old has hit the ground and is making all efforts to help out stranded migrants by organising buses to send people to their hometowns. He replied on Twitter to each request and promised to be with “brothers and sisters till the last one reaches their home.” When a person wanted to contribute, Sonu just tweeted, “don’t worry. I am there. Just feed a migrant somewhere with that money. They need us.”  Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-24-may-841523.html
25-05-2020||Panorama||Slums are congested, vulnerable spaces||Slums in India's metropolitan cities are under the threat of a multitude of disasters like urban floods, fires, malaria and most recently COVID-19. Urban slum dwellers are the most vulnerable physically, socially and economically.  As per the 2011 census, 206 towns and cities in Karnataka have slums. It is also reported that 81% of the slum population of India is concentrated in nine states--Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Gujrat. COVID-19 cases in Mumbai and Kolkata slums are warnings to all states to implement immediate containment measures that can prevent the spread of the disease. Finding no access to shelter at affordable prices, labourers squat and encroach upon unsafe open places like drains, bus terminals, railway tracks and low-lying-flood-prone areas.  Although the primary objective of public housing and urban development authorities is to serve these poor groups, the cost of housing provided tends to be beyond the affordability of the poor.  The Ejipura, Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) housing project, for instance, that was implemented by BBMP was not affordable to the slum dwellers as the price of each house was Rs 7.5 lakhs per house. Social vulnerability  A study by the author revealed that there is very little that neighbours do not know about other families. Most family chores are performed in the line of visibility of others-- whether it is cooking, washing or even bathing. All this results in a sense of interdependence, reciprocity and a high degree of communication within the community. The political and bureaucratic nexus in slums is often well defined. These very characteristics of slums make them vulnerable to COVID-19 as they find it difficult to maintain social distancing as a binding norm, as it is quite the opposite of their daily social life. The solutions provided by authorities are not characterized by detailed analysis or understanding of slums or their needs and pattern of incomes. Although, new policies like Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission, revamped Swarna Jayanti Shahari Rozgar Yojana (SJSRY) and other schemes focus on affordable housing for this target group, reflect a positive shift in the government policy.   The example of Dharavi slum in Mumbai is an illustrative one--there is one community public toilet for 1440 people. Five to seven people live in a small house of 50-150 square feat; open drains and sewage flow through the area. Hazardous recyclable waste collected by rag pickers is dumped in and around the settlement. Inadequate water, poor ventilation, overcrowding makes the prevention and spread of COVID-19 difficult. One practical option is to locate schools, colleges, community halls and hotels nearby as quarantine places, instead of confining them to their own homes where social distancing, testing or monitoring is difficult.  Most slum dwellers work in the informal sector and their wages are meagre, they face difficulty in making both ends meet. This means if they do not work, they do not get their daily bread. Middle and high-income groups have the privilege to work from home, but most slum dwellers do only physical work; they are forced to leave their homes to earn their living in crowded places, making them increasingly vulnerable to COVID-19. Obviously, children, parents, the elderly, men and women alike are overwhelmed with the sudden burden of COVID-19 management. The new restrictions imposed by the authorities, the loss of social life, income, food, and water have put them under immense psychological stress. This, in turn, has forced many of them to return to their villages. Many of them are stranded at railway stations, roads, bus stands due to lack of transportation due to the lockdown. Out of fear, many families are walking bare-foot for hundreds of miles.  People in economically and socially vulnerable positions need not only medical but also psychological care. In addition to this, basic support must be provided wherever they are stranded. More importantly, the government must create awareness about the importance of self-care, hygiene, social distancing which will not only ensure safety against COVID-19 but also put an end to this abnormal situation soon. (The writer is the Head of Centre for Disaster Management, ATI Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/slums-are-congested-vulnerable-spaces-841799.html
25-05-2020||Right in the Middle||The days these days||The start of my second semester at college, a blossoming love for walks, exposure to new ideas and a year of rapid change contextualises the lockdown for me.  College did not open after the mid-semester break. On March 15, came the first drip before a deluge of work. WhatsApp groups were created, work divided, Google classrooms, documents deployed—new systems were developed.  I am one of two representatives of my class. With few solutions for classmates struggling to follow the course comes helplessness. Issues like lack of access to e-resources and expensive data packs remain overlooked. These gaps are increasingly visible within college, as they are everywhere.  Classroom interactions now suffer turned-off cameras, muted microphones (necessary to prevent lagging) and poor internet. Conversations got the cogs whirring, silence leaves them creaking. Online work has brought in workdays without fixed ends. I try alternating between screen and paper when possible and between studies and chores. Not neglecting work at home is a precarious balance.  I have slipped up several times.  While sweeping and mopping, learning the contours of the house, I have grown more aware than ever of the mess, triggering a slow but steady cleaning and dumping operation. I have also started paying conscious attention to my body, stretching to reach under shelves and sofas, moving on haunches. This has come with dancing every day.  On the roof every evening, my parents and I watch the birds— oriental white-eyes, sunbirds, doves, eagles, lapwings, parrots— against the reddening sky, rushing indoors when the massive hive near our house spills its bees.  Our time together is also spent on preparing meals, housework, conversations, and movies. Despite rare fights and some frustration, we get along well, and as always, joke around. Washing dishes is a time for introspection, which borders on edge of overthinking sometimes. There are things that are worrying. I am beginning to grasp the dimensions of balance and responsibility I had not anticipated. Gratefully I am inching towards being an avid reader again.  Part of the lockdown has been unlearning my definition of daily life. I have stopped waiting for ordinary life to resume, knowing I have the fortune and privilege to do that in an extraordinary time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-days-these-days-841524.html
25-05-2020||Right in the Middle||How is paapa?||It had been an ordinary day. A routine trip to Chennai from Bengaluru. The company had sent a message that a Sundar would be picking me up. I walked past the jostling crowd towards the exit and I saw a man waiting for me. He grinned at me as though I was his old buddy! It took me by surprise, but I was quick to recall that he had been our family driver during my stay in Chennai for a year in 2003. Sundar asked, “how is paapa?” Paapa, in Tamil means baby. He was referring to my son. The paapa in reference was now an 18-year-old, six-foot man who towered over me. I grinned. “Sundar!” I said. “You remember him!” “How can I forget Saar?” he asked. My son who was a two-year-old then and ensured that our driver was engaged throughout the day. While he was not driving, Sundar was assigned to getting things from the backyard. Things like spoons, toys, cups, tumblers and even at times knives and keys! Our ever-agile paapa would climb chairs, mount the washing machine and reach out to the grilled windows to dispose of stuff he considered was not required in the house. Without any expression, Sundar would collect them from the ground and get it home and give it to my wife whom he called “Amma”. This Amma would heave a long sigh and return the objects to their places. It had become a routine affair.  If we questioned paapa, he would give us a victorious look as though he was proud to involve us in his game of fetch! Once paapa had attempted an altogether different stunt. He decided to lock the inmates of the house--my wife and her mother. Paapa had to just push the latch a bit to the side with his nimble fingers. Having locked the door, my child started banging on the door as though he wanted them to open. Now this required rocket science! My wife called out to Sundar through the window and told him that they had been locked inside the bedroom and asked Sundar to come up with the spare key and release the captives. Again, it had been Sundar to the rescue! I came back to the present. I looked into Sundar’s eyes and smiled. I enquired about his family and he enquired about the others in my family. He looked good and seemed to be doing well for himself. I was happy for him and for this world that sometimes shrinks to connect people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/how-is-paapa-841805.html
25-05-2020||Second Edit||Strong fiscal measures needed||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das has made the first official acknowledgement from a high authority of an expected contraction of the GDP this financial year. Though predictions have been made of varying percentages of shrinkage of the GDP and even of zero growth, it is the first time that a negative growth has been forecast. The RBI governor did not give an estimate of it but noted that there is growing uncertainty in the economy and "an encircling gloom’’. He saw a likely rise of 3.7% in agricultural production as the only bright prospect. That is why the central bank’s focus has now shifted to boosting growth rather than containing inflation, which is one of its mandated tasks. Its monetary policy committee (MPC) held an unscheduled meeting on May 22 and decided to lower the policy rate by 40 basis points to 4%.  The MPC has cut the rates by 115 basis points in the last two months, and has hinted at further reductions, if necessary. It is a sign of its conviction that inflation is not a challenge now, and the need is to bolster growth. But the question is whether persistent monetary easing on its own would help in that. The flow of credit has not picked up with the rate reductions, partly because the demand for it is low, and even when there is demand banks are reluctant to lend. It is those who are in the most stressed parts of the economy and those who do not have a high rating that need credit, and they do not get it. The credit guarantee offered by the government has not had much impact till now, and the RBI has again sought to further ease the flow. The MPC has said that it is ready to ease liquidity for as long necessary to revive economic growth.  The RBI also decided to extend a moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans by another three months to the end of August, and this will give more relief to many borrowers. The deferment of payment of interest on working capital loans will help some companies. There were also measures to help state governments and exporters and importers.  But the package of monetary measures that the RBI has unveiled in instalments and may announce in future may be limited by its nature. Issues of growth cannot be addressed by monetary policy changes alone. Strong fiscal measures are needed which only the government will be able to provide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/strong-fiscal-measures-needed-841517.html
25-05-2020||Second Edit||Cinema, shrunk to the small screen||All areas of life have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and each of them is trying to cope with the situation in different ways. Economies are in a downfall, social life has been hit and most activities have slowed down or are at a standstill. Those in areas like education, sports and entertainment are trying to find new ways of doing things. Sports events are staged in empty stadia, and education is going online. Entertainment has an especially important role in a locked down society and so it has to change and refashion itself. Cinema, the biggest entertainment medium, has been particularly affected because halls and multiplexes are closed and could remain so for many more weeks. Over the top (OTT) media services have boomed as a result, and film producers are looking for alternative ways to reach their spectators.   A section of film producers have decided to release their films on digital platforms, and this has become controversial. Theatre-owners and distributors have opposed it, and in some places talks are going between the two sides. Seven films which are set to be released online include two major Bollywood movies — the Amitabh Bachchan-starrer Gulabo Sitabo and the biopic on mathematician Shakuntala Devi, with Vidya Balan in the lead role — and five films from the South. The exhibitors want these and other films to be released after the cinema halls are ready. But the producers have invested big money in the films and cannot wait indefinitely for the halls to be ready. When they reopen, a number of films may have to be released together and that will affect the box-office revenues of all or some of them. Some producers fear that they may suffer losses.   Both sides have valid positions and it is difficult to say whether there will be any meeting point. Exhibitors might feel digital viewing of films would permanently damage the established business model, and thus their interests. If online viewing becomes popular now, it will not completely go away even after the coronavirus threat goes away. But it should be noted that only a section of the film-going public may be able to watch the films online now, and the thrill and excitement of watching a movie in the hall will not end. That is because movie-watching has a social dimension to it because of the very nature of the art. But the world has to be ready for disruption of habits and businesses as other cataclysms have done in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/cinema-shrunk-to-the-small-screen-841801.html
25-05-2020||South||Death of nine people in Telangana doesn't appear to be suicide, says forensic expert||Indicating foul play in the death of nine people, including six of a family, whose bodies were fished out from a well near Warangal, a forensic expert on Sunday virtually ruled out suicide theory, saying it appeared seven of them had been dragged and thrown into the water body. Police stepped up the probe and forensic analysis was also underway in the case. The forensic expert, who visited the crime scene as part of the investigation citing preliminary tests, said that the seven of nine people had scratch injuries and appeared to have been "dragged" and "thrown" into the well. Forensic reports are expected in 10 days, the forensic expert told media on Sunday adding after examining the crime scene it appears that the deaths were not suicides. "We have preserved all organs and the same were sent to forensic science laboratory (FSL) for examination... some two or three persons might have been involved in the crime. There are scratch injuries on the bodies," he said. "It appears that they were thrown into the water... There were no injuries on the child's body. We are awaiting the forensic report (to ascertain) whether they were poisoned. It didn't appear as if they committed suicide," the expert, who performed the post-mortem said. Police sources said at least two people were picked up for questioning. Bodies of the head of the family, wife, daughter and three-year old grandson were found floating and fished out on Thursday. On Friday morning, some bodies were seen floating following which police pumped out the water from the well and found others. The 48-year old man had migrated from West Bengal over 20 years ago and had settled down here. His family had been staying in two rooms on the premises of the unit, police had earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/death-of-nine-people-in-telangana-doesnt-appear-to-be-suicide-says-forensic-expert-841557.html
25-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Tamil Nadu clears air, notifies SOP for domestic air travel||Ending uncertainty over resumption of domestic flight services in Tamil Nadu from tomorrow, the state government late on Sunday said it has allowed flights to Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchirappalli and notified the Standard Operating Procedure for air travel which stipulates, among other norms, 14 days of home quarantine and an e-pass for entry into the State. The Tamil Nadu government apprised the Centre that incoming domestic flights to Chennai can be restricted to 25 per day. "Flights to Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchirappalli can be operated," Chief Secretary K Shanmugam told the Centre in a letter. Due to high number of virus cases, flights from Gujarat and Maharashtra may be kept at the barest minimum level and "there is no issue for operating any number of outgoing flights from Tamil Nadu," Shanmugam said. The SOP, which has separate norms for incoming and outgoing passengers and procedures to be followed at the airport said asymptomatic people shall undergo home quarantine for 14 days. It said if air journey was undertaken without meeting the eligibility criteria they would be liable for penal action. Passengers who do not have a residence in Tamil Nadu and opting for paid quarantine, shall be sent to designated hotels for institutional quarantine, a Government Order on SOP said. Earlier in the day, there was uncertainty over flight operations since the state government had at that time not notified the SOP. The order said people who were found symptomatic will be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility and then subjected to confirmatory RT-PCR test. Those testing positive for COVID-19 and having moderate or severe symptoms will be admitted to a hospital or a health centre and people with mild symptoms will be given the option of home isolation. Those who test negative for the virus shall be in home quarantine for 14 days. Also, the government made it clear that all air passengers flying into Tamil Nadu should obtain a "TN e-pass" through the TN e-pass portal by agreeing to conditions that are set out in the form of a declaration. The e-pass travel permit will be issued with a QR code. Among the riders are that they were not from any containment zones and they had not tested positive for COVID-19 in the last two months and undertake to adhere to all the norms of the State government. If the passengers do not fulfill such conditions, they will not be eligible to travel to Tamil Nadu. "All passengers will be stamped with quarantine seal with date with indelible ink before they are allowed to move out of the airport." Temperature checking, carrying out disinfection of luggage were among the procedures detailed for implementation at the airports. Outward travellers will be screened and only those without symptoms for the virus shall be allowed to board the flight, the government said. Tamil Nadu had opposed allowing domestic flight operations till May 31 in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-tamil-nadu-clears-air-notifies-sop-for-domestic-air-travel-841606.html
25-05-2020||South||Flight services resume from Chennai; 116 passengers leave for Delhi||A Delhi-bound Indigo Airlines with 116 passengers was the first flight to be operated from the airport here on Monday when the country resumed domestic air services, officials said. It left for the national capital at 6.40 am while a flight from Delhi operated by the same carrier was the first incoming one, albeit with a far lesser number of passengers, at 27. A total of 16 flights were scheduled to arrive in the city through the day, according to the Centre's decision as Tamil Nadu government had demanded for capping such services to 25 per day, while 19 outbound services were scheduled from the city, they said. The cities covered by arrival and departure flights include Delhi, Mumbai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Port Blair. All health protocols, including thermal screening of the passengers, were being followed by officials for both the arriving as well as departing air passengers. Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had last week announced resumption of domestic flight services from Monday onwards in a calibrated manner. On Sunday, he had said the Chennai airport will have a maximum of 25 arrivals but that there was no cap on departing flights. For other airports in Tamil Nadu flights will operate as in other parts of the country, he had said. On Sunday night, while apprising the Centre that incoming domestic flights to this city can be restricted to 25 per day, the Tamil Nadu government had notified guidelines, which includes 14 days home quarantine and an e-pass for entry. "Flights to Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchirappalli (the three other airports in the state) can be operated," Chief Secretary K Shanmugam had told the Centre in a letter. Due to high number of virus cases, flights from Gujarat and Maharashtra may be kept at the barest minimum level and "there is no issue for operating any number of outgoing flights from Tamil Nadu," Shanmugam had said. The Standard Operating Procedure (SoP), which has separate norms for incoming and outgoing passengers and procedures to be followed at the airport, said asymptomatic people shall undergo home quarantine for 14 days. It said if air journey was undertaken without meeting the eligibility criteria they would be liable for penal action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flight-services-resume-from-chennai-116-passengers-leave-for-delhi-841630.html
25-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Low-key Eid celebrations in Tamil Nadu||Low-key celebrations marked Eid-ul-Fitr in Tamil Nadu as the faithful had to confine prayers indoors since mosques are closed due to the ongoing lockdown. Young and old held prayers inside their homes on Monday, with all places of religious worship remaining closed due to the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus. As mosques are also not open for congregational prayers in view of the lockdown, jamaths everywhere had sent messages to the people to offer prayers at home. Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, DMK President M K Stalin, AMMK leader TTV Dhinakaran and a host of leaders extended their Ramzan greetings. "Eid-ul-Fitr marks the culmination of the holy month of Ramzan. The festival is a celebration of sincere devotion, charity, brotherhood and gratitude to the Almighty," Purohit said in a Raj Bhavan statement. "On this joyous occasion, let us resolve to strengthen the spirit of generosity and bring people closer to one another, binding them in friendship, brotherhood, mutual respect, compassion and love," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-low-key-eid-celebrations-in-tamil-nadu-841666.html
25-05-2020||South||About 100 people including Magistrate, cops go into quarantine after remand prisoner tests COVID-19 positive||About 100 people, including a Magistrate and some police personnel, have been asked to go into quarantine after an accused, who was produced before a lower court here following his arrest, later testedpositive, officials said on Monday. The accused, who was arrested along with two others in connection with a case relating to illicit liquor transportation two days ago, had been shifted to thePoojapura central jail after he was remanded to judicial custody. With his sample testing positive on Sunday, theman has been sent to a designated COVID-19 hospital. The Nedumangad court magistrate, before whom he was produced, 34 police personnel, including a circle inspector, who were on duty at the Venjaramoodu police station when the accused was broughtafter his arrest, some employees of a government hospital where his swab sample was taken and 12 officials of thePoojapura central jail have gone into quarantine, police sources said. . Meanwhile, Malayalam film actor Suraj Venjaramoodu and Vamanapuram MLA D K Murali (CPI) are under self-imposed quarantineas they had attended a function in which the circle inspector had taken part. Two days ago, a car in which illicit liqour was being transported had hit a policeman and sped away, but people managed to stop the vehicle and the three accused, who were in an inebriated state, were arrested, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/about-100-people-including-magistrate-cops-go-into-quarantine-after-remand-prisoner-tests-covid-19-positive-841680.html
25-05-2020||South||Nine murders committed to hide one: Telangana police solve shocking case of 9 bodies found in Warangal well||The sensational discovery of nine bodies in a Warangal well turned out to be a grisly case of a migrant worker committing nine murders to hide one crime of murder. The discovery of four bodies from the family of Mohammed Maqsood Alam on Thursday in a huge, dilapidated well and five more bodies - including those of three migrants - on Friday shocked Telangana last week. The deaths of migrants during the COVID-19 lockdown and the nationwide migrant crisis led to an initial conclusion that it might be a case of mass suicide. Maqsood settled in Telangana two decades ago, migrating from West Bengal, while the accused Sanjay Kumar Yadav (24), a migrant worker from Bihar, came to Warangal about six years ago.   Six of the nine dead are from the Maqsood family – wife Nisha (48), two sons Shabaz (21) and Sohail (18), daughter Bushra (22) and her three-year-old son – who were all living in a gunny bag unit compound at Gorrekunta village, under the Geesukonda police station limits, near Warangal town. Two others – Sriram (21) and Shyam – are from Bihar and were also working and living in the same compound, while Shakeel (30) is believed to be a family friend of Maqsood, who lives nearby. After a 72-hour probe by six teams, Dr V Ravinder, Warangal police commissioner, revealed the chilling details of the mass murder allegedly commited by Sanjay. “Sanjay was living together with Rafiqa (36), who was the daughter of Nisha’s elder sister, in Geesukonda. Rafiqa, who Sanjay had promised to marry, confronted him when she noticed him being close with her teenage daughter. As she warned Sanjay that he would file a police complaint against him, he decided to kill her. On the pretext of talking to their elders back home regarding their wedding, Sanjay took her in on the Garib Rath train to Vizag on March 6,” said Ravinder in a press conference on Monday. “Sanjay mixed sleeping tablets in buttermilk that Rafiqa consumed and pushed her out of the running train near Nidavadolu in Andhra Pradesh when she was unconscious. After killing her, he returned to Geesukonda. A case was registered by the railway police then.” “Later, Nisha enquired about Rafiqa and suspecting Sanjay's wrongdoing, threatened to file a police complaint," the commissioner said. "That is when Sanjay decided to kill the Maqsood family. He went on recce at the unit for five days and chose the birthday of Maqsood’s son Shabaz on May 20 to execute his plan. He mixed sleeping tablets in their food and once they were asleep, dragged each of them in a gunny bag to the well and threw them in the water,” The commissioner said that the crime happened between 12:30 am and 5 am. “For fear that the Bihari youths might reveal his deed, Sanjay killed them also. CCTV footage of Sanjay’s movements formed the crucial evidence in the case. We took him into custody this afternoon. We will file the charge sheet soon and see that the culprit gets the right punishment,” said the commissioner, while terming the murders as most unfortunate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nine-murders-committed-to-hide-one-telangana-police-solve-shocking-case-of-9-bodies-found-in-warangal-well-841730.html
25-05-2020||South||Kerala: No celebrations as Pinarayi govt sails into fifth year in office||Sans any celebrations, the Pinarayi Vijayan led the LDF government in Kerala sailed into its fifth year in office, resolving to steer through the COVID-19 crisis and assuring that development would not be affected. Five people have died due to coronavirus in Kerala so far and over 95,000 are under observation. The total aggregate tally of COVID-19 cases is 847, while 322 are presently under treatment.  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the unprecedented challenges faced in the last four years in the form of Ockhi cyclone in 2017, Nipah virus of 2018 which claimed 17 lives, the two devastating floods in 2018 and 2019 in which hundreds of people were killed and the COVID-19 this year had not deterred the government from achieving its goals. Listing out the government's achievements, he told reporters here that2,19,154 homes were built under the life Mission,' at least 14,000 schools went hi-tech and 40,000 classrooms made smart. Major projects like the Gail pipeline which were in limbo became a reality and the government fulfilled almost all the promises made in its election manifesto, he said. "Our journey to fulfill the promises made to the people of Kerala was filled with challenges. But we showed strength and resilience in the face of all such adversities," he said. The Aardram mission helped the state's healthcare establishments with the latest equipment and upgraded services. "With the advancements made in the medical field, we dealt with the Nipah virus and later established the Virology Institute. This gave us the confidence to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic", he said. Such advancements came with a lot of financial burden and this was where Kerala needed the Centre's help the most, which was lacking, he said. Hitting out at the Opposition Congress-led UDF, he said they had never cooperated with the state government in the last four years. Even during times of natural disasters and pandemic, they sabotaged all efforts of the government, he alleged.  "Is this how a responsible opposition should behave? They should introspect their attitude. People are watching," Vijayan said. Despite their lack of cooperation, the state government was able to continue with its development agenda, he said. Pointing out that the Left government takes pride in its transparency, he said it would release a progress report on its performance. Women were recruited for the first time in the fire force and their representation in the police force was also increased. Kerala had taken a different stand from the Centre in the matter of disinvesting of Public Sector Units, he said. "The Instrumentation Limited of Palakkad, Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) and Hindustan Newsprint Limited (HNL) are among those PSUs which the Centre wanted to disinvest. The state government has decided to take them over. However, the process is pending as the Centre is yet to grant permission in certain matters," Vijayan said. Meanwhile, slamming the government, Opposition leader in the assembly Ramesh Chennthala alleged it was a "complete failure" on all fronts, and corruption was its hallmark. The state had still not recovered from the two devastating "man-made" floods in 2018 and 2019. The various promises made by LDF in its election manifesto were yet to be fulfilled, the Re-build Kerala initiative announced in the aftermath of the floods ended only in discussions in five-star hotels, he told reporters here. Though a Rs 2,000 crore coastal development package was announced, it remained only on paper and no projects had been taken up so far, he said, adding that the Chief Minister had only "boasted" about his government's achievements. Congress leaders later staged a demonstration in front of the secretariat here against the LDF 'misrule'. Chennithala and KPPC President Mullappally Ramachandran took part in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-no-celebrations-as-pinarayi-govt-sails-into-fifth-year-in-office-841733.html
25-05-2020||South||TN crosses 17,000-mark; 84% COVID-19 deaths due to co-morbidities, state health department says||The study also found that 88 percent of those tested positive in Tamil Nadu are asymptomatic and only 12 percent displayed symptoms. Of the symptomatic patients, 40 percent reported fever, 37 percent cough, 10 percent sore throat, 9 percent breathlessness, and 4 percent running nose. The details of the study were released by Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar on Monday, who claimed that the Tamil Nadu model of reducing the death rate is being studied by other states. The Minister said doctors from various hospitals of Tamil Nadu are being consulted by various states on the model.  However, the Minister did not take any questions as he was addressing reporters through video-conferencing. Questions posed by reporters tagging Vijayabaskar on Twitter were also not answered as the minister ignored them completely. He released the details even as Tamil Nadu reported the single biggest spike in a day with 805 positive cases, including 93 persons who returned from abroad and other states. The state’s tally went up to 17,082 with 8,731 discharges and 118 deaths – seven of which were reported on Monday.  And for the first time in nearly a month, the number of active cases was lesser than the number of discharges which has hit 8,731 against 8,230 active cases, putting the recovery rate of Tamil Nadu at 51.11 percent. According to the study, Tamil Nadu has the lowest death rate at 0.69 percent with over 84 percent of the deaths occurring due to co-morbidities. “Of the comorbidities, uncontrolled diabetes and hypertension and other diseases are the major contributors to the death in the state,” Vijayabhaskar said. Of the deaths, 46.5 percent of the patients were above 40 years of age, another 46.5 percent of the patients above 60 years of age, and 7 percent below 40 years of age. While 69 percent of the dead were male, the remaining 31 percent were women, the study said. The government has been maintaining that majority of the COVID-19 deaths in Tamil Nadu were due to co-morbidities and exclusive Coronavirus deaths are less when compared to other states. The state has so far tested 4,21,450 samples, one of the highest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-crosses-17000-mark-84-covid-19-deaths-due-to-co-morbidities-state-health-department-says-841747.html
25-05-2020||South||TTD board defends assets sale as nothing new; shifts blame to previous board under TDP regime||The TTD, which is facing flak over a plan to sell devotee-donated assets, has defended its move saying that the practice of selling immovable, non-maintainable and not useful properties has been in practice since 1974. According to TTD Chairman YV Subba Reddy, between 1974 and 2014, 129 such immovable properties were disposed of in public auction. Following the opposition onslaught, Reddy clarified that TTD has decided to auction 50 immovable properties in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu which are unviable and prone to encroachment.   “As per the government orders of revenue (endowments) department in 1990, the TTD Board is competent to sale, exchange, and mortgage the immovable properties, if found beneficial to TTD,” Reddy said.  Reddy, a former YSRCP Lok Sabha MP who became the TTD chairman last year after Jaganmohan Redy became the CM, has stated the assets sale move as an extension of a January 2016 resolution by the TTD, during the previous TDP regime. “The present board, in continuation of process commenced by the previous board, has approved the upset rate for public auction in its resolution dated 29-02-2020 for disposal of the said 50 immovable properties worth Rs 23.92 crore,” Reddy said while stressing that Jaganmohan government is unconnected with the sale decision.    DH report had referred to a Rs 100 crore monetization fund proposed in the TTD’s 2020-21 budget, by way of liquidating unviable properties and vacant cottages, which officials said could be expanded to compensate for lockdown income loss.  Speaking to DH, IYR Krishna Rao, retired AP chief secretary who earlier served as the TTD executive officer said, “It is a wrong move. For no purpose should temple lands be sold. Fixed deposits, created from devotee hundi donations, could be used under such circumstances.” Properties set for auction now are tiny house plots varying between one and five cents, farmlands ranging between 10 cents and under one acre which are non-maintainable and non-revenue generating properties for TTD, the chairman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-board-defends-assets-sale-as-nothing-new-shifts-blame-to-previous-board-under-tdp-regime-841768.html
25-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: About 2.4 lakh Tirupati Laddus sold in Andhra Pradesh on day-one||About 2.4 lakh 'Tirupati laddus' of the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala near here were sold on the first day of sales at subsidised price in headquarters of 12 districts in Andhra Pradesh on Monday, a temple official said. However, Guntur district was barred from the sale of laddus because of the severe COVID-19 impact and the stock meant for the district was shifted to nearby Vijayawada, he said.  Observing all COVID-19 guidelines in the presence of local government machinery, the devotees queued up at TTD marriage halls and TTD Information Centres for the sacred prasadam. The whole stock of laddus was sold within a few hours in the districts of the state, the official told PTI. The laddu, which is priced at Rs 50 each, was sold at Rs 25 as a token of gift to the devotees during the COVID-19 lockdown period, he said.  The entry of devotees to the more than 2,000-year-old temple that used to draw tens of thousands from across the country every day during normal times has been barred since March 20 to check the spread of the deadly coronavirus. The TTD (Tirumala-Tirupati Devasthanom) that governs the hill shrine is awaiting the nod of governments of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Telangana to transport the laddus to devotees in Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad during the lockdown, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-about-24-lakh-tirupati-laddus-sold-in-andhra-pradesh-on-day-one-841769.html
25-05-2020||South||#SaveTTD: Widespread protest against Tirupati temple trust move to sell properties donated by devotees||Devotees of Lord Venkateshwara, Hindu groups and the political parties in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are united in their opposition to a plan of the Tirupati temple trust to sell some of the properties donated by worshippers. The earnings of the richest Hindu temple with an annual budget of over Rs 3000 crore has been hit as the hill shrine is shut for pilgrim darshan for over two months now because of the COVID-19 lockdown. While a decision was taken earlier to auction 50 immovable properties in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu worth Rs 24 crore; according to the TTD officials, more such properties were being identified to provide revenue for the temple to tide over the crisis this year.   However, devotees state the scheme as hurting sentiments. A hashtag #SaveTTD has been trending on social media platforms like Facebook and twitter. Tweeting the DH story, C S Rangarajan, the famous priest of Hyderabad’s Chilkur aka “Visa” Balaji temple, said, “AP Dharmika Parishad which was dissolved in 2014 should be revived with Peetadhipathis & eminent devotees to find solution for unprecedented financial crisis affecting Hindu temples including Tirumala. Liquidating devotees' donated assets is not the right approach.” The BJP has called TTD’s decision “anti-Hindu” and demanded Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy to direct the trust to withdraw the bid immediately. While questioning the Reddy government’s dominion in selling the devotee donated assets, party’s AP unit chief Kanna Lakshmi Narayana has called the cadres, Hindu groups and Venkateshwara devotees to sit on one-day hunger strike as a mark of protest, at their respective homes on Tuesday.    TDP leader and former TTD Chairman Putta Sudhakar Yadav accused YSRCP leaders of hatching the plan to make money. Jana Sena too vehemently opposed the assets sale. “If TTD sells away land, this shall set a bad precedent and even other Hindu Religious institutions might imitate it. This shall also hurt the sentiments and beliefs of millions of devotees,” film-star turned politician Pawan Kalyan said in a series of tweets. The Jana Sena chief also retweeted Rangarajan’s tweet with DH story.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/savettd-widespread-protest-against-tirupati-temple-trust-move-to-sell-properties-donated-by-devotees-841775.html
25-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Former CM Chandrababu Naidu back in Andhra Pradesh after two months||Amid the nationwide coronavirus-induced lockdown, TDP Chief Chandrababu Naidu returned to Andhra Pradesh on Monday, after a gap of two months. The former chief minister was confined to his home in Hyderabad since the beginning of the COVID-19 lockdown. Naidu, who lost to YSRCP’s Jaganmohan Reddy exactly one year back, was holding press conferences and meetings with party men through web applications. The three-time chief minister was taunted by the YSRCP leaders “for hiding in Hyderabad” when the state is facing an unprecedented pandemic crisis. Naidu had earlier requested the state and the central government to allow him to visit the LG Polymers victims when the styrene gas leakage which claimed 12 lives happened in the port city earlier this month. Last week, Naidu made a formal request to the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments to allow him travel to Vizag. Following Telangana's nod, on Sunday AP DGP Gautam Sawang also permitted the former CM and his son Nara Lokesh movement from Hyderabad to Vizag by air and from Vizag to Amaravati by road. In the permission letter, the top cop has pointed to the COVID-19 restrictions like on venturing out of people over 65 years, night curfews, containment-Red Zone perimeter controls and home quarantine for stranded people coming into AP.     The DGP mentioned the e-pass granted to Naidu as a special case.      However, the opposition leader could not visit LG vapors victims on Monday as flight service resumption in AP was deferred to Tuesday. In the morning, Naidu took the road route to his Amaravati residence. He was greeted by his party men at Kanchikacherla and other places of Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-former-cm-chandrababu-naidu-back-in-andhra-pradesh-after-two-months-841808.html
25-05-2020||South||Andhra CM Jaganmohan Reddy shelves TTD's plans to sell devotee-donated lands||In an apparent damage control measure, the Jaganmohan Reddy government has issued an order keeping a decision by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams to liquidate 50 bits of properties in abeyance. Jagan’s government is facing censure from Lord Venkateshwara devotees, Hindu traditionalists, and TDP, Jana-Sena etc., political parties over TTD’s move to auction land parcels donated to the deity by His devotees. BJP saw it as an “anti-Hindu” move. The GO issued late on Monday refers to the plan as approved by the previous board of trustees of TTD, through a resolution in January 2016. The time pertains to Chandrababu Naidu as the chief minister. However, in February this year, the present TTD board under YV Subba Reddy went ahead with the resolution for disposal of the said 50 immovable properties worth Rs 23.92 crore. A notification towards auction of 23 of these properties in rural Tamil Nadu was issued on 30 April. Speaking to DH a few days back, Subba Reddy stated the board as mulling an option of liquidating several valuable but unused properties donated by devotees in cities like Chennai, Mumbai for income to tide over the COVID-19-affected revenue loss. The celebrated temple has been closed for darshan since March 20. A TTD official familiar with the asset liquidation proposals opined that the huge controversy generated now could shelve those plans too.   The chairman stresses that Jagan’s government is unconnected with TTD’s land sale decision. Reddy, who was previously a YSRCP MP, was made the coveted board chairman last year after Jagan became the chief minister. The CM is reportedly peeved by the adverse attention the TTD move received nationwide. “Keeping in view the sentiments of devotees, the government hereby directs TTD to re-examine the issue in consultation with different stakeholders like religious elders, opinion makers, section of devotees etc., to ascertain whether these properties can be used by TTD for construction of temples, dharma pracharam and other religious activities,” the Monday order from GAD (Cabinet) said. “Till the finalization of the matter, the proposed disposal of 50 properties by TTD is hereby kept in abeyance. Executive Officer, TTD shall take necessary action in this regard and submit compliance report immediately,” it further stated.     The auction sale controversy has become advantageous for Jagan’s detractors, on the eve of the first anniversary of his chief ministership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-shelves-ttds-plans-to-sell-devotee-donated-lands-841838.html
25-05-2020||State||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa extends Eid greetings, thanks Muslims for cooperation during fight against COVID-19||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday greeted the Muslim brethren on the occasion of Eid-ul-Fitr, which is being celebrated in a subdued manner due to coronavirus related restrictions. "Warm greetings of Eid-ul-Fitr. May this festival of peace and harmony bring happiness in life," Yediyurappa said in his message. He congratulated the Muslim fraternity for cooperating with the authorities by offering prayers at home during the holy month of Ramzan and supporting the government to contain COVID-19. "I hope the same trend will continue during the festivities of Eid-ul-Fitr too. I thank you all for your support in the fight against COVID-19," he said. The Eid festivities were a low-key affair as Muslim brethren celebrated the festival indoors in view of lockdown to contain coronavirus on Monday. People offered the special prayers inside their houses instead of performing it in mosques and Eidgah, the open field to perform prayers, and refrained from going out to greet each other. As the Karnataka government has ordered Sunday Curfew throughout the lockdown-4 till May 31, the otherwise bustling markets in the urban areas of Karnataka remained shut. People could not venture out to make necessary purchases on Sunday. The Jama Masjid of Bengaluru at the City Market had asked the Muslims to offer prayers inside their houses and not go to the burial grounds to express their sentiments for the departed souls. "Mass prayers are not allowed anywhere in Karnataka. Just five important persons managing the mosques offered the prayers. Similarly, people go to the graveyard to pray for the dead ones but this time we asked people to express their sentiments from inside their homes instead of going to the burial grounds," Maulana Maqsood Imran, the Khateeb-O-Imam, Jama Masjid, Bengaluru, told PTI.  He said, "coronavirus is spreading very rapidly in our country. If we don't follow the guidelines, it will not only cause trouble to us but also to the doctors and the government. It will be the biggest celebration if we abide by the norms."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-extends-eid-greetings-thanks-muslims-for-cooperation-during-fight-against-covid-19-841626.html
25-05-2020||State||BS Yediyurappa lauds corona warriors for their efforts to contain COVID-19||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday expressed his gratitude to the corona warriors for their efforts in containing the spread of the deadly virus. "Bengaluru has set an example & is the model for entire country on how to effectively manage the pandemic & gradually restart the economy. Well done #NammaBengaluru! Salute to all Corona warriors for their tireless efforts in this battle against COVID19," the Chief Minister tweeted. According to media reports, Jaipur, Indore, Chennai and Bengaluru, could serve as possible role models for other urban centres in handling the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite having maximum COVID-19 cases, these cities managed to keep the mortality low.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bs-yediyurappa-lauds-corona-warriors-for-their-efforts-to-contain-covid-19-841720.html
25-05-2020||State||DV Sadananda Gowda arrives from Delhi, skips quarantine, says he’s exempted||Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda, who flew into Bengaluru from the ‘high-risk’ Delhi, was not subjected to the mandatory institutional quarantine on Monday. Both Gowda and the state government claimed he was exempted under the guidelines.  Gowda said he was exempted from undergoing institutional quarantine as he was the minister in-charge of pharmaceuticals and that the pharma sector came under the ‘essential services’ category.  The minister landed at the Kempegowda International Airport, got into his car and headed out. He later held a meeting with Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar at Vikas Soudha.  Karnataka has made a 7-day institutional quarantine mandatory for all passengers travelling via domestic flights from Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, which are seen as ‘high-risk’ states.   "I head the pharma ministry and we're the backbone for providing medicines to all states. I can’t be equated with other persons,” Gowda, a former chief minister, told reporters. “I am exempted under the SOPs issued by the Centre or the state; pharma is included in that. Besides, I got myself examined in AIIMS and I was screened at the airport also. My Aarogya Setu app shows green, which means it’s safe,” he said. “If doctors and nurses aren’t allowed to come to hospitals, can we contain the corona? If supply of medicines isn’t done, what will docs do? Won’t it be the government’s failure? I’m heading the pharmaceuticals ministry and I should see that in each and every corner of the country, there should be sufficient supply of medicines,” he said.     Gowda said he was in Delhi for 63 days. “I could have come to Bengaluru on a chartered flight. Despite being a minister and exempted, I came only when flights resumed. I was checked for my temperature and my Aarogya Setu app also shows green, which means it’s safe,” he said. Primary & Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, Karnataka’s COVID-19 spokesperson, also defended Gowda. “(Gowda) is exempted in his capacity as a minister handling the pharma sector,” Kumar said, adding that the relevant order had been issued by the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dv-sadananda-gowda-arrives-from-delhi-skips-quarantine-says-he-s-exempted-841763.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Domestic flights resume in Karnataka but cancellations add to confusion||Domestic air travel resumed on Monday after two months of COVID-19 induced lockdown at the city's Kempegowda International Airport with the first flight leaving for Ranchi with about 176 passengers, as cancellations marred the day. According to sources, the first flight out was an Air Asia aircraft to Ranchi that departed at around 5:15 am, while the first arrival was a flight from Chennai at about 8 am with around 113 passengers. Restrictions on number of flights by some states, some of them mandating institutional quarantine, has led to cancellation of several arrivals and outbound flights, sources said. According to reports, over 30 flights flying out of Bengaluru have been cancelled. At city's Kempegowda International Airport, about 60 departures and 54 arrivals are expected today, officials said.  According to them, some passengers opted for cancellation at the last moment, like in the case of the Bengaluru to Hyderabad flight. There are also reports of cancellation of some flights from Sambra airport in Belagavi and Mangaluru airport. Among the passengers who arrived in the city's airport on Monday was five-year-old Vihaan Sharma, who travelled alone from Delhi. His mother was seen anxiously waiting to meet her son after three months. As per the state government standard operating procedure those passengers who have travelled from high COVID-19 prevalence states were shifted to hotels for seven days of institutional quarantine by Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses, specially arranged for the purpose. The Karnataka government has said people coming from high COVID-19 prevalence states--Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh---will have to go for institutional quarantine for seven days, and charges to be borne by the passengers. After their COVID test comes out negative (swab should be taken between 5-7 day after their arrival) using 'pool testing', they should be sent for home quarantine for another seven days, sources said. Those coming from other low prevalence states have been asked to follow 14 days of home quarantine.  Home quarantine is allowed for pregnant women, children below 10 years, senior citizens 80 years and above and terminally ill patients along with one attendant after their test result is negative. In special cases where businessmen are coming for urgent work, they are permitted without the necessity of quarantine if they bring the negative test report of COVID-19 from ICMR approved Laboratory and it should not be more than two days older from the date of travel. In case they don't have such certificate, they have to undergo COVID-19 test and stay in paid institution quarantine till the test result comes out. In an effort to protect passengers and staff from the risk of COVID-19 transmission, Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) that operates the city airport has introduced a Parking-to-Boarding 'contactless' journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-domestic-flights-resume-in-karnataka-but-cancellations-add-to-confusion-841632.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: 69 new cases reported in Karnataka, death toll increases to 43||A 55-year-old woman from Bengaluru Rural became the 43rd COVID-19 casualty in Karnataka as the state reported 69 new cases of coronavirus, taking the total number of infections to 2,158, the health department said on Monday. With 43 deaths and 680 discharges, there are 1,433 active corona cases in the state, the department said in its mid-day bulletin. The deceased woman was diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection and was admitted to designated hospital on May 19 and died due to ARDS (Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome) on May 24, it said. According to the bulletion,26 patients, who have recovered, have been discharged on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 51 are returnees from Maharashtra, two from Tamil Nadu, one each from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, while four cases are with history of international travel- two from UAE and one each from Muscat and UK.   Others include eight, who are contacts of patients already tested positive, one from containment zone in Bengaluru and one patient whose contact history is under tracing. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Udupi accounted for 16, followed by 15 from Yadgir, Kalaburagi 14, Bengaluru urban six, three each from Dakshina Kannada, Ballari and Dharwad, two each from Mandya and Kolar, and one each from Belagavi, Bidar, Ramanagara, Tumakuru and Vijayapura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-69-new-cases-reported-in-karnataka-death-toll-increases-to-43-841662.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Activists, experts demand cancellation of SSLC exams||Demanding the cancellation of Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations, a group of social activists and a few academicians have written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, highlighting the risks involved in conducting the exam. In separate letters, both the academicians and the social activists including Mavalli Shankar, Kodihalli Chandrashekar, Dr Niranjanaradhya V P have urged the chief minister to cancel the examinations considering the spike in Covid-19 cases across Karnataka. “Over 8.5 lakh students are appearing for exams. This will put a further 25 lakh people, including the parents and the teachers, into pressure as the children are forced to appear for the examinations in this situation,” the letterstates. “The government should look back and think what has happened in migrant workers issue? It should not repeat the same mistake in SSLC examinations issue,. It is nothing but playing with the lives of lakhs of children,” they said. They even suggested to issue SSLC certificates to students considering recent performances of the students as SSLC certificate is important to everyone. They even demanded the CM to take opinion from parents, teachers and other stakeholders on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/activists-experts-demand-cancellation-of-sslc-exams-841820.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Davangere man ends life at quarantine centre||A 34-year-old man, who was quarantined on the district hospital premises, committed suicide by hanging himself in the toilet on Monday morning. However, his reports returned negative for coronavirus on Monday afternoon. Deceased B M Manjunath was a resident of Basapur. He was placed in quarantine as his house came under Anekonda containment zone. His throat swab sample was drawn during a random testing on May 20. According to doctors, Manjunath was undergoing treating for mental illness at Manipal Hospital. Besides, he had kidney problems. The Badawane police haver registered a complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/davangere-man-ends-life-at-quarantine-centre-841821.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Conveyor belt of YTPS gutted in a fire mishap||A conveyor belt carrying coal to the first unit of Yermarus Thermal Power Station (YTPS) at Chikkasugur in the district gutted in a fire accident late on Sunday night. Fire mishaps are common in conveyor belts at thermal plants during summer. The personnel would act swiftly extinguish fire whenever they spot one.But this time, it is said, the staff failed to take a timely action as the blaze reduced the belt worth lakhs of rupees to ashes in a jiffy. The YTPS management made sure there was no interruption to power generation by arranging an alternative conveyor belt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/conveyor-belt-of-ytps-gutted-in-a-fire-mishap-841822.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lest you be denied the luscious lot in peak season||After taking the post office route for door-delivery of mango during the lockdown and connecting farmers with RWAs for bulk sale, the Horticulture Department has roped in Flipkart to clear the mango stocks in the next few weeks of peak season.  The Horticulture Department is set to enter into an agreement with the homegrown online retailer at an event to be held on Tuesday. Officials said consumers can book their favourite variety of mango on the same day that the agreement is signed.  “This is a 45-day pilot project which will help the growers as we enter the peak production season of mango. The farmer producer organisations (FPOs) in Karnataka will help connect the farmers with Flipkart, which has come forward to work with us during the time of crisis,” said Secretary for Agriculture and Horticulture Rajender Kumar Kataria. He said the department had been trying to open new sales channels for the Karnataka Mango Development And Marketing Board. Over the last one month, the board sold 67 tonnes of mango through India Post, which delivered 22,300 boxes to the doorsteps of the consumers. “The biggest positive turn was from citizens as we managed to sell 110 tonnes of mango through Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs). We will continue the programme in the coming days,” Kataria said.  The department has stated that 2020 is an off-year for mango due to low flowering with total production expected to be around 8-9 lakh tonnes instead of the normal output of 12-14 lakh tonnes. However, as the lockdown rules restricted market transactions, officials had to find new ways to help farmers clear their stock. The Flipkart route is expected to help the Mango Board, particularly in clearing the Alphonso mangoes. “Over the last one month, an estimated 20% of the total Alphonso output has arrived in the market. The Alphonso’s peak season has begun now with 45% of the produce expected to hit the market,” Kataria said.  Officials expect the online retailer to bring more customers for the Alphonso, considered to be the expensive variety of mango, as the pandemic has made it difficult to export to other states and countries. The department, however, will not decide the commission to be given to Flipkart. “Usually, the company charges about 7% to 8% of the product value as commission charges. However, we are told that 2% to 3% may be charged for FPOs. We hope this will benefit the farmers,” an official said. In a release issued after signing of the Memorandum of Agreement with the Karnataka government on Tuesday, Flipkart said it will provide training and capacity building to persons involved in the scheme on how to use the app and other user interfaces. Along with the Mango Board, Indian Post Offices will function as the last mile delivery operations partners during this season. It said consumers can place orders for several varieties of mangoes including Alphonso, Badami, Apoos, Banganpalli, Kesar, Neelam, Himam Pasand, Sendur and Mallika, in batches of 3 kg. Rajneesh Kumar, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, Flipkart Group, said, “These are challenging times for farmers and small business owners across the country, and we are pleased to bring together ecosystem partnerships which benefit larger sections of society.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lest-you-be-denied-the-luscious-lot-in-peak-season-841823.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||32 fresh cases propel Udupi's Covid tally to 108||Infections continue to mount in several districts with many interstate and international returnees, lodged in institutional quarantines, testing positive to novel coronavirus. On Monday, the state saw 93 fresh cases. It’s needless to say that most of them were with a travel history to Maharashtra.  The Covid-19 cases linked to Maharashtra exploded in Udupi district with 32 fresh infections in the last 24 hours (ending 5pm on Monday). The district’s biggest single-day spike saw as many as 27 cases with a travel history to Maharashtra. Among the remaining five cases, two were UAE returnees, a 30-year-old man was presented with influenza-like illness (ILI) and one person was believed to have contracted virus from containment zone. A 65-year-old male is a contact of Patient 1435. Among the infected are six girls aged between 1 and 11. All 32 patients have been admitted to TMA Pai Covid Hospital Udupi district’s tally has gone up to 108. The district did well to contain virus spread in April and for best part of May. But it took a quantum leap in infections in the last one week or so. Four Maharashtra returnees tested positive in Dakshina Kannada as its tally rose to 62. Of which, 40 are active. Two Kalyana Karnataka districts - Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts - combined recorded 31 new cases, all with a travel history to Maharashtra. Kalaburagi district reported 16 fresh cases, including six and three infections from Ram Nayaka and Bugadi tandas in Chittapur taluk, respectively. The district has 72 active cases as on May 25 and the fatalities remain at 7, On the bright side, as many as 10 patients were discharged post-recovery from GIMS hospital on Monday. Its neighbour, Yadgir witnessed 15 more, including 10 persons lodged at Kanyakolur quarantine centre, test positive for Covid-19 on Monday. A 40-year-old man from Bidar, with a travel history to Muscat, Oman, also tested positive for virus. Meanwhile, Ramanagara reported its first Covid-19 case with eight-year-old boy from Marasandra in Magadi taluk contracting the virus. However, the throat swab samples of all his family members had returned negative.The boy and his parents have a travel history to virus hotspot Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/32-fresh-cases-propel-udupis-covid-tally-to-108-841825.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Small scale industries' body seeks cheaper loans||The MSMEs that are struggling amid the Covid-19 pandemic need cheaper loans in order to survive, the Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) has sought.  On Monday, KASSIA President R Raju sent a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, seeking lower interest rates on loans.  The letter pointed out that about 25-30% of the small and medium sector enterprises risked shutting shop permanently in spite of the state government relaxing labour laws and giving a waiver on fixed electricity charges. “They are badly in need of cheaper loans from financial institutions. The 4% loan facility offered by the Karnataka State Financial Corporation (KSFC), which is now inaccessible for want of funds, needs immediate revival,” the association stated. The association has also urged the CM to make government tender process friendly to MSMEs by holding departments accountable for reservations to MSMEs. In its present form, the MSMEs are left out of large tenders as they cannot afford the prerequisite Earnest Money Deposit (EMD), the association has said. Withdrawal of the ‘Karasamadhana Scheme’, which was meant for aiding MSMEs with a one-time settlement of outstanding taxes, without interest of penalty, had also come as a huge blow. This needs to be revived, the association president added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/small-scale-industries-body-seeks-cheaper-loans-841826.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HCQ stocks to last three months: Sadananda||India has enough stocks of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to last another three months, Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda said on Monday.  “The HCQ requirement is 95 lakh tablets every month. We have stocks for the next three months. Any exports will be done after ensuring we have what’s required for domestic use,” Gowda told reporters. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recommended HCQ as a preventive medicine for all asymptomatic healthcare workers working in Covid and non-Covid hospitals. In addition, the medicine has been recommended for use in surveillance workers deployed in containment zones, the police and paramilitary personnel involved in Covid-19 related activities and asymptomatic household contacts of confirmed cases.  Gowda said that the country had sufficient stock of azithromycin.  “This is an antibiotic. The yearly requirement is 2.2 crore tablets, against which we currently have 9.6 crore tablets. So, there’ll be no problem,” he said. Gowda said the inventory is reviewed once in three days.   “The idea is to achieve PM Narendra Modi’s vision for Atmanirbhar Bharat. We shouldn’t depend on anyone. Imagine the US President asking India for HCQ, and when Italy, Germany and Japan have placed demands,” Gowda said.  Gowda was speaking after chairing a meeting with Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar and others. He was told by the state government that RT-PCR, RNA extraction and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits were needed. “I will immediately raise this matter with the Ministry of Home Affairs and ICMR,” Gowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hcq-stocks-to-last-three-months-sadananda-841829.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: Bengaluru is the model for India, says BSY||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday hailed Bengaluru as an example, presenting it as a model for India on managing the Covid-19 pandemic.  Yediyurappa was reacting to a news report that the Centre had picked Bengaluru and three other cities - Jaipur, Indore and Chennai - for the way they have handled the pandemic in terms of containment and keeping mortality rates low. "Bengaluru has set an example and is the model for the entire country on how to effectively manage the pandemic and gradually restart the economy,” Yediyurappa said in a tweet.   He also congratulated everyone involved in the fight against Covid-19. "Well done Namma Bengaluru! Salute to all corona warriors for their tireless efforts in this battle against Covid-19," he said.  As on May 25, Bengaluru Urban had 114 active Covid-19 cases. Of the total 274 positive cases in the city district, nine people have died so far.  The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru Urban is 26 days as against the state average of 10 days, according to State War Room analysis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-bengaluru-is-the-model-for-india-says-bsy-841830.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt revises SoP||The health department on Monday revised its SoP again. Now ministers of union government or state government ministers or officers on their official duty who are travelling across states will be exempted from quarantine||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-revises-sop-841834.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy rain in south K’taka likely from today||Heavy rain is likely in south interior and coastal Karnataka for three days from Tuesday, due to the upper air circulation in the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. As per the forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Chikkamagaluru and Hassan districts have been put on yellow alert, with an indication that the two districts are likely to get heavy rain. On Wednesday, Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Chamarajanagar, Mandya, Mysuru and Ramanagar districts are likely to receive a downpour. The rain will continue on Thursday in Chamarajanagar, Mysuru, Ramanagar and Tumakuru districts which have been put on orange alert. “The monsoon is set to enter Karnataka in the first week of June. The rain received till then has been categorised as pre-monsoon showers,” said Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre’s Director Srinivasa Reddy. The highest temperature in the state was recorded at Kalaburagi where the mercury went up to 44.1 degrees Celsius while Madikeri saw the lowest at 28 degreesCelsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-rain-in-south-k-taka-likely-from-today-841835.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State reports 93 new Covid cases, two deaths||The state reported 93 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Monday. Among the fresh infections, 73 are interstate travellers while three international passengers. Bengaluru Rural and Dakshina Kannada districts reported one fatality each. A 55-year-old woman from Veerasagar in Nelamangala taluk, diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), was admitted to Tumakuru Covid Hospital on May 19. She died on Sunday due to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Her throat swab sample returned positive for Covid-19 on Monday.  A 43-year-old man from Dakshina Kannada district, who had cirrhosis of liver, died on Saturday (May 23). His lab report came back positive for virus on Monday. With this, the state’s death toll stands at 44 (excluding two suicides). On the upside, 51 patients were discharged on Monday. So far 705 have been discharged.  According to the state Covid-19 war room’s analysis of the transmission type of 2,158 cases, 1,085 accounted for domestic travel history, 799 contact history, 102 with international travel history while investigations still underway for 81 cases. Also, investigations are on for 58 SARI and 33 influenza-like illness (ILI) cases.  On the age-wise distribution of Covid-19 cases, 515 patients are in the age-group of 20-30 years, and 510 patients are aged between 30 and 40 years. Of the 44 Covid-19 fatalities, 26 are above the age of 60. Bengaluru has 192 asymptomatic cases and 80 symptomatic patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-reports-93-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-841836.html
25-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hydel project in sanctuary: greens slam approval for survey||The Forest department last week granted permission to Karnataka Power Corporation Limited to drill the ground for survey and geo-technical investigation for a power project, inside the Sharavathi Valley Lion-tailed Macaque Wildlife Sanctuary, but with stringent conditions. This, despite opposition to the proposed 2,000-MW Sharavathi pumped storage hydroelectric project inside the Sharavathi Valley between Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada districts. The proposal, accorded approval by the State Board for Wildlife in September 2019, was forwarded to the prime minister-headed National Board for Wildlife (NBWL). The NBWL, which met in April, gave its green signal to the study, subject to conditions imposed by the Chief Wildlife Warden of Karnataka. The Chief Wildlife Warden granted permission a few days ago, to drill 12 bore holes of 2X2 inch diameter each. According to the order, a copy of which is with DH, “The survey has to be carried without any tree cutting or disturbance to wildlife. Drilling equipment has to be carried on the head. Drilling is allowed only between 9 am and 6 pm. No tents or staying arrangements are allowed at the site inside the sanctuary limits during night. The period of the work shall be for one year from the date of issuance of the order. Further, the survey work shall not be taken up during monsoon season.” Joseph Hoover, Convener of the United Conservation Movement, said, “The state should not have hurried just because NBWL has given clearance for the proposal. The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, in its order dated April 6, directed all states to restrict the movement of people to wildlife sanctuaries and national parks, besides initiating measures to stop transmission of Covid-19 from humans to animals and vice versa. Despite such an order, the state has given the go-ahead.” According to sources in the Forest Department, Sagar, 14 personnel have come from Haryana to carry out the survey and drilling work.  “They have deployed their machinery at a place near to the worksite. Looking at the machinery, one can understand that no human carry take them inside the forest on the head. Locals have urged the tahsildar to keep these workers under quarantine as they have come from different states,” an activist from Sagar said. Activists from Bengaluru and power policy analysts have appealed to the chief minister not to pursue the project, let alone the survey. The project The project is envisaged between the Talakalale and Gerusoppa reservoirs on the downstream of Linganamakki reservoir across Sharavathi river. It aims to use the run-off water by way of pumped storage. Planned to be an underground project, its eight units will generate 250 MW each. The project, worth Rs 4,862.89 crore, requires about 153 hectares of land (of which 150 acres is forest area).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hydel-project-in-sanctuary-greens-slam-approval-for-survey-841837.html
25-05-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Coronavirus Lockdown: First flight lands in Karnataka's Sambra after two months as flight services resume||Flight services from the airport located at Sambra near Belagavi became functional after the union government permitted domestic services from Monday. Star Air operated Bengaluru-Belagavi and Belagavi-Ahmedabad flight service in the morning and SpiceJet has been scheduled to operate Hyderabad-Belagavi and Belagavi-Hyderabad flight service later in the evening.  Airport Director Rajesh Kumar Maurya informed DH that Star Air operated Bengaluru-Belagavi flight landed with eight passengers at 8.25 am while Belagavi-Ahmedabad took off with nine passengers at 9.05 am. He said Hyderabad-Belagavi flight of SpiceJet will land at 5.25 pm and Belagavi-Hyderabad will take off at 5.55 pm. COVID-19 protocol was being followed at the airport. The desk has been set up at arrival lounge wherein District Administration personnel were carrying out screening of passengers and following the norms regarding quarantine, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/coronavirus-lockdown-first-flight-lands-in-karnatakas-sambra-after-two-months-as-flight-services-resume-841586.html
25-05-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||10-year-old tests COVID-19 positive in Belagavi||With this, the tally of COVID-19 positive cases increased to 122 in the district.  Swab sample of the boy kept in quarantine had been sent for test and it came out positive. He has been admitted in Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/10-year-old-tests-covid-19-positive-in-belagavi-841699.html
25-05-2020||West||It's Maharashtra CM vs Railway Minister over Shramik Special||The political slugfest over Shramik Special trains refuses to die down with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal engaging in a war of words over the issue on Sunday, with the Shiv Sena chief accusing the Railways of not providing enough trains to the state despite demand. In an address to the state on Sunday, Thackeray said that while he had demanded 80 migrant special trains per day for the state to ferry migrants home, it was getting only 40. Goyal took a dig at the Maharashtra CM through a tweet, saying the Railways was ready to send as many trains as required to states, provided they do not "return empty". ¨I hope that these trains will not have to leave empty after arriving at the station like it has happened earlier. I would like to assure you that the trains you need will be available," tweeted Goyal, referring to earlier occasions when migrants did not board special trains. Thackeray in his address also said that the state had paid Rs 85 crore so far towards these trains. Goyal tweeted, ¨We are ready to provide 125 Shramik Special trains to Maharashtra. Since you have said that you have a list ready that is why I am requesting you to please provide all information like from where the train will run, the list of passengers according to the trains, their medical certificate and where the train is to go, to the General Manager of Central Railway within the next hour, so that we can plan the time of trains,” . The union minister followed this up with another tweet, "Sadly, it has been 1.5 hours but Maharashtra Govt. has been unable to give required information about tomorrow's planned 125 trains to GM of Central Railway. Planning takes time & we do not want train to stand empty at the stations, so it's impossible to plan without full details."  "I hope that the Government of Maharashtra will fully cooperate in the efforts made for the benefit of migrant labourers," he said. Earlier, Shramik Special trains became a bone of contention between the Centre and states like West Bengal, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan with the minister pointing out that these governments were allowing fewer migrant trains to arrive. The state CMś too came out all guns blazing and denied the allegations on Twitter. So far, 513 trains have terminated in Maharashtra, according to data provided by Railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/its-maharashtra-cm-vs-railway-minister-over-shramik-special-841527.html
25-05-2020||West||Ambulance driver dies of COVID-19, kin to get Rs 75 lakh, job||An ambulance driver of a civic-run hospital in Vashi in Navi Mumbai died of the novel coronavirus infection on Sunday, an official said. A Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation release said Commissioner Annasaheb Misal has announced that a legal heir would get a job in the civic body. It added that his kin would get Rs 50 lakh as compensation from the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package Insurance Scheme for Health Workers and Rs 25 lakh from the corpus of the NMMC's Kamgar Kalyan Nidhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambulance-driver-dies-of-covid-19-kin-to-get-rs-75-lakh-job-841529.html
25-05-2020||West||MMRCL to set up two COVID-19 care facilities||Amid the rising number of coronavirus cases in the city, Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRCL) said it is setting up two COVID care facilities. MMRC on Sunday said it is constructing two COVID care facilities with a total of 1,050 beds. "One isolation facility with around 800 beds including 200 oxygenated beds will be set up at Dahisar, and another at Borivali with 250 beds having high dependency units (HDU) and ICUs with dialysis facilities," the corporation said in a statement. The work is being completed on a war footing and expected to be completed in next 2 weeks, it added. Maharashtra has so far reported 50,231 COVID-19 cases, and recorded 1,635 deaths in the state. With the number of cases expected to grow in the coming days, various state authorities are assisting city civic body BMC by setting up COVID care facilities across the city. So far, COVID hospitals have been set up at BKC and NESCO in Goregaon. BMC has already transformed many schools and colleges into COVID care facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mmrcl-to-set-up-two-covid-19-care-facilities-841532.html
25-05-2020||West||NDRF recovers 132 liquor bottles from canal in Gujarat, 7 policemen booked||Seven policemen, including a police inspector, were booked for bootlegging under the stringent sections of the liquor prohibition law on Sunday after a diving team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) recovered 132 liquor bottles, worth Rs1.92 lakh, over the last two days from Narmada canal in Mehsana district of north Gujarat. The liquor prohibition law attracts 10 years of imprisonment if the accused are proven guilty. Said to be a one-of-its-kind case, the FIR was registered at Kadi police station against its police inspector O M Desai, police sub-inspectors A S Khara, K N Patel, four assistant sub-inspectors identified as Mohanbhai Haribhai, Hitendrakumar Kantilal, Prahladbhai Patel and Shaileshbhai Patel on Sunday late in the night. The remaining two accused are- Girish Parmar, a home guard jawan and Chirag Prajapati who works as Gramin Raksha Dal. "We have registered an FIR against nine accused including seven policemen under various sections of Indan Penal Code including conspiracy, Criminal breach of trust by public servant, Mischief by injury to public road, bridge, river or channel, destruction of evidence and section 65 E, 81 among others under prohibition act," Gandhinagar Superintendent of Police Mayur Patel told DH. Patel has been investigating the case and on whose initial probe the case was registered. Section 65 E of Gujarat Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 2017 pertains to liquor seizure in huge quantities that attracts punishment of up to ten years in jail. Police said that in the last two days teams of NDRF have recovered 132 intact liquor bottles and that's why this section was invoked. It has been alleged that the accused policemen were selling the liquor from the police station premises and consuming it personally. The investigation is said to have revealed that a large amount of unaccounted liquor consignment was found in the police record while they were counting them for destroying as per the provision. Confiscated liquor is destroyed in presence of officials including district administration every year. However, for the past couple of years Kadi police hadn't followed it. While they were tallying the record, it was found that the liquor consignment was much bigger than what was reflected on the record. The accused policemen allegedly started selling excess liquor from premises of police line with the help of the bootleggers. "Someone tipped off the Director General of Police (DGP), Shivanand Jha who ordered vigilance team to raid but it was leaked to the accused. The liquor consignment was moved and one of the accused was asked to hide it in a safe place. It was found that some of the liquor cartons were sold by one of the accused (home guard jawan) to a bootlegger and many of them were dumped in the canal in a hurry," said a senior police officer. He added that a special investigation team has been set up to probe the matter further. The investigation should be able to find out how the accused were selling the liquor, to whom it was being sold and since how long it was going on. The FIR, based on statement of five witnesses including policemen posted with the Kadi police station, states the accused policemen told them to dump the liquor consignment in the canal. The liquor was ferried in seven vehicles requisitioned for dealing with coronavirus related deployment. The NDRF team found intact whiskey bottles of brands such as Royal Challenge, Rock and Storm, Party Special, Crazy Romeo (for sale only in Arunchal Pradesh), among others. The team recovered 132 bottles of the liquor worth Rs1.92 lakh in two days of search operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ndrf-recovers-132-liquor-bottles-from-canal-in-gujarat-7-policemen-booked-841536.html
25-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Pune count touches 5,694, death toll now 272||Pune district's COVID-19 tally reached 5,694 on Sunday after 258 people tested positive for novel coronavirus, while the death toll touched 272 as eight people succumbed to the infection, an official said. Pune city accounted for 186 of the 258 new cases, followed by Pimpri Chinchwad with 46 and cantonment and rural areas with 26, he added. "Pune city has 4,859 COVID-19 cases, Pimpri Chinchwad 345 and rural areas 490," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-pune-count-touches-5694-death-toll-now-272-841539.html
25-05-2020||West||Ahmedabad COVID-19 cases up by 279 to 10,280; death toll at 697||The number of COVID-19 cases in Ahmedabad rose by 279 on Sunday, taking the overall count to 10,280 while the number of fatalities mounted by 28 to 697, a Health official said. A total of 187 patients were discharged from hospitals in Ahmedabad,taking the total number of the recovered patients in the district to 4,051, the official said, adding that the number of active cases stood at 5,532. At 1,132, the highest number of active cases is reported from Central zone in Ahmedabad followed by south zone and north zone which have 1,054 and 830 cases, respectively. Meanwhile, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Sunday decided to allow the diamond processing units located in the eastern and western parts of the city to operate, except in containment zones. The civic body also announced similar relaxation for industrial units in both the parts of the city. The AMC further announced partial relaxations for cab/taxi aggregators for their service to and from airports in view of the Centre's decision to operate passenger flights from May 25.  While not many relaxations are allowed in eastern Ahmedabad shops and establishments in the western parts have been allowed to remain open during the daytime with riders. The state government has also allowed shops to reopen in shopping complexes on an odd-even basis. Meanwhile, the AMC also claimed to have achieved a rate of 9,494 tests per million, which is a rise of 77 per cent from5,344 per million tests reported on May 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-covid-19-cases-up-by-279-to-10280-death-toll-at-697-841558.html
25-05-2020||West||Maharashtra govt seeks help from Kerala to fight COVID-19||Days after Maharashtra's Public Health & Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope spoke to Kerala Health & Social Welfare Minister KK Shailaja, the state government had sent a formal letter seeking doctors and nurses.  Dr TP Lahane, Director, Medical Education & Research, who is the Nodal Officer, COVID-19, has sent a letter to Shailaja.   Dr Lahane said that in future, the number of cases is going to increase in Mumbai and Pune - and requested for 50 specialist doctors and nurses. The state has offered to pay the MBBS doctors Rs 80,000 a month and Rs 2 lakh per month for MD/MS specialist doctors, which include physicians and intensivists. Trained nursing staff will be paid Rs 30,000 a month.  The Maharashtra government will provide accommodation, meals, required medicine and personal protective equipment to these doctors and nurses. "In view of the emerging situation, the Maharashtra government has decided to set up a 600-bedded COVID Health Care Center at Mahalakshmi Race Course in Mumbai City. It also included a 125 bedded ICU," the letter says. They have also made available the service of private medical practitioners. But they'd still require the service of more doctors and nurses. Dr Lahane also wrote that he spoke to Dr Santhosh Kumar, Vice President of Doctors Without Borders in South Asia, who had agreed to help in providing the required manpower.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-seeks-help-from-kerala-to-fight-covid-19-841591.html
25-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: First flight arrives in Jaipur from Bengaluru||After the restart of domestic flight operations, the first aircraft arrived at the Jaipur airport from Bengaluru on Monday morning. The Air Asia flight with 23 passengers on board landed at 0830 hrs, Jaipur airport director JS Balhara said. He said 20 flights were scheduled for the first day at the Jaipur airport but 11 of them have been cancelled. "Airlines have cancelled 11 flights today (Monday)," he said.  The director said the reasons for the cancellation were not yet clear but no availability of passengers could be a reason. Domestic flight operations resumed in the country after a gap of two months on Monday. All flight operations had ceased when the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-first-flight-arrives-in-jaipur-from-bengaluru-841608.html
25-05-2020||West||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray lock horns over Shramik Special trains||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray locked horns over the issue of running Shramik Special trains to ferry migrant workers from Maharashtra to their home states. Hours after the Maharashtra chief minister blamed the Railways for not providing the required number of trains to the state to ferry migrant workers, Piyush Goyal in his series of tweets took a dig at the Thackeray on Sunday night. Goyal posted around six tweets demanding the list of passengers from the Maharashtra government to operate trains. As per railways guidelines, the sending states have to submit a list of passengers to the railways and bring those passengers to railways railway stations.    ''Where is the list for 125 trains from Maharashtra? As of 2 am, received a list of only 46 trains of which 5 are to West Bengal and Odisha which cannot operate due to cyclone Amphan. We are notifying only 41 trains for today despite being prepared for 125 !!!'' Goyal tweeted at 2 am last night. Where is the list for 125 trains from Maharashtra? As of 2am, received list of only 46 trains of which 5 are to West Bengal and Odisha which cannot operate due to cyclone Amphan. We are notifying only 41 trains for today despite being prepared for 125 !!! Earlier Goyal also tweeted saying, ''We are waiting and working all night to prepare for tomorrow's trains schedule. Please send passenger lists within the next hour.'' Goyal also shared a press release from Central Railway which said it complied with Maharashtra Government and operated a number of trains as demanded by the state government. However, few trains scheduled for Odisha and West Bengal got cancelled due to cyclone, the Central Railway said. The political slugfest between two leaders started after the chief minister on Sunday alleged that the national transporter was not operating a sufficient number of trains despite the requests from the state government. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member and senior leader Sanjay Raut also joined the fight and tweeted: "Maharashtra government has given the list of required trains to the Railway Ministry. The only request from Piyush Ji is that the train should reach the station at which it should arrive. The train leaving for Gorakhpur should not reach Orissa." Earlier, the Railways said it was ready to operate any number of Shramik Special trains and receiving states permission was not required but sending states had to give the list of passengers. The Railways on Saturday said it has operated 2,600 trains since May 1 and ferried over 35 lakh migrant workers. It further said that it would operate 2,600 trains in next 10 days to ferry 36 lakh migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/railway-minister-piyush-goyal-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-lock-horns-over-shramik-special-trains-841611.html
25-05-2020||West||Locals protest as blast at factory kills two in Maharashtra||After two workers were killed and three others were injured in a freak blast at Economic Explosives factory in Kondhali, nearly 40 km away from Nagpur on Sunday, agitated families of the deceased and other workers gathered at the plant in huge numbers demanding compensation. The bodies of the deceased were laid out in front of the gate and they began shouting angry slogans. Salil Deshmukh, the Zilla Parishad member from Katol and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's son rushed to the spot. "We are in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic and a massive public health challenge. The congregation of people can endanger both them and others," he said. "When we reached there I spoke to the irate crowd and got them to calm down," he added. Salil Deshmukh then spoke to the senior management at the plant and got their representatives to meet the workers' families. After they were assured a compensation of Rs 20 lakh the workers agreed to move the body for the last rites and the crowd dispersed.  The plant is located in Shiva Savanga village. There were 24 labourers working on detonators inside the plant when the explosion took place. The three injured have been admitted to a hospital in Nagpur, said Deshmukh whose team is in touch with the hospital authorities to keep apprised of their health status. "Police are looking into what caused the blast," said Salil Deshmukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/locals-protest-as-blast-at-factory-kills-two-in-maharashtra-841628.html
25-05-2020||West||Ashok Chavan tests positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra||The 61-year-old Chavan is a former Maharashtra Chief Minister.  Chavan is likely to be shifted from his hometown of Nanded to Mumbai in an air ambulance.  He is the second minister form the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government to have tested positive.   Last month, senior NCP leader and state Housing Minister Dr Jitendra Awhad tested positive. He has recovered and is back home.  Chavan, a Nehru-Gandhi family loyalist, is the son of former Chief Minister Shankarrao Chavan, who had also served as a union minister holding crucial portfolios like Home, Defence and Finance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ashok-chavan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-maharashtra-841646.html
25-05-2020||West||Raj Thackeray hits back at Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on migrants strategy||Hours after Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said other states will need permission before they hire migrants from his state, Maharashtra Nanvirman Sena (MNS) shot back.  Migrants entering Maharashtra too will need permission, MNS President Raj Thackeray said in a statement. Raj, the cousin of Shiv Sena President and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, demanded that in future, the state government must permit entry only to bonafide migrants from other states. "Henceforth, when migrants enter the state, they must be registered, and their full personal details and identification papers should be submitted to the police. Only if these requirements are met with diligently, will they be allowed to enter Maharashtra. Strict adherence to needs to be followed,” Thackeray said. The Maharashtra government needs to look into this matter seriously,  Raj urged the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raj-thackeray-hits-back-at-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-on-migrants-strategy-841650.html
25-05-2020||West||Shiv Sena slams Maharashtra Governor over stand on university exams||The ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra on Monday hit out at Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for being in favour of conducting final year university exams in the state, and said health of students cannot be put at risk amid the COVID-19 crisis. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said when the RSS-backed Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has already opposed holding exams in Gujarat and Goa in the current scenario, why is Koshyari's demand in contrast to it. "Is it because the RSS-backed BJP is not in power in Maharashtra?" the Marathi daily asked. Koshyari, who is the chancellor of universities in Maharashtra, last week asked Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to resolve the issue of conduct of final year university exams in the state "without any further delay in the larger interest of students". In a letter to CM, Koshyari said "not conducting the final year examinations by universities amounts to breach of the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines". The governor also took strong objection to a letter written by state Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant to UGC, recommending cancellation of final year exams. Koshyari asked Thackeray to issue suitable instructions to Samant for his "unwarranted intervention". Defending Samant, the Sena said the minister had expressed his opinion about the examinations, but Koshyaris stand is to go ahead and conduct the exams. "The RSS-backed students' wing ABVP has already opposed holding exams in the current period in Gujarat and Goa. Then, why Koshyaris demand is in stark contract with ABVP. Is it because the RSS-backed BJP is not in power in Maharashtra?" the Uddhav Thackeray-led party wondered. These examinations are important for the future of 10 lakh students in the state, but it cannot be held by jeopardising their health, it said. "When almost all institutions are stretched to limits, how can the governor expect universities to overcome the challenges (of COVID-19) and hold exams?" it asked. The governors concerns are genuine, but when students have returned home even from abroad, how can he expect exams to be held here for students of local universities, the Marathi publication said. Major cities of the state like Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad, where headquarters of prominent universities are located, are still under the grip of COVID-19, it noted. "There is no point in pushing the demand for conducting exams at such a time," it added. The Sena had earlier also criticised Koshyari when he did not act on the Maharashtra Cabinet's recommendation in April to nominate Uddhav Thackeray as member of the state Legislative Council from the governor's quota. Thackeray was eventually elected unopposed to the Upper House earlier this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-slams-maharashtra-governor-over-stand-on-university-exams-841663.html
25-05-2020||West||Question in Goa Board's Class 10 English exam stokes row||A question in the Goa Board's Class 10 English exam paper has stirred a controversy as it allegedly portrays the state government in poor light and refers to corruption in recruitment. The ruling BJP has demanded action in the matter, while the opposition Congress said the question reflects the "reality of the state government". In the English exam held last week, the controversial question described a conversation between two persons, wherein one says he has to opt for a job in Portugal because of jobs being scarce here, and that one needs to have influence and money to get a job. Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary School Education Chairman Ramakrishna Samant on Monday said an inquiry would be initiated into how such a question was included in the English paper of the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exam. "We will conduct an inquiry into it immediately, Samant said. Goa is a former Portuguese colony. It was liberated from the Portuguese rule in 1961. State BJP general secretary Narendra Sawaikar also demanded strict action in the matter. "The Goa Board should immediately initiate strict action against the paper setter, moderator and whosoever is involved in the process of this paper setting. This act has to be punished," he tweeted on Sunday. Former Goa BJP chief Rajendra Arlekar said the question provokes an "anti-Goa and anti-India feeling". Portuguese stooges in Goa Board? Look at question D of English paper of SSCE. Provoking anti-Goa and anti-India feeling. Paper setter must be punished," he tweeted. Goa Surakasha Manch (GSM) president Subhash Velingkar said the question "smacks of pro-Portuguese mentality". Velingkar, who is the former Goa RSS chief, demanded that the name of the paper setter and the board of studies which approved the question paper be made public. He also demanded an inquiry into the matter and action against those found guilty. However, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar said the question reflects current reality of the state government. No need to change the voice. Message is loud and clear in this question of SSC exam paper. The @BJP4Goa Government under @goacm @DrPramodPSawant is corrupt. Now the 'Defects' are visible even in Education System," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/question-in-goa-boards-class-10-english-exam-stokes-row-841688.html
25-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Migrants heading back home hopeful of returning to work||A number of migrant workers, who have left from Maharashtra's Pune city for their native places after being rendered jobless due to the lockdown, are hopeful that the situation will normalise and they would be able to come back to work. But, they say since right now they have no work and are facing acute financial crunch, they have no option but to return to their hometowns and wait for time to get better. Talking to PTI at Pune railway station before boarding a train to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh over the weekend, Sarajuddin Shah (24), who worked as a tailor at a shop on Laxmi Road here, said since they were not getting any customers, he decided to go back to his native place. Asked if he would return to Pune, he said, "Why would I not come back? I have been working here as a tailor for last three years. The city has given me livelihood. Once the situation normalises, I will come back to the city." Besides Shah, at least 10 other tailors working at different shops on Laxmi Road, one of the biggest business hubs in Pune, were also waiting for the train to go back to Uttar Pradesh. They said even if businesses open up again in Pune now, there was very little possibility that they would get customers anytime soon. Mohan Prasad (30), another tailor from the group, said he was heading to his native place as his family there was concerned about him and asked him to come back. "I was working at a tailoring shop on Laxmi Road for last five to six years. After the lockdown, I was getting ration kits, but survival is becoming difficult day by day, and since 'bimari' (COVID-19) is increasing in the city, my parents and wife back home are concerned and are asking me to return to Gorakhpur," he said. However, Prasad also said he is keen to return to Pune once things become normal. Tailor Karun Shah, who was working in Pune since last 10 years, said since the business activity will take some more time to pick up pace, he decided to go to his native place Gorakhpur and spend some time with his family. Ramaiyya Yadav, a native of Bihar who worked at a catering service, said he was staying in Pune's Shivajinagar area, one of the worst hit by COVID-19. "Since living in the locality is getting difficult, and it is also very difficult to shift to another placeamid the lockdown, I chose to head back home," he said while waiting for a Bihar-bound train. "But, I will come back to Pune once the situation gets normal," he added. The Pune district administration has so far sent over 1.2 lakh migrant workers to their respective states by Shramik Special trains. Till Sunday, Pune district reported 5,694 COVID-19 cases and 272 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-migrants-heading-back-home-hopeful-of-returning-to-work-841700.html
25-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Domestic flight services resume in Mumbai||As many as 20 flights were operated to and from the Mumbai airport till 12:45 pm on Monday after Indian airlines resumed commercial passenger services after two months of COVID-19 lockdown. The airport received around 1,900 passengers, Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said in a statement. The government had on March 25 announced suspension of all commercial passenger flights, following the imposition of a nationwide lockdown.  Last week, the government decided to lift restrictions on the operations of the domestic flight services and allowed Indian carriers to recommence one-third of their total flights from each airport. "As of 12:40 pm Monday, seven flights carrying 266 arrived at the Shivaji Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) while a total of 1,613 passenger departed in 13 flights to different destinations till 12.45 pm," MIAL said. Budget carrier IndiGo was the first carrier to recommence air services to and from the city airport with the departure of its flight to Patna at 6.45 am and its first flight arriving from Lucknow at 8.20 am.  Mumbai airport had on Sunday announced it will restart operations with 50 flights per day to begin with, 25 arrivals and 25 departures. It had also urged the passengers above the age of 14 to mandatorily download the Aarogya Setu app to establish safe travel and as part of the SOPs (standard operating procedure) put in place before the recommencement of operations. CSMIA had also advised passengers above 80 years as well as expectant mothers and passengers with health issues to restrict travelling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-domestic-flight-services-resume-in-mumbai-841718.html
25-05-2020||West||NCP chief Sharad Pawar meets Maharashtra governor||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Monday met with Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari at Raj Bhavan here. The NCP claimed that the meeting took place on the invitation of the governor and no political issues came up for discussion. Speaking to reporters after leaving Raj Bhavan, senior NCP leader Praful Patel said it was a courtesy meeting at the request of Koshyari. When asked whether Pawar and the governor discussed any political issues, Patel said, "It was a routine meeting between them. It was not about any particular political issue or topic". However, the timing of the meeting is significant as it took place against the backdrop of strained relations between the Shiv Sena, which heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of which the NCP is one of the key constituents, and the Raj Bhavan. Pawar was one of the key leaders from Maharashtra who had openly complained about Koshyari's "intervention" in the functioning of the state administration. Recently, the governor had taken a strong objection to a letter written by state Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant to the University Grants Commission, recommending cancellation of final year university exams. In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Koshyari had said that "not conducting the final year examinations by universities amounts to breach of UGC guidelines". He also asked Thackeray to issue suitable instructions to Samant for his "unwarranted intervention". Earlier in the day, an editorial published in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' slammed the governor for being in favour of conducting final year university exams in the state, and said health of students cannot be put at risk amid the COVID- 19 crisis. The Sena had also expressed its displeasure with Raj Bhavan over "frequent meetings" between Opposition BJP and the governor. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis had recently complained to the governor about the "failure" of the Thackeray government in handling the COVID crisis. Last week, Thackeray, who heads the Sena, had skipped a meeting called by Koshyari to take stock of the situation. Earlier, the Sena had criticised Koshyari when he did not act on the Maharashtra Cabinet's recommendation in April to nominate Uddhav Thackeray as member of the state Legislative Council from the governor's quota. Thackeray was eventually elected unopposed to the Upper House earlier this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-meets-maharashtra-governor-841722.html
25-05-2020||West||Will send Yogi videos of migrants hailing Maharashtra CM: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday rejected Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's claim of "ill-treatment" of migrant workers in Maharashtra and said they in fact praised his counterpart, Uddhav Thackeray, while leaving the western state amid lockdown. Raut, whose party heads the coalition government in Maharashtra, said he would send to Adityanath video clips of migrant workers hailing Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Speaking to reporters, Raut said, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath claimed that we ill-treated migrant workers. We will send him video clips of migrant workers hailing Uddhav Thackeray while leaving Maharashtra."  Raut disapproved of Adityanath's comment on "ill- treatment" of migrant workers who have left Maharashtra in large numbers in view of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown which rendered them jobless. Adityanath should not have made such claims. He should now spend most of his time in ensuring food and water to migrant workers who have returned home," the Sena leader said. Raut said if the UP chief minister wants states to seek his permission for employing people from the northern state, he should not forget that migrant workers came to Maharashtra in search of jobs.  "We accepted them and let them work here. We have taken care of these people not just in the last one-and a-half months...they have been working here for years. We all were living together in harmony, he said. Upset that migrant labourers were "not properly taken care of" by various states in the wake of lockdown, Adityanath on Sunday said any state that wants migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh back has to seek permission from his government and need to ensure their socio-legal-monetary rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-send-yogi-videos-of-migrants-hailing-maharashtra-cm-sanjay-raut-841726.html
25-05-2020||West||Another Mumbai cop dies of COVID-19, takes toll to 12||A 57-year-old constable of the Mumbai Police has died of COVID-19, taking the total number of the deceased police personnel from the metropolis to 12 so far, a senior official said on Monday. With the latest death, the number of police personnel who have succumbed to COVID-19 rose to 18 in Maharashtra, he said.  The constable, who was admitted in civic-run Nair hospital here on May 23, tested positive for coronavirus on May 24 and died on the same day. He was posted at the training branch at the city traffic police, the official said. "The constable was not attending duty for the last one month or so as he was above 55-year-old," said Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Madhukar Pandey.  The Mumbai Police had last month asked their personnel who are above 55 years of age with pre-existing ailments to go on leave as a precautionary measure amidst the COVID-19 crisis. The deceased constable was living in the Worli Police camp with his family members. So far, 1,809police personnel, including 194 officers, had tested positive for coronavirus. The total number of active cases in the state police stands at 1,113 with 678 personnel recovering from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/another-mumbai-cop-dies-of-covid-19-takes-toll-to-12-841760.html
25-05-2020||West||Guj lockdown: Over 28,000 MNREGA works employ 6.8 lakh people||Almost 6.8 lakh people were employed in nearly 29,000 works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGA) across 6,592 villages amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown in Gujarat, Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the chief minister, said on Monday. He said 6,79,842 labourers got employment in 28,869 works under MNREGA, with Dahod district leading the list by giving jobs to 1,06,956 people.  The state's Sujalam Sufalam Jal Sanchay Yojana, meant to increase water holding capacity ahead of the monsoon, has generated 18,24,441 lakh man days through 1,403 projects, he said. "The third phase of the SSJA was initiated from April 20 and will conclude on June 10. So far, 1,403 works have been completed under SSJA and 5,676 works are under progress. A total of 1,32,089 mechanical tools, machines and equipment have been used, including 26,535 JCBs and 1.05 lakh tractors and dumpers," Kumar said. The works have led to creation of almost 1.34 crore cubic feet water holding capacity, and dug out soil has been given to farmers free of cost, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/guj-lockdown-over-28000-mnrega-works-employ-68-lakh-people-841761.html
25-05-2020||West||Hectic political developments in Maharashtra ||Amid a direct Centre vs ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi confrontation in the wake of the emerging situation involving COVID-19 pandemic, the political scene seems to be heating up in Maharashtra. The opposition BJP has since last week stepped up attacks on Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. In the process, the BJP has launched Maharashtra-bachao agitation against the MVA government, comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and the Congress. Last week, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis called on Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and alleged that Thackeray messed up the COVID-19 situation. The next day, the Governor called for a review meeting with the Chief Minister, however, Thackeray phoned and recused himself. He instead sent Milind Narvekar to the meeting.  Top IAS and IPS officers were present at the meeting, wherein Koshyari asked the government to prepare for a big spike in June-July. The Governor, a couple of days later, also took strong objection to the letter written by Minister of Higher and Technical Education Uday Samant to UGC recommending cancellation of final year examination of students, which he said is against guidelines.On Saturday, Shiv Sena leader and Uddhav aide met the Governor, which was described as a courtesy call.On Sunday, Thackeray targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, though not naming him, saying that the lockdown was announced suddenly.On Monday, two significant developments took place - NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and his close aide Praful Patel met the Governor and former Chief Minister and BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane.Patel said that it was a courtesy call.However, reports suggest that Rane pressed for President's Rule in Maharashtra.The Maharashtra government also had a tiff with Railway Minister Piyush Goyal over Shramik Special trains and Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri over starting of domestic flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hectic-political-developments-in-maharashtra-841772.html
25-05-2020||West||Mumbai's coronavirus toll crosses 1,000-mark||The total COVID-19 positive cases in Mumbai now stands at 31,972 and deaths at 1,026. The toll in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) combined had crossed 1,000 on May 22. On Monday, the Mumbai-MMR tally was 1,154 deaths and 40,438 cases. Total number of cases in Maharashtra stands at 52,657 and deaths at 1,695. Across the state,  a total of 1,186 patients have been discharged taking the tally to 15,786 who had gone home till date. This leaves the total active cases at 35,178. A total of 3,78,555 tests were conducted, of which 52,667 have tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-coronavirus-toll-crosses-1000-mark-841781.html
25-05-2020||West||12.28 lakh migrants ferried out of Gujarat by trains so far||The Gujarat government has so far sent back 12.28 lakh migrant labourers to their home states onboard 839 Shramik Special trains, an official said on Monday. This figure will rise to close to 13 lakh by Monday night as more Shramik Special trains are lined up for operation amid the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. The government has so far arranged 839 trains for migrant workers and another 43 will leave Gujarat by Monday night, the official said. "Out of the 2,989 Shramik trains operated across the country till Sunday midnight, Gujarat operated 839 trains, and on Monday it made arrangement for 43 more trains, sending a total of 12.96 lakh migrant workers," said Ashwani Kumar, Secretary to the Chief Minister. "The state government has ensured to arrange safe return of around 12.96 lakh migrant workers through 882 special Shramik trains by Monday," he told reporters. Gujarat has already operated 839 Shramik trains for 12.28 lakh labourers and additional trains will be operated by Monday night to carry 68,000 more migrants, he said.  Out of the 43 trains arranged on Monday, 17 were for UP, 13 for Bihar, eight for Odisha, three for Jharkhand, one each for Andhra Pradesh and Tripura, Kumar said.   All necessary safety protocols are being observed in these trains in addition to making provision for food and potable water for passengers, Kumar said. Shramik Special trains were started by the Railways in early May to transport migrant workers stranded due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1228-lakh-migrants-ferried-out-of-gujarat-by-trains-so-far-841788.html
25-05-2020||West||Gujarat: Two days after scathing order on mishandling coronavirus pandemic, govt lawyers move HC 'discreetly'||"This is shocking and amazing as the said officer is attached to the registry as a very senior officer and is not supposed to take any orders from the Government Pleader. A detailed inquiry is the crying need of the hour and till then, the said officer is required to be suspended," Trivedi has stated in the letter addressed to the chief justice of the high court justice Vikram Nath.  The letter goes on to say, that "This unsavory incident will certainly not be a good omen, when we are all trying to go for Video Conference hearing, as now all will have doubts, as to whether something may not happen behind their back." Another written complaint by a senior advocate Anshin H Desai says that "It is a matter of judicial discipline and decorum that in a pending or a disposed off matter, if any application is filed, all the parties are required to be supplied copies of the pleadings." It says that as soon as he and other advocate came to know about the urgent hearing, they called an officer identified as A T Ukrani, who handles IT cell in the the high court. The officer told Desai to approach the Registrar, Judicial which he did. "I was told by the Registrar, Judicial that the government pleader Manisha Luvkumar-Shah has mentioned in a note or something that no one is required to be served with a copy, that no one else is concerned, and that 'no notice' or an advanced copy to the other side is required. And, I am also conveyed that on such a request, the Chief Justice permitted circulation at 4 PM today," the letter claims. Despite repeated attempts government pleader Shah didn't respond to calls or returned messages. Desai's letter further said, "It seems that the Court has been misled. Without a copy of any such application, the registry of Gujarat High Court never permits circulation and in the past we have frantically pleaded to the Registry in normal times for circulation, and even after the service of advanced copy, immediate circulation is next to impossible. I wonder how such a circulation was permitted today?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-two-days-after-scathing-order-on-mishandling-coronavirus-pandemic-govt-lawyers-move-hc-discreetly-841828.html
