26-05-2020||First Edit||China must back off, defuse situation||There has been a worrying surge in tensions on the border with China at various points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in recent weeks. Flag meetings between commanders of the two sides have failed to de-escalate the situation. Not only have Chinese troops transgressed into the Indian side of the LAC but they have also disrupted routine patrolling near the LAC by Indian troops. They have also destroyed posts and bridges on the Galwan Nala at Chang-Chenmo. Indian experts have said that the Chinese transgressions are not “normal” but “serious.” At a time when India and China should be directing all their attention to fighting the Covid-19 pandemic at home, it is unfortunate that Beijing has resorted to aggressive moves along the LAC. For decades, the military balance along the LAC was decisively in China’s favour as India, anxious to avoid ruffling Beijing’s feathers, was reluctant to improve road and other infrastructure near the LAC. Over the past decade, however, India has not only improved not only infrastructure along the LAC but also its military preparedness vis-à-vis China. It is likely that Beijing is uneasy with India slowly closing the gap. Hence, the growing aggression of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops against Indian patrols. China’s moves along the LAC must not be seen in isolation. Since early this year, it has aggressively asserted its claims over disputed maritime borders with several of its neighbours, including Japan, South Korea and several Southeast Asian countries. At a time when the latter are struggling with the Covid-19 pandemic, Beijing appears to be pressuring them to settle territorial disputes in a way that favours China. This could underlie Chinese calculations regarding its border dispute with India, too. The possibility that Beijing is pushing Nepal to adopt a confrontationist posture in its territorial dispute with India in a bid to put Delhi under pressure on yet another front cannot be ruled out. Face-offs along the LAC have grown in frequency and intensity in recent years. This time, the situation looks more serious as both sides are moving additional troops along the LAC and the militaries are in a state of heightened alert. There is a real possibility of a military confrontation between the two sides, especially in eastern Ladakh. A conflict or even a standoff, whether limited or prolonged, will benefit neither country. The two countries must speed up the Special Representative process to negotiate and clarify the borders. But, for that, it is imperative that China backs off from what it has started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/china-must-back-off-defuse-situation-842142.html
26-05-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||'Antarjala Chetana' to be extended to all Karnataka districts, says K S Eshwarappa||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister K S Eshwarappa on Tuesday stated that the 'Antarjala Chetana' programme aimed at improving the groundwater level would be extended to all districts in the Karnataka, and several agencies have come forward to offer technical guidance. "This programme under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) is being implemented in nine districts on a pilot basis, and it will be extended to the entire State gradually," he said. In nine districts, Art of Living is offering technical guidance and supervision service free of cost. The plan is to complete groundwater recharging works in three years. For works like bund and pond construction under this scheme, farmers with less than five acres of land would also get money directly, Eshwarappa noted. A total of 9.19 lakh people worked under the MGNREGS in the State on Monday alone. Karnataka is in the second position in the country in taking up MGNREGS works, only after Chhattisgarh.  MGNREGS works have begun in all 6,021 gram panchayats in the State to give jobs for rural people during the ongoing situation caused by Covid-19 pandemic. Wage is increased from Rs 249 to Rs 275 per day. The pending amount related to wages and material under MGNREGS is also released, he said. In reply to a query over the fate of gram panchayats with elected bodies completing their term soon, Eshwarappa said, "We are ready for elections also. Continuing the term of existing bodies, appointing an administrator or having an administrative committee are the options before the government. A decision in this regard would be taken by the Cabinet soon".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/antarjala-chetana-to-be-extended-to-all-karnataka-districts-says-k-s-eshwarappa-841991.html
26-05-2020||In Perspective||In COVID-19 lockdown, ‘reverse trafficking’ of child labour||In a bizarre turnaround, traffickers are returning hundreds of children, who they had earlier trafficked to be used as child labour in sweat shops, back to their villages in Bihar.  With factories having closed post-Covid-19, feeding thousands of child labourers crammed in tiny rooms, where their small hands were used to make assorted handicrafts, was more than their employers had bargained for. With bus and train services resuming across states like Rajasthan and Gujarat, such children are being bundled into them by the same traffickers who had brought them to Bhatta Basti in Jaipur and other such labour hubs in the first place. Bhatta Basti is known for small units that produce lac bangles and other handicrafts.   Twenty-nine children, carrying false Aadhaar cards showing their ages to be over 18 years, were rescued on Thursday last when they got down from a Shramik Express Special Train at the Madhubani station in Bihar. They had boarded the train at Jaipur. Another 29 children were being put into buses at Dausa and Bharatpur in Rajasthan when activists from Childline and the  National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights, along with the police, swung into action and rescued them. In this case also, the kids were carrying fake identity cards which showed their ages to be over 18, though it was clear that some of them were only 11 or 12 years of age.  It seems strange that in both these operations, not a single trafficker was arrested. The children rescued at the Madhubani station have been placed in a quarantine centre and will be sent to their homes after 14 days.  Heenu Singh, who heads the north regional centre of Childline India Foundation, says that child labourers working in the BT cotton fields of Gujarat and northern Maharashtra are also being moved back to their homes in a large-scale undercover operation. The problem is that, in the majority of cases, the trafficker is from the same village as these boys, and is known to them. Following the spread of the pandemic, the child labourers are desperate to get home as they too are terrified of being infected. Mahadev Debanghi, centre coordinator with Childline in the eastern sector, cites the example of a 12-year-old who was rescued on Thursday at the Madhubani railway station. He had been taken to Jaipur only six months ago on the promise that he would be allowed to study and would have to work for only two hours daily to make Rs 3,000 every month. However, neither he nor any of the other children received even one rupee in salary while being forced to work up to 18 hours a day. The trafficker, on the other hand, received from the owners of small workshops a monthly `honorarium’ of Rs 1,000-2,000 per month for every child working in these clusters. That is why he has a stake in bringing these kids back home. Whenever the industries restart, many of these kids will be taken back to these places, said Debanghi. With trains having resumed, Debanghi  expects child labourers to be returning to different districts in Bihar, including Patna, Gaya, Nalanda, Nawada, East and West Champaran, Sitamarhi, Mad hubani, Samastipur, Madhupura  and Supaul and also other states across India.  The numbers will be large. India has over 10 million child labourers, according to Census 2011, but this is the first time in decades that children are being brought back to their homes. The problem is that, technically, none of these rescued children fall under the category of bonded labour, which would entitle them to compensation from both the state and Centre. Only children rescued from their workplaces are entitled to receive state compensation, say activists. In any case, as Suresh Kumar, executive director of the Bihar-based NGO Centre Direct, pointed out, rescued children seldom receive any compensation.    “The state labour department works in a non-transparent manner and is more in league with the employer than in giving these child victims the entitlements that are their due,’’ said Kumar.  In the majority of cases, little action has been taken against either the trafficker or against the parents who, for minuscule amounts of money, are also abettors in this crime. “Considering the scale of the crime, one would have thought that hundreds of traffickers would have been jailed. Convictions are minuscule because the children are intimidated and refuse to testify against them in court. Only in one high profile case was Bihar-based trafficker Mohammed Toufiq convicted last year by a Jaipur court and that, too, after two FIRs were filed against him,” said Kumar.  Even in the three rescue operations conducted on Thursday, the traffickers managed to escape. Childline received as many as 92,000 SOS calls (a 50% surge) during the first 11 days of the first lockdown, with callers requesting protection from abuse and violence. Many child labourers, allowed out briefly to go to a toilet, rang up on this helpline.  Child activists are terrified at the post-Covid 19 situation which has rendered millions of workers jobless. Explained Heenu  Singh, “With no jobs and no food available for millions of families, this is going to be the golden period for traffickers. They are going to enjoy a free hand,” she said. The decision of the state governments of Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat to relax labour laws will further embolden employers and traffickers. Parents are going to `sell’ their kids for a few rupees. Young, vulnerable children will be forced to spend their childhood and teenage in suffocating sweatshops without nourishing food or payment for their hard labour.  (The writer is a freelance journalist based in Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/in-covid-19-lockdown-reverse-trafficking-of-child-labour-842145.html
26-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||13 Jharkhand returnees test COVID-19 positive in Belagavi||Jharkhand returnees dealt a severe blow to the Belagavi district with 13 of them testing positive for COVID-19 taking the tally to 135 on Tuesday (May 26). Among those tested positive, six were male and seven female including a minor.  Patients tested positive were P-2260 male 35 years, P-2261 female 27 years, P-2262 male 32 years, P-2263 male 56 years, P-2264 female 39 years, P-2265 male 43 years, P-2266 female 38 years, P-2267 female 38 years, P-2268 female 27 years, P-2269 male 39 years, P-2270 female 17 years, P-2271 male 38 years and P-2272 female 28 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/13-jharkhand-returnees-test-covid-19-positive-in-belagavi-842014.html
26-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Officials in fix over illegal entry of people||Officials feel that the Covid-problem due to Mumbai returnees, is bigger than what it seems to be, as not all returnees are under quarantine. Many people have reached their houses, in villages and towns, without the knowledge of the officials concerned. The Mysuru region, especially Mandya, Hassan and Mysuru, which initially feared the spread of coronavirus or Covid-19 through persons with foreign travel history, Jubilant company and Tablighi Jamaat of Delhi, is at present ailed by Mumbai or Maharashtra returnees or their contacts. In fact, the officials are not worried about the rise in Covid positive cases among Maharashtra returnees under institutional or home quarantine, but about those who have either avoided or evaded check-posts, to reach their native towns or villages, discreetly. As on Tuesday, there are two active cases in Mysuru and both are related to Maharashtra. It has to be recalled that among 92 infected persons in Mysuru, 74 are related to Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generics of Jubilant Life Sciences; 10 are related to Tablighi Jamaat of Delhi; two SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) cases; two belong to Kerala; two have travel history of foreign nations; and two are related to Maharashtra. In Mandya, out of 254 persons who tested Covid positive, 230 are related to Mumbai or Maharashtra. In Hassan, all 121 persons who have tested Covid positive are related to Mumbai or Maharashtra. An official, on condition of anonymity, said, “We are not much worried about the rise in Covid positive cases among those already quarantined, as we have taken utmost care to check the spread of the infection through them." "As soon as these people arrived at our district borders, they were directly shifted for either institutional quarantine or home quarantine, in their respective taluks. They have not come in contact with anybody in the district and hence, they would not become the source of infection for anybody else," he said. A Health department official said, “Many people, almost the same number as those under quarantine, have reached their homes in towns or villages, by hoodwinking the government machinery. While some have avoided check-posts, by entering the district borders through unguarded roads in villages, some have bribed the officials, to gain entry, without being registered” Another official said, “These Mumbai or Maharashtra returnees, who have reached their homes discreetly, are the cause for concern, as they are neither screened for symptoms nor tested for Covid infection. They might have come in contact with their family members, relatives, friends, neighbours and fellow villagers. Even though random tests have been conducted in the communities, the tests have not yet reached the villages.” Mandya Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh said that the role of villagers, residents of various localities, government officials, healthcare volunteers and also police personnel is vital in identifying the suspects, such as inter-state returnees. “With the cooperation of all these stakeholders, we could identify 23 persons who had evaded screening. However, much efforts are needed to trace any such persons, who have evaded screening,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/officials-in-fix-over-illegal-entry-of-people-842136.html
26-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Nutritious food, self-confidence helped speedy recovery’||The designated Covid hospital in Mandya houses around 231 migrants from Mumbai, who have tested positive for coronavirus. Suresh of Sathenahalli in Nagamangala taluk, was the first migrant from Maharashtra, who was confirmed of carrying the virus. He has returned home upon total recovery. Suresh, who was running a hotel in Mumbai, had boarded a truck transporting dates and had reached Mandya. On April 26, he tested positive (P-505). He also stole the headlines, as the first person to test positive for Covid -19, among those who returned from Maharashtra. There were speculations on his travel history and its impact on others. Sharing his experiences, Suresh said, “As soon as I tested positive, the people started accusing and insulting me of bringing disrepute to the village. Those who were close to me stayed away.  I was pained and only after I got admitted to Covid hospital, I became normal.” Suresh was in the Covid hospital for 24 days and was discharged on May 12, after total recovery. Now, he has completed his 14-day home quarantine also. “The doctors instilled confidence in me that I would be recovered soon. All the staff took total care of me. Nutritious food and medicines to improve the immunity, and instilling self-confidence, helped me to get recovered totally,” Suresh explained. “I followed their advise and maintained social distance at home after return. There is no need to fear. People should wear mask while coughing and sneezing. Maintaining social distance is the only medicine. My wife has tested negative,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nutritious-food-self-confidence-helped-speedy-recovery-842139.html
26-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Cop rebukes staff for slapping fine over not wearing mask||Assistant sub-inspector, attached to Kote police station, reportedly abused city corporation staff for slapping a fine of Rs 200 on him for not wearing a face mask in a public place at Gopi circle in the city on Tuesday evening.  Sources in city corporation told DH that Assistant sub-inspector Ramachandra Nayak was on a bike without uniform. The staff slapped fine as per the norms for not wearing a face mask. But the cop refused to pay and argued with the staff. Heated arguments were exchanged between corporation staff and the cop. Later circle police inspector, who was at Gopi circle, pacified his colleague and advised him to pay penalty. After paying the penalty, the cop allegedly threatened the staff that he would teach a lesson to them if they come to police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cop-rebukes-staff-for-slapping-fine-over-not-wearing-mask-842140.html
26-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man killed in tiger attack; panic among villagers||A 65-year-old man was killed in a tiger attack, at Nagarahole National Park and parts of his body was found on Tuesday. The deceased is Jagadish, who had ventured into the forest to herd the sheep and goats on Monday. He went missing and the family members informed the Forest department. The department personnel began the search operation, with the help of tamed elephants, from Monday night. The body parts were found by Tuesday afternoon, which included head, an arm and a leg. The death due to tiger attack has been confirmed by the Forest department authorities. The family members of Jagadish vent their ire on the Forest department and demanded to shoot the tiger to death. Nagarhole National Park and Tiger Reserve Director Mahesh Kumar said, "The tiger has killed Jagadish and consumed parts of his body. We have sought permission from the government to capture the tiger. The operation to capture the tiger would be taken up as soon as the approval is given." The incident has created panic among the people of the surrounding villages. The tiger, which was attacking and devouring the livestock so far, has killed a man, which has created fear in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-killed-in-tiger-attack-panic-among-villagers-842152.html
26-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Girl delivers baby boy at quarantine centre in Kalaburagi||An unmarried girl delivered a baby boy at a quarantine centre set up at Shahabad town in Kalaburagi on Tuesday.  The girl along with her parents arrived from Maharashtra on May 17 and was quarantined at the boys hostel located at Maddi area of Indira Nagar in the town.  The girl went into labour on Tuesday morning and delivered the baby boy.  Women quarantined at the centre is said to have helped the girl to deliver the baby. Both mother and child are doing well and have been admitted to local community health centre.  On learning it, Tahsildar Suresh Varma and Police Inspector Amaresh B visited the girl and obtained the information. A complaint has been registered at the local police station, informed the tahsildar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/girl-delivers-baby-boy-at-quarantine-centre-in-kalaburagi-842209.html
26-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||DKS lashes out at UP chief minister||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday launched a tirade against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for saying that states will have to seek permission to employ workers from his state. "UP CM Yogi Adityanath's move to restrict hiring people of UP is unconstitutional and goes against the right to freedom of movement. Mr Yogi, please note that UP is not the private property of your govt. The people of UP don't need your govt's permission to work anywhere in India,” Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dks-lashes-out-at-up-chief-minister-842185.html
26-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Woman, her 7-year-old daughter test positive in Bangarpet||A woman and her seven-year-old daughter tested positive for Covid-19 in Bangarpet the district on Monday. About 14 people have been quarantined at Kittur Rani Channamma residential school at Elesandra as they came in contact with the two. The woman is the wife of a truck driver from Indira colony who tested positive for novel coronavirus on May 23. The driver had contracted the virus from another truck driver from Vijayanagar area in the town. After the driver from the colony tested positive, his wife, two children and a relative were quarantined. Throat swabs and blood samples were sent to a laboratory in Bengaluru for a report. The reports on Monday confirmed the presence of the virus in the woman and her daughter. The reports of two others are awaited. “The girl and her mother have been shifted to the SNR district hospital. All those who came in contact with them have been quarantined,” said deputy commissioner C Satyabhama. The Bangarpet local body declared 100 metre radius area from the driver’s house at the colony as containment zone.  The locality was disinfected. In five days, the number of Covid-19 cases in the town went upto six. The first case was reported on May 21 from Vijayanagar locality. On May 23, three others were tested positive. The number of cases in the district has now gone upto 18. Mulbagal has the highest number of cases in the district with 8. Two each in KGF and Malur and one in Srinivaspur have also contracted the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/woman-her-7-year-old-daughter-test-positive-in-bangarpet-841847.html
26-05-2020||Main Article||When we failed our poor: Governed by 'headless chicken'||As India, with lakhs of interstate migrants wanting to go back home, faces perhaps its biggest humanitarian challenge since the exodus during Partition, the phrase “headless chicken,” made famous in India by the former envoy to the US, Ronen Sen, while referring to our Members of Parliament, resonates in my mind. ‘Headless’ governance and executive actions have been pretty much the case since the onset of the pandemic. I am choosing to presently dwell merely on the immediate. Ronen Sen got away from a breach of privilege motion in Parliament with an apology and a plea that he at times referred similarly to even his wife. We need and owe more than an apology to our people. In fact, we are presently an apology of a welfare state that we set out to establish post-Independence. The State, with reference to Article 12, has time and again failed the people and the Constitution that we gave ourselves to be governed through the State. The sudden lockdown was bad enough for the poor and the labourers. Ironically, the relaxation has been even worse. If the plan, if there ever was one, was to allow people to cross state borders and go back to their homes and families, why wasn’t the present scenario that we face thought of as even a possibility? Take Bengaluru, for example. We have lakhs of migrants from Andhra, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Sikkim, Mizoram apart from within Karnataka from places like Gulbarga, Bidar, Belgaum and Raichur. The Centre on April 30 indicated that relaxations to allow stranded workers, students, etc., to travel inter-state would be in place in lockdown 3.0. The state government on May 1 started an online registration process. All those who wanted to travel back to their homes had to register, and based on their seniority, they would be accommodated in trains and buses. The inter-state migrants could also submit their applications at Bangalore One centres and BBMP ward offices. Nodal officers were appointed to coordinate with other states. The migrants had to pay. Obviously. Who are we to deny the prophecy of Winston Churchill, “A day will come when even air and water would be taxed in India”! We have actually progressed further, so why not even “the blood and sweat of the working class.” The question remains, why weren’t the migrants who wanted to go back to their homes registered and their transport needs in place before lockdown 3.0 was announced if the plan was indeed to permit them to travel. Today, we have thousands and thousands standing in lines or just in large groups outside police stations, waiting for their turn to get on the buses or trains. Experts say, we may just about now be heading into community-spreading of Covid-19. Can one even imagine the magnitude of the crisis that lies ahead if this is true? All indicators point toward the disease being in a spreading mode. At this juncture, hordes of people scrambling for space, waiting for their transport, and hoping to somehow or the other get out of here, is not a sight to behold. Social distancing, masks, sanitizers, soaps are a distant dream for these workers, with destination home  being their one-point agenda.   By May 10, 4,94,791 people had applied for registration and 54,963 had been approved, and 4,39,718 were under process. On May 20, 100 Shramik trains ferried 1,40,473 passengers to various states from Bengaluru, even as the numbers applying for registration continued to rise drastically. It will be several weeks, if not months, before all of them can be sent home. And we are looking at the statistics of just one city. One can imagine the situation in the rest of the country. An appalling lack of planning and vision caused by total insensitivity as well as absence of compassion threatens not only the economy but the health and lives of every one of this great nation’s people.     Is the lack of planning just a lack of vision or is it lack of empathy? If it is the former it reflects on the mediocrity of our society, if it is the latter then it reflects on our values. Either way, it is a colossal failure of the State in fulfilling its fundamental obligations under the Constitution. The registration process is tedious, the travel costs are high, food, water and shelter, essential commodities, are scarce, as the migrant stranded workers and students scramble to reach ‘home sweet home’. We may come out of this crisis like the many others we have faced. But will history forgive us for the way we have treated our poor, the downtrodden and the have-nots in their hour of need? Will this period be painted in the history books as the one in which the State failed Mother India in providing justice -- social, economic and political -- in eliminating inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities and, most importantly, in promoting fraternity, assuring the dignity of the individual? As one section of people enjoyed the lockdown, displaying the variety of cuisines that they made and relished in the safety of their homes by posting pictures on social media, the have-nots suffered due to the lack of basic nutrition, water and shelter. The only saving grace was provided by the several philanthropical individuals and organisations who provided food, water and other essentials, much-needed succour, to the needy. As much as we weep over the inadequacies the State displayed in handling this crisis, we will celebrate the great souls who stepped up to help the needy.   (The writer is a Senior Advocate and former Additional Advocate General, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/when-we-failed-our-poor-governed-by-headless-chicken-842144.html
26-05-2020||National||Centre's stimulus package to revive economy a rude shock: Mallikarjun Kharge||it termed on Monday the Centre's stimulus package to revive the economy hit by COVID-19 a "rude shock" and urged it to instruct banks not to initiate insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings against farmers unable to repay loans. He said the government should ensure that farmers don't fall into the clutches of local money lenders because the banks are hesitating to give them fresh loans. Kharge alleged that in the name of agriculture reforms, the government was "happy to allow private traders into agricultural produce and livestock market committees (APMCs). In a statement, he also said, "In the name of land reforms, it wants industrialists selling and buying farmers' land." "If the government can announce that no insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings will be initiated against businesses that are affected due to coronavirus outbreak, then it should instruct banks to treat farmer loans the same way. Farmers should not fall into clutches of local money lenders because banks are hesitating to give them fresh loans," he said. The Congress general secretary said it has been 60 days since the COVID-19 lockdown was imposed and every sector of the Indian economy was facing a grave crisis. "We needed a sector-wise plan and the government had 60 days of lockdown to plan for this. Sectors like tourism, hospitality, airlines, transport, retail, restaurants, construction needed very specific measures, given they employ a large number of people. "But, it is clear from the measures announced last week that the government has either no sense of the crisis or has plainly refused to address it to revive the economy," he said. Kharge claimed that India's GDP growth rate has been declining for the last six years. The crisis was brewing even before the coronavirus pandemic, but the sudden shock of the lockdown has "pushed the economy from a slowdown to a complete shutdown", he said. He said the government needed to revive the economy by reviving supply, demand and credit cycle with its financial package. "Instead, the economic package doesn't just prove the government is insincere but has failed on all fronts." The former Union minister said announcements made by the prime minister should be done with a lot of deliberation and seriousness, especially during such an unprecedented crisis. "The so-called Rs 20 lakh crore economic package has now been analysed by experts, and its total cost works out to less than 1 per cent of the GDP. It has come as a rude shock for anyone who was expecting some respite," Kharge said.  "The PM only intends to make grand headline news without taking his colleagues into confidence. That is perhaps why the finance ministry was unprepared and put together such a shoddy package," he said. The Congress general secretary in-charge of the party's affairs in Maharashtra said the economic package had no immediate relief for the agriculture sector and it just talks about reforms. Farmers have already lost fruit and vegetable produce due to the lockdown. They have sold crops at below minimum support price because they could not transport their harvest and a sincere government would spend money to procure harvest, he said. "The misery inflicted by the lockdown on migrant workers is unmissable as there has been no relief provided to them and the government has openly mocked their plight in their press conferences. "If the government had announced direct cash transfer to these migrant workers when the lockdown was first announced, probably they would not have felt the need to walk hundreds of kilometres," Kharge noted. Kharge lamented that the government "simply does not want to provide any direct relief to the poor because it would mean endorsing the NYAY scheme that Rahul Gandhi had proposed". Regarding finances by states, Kherge said if the Union government was sincere, it would have helped the states borrow from the open market through RBI at the same rate at which the Centre can borrow. "The agenda of the government under the cover of coronavirus relief in the name of reforms seems to be selling PSUs when the markets are down, removing the protection of labour laws, and allowing the rich to freely buy the distressed farmer's only asset – his land. "The government has lost a big opportunity to provide relief to crores of migrant workers, the poor on one end and the industries on the other end. The relief package and the press conferences have not only exposed the apathy of the government towards the migrant workers but also its arrogance and hypocrisy," the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-stimulus-package-to-revive-economy-a-rude-shock-mallikarjun-kharge-841852.html
26-05-2020||National||Govt permits domestic chartered flight operations, issues guidelines||The Civil Aviation Ministry permitted domestic chartered flights to resume their operations from Monday, with the scheduled domestic passenger flights also starting on the same day. The ministry said "non-scheduled and private operators" of fixed-wing aircraft, helicopters and micro-light aircraft can resume their domestic flights from May 25 onwards. In its guidelines, the ministry said if a passenger had manually booked his or her ticket for a chartered helicopter flight, the boarding pass will be issued at the helipad or heliport with minimum contact and after following all sanitisation protocols prescribed by local administration. Passengers should report at the airport, heliport or helipad at least 45 minutes before the departure time, the ministry said. "Vulnerable persons, such as very elderly, pregnant ladies, passengers with health issues are advised to avoid air travel," it said. "However, this will not apply to air ambulance services." Price cap on tickets, issued by the aviation regulator DGCA last week for scheduled domestic passenger flights, will not be applicable on chartered flights.  " The charges of air travel (on chartered flights) to be as per mutually agreed terms between operators and the travellers," the ministry said. Most of the guidelines issued by the Aviation Ministry were similar to the ones issued for passengers of operators of domestic commercial passenger flights. After a two month gap, India resumed its domestic passenger flights from Monday and a total of 532 domestic flights operated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-permits-domestic-chartered-flight-operations-issues-guidelines-841869.html
26-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 26, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-26-2020-edition-841886.html
26-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 26||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,50,611 as of May 26. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 4,335   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 60,491 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-26-841887.html
26-05-2020||National||‘With COVID-19 infections contained, hospital capacities up, we’re in a good position’||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan tells DH’s Sagar Kulkarni that so long as the mortality rate in India due to COVID-19 remains low and the recovery rate high, there is no reason to panic even as cases spike. Excerpts from an interview: Q1. COVID-19 cases have crossed one lakh mark and have been on a sharp rise. Are there any lapses in the strategy? A. Yes, it is true that the number of COVID-19 cases crossed one lakh-mark and there has been an increase in cases per day during the past few days. But I don’t see any reason to panic especially in view of the hospital infrastructure that we have made available over these past few months. Moreover, in terms of confirmed cases per lakh population, India has about 9.7 cases per lakh population as against global average 68.5 cases per lakh population, 479.4 cases per lakh population in the USA, 386.8 cases per lakh population in the UK and 6.1 cases per lakh population in China. Similarly, in terms of case mortality per lakh population, India has about 0.3 deaths per lakh population as against a global average of 4.4 deaths per lakh population; 28.7 deaths per lakh population in the USA; 55.2 deaths per lakh population in UK and 0.3 deaths per lakh population in China. In India, we have focused on reducing mortalities and whatever mortality has happened, unfortunately, a majority of it has been primarily due to co-morbidities. As long as the mortality rate is low, and the recovery rate is high, there should not be any reason to worry. However, this does not mean that we throw caution to the winds. We should continue to pay heed to our Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s well-thought strategy of physical distancing and complete lockdown, which along with, public health measures like screening and quarantine; testing, case detection & isolation; and optimal care of the cases has been of great success in containing the outbreak in the country. As regards the gaps, I would like to tell you that we have been pursuing a dynamic-graded strategy based on the evolving situation since the virus is new and no tried-and-tested formula can be used to contain its spread. We have tried our best to ensure that our planning is fool-proof and every effort is made so that we are able to achieve the objective of containing the spread of the disease. That is why you see a number of circulars and guidelines being issued by the Central Government regularly so as to ensure that there is a perfect coordinated action between the Centre and all the States/UTs across the country to combat the disease. Q2. What has been your message to state health ministers? One gets the impression that the Centre is now leaving decisions to the states. A. SARS-CoV-2 is a new virus and no one knows how it will behave in a particular socio-cultural setting. There is also no specific treatment or vaccine to treat the people from the COVID except symptomatic treatment. Learnings from the experience of an outbreak in other countries as well as the capacity of our health system coupled with the guidance received from the teams of health experts decide our response to the disease. Since the beginning of COVID-19 outbreak, I have been in regular touch with the State/UT Health Ministers primarily to understand the problems they are facing on the ground, identify the gaps in our approach when implemented in the field, the kind of handholding that the States/UTs require to combat the situation and also to familiarize them with the strategy devised by the Centre to handle the pandemic. These interactions have been rewarding. I must tell you that our States/ UTs have done excellent work in containing the spread. Each of the Health Minister that I have spoken to has been hands-on on the situation in his/her state and have been eager to contribute their insights as well as graceful to accept the recommendations given by the Centre. Initially, at the start of the lockdown, we focused on the macro-management of the disease through demarcation of districts into green, red and orange depending on the number of cases in each district. Once the disease was contained to specific areas, we found that districts would be a larger unit if we had to start an economic activity. Commencement of economic activity was essential because livelihoods of a large number of the population were at stake and we cannot afford to let our economy slow down under Narendra Modi Government. So, if we have to move to micro-level management, the States/UTs are the best judge. In this Lockdown 4.0, considerable flexibility has also been given to the States to identify red, green and orange zones and further demarcate containment and buffer zones in red and orange zones to provide appropriate relaxations. As long as COVID-19 management principles are clear and unambiguous, it is better that the decision making takes place at the lowest level in a federal structure. With the hand-holding that Centre has done till date, through advisories, and by deputing Central teams, I am confident that our States/UTs will do a stellar job. Q3. The prolonged lockdown has led to weariness. Would it be wise to make relaxations because we are now witnessing a spike? A. We cannot afford to hold back economic activities for long. So there has to be a combination of economic activities coupled with the observance of fundamental principles of lockdown i.e. physical or social distancing. That is why even the lockdown in its various versions has evolved over time as regards the sectors that can be opened for economic activities. The Lockdown 4.0 presents a framework where both the social distancing measures as well as economic activities co-exist. We should remember that whenever our containment strategy changes, there is bound to be a spike in the number of cases. This is because every new activity will bring forth the stresses in the system generated due to lockdown. There may be slackness at a few places which would give rise to spike in cases. But this does get corrected over time. As long as we are prepared to handle the increase in cases and keep fatality rate low, there is nothing to worry. Q4. How has the lockdown helped in tackling the outbreak? A. The relationship between lockdown and the containment of COVID outbreak can best be explained in numbers. Prior to lockdown, the doubling rate was 3.2 when measured over a period of 3 days, 3.0 when measured over a period of 7 days and 4.1 when measured over a period of 14 days. On May 25, it stands at 13.1 over a 3-day window, 13.2 over a 7-day window and 12.9 when measured over a 14-day window. Similarly, the fatality rate stands at 2.89% while the recovery rate has improved to 41.57%. Clearly, the situation has improved due to lockdown. Any change in the situation, be it due to gradual relaxations in lockdown or due to migrant workers, will definitely result in a spike of cases, but we are prepared to handle this spike. Let us remember that lockdown or physical distancing measures do not kill the virus but only prevent the spread of disease. I am satisfied that we have used the opportunity provided to us by this lockdown to augment and strengthen our health infrastructure.  Prior to lockdown, we had 39,504 isolation beds, 9,472 ICU beds and 8,391 ventilators. As on May 25, we have set up 952 Dedicated COVID Hospitals and 2,045 Dedicated COVID Health Centres having 2,81,661 isolation beds, 31,061 ICU beds and 19,958 ventilators, for patients with moderate or severe symptoms.  Also, in 7,071 COVID Care Centres, we have identified 6,45,053 beds for mild, very mild or suspect cases. This augmented capacity will keep us in good stead. On the testing front, our present capacity of testing is 1,50,000 per day and we have done 30,90,590 tests as on May 25. Further, on 24 May, we conducted 90,963 tests. Q5. How has India’s healthcare infrastructure improved over the past two months? Are we prepared to deal with a surge in COVID-19 patients? A. As far as diagnosis capacity of COVID-19 is concerned, we started with one laboratory at NIV, Pune in the first week of February 2020, and on May 25, 2020, we have a total of 609 laboratories, which include 431 government labs and 178 NABL accredited private laboratories. As of now, our present capacity of testing is 1,50,000 per day and we have done 30,90,590 tests as on May 25, 2020. Further, on May 24, 2020, we have conducted 90,963 tests. Priority-based targeted testing for COVID-19 will be helpful in detecting more cases and curbing the disease. I feel that with the sustained, quality assured scaling up of the testing, it is envisioned that we shall reach optimal levels of case detection and contain the outbreak. As regards the adequacy of facilities for appropriate care of cases, I would like to inform that 80% of the infections of COVID-19 are mild or asymptomatic, 15% are severe infections requiring oxygen and maximum of 5% are critical infections requiring ventilator support. The more important thing is oxygen supply which may be needed for 20% of the cases, 15% through masks or cannula and 5% for patients on a ventilator. It is observed from the recovery data of May 25, 2020, that about 2.12% of all active cases under management require oxygen support; about 2.67% of the active cases under management require ICU support and 0.40% of the active cases under management require ventilator support. As on May 25, 2020, the number of beds in Dedicated COVID-19 Hospitals is 2,49,150 and that in Dedicated COVID-19 Health Centers is 1,76,165 making a total of 4,25,315. In addition, several domestic manufacturers for ventilators have been identified and orders for 60,848 ventilators have been placed which will be received in phase manner in this month and June. Many hospitals and medical colleges are increasing the number of ventilator beds. Several hospital owners in the private sector are also contributing their facilities for the cause of the nation. As regards PPEs, as on May 25, 2020, 32.45 lakhs are available with States/UTs. Further with the help of Ministry of Textiles, 109 domestic manufacturers have been identified and orders have been placed for 2.23 crore PPEs of which 74.84 lakhs have already been supplied. Today we are manufacturing 3-5 lakh PPEs every day and distributing to States. Also, as on May 25, 2020, 46.11 lakh N-95 masks are available with states and orders for 2.29 crore masks have been placed and 95.22 lakhs have already been received. Further, ten domestic manufacturers have been identified for in-house production of N-95 masks. With this infrastructure, we are adequately prepared to deal with the challenge of a surge in COVID-19 patients. Q6. Is this the peak of the outbreak or is the worse yet to come? A. As you know that COVID-19 is a new disease and the behaviour of this virus in evolving outbreak is unknown. The current outbreak is probably the most significant event of our lifetime with major socio-economic implications. We have isolated the virus and our scientist and epidemiologist are studying it with the help of gene sequencing. Not much data about the virus and the disease is available at the moment. Right now, we have a steady curve which has never shown any exponential rise and now we are trying to bend the curve. It is very difficult to predict the future course of the outbreak as it is decided by a number of factors like pathogenicity and transmissibility of virus; availability of specific treatment, vaccine; and collective performance of all public health interventions undertaken to contain the outbreak like testing, early case detection, isolation, quarantine, contact tracing, optimum care of cases and surveillance. There are so many mathematical models predicting so many scenarios but all these models are based on a number of assumptions and presumptions which may not match with actual ground realities because of diverse social structure. Therefore, it would not be prudent to base any decision on the mathematical projections and predictions about a future scenario of the disease. By now the predictions of all national and international mathematical models have failed and we have performed far better than predicted. Q7. How are the efforts to develop a vaccine or medicines for COVID-19 faring? A. Physicians, funders and manufacturers have come together as part of an international collaboration, coordinated by the World Health Organization (WHO), to help speed the availability of a vaccine against COVID-19. WHO has convened multiple public and private partners for mapping eligible candidate vaccines and is coordinating clinical trials across the world. As far as India is concerned, it has been playing a critical role in global vaccine production, research and drug development and today supplies vaccines to more than 150 countries across the world. India has geared up COVID-19 vaccine research both in academia and industry through national and global collaborations. To fast track vaccine research, COVID Consortium under DBT-BIRAC has supported 14 vaccine projects in academia and industry. Apart from this, the unique position of India, which none of the other countries has, is its traditional knowledge system, which the Ministry of AYUSH and CSIR are attempting to explore together. Along with the Ministry of AYUSH, we have launched inter-disciplinary studies involving AYUSH interventions for COVID-19 on May 7, 2020. I am hopeful that these studies would assist in the assessment of the preventive potential of AYUSH interventions for COVID-19 and also to assess the improvement in Quality of Life in high-risk populations thereby giving a global push to our traditional systems of medicine for prophylactic interventions. Therapeutics and Drug development has been a focus area also, and we are funding initiatives for therapeutics including monoclonal antibody therapy. As regards drugs, based on evidence from laboratory, animal and clinical studies, the following four options are in various stages of the trial. This includes Remdesivir; Lopinavir/Ritonavir; Lopinavir/Ritonavir with Interferon beta-1a; and Chloroquine or Hydroxychloroquine. Q8. A common refrain now has been that ‘we have to learn to live with the virus? Is physical distancing the new normal? A. This is true that we have to live with the virus. The lockdown has been very useful for the containment of the outbreak and has given good results. But it cannot continue forever due to the socio-economic and psychological costs involved. Therefore, we have to start activities in such a way that their continuance does not interfere with the containment measures. For this, each one of us has to bear the responsibility and follow all necessary guidelines and advisories issued by the Government from time-to-time in true spirit. We all should observe physical distancing and use face covers as prescribed. The practice of handwashing, respiratory etiquettes and use of sanitisers both at home and at the workplace regularly, is essential. Further crowded places and gatherings for any purpose need to be avoided. At the workplace, it becomes essential to provide a safe environment and make arrangement as per the prescribed guidelines to prevent the spread of disease. True to what our Prime Minister calls ‘Jaan Bhi Jahan Bhi’, the country will continue the fight against the COVID-19 and simultaneously, will continue engaging in economic activities, with all public health measures in place. Q9. Are we dealing with multiple strains of the virus in India? A. This virus came into India through travellers from other countries and particularly China in initial phases. There are three clades of novel coronaviruses available in India. Our initial virus came from Wuhan. The travellers to Iran and Italy harboured founder viruses that were closer to viruses in different countries in Europe and the USA. Any predominant strain of this virus is yet to emerge in India. A paper from China described two different variants of this virus S and L. L virus has been described to be more transmissible and pathogenic. However, the study had many flaws. The genetic make-up of the virus is not the sole predictor of the virulence of the COVID-19 virus. The transmission and pathogenicity could have been influenced more by many other factors that were not studied. The lockdown in China could have impacted transmissibility more than the viral strain. Similarly, better management of patients through learnings and experience could have impacted pathogenicity. Let me tell you, the mortality depends on a large number of factors, like the stage of the disease in which the patient comes to the health system; the medical care received by the patient; the co-morbidities of the patients who succumbed to the virus, etc. Q10. What is the status of testing kits? We are now testing almost one lakh samples per day? Are domestic units also supplying testing kits? Total of 609 laboratories which include 431 government labs and 178 NABL-accredited private laboratories are involved in testing as on May 25, 2020. As of now, our testing capacity stands at 1,50,000 per day and we have done 30,93,981 tests till date. As regards the availability of testing kits, it is a dynamic figure and keeps changing as per consumption and receipt. As on May 23, 2020, the number of kits available with the states across the country includes 6,73,069 RNA extraction kits, 3,73,962 VTM and 7,46,533 RT PCR kits. Q11. Do you sense a kind of fear among people about COVID-19? Is it justified, particularly when we are now talking of ‘living with the virus’? A. This is a new disease with an incredible rate of spread but with a low fatality rate. However, the experience of COVID-19 in the USA, UK, Italy, and other western countries has definitely created a sense of fear among the people. Timely decision taken by the Prime Minister for complete lockdown along with steps taken to augment public health facilities has placed India in a very good position. There is nothing to be panicky about. I would like to repeat that 80% of the infections of COVID-19 are mild or asymptomatic, 15% are severe infections requiring oxygen and a maximum of 5% are critical infections requiring ventilator support. The more important thing is oxygen supply which may be needed for 20% of the cases, 15% through masks or cannula and 5% for patients on a ventilator.  Just like any other virus which remains in populations and ebbs over time, this virus too shall become part of our lives. However, unlike previous viruses, this one spreads through lack of observance of personal hygiene and maintaining physical distancing. So, these mannerisms should become part of our lives to check not only the spread of this virus but other similar infections in future. In fact, this would spur us further to develop innovative and safer ways of interacting with each other in society. Q12. You have taken over as the Chairman of the WHO Executive Board? What would be your role in the global fight against COVID-19? A. My main responsibilities as Chairman of the WHO Executive Board will be to give effect to the decisions taken by or policies formulated by the World Health Assembly. During the World Health Assembly meeting last week, the entire world’s Health Ministers shared the single-most-important concern of containing COVID-19. Clearly it remains the prime mover of WHO’s efforts. I will continue efforts to mobilize on multiple fronts to contain the virus. My immediate focus is towards the development of vaccine and drugs for treatment. There is also a need to strengthen global disease surveillance systems so that such pandemic does not occur in future. Apart from this, it has also been my effort in India to ensure that there are adequate capacities in terms of human resources and physical infrastructure so that the health delivery systems are competent to sustain the increased load due to the disease. I will try to see how our experiences can be replicated amongst the needy countries across the world. Last but not the least, dissemination of adequate amount of “information, education and communication” material to provide authentic information to the community, thereby, empowering them to fight with misinformation and stigma against COVID-19 is the need of the hour. We have to ensure that the vast knowledge pool of WHO health resources is put to the best optimal use of the world so that we can disseminate adequate information to the people of the world and make them capable of taking care of their health in a positive manner for delivering the goal of health for all for the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-covid-19-infections-contained-hospital-capacities-up-we-re-in-a-good-position-841798.html
26-05-2020||National||DH Toon: Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0 in India - What's normal now?||Domestic flights take to skies amid chaos on ground Domestic flight operations resumed across the country on Monday amid chaos and confusion triggered by last-minute cancellations. The euphoria over flights was severely dented by thousands of passengers stranded at airports nationwide, and the change in post-arrival quarantine rules in multiple states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-coronavirus-lockdown-40-in-india-whats-normal-now-841893.html
26-05-2020||National||Dharamshala receives first flight; dist admin withdraws no-entry-without-pass order||With domestic passenger services resuming from Monday across the country, barring some states, the Dharamshala airport received one flight as a 76-seater aircraft landed with 33 passengers onboard. The passengers, their luggage and gadgets were sanitized at the airport before they left for their destinations. Airport authorities said the flight later returned to Delhi, while two other planes, one from Delhi and another from Chandigarh, were cancelled on technical ground. During normal times, Dharamshala receives two flights from Delhi and one from Chandigarh daily. Meanwhile, the Dharamshala district administration amended its Sunday advisory on allowing further journey of incoming flight passengers. It has withdrawn a clause that made it mandatory for the passengers to obtain an entry pass from the district administration. According to the Sunday advisory, the incoming person was required to show the entry pass from the concerned DMs on de-boarding here. The passes were to be obtained online before boarding the plane. The advisory still says that only those with valid address proof of Himachal Pradesh (HP resident) only should book ticket to Dharamshala. The DC advised the air travellers to "plan your flight booking accordingly". DC Kangra Rakesh Prajapati said, "HP residents coming from Red Zone areas and those with ILI symptoms shall be put in institutional quarantine. And the persons, the non residents of HP/tourist, shall not be allowed entry in to the district. They shall immediately be put in institutional quarantine before being sent back on their own expenses."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dharamshala-receives-first-flight-dist-admin-withdraws-no-entry-without-pass-order-841894.html
26-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Road accidents during the COVID-19 lockdown||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, DH journalist Ahmed Shariff talks to Piyush Tewari, CEO & Founder, SaveLIFE Foundation, about the road accidents during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-road-accidents-during-the-covid-19-lockdown-841925.html
26-05-2020||National||Fire breaks out at shoe factory in Delhi’s Keshavpuram||A fire broke out in a shoe factory in northwest Delhi's Keshavpuram on Tuesday morning, an official of the Delhi Fire Service said. So far, no casualty has been reported in the incident, the official said, adding that the cause behind the blaze is yet to be ascertained. A call about the fire was received at 8.34 am after which 23 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Atul Garg, Director of Delhi Fire Service. In another incident, around 250 huts were gutted in a blaze that broke out in southeast Delhi's Tughlakabad village on late Monday night. We received a call regarding the fire at 12.50 am and 28 fire tenders were sent to the spot and it was brought under control by 3.30 am, he said. No one was injured, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-at-shoe-factory-in-delhi-s-keshavpuram-841931.html
26-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Air India evacuates 115 stranded Indians from Israel||Some 115 Indians, including out of work and broke caregivers, students and pregnant women, were all smiles as they boarded an Air India flight here on Tuesday and left for India after being stranded in Israel for more than two months due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The flight took off at 1 AM IST and also carried a Nepalese national Prabha Baskota, married to an Indian, and five Israeli diplomats posted in Delhi. Out of the 121 passengers aboard flight AI 140, some 85 of them would take a connecting flight to Kochi on Tuesday from Delhi. Most of the Kochi passengers are caregivers who have wished to be quarantined close to their home. "These are very challenging times and the Vande Bharat Mission flight to India is one of our many efforts to reach out to our community of students and caregivers here in Israel," India's ambassador to Israel Sanjeev Singla told PTI at the airport. "The Ministry of External Affairs, the Civil Aviation Ministry, the Home Ministry, the Israeli Foreign Ministry and the embassy have taken all possible steps to ensure that our nationals stranded and facing hardships for various reasons are able to return home", Singla said. The Indian government launched the ''Vande Bharat Mission'' on May 7 to bring back Indians stranded in various countries due to coronavirus-related restrictions. Under Phase I of the mission, the government evacuated a total of 6,527 Indians from the Gulf region and from countries like the US, the UK, the Philippines, Bangladesh, Malaysia and the Maldives. Among the passengers on Tuesday was 74-year-old Sam Edelji Turel from Maharashtra, who came to Israel in February for treatment of lymphoma. "I was referred to Sheba Medical Centre and I was happy to see the state of the art technology being used in Israel for the treatment of Lymphoma. I got very professional care during my treatment after coming here on February 3. My treatment got over on April 10 and since then me and my wife have been waiting to go back", Turel said. "I must say that we are very lucky that a flight has been organised for stranded Indians like me. As elderly people, we cannot thank enough for this help. At the same time I hope that I can reach Mumbai and be quarantined there as I continue to need medical care and my doctors are there," he said. Some pregnant women waiting to collect their boarding passes looked quite relieved after having gone through weeks of uncertainty and forced to stay on without any support after having been laid off by their employers. Soumya Jose, who is from Kerala and in an advanced stage of pregnancy, expressed "warm appreciation at this gesture" and "happiness at the prospect of returning to her home during a critical time". Most of the passengers are caregivers who had been laid off by their employers. Annama Siby, who is from Kerala's Idukki district and came to Israel in 2013 as a caregiver but has been recently cleaning houses in Tel Aviv for a living, said that most of the people going back are those without a job. "I was without a job for almost four months now. I have no money and no work. I had to pay rent for my room and Israel is such an expensive place. The Israeli government had given us the permission to work but even those who would earlier give us some work were scared because of the coronavirus and we had to sit idle," Siby said. Akhila Viswan, a postdoctoral fellow in Chemistry at one of the leading universities in Israel, was "stressed out" till she got her ticket confirmed as her marriage has been fixed in India and the COVID-19 related lockdown had turned all the those plans topsy-turvy. "I reached the airport way ahead of time to make sure that there are no surprises. I can't tell you the feeling when I got my boarding pass", she said, heaving a sigh of relief. The specially arranged Air India evacuation flight brought 88 passengers from Delhi to Tel Aviv, almost all of them Israelis. The national carrier which has stepped up to support the government mission to help bring back stranded Indians has also kept the price of the tickets reasonable. "All of us going to Delhi have paid USD 679 for the ticket. Those going to Kochi have paid USD 750," a relieved student said, adding that, "We thought given the extraordinary situation we may have to pay something abnormal, but it's the same fare that we pay during normal times".  Air India's country Head Pankaj Tiwari told PTI that the airline even took pains to adjust the fares of those who had bought tickets through its sales office and were looking for a refund or adjustment. The Indian embassy in Tel Aviv in an announcement on May 15 said that it was looking into the possibility of facilitating the return of interested Indian nationals from Israel, who could not travel earlier due to COVID-19-related international travel restrictions. Most of those who provided details and expressed willingness to pay for the ticket and quarantine boarded the flight today, the embassy officials said. Almost all the embassy staff was present at the airport to see off the passengers and also distributed a package with gloves and masks for their onward journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-air-india-evacuates-115-stranded-indians-from-israel-841935.html
26-05-2020||National||Indian NGO donates $150,000 worth of PPE to healthcare workers in US||Coming to the support of healthcare heroes and essential workers during the current coronavirus pandemic, an Indian NGO has received recognition from an influential US Congressman for donating protecting equipments worth USD 150,000 across the country. Art of Living Foundation on May 22 received a special congressional recognition from US Congressman Tom Suozzi with the acknowledgement for the efforts being made by it across the country during this coronavirus pandemic. Towards a larger global effort, Art of Living in partnership with IAHV (International Association for Human Values) in USA have raised USD 350,000 to support the daily wage labourers in India. This effort has contributed to distribution of over 75 million meals to the marginalized segment of the population. “To all the doctors, the paramedics, frontline workers and all other healthcare professionals, for your services, your dedication, we cannot express our gratitude enough,” said spiritual leader, and founder of the Art of Living, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar. “Please don't ignore yourself. Your good rest is absolutely essential and it’s necessary to keep you charged and keep you healthy. Art of Living Foundation and its counselors are ready for you, anytime to help you. This meditation will be tremendously beneficial to you. You'll feel the energy and enthusiasm renewed in you to carry your noble mission forward,” he said. Art of Living also offers an opportunity for healthcare workers across the US to learn its powerful breathing meditation - at no cost - to help sustain them during the COVID-19 pandemic. Since its launch in March 2020, thousands of frontline workers and healthcare professionals have benefited from this program. “The program was developed in collaboration with leaders of the Provider Well-being Program at Children’s National Hospital in Washington, DC and other healthcare experts from around the country,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-ngo-donates-150000-worth-of-ppe-to-healthcare-workers-in-us-841944.html
26-05-2020||National||Over 300 Indians fly home on board special Air India flight from New York||Over 300 Indian nationals, who were stuck in the US due to the coronavirus-induced global travel restrictions, have flown home on board the fourth special flight from New York under the Vande Bharat Mission. The Air India flight from J F K International Airport to Bengaluru flew on May 25 and had 329 passengers, including two infants, according to officials. India's Consul General in New York Sandeep Chakravorty and Deputy Consul General Shatrughna Sinha were at the airport to supervise the process. The second phase of non-scheduled commercial flights of Air India from the US to various cities in India is underway from May 19 to May 29. In the first phase, Air India operated non-scheduled commercial flights from the US to various Indian cities from May 9 to May 15. Under the second phase, two flights will fly from New York to Delhi, Chandigarh and Bengaluru; two from San Francisco to Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kochi and Ahmedabad; one from Washington to Bengaluru and Ahmedabad and two from Chicago to Delhi, Bhubaneshwar, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. Since the number of seats would be limited, passengers with compelling cases such as those facing medical emergencies or requiring return due to bereavement in the family, students, pregnant women, elderly or those facing expiry of visas will be given priority. They are identified through an electronic random selection method. The travellers will be required to undergo a medical screening before boarding the flight and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed. Passengers will be medically screened and would have to download the Arogya Setu app once they arrive in India. The Indian government launched the ''Vande Bharat Mission'' on May 7 to bring back Indians stranded in various countries due to coronavirus-related restrictions. Under Phase I of the mission, the government evacuated a total of 6,527 Indians from the Gulf region and from countries like the US, the UK, the Philippines, Bangladesh, Malaysia and the Maldives||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-300-indians-fly-home-on-board-special-air-india-flight-from-new-york-841960.html
26-05-2020||National||Desert locusts enter Vidarbha region in Maharashtra; rampage across multiple states||A swarm of desert locusts has entered the eastern part of Maharashtra where district and agriculture department personnel have initiated chemical spraying on crops and vegetation to save them from the migratory pests, officials said. Earlier, locust attacks were reported from neighbouring Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, and the pests had also made their way into Rajasthan. Primary reports indicated that in the last couple of days, four to five villages in the Vidarbha region have come under attack from the locusts, known for feasting on all sorts of plants and standing crops. Joint Director of Agriculture Ravindra Bhosale told PTI, "The swarm of desert locusts entered the state from Amravati district. It then went to Wardha and now it is in Nagpur's Katol tehsil." A team from the regional centre of the Central Integrated Pest Management Centre has started spraying chemicals on crops and plants near the Jalalkheda bypass where the insects have been located, he said. "Central agencies in this field had alerted us about the locusts' attack and necessary information had been passed on to villagers as well," Bhosale said, adding that "locusts are very dangerous to all types of vegetation. They feed on green leaves and are known for devouring crops spread across on acres of land". Jaipur's residential areas face locust threat Swarms of locusts entered some residential areas of the city on Monday, presenting the local people with an unusual sight. Locusts normally affect districts in western Rajasthan but this time the swarms have travelled as far as the Jaipur city. In Jaipur’s Murlipura and Vidhyadhar Nagar areas, people were seen beating 'thalis’ at the locusts that had settled on walls and trees, hoping to make them move on. “The menace of locust has spread to 18 districts of Rajasthan and they are rapidly travelling in search of food,” Om Prakash, the commissioner of the state agriculture department, told PTI. Jhansi fire brigade asked to be ready with chemicals The Jhansi district administration directed fire brigade to keep its vehicles ready with chemicals following the movement of a swarm of locusts. District Magistrate Andra Vamsi, who chaired a meeting in this regard said, "The villagers along with the common public has been told to inform control room about the movement. The locusts will go places where there is green grass or greenery. Hence, details about the movement at such places must be shared." Deputy Director Agriculture Kamal Katiyar said, "The swarm of locusts, which is moving is small in size. We have got the news that nearly 2.5 to 3-kilometre long swarm of locusts has entered the country. A team has come from Kota (Rajasthan) to tackle the locusts." India proposes to Pakistan, Iran for coordinated response to contain desert locusts Meanwhile, struggling with the locust threat, India proposed to Pakistan and Iran for a coordinated approach in dealing with the desert locusts in the region. Sources said India has proposed to Pakistan as well as to Iran for a coordinated response to deal with desert locust. However, Pakistan is yet to respond to India's proposal while Iran communicated its readiness for a joint approach to contain the desert locusts. India has suggested to Pakistan that both countries coordinate locust control operation along the border and even offered to supply pesticides. The institutionalised mechanism of locust warning organisation could be energised for such cooperation, sources said sharing details of the Indian proposal. They said India has also offered to supply pesticide to Iran to contain the spread of desert locusts in its Sistan-Balochistan and South Khorasan provinces. These efforts will contribute to mitigate the effect of the desert locust not only in these countries but also for India, the sources said. India has an existing institutionalised mechanism with Pakistan for cooperation in containing desert locusts including border meetings between the officers of the two countries. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/desert-locusts-enter-vidarbha-region-in-maharashtra-rampage-across-multiple-states-841966.html
26-05-2020||National||India may keep COVID-19 deaths to less than 8,000: Public health expert||Kerala, Punjab and Haryana seem to have crossed the peak in coronavirus cases, says a prominent public health specialist, who expects India to keep COVID-19 deaths at less than 8,000 in the country with strict enforcement of standard protocols and hospitals in high alert. India should not be seen as one entity when it comes to tackling COVID-19, because the population size across States and districts vary, health systems vary and level of literacy varies across and within States, said Professor G V S Murthy, Director of Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad. Therefore, it will be more appropriate to talk about State level and district level peaks, he said. As against total cases per million population which increased in India from 17.6 cases per million on April 25 to 99.9 per million on May 25, in Maharashtra it rose from 61.9/ million in April to 383/ million on May 25, Professor Murthy noted. In Tamil Nadu it increased from 23.4 per million on April 25 to 199.3 per million on May 25, and in Gujarat from 48.1 per million in April to 219 per million on May 25. Delhi has shown the steepest increase in the country from 140 per million on April 25 to 690 per million on May 25. "These States (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi) seem to be nearing the peak while those like Kerala, Punjab and Haryana seem to have crossed the peak," Prof. Murthy, told PTI in an interview. "Since six states (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh) contribute 70 per cent cases in the country, unless these States peak, the country peak cannot be reached. From the present trends, this can happen as early as early June to as late as the middle of July", he said.  On his assessment about "eventual" COVID-19 deaths in India, Professor Murthy said evidence from some models shows that nearly 80,000-100,000 deaths have been avoided due to the lockdown. He said data shows that the daily increase in deaths across the country has been two deaths per million population over the last week. Most governments, Prof. Murthy noted, have ramped up their health systems to prevent deaths by providing appropriate care. "Efforts have also been made for early identification of severe respiratory illness and influenza like illness. These are positive indicators that the country will be able to keep mortality on the lower side. If standard protocols are meticulously followed and hospital facilities remain on high alert, direct COVID-19 deaths should be kept to less than 7,500-8,000 in the present pandemic. That would translate to four to five deaths per million population," he said. On India moving to 10th place in the world in terms of the number of cases, he said this statistic is misleading as the countrys population is much higher than most of the nations in Europe put together. "Therefore, one must use a comparable population denominator like cases or deaths per million population (called case rate or death rate). When we do this, the total case rate per million population in India is 101 compared to 6,050 in Spain, 5098 in the US, 3825 in the UK and 3,801 in Italy," Professor Murthy pointed out. Similarly, death rate per million population in India is three per million compared to 615 in Spain, 542 each in the UK and Italy, 435 in France and 300 in the US, he said, adding, most countries in South and South East Asia have similar rates as India. Asked if he thought the COVID-19 lockdown should be completely lifted from June 1, Murthy said once steps have been taken to lift it in whatever measure, the same direction should be followed by easing it in a staggered manner. Clusters of cases have to be identified on a daily basis and containment measures have to be in place for such clusters. This has to be a dynamic process and reviewed based on new cases occurring in a large number. "Public gatherings should not be permitted for the next couple of months. This includes cinema houses, religious or social events. If such activities have to be opened up, sophisticated sanitisation measures like ultra violet disinfection tunnels should be set up and all people should pass through the same," he said. Public transport will need to be made available, he said, adding, measures like short distance buses rather than long distance ones will reduce the duration of contact and may be preferred. Metros can be made operational with adequate sanitation procedures."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-keep-covid-19-deaths-to-less-than-8000-public-health-expert-841970.html
26-05-2020||National||5 killed after car falls into river in Jharkhand||Five persons, including a two-year-old girl, were killed after the car they were travelling in fell into a river in Jharkhand's Dhanbad district on Tuesday, police said. The Kolkata-bound vehicle hit the divider on a bridge on National Highway 2 around 5 am and fell into the Khudia river. Four of a family, including the two-year-old girl, and the driver died on the spot, Govindpur police station in- charge Surendra Kumar Singh said. "The deceased persons were identified by their Aadhaar cards and driver's licence. Initial investigation suggests they were on their way to Kolkata from Bihar's Gaya district. Their family members have been informed about the accident," he said. All the deceased were residents of Kolkata, the officer said, adding that the bodies have been sent for post- mortem examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-killed-after-car-falls-into-river-in-jharkhand-841971.html
26-05-2020||National||Chardham project: Nitin Gadkari lauds BRO for Chamba tunnel construction||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday lauded the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for constructing a 440-metre long tunnel below the busy Chamba town on Rishikesh-Dharasu road and termed it as an 'extraordinary feat' in nation-building during the pandemic. The BRO successfully dug up the 440-metre long tunnel below the Chamba town on Rishikesh-Dharasu road, National Highway no 94, which will facilitate all-weather connectivity to Chardham -- Gangotri, Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Badrinath. "I congratulate the entire BRO team for their extraordinary feat in nation-building amidst this global pandemic... Ever since the catastrophe that hit Kedarnath, we were committed for an all-weather connectivity to Chardham and this is an important milestone," Road Transport, Highways Minister Gadkari said. He said the breakthrough of this tunnel will go a long way in facilitating speedy movement of traffic, reducing congestion and distance to Chamba town and easing the movement of yatris on Chardham Yatra and bring economic prosperity. He said the latest Austrian technology has been used in construction of the Chamba tunnel. The tunnel will be through for traffic by October 2020 almost three months before its scheduled date of completion of January 2021, he said. The 6-km road and 450-metre tunnel is being constructed at a cost of Rs 88 crore. BRO started work on 'North Portal' of the tunnel in January 2019 but work on 'South Portal' could commence only after October 2019 when issues concerning land compensation and safety of houses above the tunnel were resolved to the satisfaction of all stakeholders with active support from the state government. The loss in time was compensated by day and night working shifts along with use of modern technology and machines provided by Bharat Construction, Dehradun. Under the 900-km 'Char Dham' project costing about Rs 12,000 crore, BRO is constructing 250-km of National Highway leading to holy shrines of Gangotri and Badrinath, Gadkari said while congratulating Lt Gen Harpal Singh, DG Border Roads, and his team for completing crucial projects of national importance in two years. Gadkari said BRO has been entrusted with 251 km and this consists of 17 packages out of which 10 projects of 151 km have been sanctioned. The Minister asked the BRO to be ready with all preliminary works related to remaining packages which were stuck as they fell in ecological sensitive zone and a high-powered committee report was awaited, assuring that he will get in touch with concerned authorities to expedite the same. He also asked the BRO to ensure beautification drive along the highway including plantation of green species besides other methods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chardham-project-nitin-gadkari-lauds-bro-for-chamba-tunnel-construction-841972.html
26-05-2020||National||Paytm sends 4,000 masks for frontline COVID-19 workers in Madhya Pradesh||The Madhya Pradesh government has praised leading digital payments and financial services company, Paytm for sending across 4,000 masks for its workforce engaged in the fight against COVID-19. The state health ministry has tweeted from its official handle to appreciate this gesture, a company release said on Tuesday. Paytm, has been contributing face masks and hygiene products across the country to ensure the safety of frontline workers fighting COVID-19. The company is in the process of sending out 4 lakh masks and 10 lakh hygiene products to government offices, Army, CRPF, Police, municipal bodies, district magistrates and hospitals. These authorities would distribute among personnel working in the frontline to help control the pandemic, it said. Apart from Madhya Pradesh Ministry of Health, Hyderabad Police, CRPF Jammu, Delhi Traffic Police, CM of Karnataka, and Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation among others have also tweeted from their official handles to thank Paytm for its efforts. The company is aiming to deliver supplies to many other states including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Assam, Odisha, and Goa in the coming days. Paytm has also launched a host of initiatives to fight against novel coronavirus. It has revamped its app's user interface (UI) with 'Stay at Home Essential Payments'. Also, under the 'Feed My City' initiative, Paytm is providing meals to daily wage earners in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and Noida (Uttar Pradesh) in association with KVN Foundation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/paytm-sends-4000-masks-for-frontline-covid-19-workers-in-madhya-pradesh-841982.html
26-05-2020||National||Over 6,500 new coronavirus cases in India, death toll climbs to 4,167||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,167 in the country, while the number of cases climbed to 1,45,380, registering an increase of 146 deaths and 6,535 cases since Monday 8 am, the Union Health Ministry said. The number of active COVID-19 cases climbed to 80,722. As many as 60,490 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.  "Thus, around 41.61 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior Health Ministry official said. The total confirmed cases includes foreigners. Of the 146 deaths reported since Monday morning, 60 were in Maharashtra, 30 in Gujarat, 15 in Delhi, 10 in Madhya Pradesh, seven in Tamil Nadu, six in West Bengal, four each in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, three in Telangana, two each in Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka and one in Kerala. Of the total 4,167 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 1,695 deaths followed by Gujarat with 888 deaths, Madhya Pradesh with 300, West Bengal with 278, Delhi with 276, Rajasthan with 167, Uttar Pradesh with 165, Tamil Nadu with 118 and Andhra Pradesh and Telangana with 56 deaths each.. The death toll reached 44 in Karnataka and 40 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 23 fatalities due to the disease, Haryana has 16 deaths, while Bihar has registered 13 and Odisha has seven deaths. Kerala and Himachal Pradesh have reported five deaths each so far, while Jharkhand and Assam have recorded four deaths each so far. Chandigarh and Uttarakhand each have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities each, while Meghalaya has reported one fatality so far, according to the ministry data.  More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, according to the ministry's website.          According to the ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 52,667 followed by Tamil Nadu at 17,082, Gujarat at 14,460, Delhi at 14,053, Rajasthan at 7,300, Madhya Pradesh at 6,859 and Uttar Pradesh at 6,532.   The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 3,816 in West Bengal, 3,110 in Andhra Pradesh and 2,730 in Bihar.It has risen to 2,182 in Karnataka, 2,060 in Punjab, 1,920 in Telangana, 1,668 in Jammu and Kashmir and 1,438 in Odisha. Haryana has reported 1,184 coronavirus infection cases so far, while Kerala has 896 cases. A total of 526 people have been infected with the virus in Assam and 377 in Jharkhand. Uttarakhand has 349 cases, Chhattisgarh has 291, Chandigarh has reported 238 cases, Himachal Pradesh has 223, Tripura has 194 and Goa has registered 67 cases so far. Ladakh has reported 52 COVID-19 cases, Puducherry has 41 instances of the infection, Manipur has 39 while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 33 infections.  Meghalaya has registered 14 cases. Nagaland has reported three cases of the infection, Dadar and Nagar Haveli and Arunachal Pradesh have reported two cases of the virus each, while Mizoram and Sikkim have reported a case each till how. "2,970 cases are being reassigned to states," the ministry said on its website, adding, "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR." State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-6500-new-coronavirus-cases-in-india-death-toll-climbs-to-4167-841990.html
26-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown woes: Giving up hope of boarding Shramik train, 11 migrants reach Bihar from Gurgaon on cycle rickshaw||Giving up hope of boarding the Shramik Special train and struggling to make ends meet amid the lockdown, 11 rickshaw pullers here set on an eight-day long journey to Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district with their "costliest asset”-cycle rickshaw. No work since the past two months, families waiting back home for money to be sent, landlords demanding rent, uncertainty about life returning to normalcy, and an endless wait to go back to their village, added to the woes of 48-year-old Bharat Kumar. Kumar had registered for the Shramik Special train. Everyday, he hoped his phone will ring and he will be asked to come to the station. But, only his landlord’s call came everyday asking when he would pay the due rent. Dejected with the wait, Kumar decided to go to the Gurgaon Railway Station where he was refused an entry. He however, found more people who were there to enquire about the status of their tickets. Eleven of them got together, and set on the 1,090 kilometre long journey on cycle rickshaws, which took them eight days. "How long would I have waited? It had already been two months. The situation was getting out of hands. I would have been thrown out if I had not vacated the rented room. And there was no clarity on when will things get back to normal. I decided to go anyway,” Bharat told PTI over phone. "I have no clue about how will I earn here (Bihar), but at least I am with my family with no threat of being thrown out. I feel weak after the long journey. I would find out in a few days on what work I can do in my home state to survive,” he added. Choking back tears, 40-year-old Jhokhu said, “At first we thought that we all could go together. We thought one person can sit and other can ride so both persons can get a break during the journey.  “But we could not have left our rickshaws back in Gurgaon. It is the costliest asset we have. We do not know when will we go back so we thought of packing all our belongings on the rickshaw and go back,” he said. Dayanath, 36, feels that though the journey was immensely difficult, he made a wise decision. "It took us eight days to reach and it was an immensely difficult journey. Even now we have not got any update on the train ticket. If I would not have started from there, I would still be there. How long could I have eaten in different community kitchens waiting for someone to help? I know for sure that no help was coming my way so I had to find my own way,” he said. Raju, whose five kids heaved a sigh of relief when he reached home, says he does not own the rickshaw which he pulled in Gurgaon. "I do not have my own rickshaw. It was on rent. I used to give a share of my earnings to the ‘malik’ (owner). He does not even know that I have brought the rickshaw here. I am sure he would have been angry had I told him in advance. I could have travelled on my other fellows’ rickshaws, but we all had belongings to carry,” he said. "I told my family that I was starting from Gurgaon on the rickshaw and they were scared. They could not reach out to me over the phone as its battery died. So they were scared that something happened to me midway,” he added. According to the Haryana Chief Minister's Office (CMO), so far over 2.90 lakh migrants have been sent home from the state. The country has been under lockdown since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. The curbs have now been extended till May 31. The nationwide lockdown has thrown the economic activities out of gear, rendered many homeless and penniless and began an exodus of migrants to their home states. While trains and buses are being arranged for the migrants to reach their native places, lakhs of them continue to wait for the call to avail these transport facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-woes-giving-up-hope-of-boarding-shramik-train-11-migrants-reach-bihar-from-gurgaon-on-cycle-rickshaw-841993.html
26-05-2020||National||Amphan timely lesson for states to modernise infrastructure, focus on disaster governance: NDRF chief SN Pradhan||Cyclone Amphan, which tormented much of West Bengal and parts of Odisha, came across as a timely lesson for the upgradation of infrastructure in rural areas and underscored the need for states to accord top priority to disaster governance, NDRF chief SN Pradhan said. Pradhan said extreme natural events are going to be more frequent now with the changing climate, and the only way to save more lives and reduce damage to property is through disaster-resilient infrastructure, especially in the coastal belts. Super cyclone Amphan was a timely lesson that we cannot take chances anymore. Villages have to make cyclone-resistant structures, even if they are hutments for the poor, especially in coastal areas. Housing schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana should incorporate cyclone-resistant designs. Another serious requirement is underground electrification in rural and coastal locations. I know it might not be cost-effective but no technology is so to start with; you have to push for it, the director-general of the National Disaster Response Force told PTI in an interview. A total of 86 people died and lakhs were rendered homeless as the cyclone cut a swathe through half-a-dozen districts of West Bengal, including state capital Kolkata, on May 20. The fierce winds blew away shanties, flattened kutcha houses and uprooted thousands of trees and electric poles. Amphan also affected nearly 45 lakh people and damaged a large number of houses in the coastal districts of neighbouring Odisha. Pradhan said road clearance is over 90 per cent complete in most of the severely-affected districts of West Bengal, where 38 NDRF teams have been deployed, including 19 alone in Kolkata. Inter-village and nearest-town connectivity have been largely restored and even in South 24 Parganas, which was among the hardest hit districts, a lot of traffic is now on the roads. But, rebuilding kutcha houses in the rural areas will take time, he said. The top NDRF official said many people have now started going back from cyclone shelters and repairing their own houses. Pradhan said more NDRF teams have been moved from the rural districts to Kolkata, where protests over power and water supply disruption have been raging on in several areas for the last few days. Complete normalcy in the state is still a day or two away, he said. The director-general said the COVID-19 pandemic compounded the challenge of moving people to safety and saving lives as the cyclone hurtled towards West Bengal and Odisha. I must admit it was very tough. We had no other option but to herd people out of villages to the cyclone shelters and they were not in a position at that moment to observe safety precautions like social distancing. However, what we did was the next best thing we could do and that is to sanitise the shelters, separate people into small groups, each keeping a safe distance from the other and make them wear masks. Our first aim was to take the vulnerable to safety and then follow COVID protocols, Pradhan said. On reports of an NDRF personnel testing positive for COVID-19, he said its a one-off case and should not be a cause for concern, as the federal contingency force has put in place strict safety protocols since January. Pradhan said with cyclones becoming more regular, even in summers, its high time that states turn their attention to disaster governance. You cannot compromise on disaster governance at any cost. State governments must treat it as a rule and not an exception. If a state is good in disaster governance, it will be good in general governance as well, and not the other way round. It is imperative that their crisis management teams are fully trained and prepared before a disaster like cyclone strikes, the senior official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amphan-timely-lesson-for-states-to-modernise-infrastructure-focus-on-disaster-governance-ndrf-chief-sn-pradhan-841994.html
26-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Hold Lok Sabha proceedings in Central Hall, Rajya Sabha meet in Lower House, suggests MP Tiruchi Siva||Siva made his suggestions in a letter he shot off to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu saying the issue of space constraint for seating of MPs to maintain social distancing will be one of the matters of serious concern, which should be addressed.  "For the time being till this menace is over, the Lok Sabha proceedings can be held in the Central Hall by making necessary alterations and the Rajya Sabha proceedings could be in the Lok Sabha hall, which would help members to sit at the required distance," Siva said. Lok Sabha has 545 MPs and Rajya Sabha has 245 lawmakers. The iconic Central Hall is used for joint sittings of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Usually, the Monsoon Session is convened in July and it extends until mid-August. The Budget Session was curtailed in March this year as the number of COVID-19 cases was on the rise. Two days after Parliament was adjourned, the government imposed a national lockdown on March 25, which has now been extended to May 31. Siva said this unprecedented pandemic has held the whole world paralysed for the first time ever in human history and it has also put to test the capacity and efficiency of mankind to prove once again the quality and capability to overcome and sustain against odd critical situations.   "Across the world, the legislative forums along with all other sectors have come to stand still for this experience is an inexperienced one. We, the largest democracy are no exception to it," he said while putting forth his suggestion. Several MPs had been demanding the reconvening of Parliamentary Standing Committees, especially to scrutinise the COVID-19 response of the Narendra Modi government. Last Saturday, Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla held a meeting with senior officials to prepare for starting committee meetings for which officials have identified at least nine meeting halls where social distancing could be practised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-hold-lok-sabha-proceedings-in-central-hall-rajya-sabha-meet-in-lower-house-suggests-mp-tiruchi-siva-841998.html
26-05-2020||National||412 new COVID-19 cases in Delhi; tally to soon cross 11,000-mark in May alone||With this, the national capital now has 14,465 cases out of which 10,946 or 75.67% of total cases have been reported this month alone. The death toll has risen to 288. Since the lockdown 4.0 was put in place on May 18, there were 4,710 cases and this accounted for 43.02% of the cases reported this month alone so far.  The medical bulletin said 183 people have been discharged in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 6,954. However, there are 7,223 people still under treatment, including 3,770 in home isolation. Delhi has so far conducted tests on 1.78 lakh samples, including 8,706 fresh samples. While on Sunday 508 cases were reported, May 22 reported 660 cases, the biggest spike in a single day. Since May 19, Delhi has been reporting more than 500 cases and it has been rising since then. However, on Saturday, the numbers have slightly declined. On May 18, there were 299 cases while May 19 had reported 500 cases, May 20 with 534 cases and May 21 with 571 cases. On May 23, the numbers declined to 591.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/412-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-tally-to-soon-cross-11000-mark-in-may-alone-842001.html
26-05-2020||National||Easing of travel restrictions, movement of migrants behind surge in COVID-19 cases: Experts||With India now in the bracket of top 10 nations worst hit by the novel coronavirus, experts have attributed the surge in cases to easing of travel restrictions and movement of migrants besides enhanced testing capacity. According to AIIMS Director, Randeep Guleria, the present rise in cases has been reported predominantly from hotspot areas but there is a possibility of further rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the coming few days due to increased travel. "Those who are asymptomatic or are in presymptomatic stage will pass through screening mechanisms and may reach areas where there have been minimal or less cases," Guleria said. He said there was a need for more intense surveillance and monitoring in areas where migrants have returned to contain the spread of the disease.  If proper social distancing and hand hygiene is not maintained at a time when people are out on roads, the coronavirus infection will transmit much faster, he said. Guleria also noted that testing capacity has been significantly ramped up which is reflecting in the increasing number of cases being detected. Commenting on the partial resumption of rail and road transport services and migrants returning to their native places, Dr Chandrakant S Pandav, former president of the Indian Public Health Association and Indian Association of Preventive and social medicine, said the floodgates have been opened. "This is a classic case of creating an enabling environment for coronavirus to spread like wildfire. In the coming few days, the number will rise dramatically. While it is true that lockdown cannot go on forever, the opening up should have been in a measured, calibrated and informed manner," he said. "Travelling leads to spread of the infection. Now, the government will have to ensure even stronger surveillance to curb the infection but if that will be done is something to be observed," he said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,167 and the number of cases climbed to 1, 45,380 in the country, registering an increase of 146 deaths and 6,535 cases since Monday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry. Dr K K Aggarwal, President of the Confederation of Medical Association of Asia and Oceania (CMAAO), and former IMA President, said there will be a further surge in cases in the coming days if migration continues without any proper social distancing. "Within the next ten days, the cases will cross two lakh. The very fact that number of cases was rising before the end of the third lockdown and continuing during the fourth lockdown means that people are not following physical distancing as required," he said.  "Even in the last week of May when the temperature is very high, the rising number of cases would mean that human-to-human transmission is more important than surface-to-human transmission. Normally in heat the surface-to-human transmission should have reduced the new cases by half which has not happened," Aggarwal said. However, Professor K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India, said an increase in the number of cases reflects both an increase in testing rates and an increase in spread. "What we need to see is the number of new tests performed per day and the number of new cases that were identified from them. That gives a better idea of the rate of spread than the total number of new cases alone. "We also have to see if the testing criteria has remained the same between the two periods of comparison.We may open up gradually but will have to continue case detection, contact tracing and follow personal protection measures as vigorously as possible," he added. A total of 31,26,119 samples have been tested as on May 26, 9 am and 92,528 samples have been tested in the last 24 hours, ICMR officials said. India is the tenth most affected nation by the pandemic after the US, Russia, UK, Spain, Italy, Brazil, Germany, Turkey and France, as per the John Hopkins University data. The country has recorded 6,088, 6,654, 6,767 and 6977 cases on May 22, 23, 24 and 25 respectively. Also, the number of RT-PCR tests for detection of COVID-19 in the country crossed the 30-lakh mark on Monday. The first two phases of the lockdown led to 14-29 lakh COVID-19 cases being averted, while the number of lives saved in that period was between 37,000 and 78,000, the government said last Friday, citing various studies, and asserted that the unprecedented shutdown has paid "rich dividends" in the fight against the pandemic. PTI PLB DV DV||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/easing-of-travel-restrictions-movement-of-migrants-behind-surge-in-covid-19-cases-experts-842004.html
26-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: NCP says Maharashtra govt stable, slams BJP over President rule rumour||Accusing the BJP of spreading rumour that Presidents rule will be imposed in Maharashtra, state minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Tuesday asserted that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government is strong and stable and will complete its term. Malik expressed confidence that numbers (of MLAs) are in favour of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, and said the three parties are united. "The government is strong and stable. The numbers are in favour of MVA. The three parties are united," Malik, who is NCPs national spokesperson, told a channel. "But, people in the BJP have been spreading rumours since past few days that Presidents rule will be imposed in Maharashtra, that this government will go, he said. The Maharashtra government has been strictly adhering to the Centres guidelines on combating COVID-19, he said. The number of people tested and traced in Maharashtra is highest in the country, he claimed. "Our government is performing well...the BJP is spreading rumours...our government is strong, Malik said. On Monday, BJP's Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane met Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari and demanded imposition of President's rule in view of the Shiv Sena-led state government's "failure" in tackling the coronavirus pandemic. Rane told reporters that the MVA government has messed up administrative affairs in the time of the unprecedented crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-ncp-says-maharashtra-govt-stable-slams-bjp-over-president-rule-rumour-842007.html
26-05-2020||National||SC notices to 4 states on Sharjeel Imam's plea for clubbing multiple FIRs against him||The Supreme Court Tuesday sought replies from Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur on a plea by JNU student and anti-CAA activist Sharjeel Imam seeking clubbing of multiple FIRs levelling sedition charges against him for allegedly making inflammatory speeches. The top court gave another opportunity to the Delhi government to file its response on Imam's plea which also sought the transfer of all criminal cases against him to the national capital and probe by a single agency. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah, which took up the matter through video conferencing issued notices to the four states and listed the matter for further hearing after two weeks. During the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Delhi government said that it needs time to file its response on the plea as was directed by the court on May 1. Mehta said that filing of response by Delhi government will not suffice and other states, arrayed as parties in the plea should also be asked to file their replies. Senior advocate Siddharth Dave, appearing for Imam, said that there are five FIRs registered against him in different states in connection with two speeches given in Delhi and in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. He referred to the recent verdict in Arnab Goswami case and said that similar relief can be granted to his client by quashing multiple FIRs and transferring the case to Delhi for probe by a single agency. He said that FIRs are lodged against Imam in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh and he has been booked under sedition charges. Recently, Delhi Police booked Imam under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), he said. The bench said that it would take up the matter for further hearing after two weeks and all the five states should file their responses by then. On May 19, the top court had refused to quash the initial FIR against Republic TV Editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami over his news show on the Palghar mob lynching but gave some relief by setting aside related multiple FIRs and complaints holding they had a "stifling" effect on the exercise of freedom and expression. On May 1, the top court had sought Delhi government's reply on the plea. On January 28, Imam was arrested by Delhi Police's crime branch from Bihar's Jehanabad in a sedition case for allegedly making inflammatory speeches in Jamia Milia Islamia and Aligarh. The PhD student at the Jawaharlal Nehru University's (JNU) Centre for Historical Studies has been booked on sedition and other charges after purported videos of his alleged inflammatory speeches made during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) were circulated on social media. An FIR was registered against him by Delhi Police on January 25 under IPC sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting or attempting to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, caste or community or any other ground whatsoever) among others. "Two videos came to light, one was on December 13 at Jamia Milia Islamia and other was on January 16 at Aligarh, where it was noticed that Imam had delivered very inflammatory speeches in opposition to the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens and such comments can potentially affect religious harmony and weaken the unity and integrity of the country," police had said. A graduate in computer science from IIT-Mumbai, Imam had shifted to Delhi for pursuing research at the Centre for Historical Studies at the JNU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notices-to-4-states-on-sharjeel-imams-plea-for-clubbing-multiple-firs-against-him-842010.html
26-05-2020||National||States deficit jumps to 4.5% of GDP; Revenue gap seen to soar 7-times to 2.8%: Report||Led by a massive spike in revenue deficit of 2.8 percent of GDP, the aggregate fiscal deficit of the states will rise to 4.5 percent of the GDP in 2020-21 at Rs 8.5 lakh crore as against the earlier forecast of 3 percent of GDP, says a report. As the nine-week long national lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic crippled the economy, the Centre has allowed the states to borrow 200 bps more than the legally mandated 3 percent deficit while the Centre itself has upped its borrowing targets by Rs 4.2 lakh crore.  But most states are not eligible to draw down the full 5 per cent as the incremental borrowing comes with lots of caveats. The coronavirus pandemic has hit the economy at a time when it was already on a downhill drive for almost two years now and the nine-week long lockdown has completely stalled more than 80 percent of the economy. According to a report by domestic rating agency India Ratings on Tuesday, the combined gross and net market borrowings of the states will be 4.5 percent of GDP and 3.3 percent of GDP, respectively, in the current fiscal (FY21). States' borrowing ceiling is Rs 6.4 lakh crore based on 3 percent of GSDP for FY21 and the enhanced limit would enable them to borrow an additional Rs 4.28 lakh crore or 5 percent in FY21. But of this, only 0.5 percent is immediate and without conditions as the remaining 150 bps more borrowing is linked to states' performance on milestone-based achievement in at least three out of four reform areas outlined by the Centre—reforms in ration cards (one-nation-one-card), power distribution, ease of doing business among others. The agency has also revised budget estimates for FY2020 and FY21 of 20 states, finalized before the lockdown, the nominal gross state domestic product (GSDP) growth projected for FY2020 by these states is mostly upwards of an aggressive 10 percent. "The fallout of the pandemic will be severe on the economy. The extended nation-wide lockdown will exacerbate the economic downturn as our estimate pegs the nominal GDP growth at 0.9 percent for FY21,” says the report.  States have already been faced with a lower-than-budgeted share in central taxes and subdued own revenue growth, when the 21-day lockdown was imposed from March 25. These 20 states constitute nearly 86 percent of the budgeted aggregate revenue receipts for FY20, which stood at 4.2 percent lower than budgeted Rs 24.79 lakh crore, primarily led by a 16.2 percent reduction in the devolution of Central taxes. States, in all likelihood, will face significant slippages from the FY21. The extent of the slippage will vary depending on the pace at which economic activity limps back to normalcy. Despite the lockdown relaxations since mid-May, the revenue balance of the states in FY21 is set to worsen, particularly for those which already run sizeable revenue deficit and the states are set to see revenue deficit of 2.8 percent of GDP than the earlier forecast of 0.4 percent. Accordingly, the agency has revised upwards its estimate of gross market borrowings of the states to Rs 8.25 lakh crore in FY21 from its earlier estimate of Rs 6.09 lakh crore, as the states are expected to resort to higher market borrowings to fund fiscal deficit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-deficit-jumps-to-45-of-gdp-revenue-gap-seen-to-soar-7-times-to-28-report-842031.html
26-05-2020||National||Gas leak: SC grants 30 employees of LG Polymers access to its sealed plant at Vizag||The Supreme Court on Wednesday permitted LG Polymers India Ltd to have restricted access to its sealed plant at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, where there was a gas leakage and asked the company to provide a list of its 30 personnel who could be allowed the entry. The Andhra Pradesh High Court has recently ordered sealing of the plant and its premises and also barred entry into the plant by all except the committees appointed by the state government. The high court had also asked the directors of the firm not to leave the country without its nod. The apex court, in the proceedings held through video-conferencing, took note of the plea of the company that it and its certain employees be granted emergency access as there were toxic polymers inside the plant. A bench comprising Justices U U Lalit, M M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran after hearing the submissions of senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the company, granted limited access to its 30 employee to the plant and made clear that the other contentions can be dealt with by the High Court. “As an interim measure, we permit the petitioner (firm) to give list of 30 personnel who may be granted access to the plant. List of these people shall be given today by 3 pm to the District Collector,” the bench said in its order. Rohatgi said that earlier the firm had come against an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) which had taken note of the gas leak on its own (suo motu)and had ordered payment of interim compensation of Rs 50 crore. He said the company which was earlier thrown into the “frying pan” was into “fire” now and as many as seven committees have been formed to probe into the gas leak incident. “The High Court has sealed the plant which is open to the High Court only,” he said adding that there are toxic materials. The company wanted to participate in the proceedings and there can be more problems if it does not get the access, he said. Earlier, the High Court had ordered the seizure of the premises of LG Polymers plant and had barred its employees the entry into the plant. As many as 12 people, including a minor, were killed when styrene vapours leaked from the LG Polymers plant on May 7, while several hundred fell ill after inhaling the poisonous chemical at R Venkatapuram near Visakhapatnam. The apex court, on May 19, had asked LG Polymers India to approach the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to raise the issue regarding setting up of multiple committees to probe the May 7 gas leakage from its plant in Visakhapatnam. On May 8, the NGT had slapped an interim penalty of Rs 50 crore on the firm and sought response from the Centre and others in the gas leak incident saying "there appears to be a failure to comply with the said Rules and other statutory provisions". The tribunal had set up a five-member committee, headed by former Andhra Pradesh High Court judge Justice B Seshasayana Reddy, to probe into the incident in the plant and submit a report before May 18. The committee has to submit report on sequence of events, causes of failure and persons and authorities responsible, extent of damage to life among others. A major early morning chemical leak from the polymer plant had impacted villages in 5-km radius, leaving many people dead and scores of citizens suffering from breathlessness and other problems. The leak was noticed by company staff who were reportedly inspecting machines to restart the factory and raised an alarm. Hours after the styrene gas leak around 2.30 am on May 7 from the plant at the village, scores of people could be seen lying unconscious on sidewalks, near ditches and on the road, raising fears of a major industrial disaster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gas-leak-sc-grants-30-employees-of-lg-polymers-access-to-its-sealed-plant-at-vizag-842033.html
26-05-2020||National||Health secretary interacts with officials of 5 states reporting surge in COVID-19 cases||The Union health ministry on Tuesday suggested five states reporting a surge in COVID-19 cases over the last three weeks to analyse the trends in containment zones and adopt course correction measures through proper implementation of micro-plans. The states are Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan held a high-level review meeting through video conference with the chief secretaries, health secretaries and National Health Mission (NHM) directors of these states, the health ministry said. "These states are witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases since the last three weeks as lockdown rules have been eased and inter-state migration has been allowed," the ministry said in a statement. The states were briefed on their individual case trajectory with respect to fatality rate, doubling time, testing per million and confirmation percentage, it said. Factors that need to be focused on for an effective containment strategy were pointed out such as perimeter control, diligent house-to-house survey through special surveillance teams, testing, active contact-tracing and effective clinical management.  "It was also emphasized that each containment zone has to be analysed to check the trends and adopt course correction measures through proper formation and implementation of micro-plans. The activities within the buffer zone were also reiterated," the statement said. The states were asked to assess the existing health infrastructure in terms of quarantine centres, hospitals with ICU, ventilator and oxygen beds, and strengthen them looking at the need for the next two months, according to the statement. Use of data emerging from the 'Aarogya Setu' application was also pointed out to the participating states, it added. Regarding non-COVID essential health services, the states were reminded that immediate measures needed to be taken to continue programmes for TB, leprosy, COPD and non-communicable diseases like hypertension and diabetes, and treatment for injuries and trauma due to accidents. It was advised that mobile medical units (MMUs) could be stationed at quarantine centres, temporary sub-health centres set up in existing buildings and additional frontline workers utilised, the statement said.  It was also advised that the link with Ayushman Bharat – Health and Wellness Centres needed to be established so that immediate health check-ups could be arranged. Tele-medicine services can to be rolled out from these centres, it said. To meet the surge in incoming migrant workers, ASHAs and ANMs can be given additional incentives, the ministry said. "The states were advised to ensure implementation of PPE guidelines with respect to the outreach teams and were asked to rope in NOGs, SHGs, private hospitals, volunteer groups etc., for augmenting their strength," the statement said. They have been advised to pay special attention to vulnerable groups like pregnant women, children under five years of age, elderly and those with co-morbidities and also mobilise the Anganwadi workforce in the districts, it said.  It was stressed that nutrition needed to be checked among children under the age of five and recommend them to nutrition rehabilitation centres. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,167 and the number of cases climbed to 1,45,380 in the country, registering an increase of 146 deaths and 6,535 cases in the 24-hour period since Monday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-secretary-interacts-with-officials-of-5-states-reporting-surge-in-covid-19-cases-842052.html
26-05-2020||National||Mixed opinion by Indian experts on WHO's temporary pause on hydroxychloroquine trial in coronavirus treatment||With the World Health Organisation deciding to temporarily drop hydroxychloroquine from its global study into experimental COVID-19 treatments, doctors in India are divided in their opinions over the repercussions the move might have on the strategy to combat the pandemic. While some experts feel that after the WHO decisions, country's medical centres will have to take HCQ and chloroquine our of the treatment regimen of COVID-19 patients, others opined it is "not binding" for India to oblige with the decision of the world body. "The Lancet study found out that people who were given HCQ or chloroquine or, combination of azithromycin with HCQ or chloroquine, matching with other factors, ran the risk of having higher mortality due to cardiac arrhythmia (irregular heartbeat)," city-based lung surgeon Dr Arvind Kumar said. The study was done on nearly 15,000 patients, whose conditions were compared with those who weren't administered those drugs. In a press briefing on Monday, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that in light of a paper published last week in the Lancet that showed people taking hydroxychloroquine were at higher risk of death and heart problems, there would be "a temporary pause" on the hydroxychloroquine arm of its global clinical trial. The WHO said that its experts need to review all available evidence to date. As countries around the world explored the potential of hydroxychloroquine to treat COVID-19 patients, several experts earlier in May had sounded a note of warning to say it is not a wonder drug and may even be fatal in some cases. After the fresh announcement by the WHO, while doctors like Kumar feel the anti-malarial drug will be taken out of the treatment regimen of COVID-19 patients, other medical experts said, India may take its own call on the HCQ. "This is sort of a guideline, and not a diktat from the WHO, and so India is free to decide on its own whether to go ahead with use of HCQ or halt it," said Dr Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Additional Director, Pulmonology and Critical Care, Fortis Noida. He, however, said, India has no national registry or own study to assess the impact of drugs on its own population. "And, though it is not binding to accept what WHO said, we have no choice, but to accept what other experts have come up with. Otherwise, people will question, on what basis are we continuing the use of the drug on COVID-19 patients," he said. As the pandemic spread and the urgency for effective treatment of COVID-19 mounted, several countries, including the US, have already started relying heavily on HCQ, majorly used in the treatment of malaria and rheumatoid-arthritis. India has become the biggest supplier of the drug and has fulfilled large orders from countries such as the US, the UAE and the UK. With US President Donald Trump touting the anti-malaria drug as a definite cure for COVID-19, his administration has stockpiled millions of doses of HCQ despite the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issuing a safety communication regarding the known side effects of the drug.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mixed-opinion-by-indian-experts-on-whos-temporary-pause-on-hydroxychloroquine-trial-in-coronavirus-treatment-842056.html
26-05-2020||National||SC notice to Centre, RBI against interest charged on loan during moratorium||The Supreme Court on Tuesday (May 26) asked the Centre and RBI to respond to a plea questioning the RBI notification allowing banks to charge interest on the loan amount during the three-month moratorium period, which now stood extended till August 31. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, and M R Shah issued notice to the Union government and the banking regulator on a petition filed by Gajendra Sharma. Senior advocate Rajeev Datta, appearing for the petitioner asked the top court to declare March  27 notification issued by the RBI as ultra vires to the extent it allowed charging of interest on the loan amount during the moratorium period on EMI repayment. He said the people's income has already shrunk during the period of lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "This creates hardship in the present scenario of the complete national lockdown being extended from time to time due to the COVID-19 outbreak," the petitioner contended. He further contended imposition of interest during the loan moratorium will defeat its very purpose and take away its benefit.  "This has caused hindrance and obstruction in “right to life” guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution in furtherance of the right to life including right to livelihood which is a pre-requisite to the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 to people of India," his plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-rbi-against-interest-charged-on-loan-during-moratorium-842064.html
26-05-2020||National||SC seeks reply from four states on Sharjeel's plea for clubbing of cases||The Supreme Court on Tuesday (May 26)  sought a response from the states of Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur on a plea by Jawaharlal Nehru University student Sharjeel Imam for clubbing of multiple FIRs lodged against him for his controversial comment during anti-CAA-NPR-NRC protest. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah also gave an additional two weeks to Delhi government in the matter. Sharjeel was arrested from his native place at Bihar's Jehanabad district on January 28 after his speech for cutting Chicken's neck, connecting India to North East had gone viral. Delhi police filed its charge sheet against him this month only invoking charges of sedition among others. Senior advocate Sidharth Dave, appearing for Sharjeel, submitted that as many as five FIRs have been lodged on the basis of the same speech in states of Assam, UP, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh. He also pointed out that stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act has also been invoked against him. He wanted to club these cases. He also cited the SC's recent order in the Arnab Goswami case, where the TV journalist was given a similar relief on lodging of over 100 FIRs across the country for his remark against Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Dave submitted that there were two speeches made by him one in Jamia Milia Islamia University in Delhi and another one at Aligarh Muslim University in Uttar Pradesh. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Delhi government, submitted that a reply by it was ready and could be filed on Wednesday (May 27). He also pointed out other states, where cases were lodged, should also be made a party to the matter. Mehta opposed an attempt made to compare Sharjeel's cases with that of journalist Arnab, saying in his cases, the complaints filed across the country were cyclo-styled. The court then posted the matter for consideration after two weeks. Delhi Police have invoked sedition charges against Sharjeel, alleging his speech "promoted enmity" between people that led to riots in and around Delhi's Jamia Milia Islamia University on December 15, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-reply-from-four-states-on-sharjeels-plea-for-clubbing-of-cases-842068.html
26-05-2020||National||Govt finalising draft bill to set up all-India judicial service entrance test||The government is in the process of finalising a bill to establish an all-India judicial service to recruit officers for subordinate courts through an entrance test. Those who clear the pan-India test would be appointed by high courts and the state governments. Before the draft is taken to the Union Cabinet, the broad features of the proposed all-India service will be shared with the higher judiciary to seek its views, sources in the government said. The provision of an all-India judicial service (AIJS) on the lines of the Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Police Service was mooted soon after Independence. The provision of AIJS was included in Article 312 of the Constitution through the 42nd amendment in 1976. But it would still require a bill to decide on its broad contours. At present, various high courts and state service commissions hold exams to recruit judicial officers. With most of the 25 high courts wanting to retain administrative control over the lower judiciary, the proposed law may allow them to appoint judges of subordinate courts. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) could hold a standardised entrance test to recruit judges for lower courts. Since cases in lower courts are argued in local languages, there have been apprehensions on as to how a person from north India can hold hearings in a southern state. But the government is of the view that even IAS and IPS officers have served in different states overcoming the language barrier. "Intensive language training can certainly help overcome the difficulty," said a senior law ministry functionary. The government believes that if such a service comes up, it would help create a pool of talented people who could later become a part of the higher judiciary - the 25 high courts and the Supreme Court. The government has in the past proposed an all-India judicial service test to be conducted the UPSC. But nine high courts had opposed the proposal to have an all-India service for the lower judiciary. Eight others had sought changes in the proposed framework and only two supported the idea. The Narendra Modi government has given a fresh push to the long-pending proposal to set up the new service to have a separate cadre for lower judiciary in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-finalising-draft-bill-to-set-up-all-india-judicial-service-entrance-test-842069.html
26-05-2020||National||SC allows LG Polymer's officers entry to plant||The Supreme Court on Tuesday modified the Andhra Pradesh High Court's order for complete seizure and sealing of LG Polymer Ltd's Vizag plant. It allowed 30 people access to the plant for round the clock maintenances and safety measures. A gas leakage tragedy at LG Polymer's facility on May 7 had claimed the lives of 11 people and leftover two dozens grievously injured. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Mohan M Shantanagoudar, and Vineet Saran passed an interim order against the AP HC's directions issued on May 22 for sealing of the plant. The South Korean company led by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi contended complete seizure or sealing of plant premises will have tremendous adverse consequences. He said the temperature of the plant cannot be allowed to go beyond 25 degrees Celsius and if by any chance because of lack of adequate attention or safety measures if the temperature goes beyond, the situation can have some ill effects. He said 28 technical personnel and two administrative officials must be given emergency access to the plant-premises at any given point of time to ensure round the clock adequate safety measures. Rohatgi also submitted that the products lying for there should be allowed to be cleared so that there were no adverse financial effects on the Company. The top court, however, asked the counsel to raise such issues before the High Court, which was already considering the matter. "As an ad-interim measure, we permit the petitioner to give a list of 30 personnel to the District Collector, who shall be afforded access to the plant round the clock to maintain adequate safety measures," the court said. The court posted the matter on June 8, along with another plea against the National Green Tribunal's order, forming a fact-finding committee into the May 7 incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-lg-polymers-officers-entry-to-plant-842070.html
26-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Majority of Indians skeptical about travelling in next 30 days, says survey||Majority of Indians surveyed are skeptical about travelling in the next 30 days despite the government opening flight services as the number of coronavirus cases now averaging at around 7,000 per day in the country. The government on May 25 permitted the resumption of limited flight services by implementing a model in which the airport and the operating airlines will follow a set of precautions and observe social distancing norms.  However, only 21 percent of respondents said one or more members of their household will likely be taking a flight within the next 30 days, according to a survey by community social media platform LocalCircles. The survey revealed that only 10 percent said they have booked tickets and will travel soon while 11 percent said they have not made the bookings yet but will make it soon. A maximum of 76 percent said they do not have any plans to travel currently, it added. LocalCircles conducted the survey with over 16,000 respondents from over 212 districts across India, in which 71 percent were men while 29 percent were women, 49 percent respondents were from tier I, 34 percent from tier II, and 17 percent of respondents were from tier III, IV and rural districts. Meanwhile, the government had also announced recently on running 200 special trains from June 1, which will be in addition to 30 air-conditioned trains that are already running since mid-May.  About 88 percent said they have no plans to travel while only 4 percent said they have already booked tickets and will travel soon. A small 6 percent also said that they will be booking their tickets soon indicating that one or more members of only 10 per cent households will likely be taking a train in June, the survey pointed out. Most of those who are travelling by flights are primarily the ones who were stranded due to sudden lock-down on March 25 or individuals on temporary assignment or studies in different cities and going back home or those wanting to visit aged or unwell family members or be with them, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-majority-of-indians-skeptical-about-travelling-in-next-30-days-says-survey-842078.html
26-05-2020||National||India to go ahead with infrastructure development along LAC notwithstanding stiff resistance by China||India will not stop infrastructure development projects in strategic areas along the nearly 3,500-km Sino-India border, notwithstanding China's well-coordinated efforts to stall them by attempting to vitiate the situation in areas like eastern Ladakh, government sources said on Tuesday. It is learned that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has conveyed to top military brass that there was no need for reviewing the implementation of any of the key projects along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand or in Arunachal Pradesh in view of the aggressive behaviour by Chinese troops in several sensitive areas. In view of the nearly 20-day standoff between the two sides, the Indian Army has significantly ramped up its presence in sensitive border areas in North Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh besides Ladakh to send across a message that India will not be wilting under any aggressive military posturing by China, the sources said. They said Army Chief Gen MM Naravane has been briefing the defence minister about the fast evolving situation in eastern Ladakh on almost daily basis and it has been decided to put up a stiff counter to China's transgressions into Indian areas along the LAC, the de-facto boundary between the two countries. The Chinese side has been particularly peeved at India laying a key road in the finger area of Pangong Tso Lake region besides another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. Singh on Tuesday held a meeting with three service chiefs on the implementation of a wide range of reform measures in the armed forces. It is not immediately clear whether the situation in eastern Ladakh figured in the deliberations. In the last five years, India has been focusing on improving road and other key infrastructure along the LAC as part of efforts to bolster military preparedness to deal with any challenge from the Chinese side. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to "disengage" following a meeting at the level of local commanders. Over 100 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in the violence. The trigger for the incident was China's strong objection to the road being laid by India in the Finger area in Pangong Tso lake. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in North Sikkim on May 9 Since then, Chinese military has increased its strength in Pangong Tso lake, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldi, and is resorting to "aggressive patrolling" in these areas. The India Army is also carrying out similar exercise in the region, sources said. India last week said the Chinese military was hindering normal patrolling by its troops and asserted that India has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also strongly refuted China's contention that the tension was triggered due to trespassing by Indian forces on the Chinese side. India's response came two days after China accused the Indian Army of trespassing into its territory, claiming that it was an "attempt to unilaterally change the status" of the LAC in Sikkim and Ladakh. On May 5, the Indian and Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping held their first informal summit in April 2018 in the Chinese city of Wuhan, months after the Doklam standoff. In the summit, the two leaders decided to issue "strategic guidance" to their militaries to strengthen communications so that they can build trust and understanding. Modi and Xi held their second informal summit in Mamallapuram near Chennai in October last year with a focus on further broadening bilateral ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-go-ahead-with-infrastructure-development-along-lac-notwithstanding-stiff-resistance-by-china-842083.html
26-05-2020||National||Yogi kicks up yet another controversy over migrant workers||After announcing that the states wanting to hire the migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh would henceforth require the permission of the government, chief minister Yogi Adityanath triggered yet another controversy by his remarks that more than half of the workers returning to UP were 'infected'. The remarks immediately invited flak from the opposition leaders, who asked the chief minister to either clarify or ''reveal the truth'' about the actual number of Coronavirus positive patients in the state.  In a video, uploaded on the official Twitter handle of the UP Congress on Monday, Adityanath could be heard saying that 75 percent of the returning migrant workers from Mumbai were 'infected'. ''Fifty percent of migrant workers returning from Delhi and 25 to 30 percent migrant workers returning from other states in the country are infected....it is a huge challenge for us,'' the chief minister is heard saying in the video.  Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacked Adityanath on the remarks and sought immediate release of the actual figures regarding COVID-19 patients in the state. ''This figure is terrifying....if it is so then why less testing is being done in UP,'' Priyanka said in a tweet. Akhilesh also took potshots at Adityanath and asked him to explain the figures. ''The chief minister should explain his divine political mathematics,'' he tweeted on Tuesday. According to the UP officials, over 25 lakh migrant workers had so far returned to UP from different parts of the country. Official sources said that so far around 55,000 migrant workers had been tested and 1,663 had been found to be coronavirus positive.  Till Monday (May 25) the state's tally of coronavirus positive cases stood at 6,497. The chief minister had on Sunday said that other states wanting to hire the migrant workers from UP would henceforth need the permission of the UP government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-kicks-up-yet-another-controversy-over-migrant-workers-842086.html
26-05-2020||National||SC issues notice to Centre, RBI on plea against interest on loans during moratorium||The Supreme Court Tuesday asked the Centre and the RBI to respond to a plea challenging levy of interest on loans during the moratorium period, which has now been extended by another three months till August 31 due to the coronavirus pandemic. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, hearing the matter through video-conferencing, issued notices to the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India asking them to file their replies within a week. The counsel appearing for the petitioner informed the bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and M R Shah, that earlier the moratorium period was for three months till May 31 but now it has been extended by another three months. The counsel argued that borrowers should not be penalised like this and banks should not add interest on the loan amount during the moratorium period. "Counsel for the Reserve Bank of India prays for and is granted a week's time to file counter affidavit. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General, also obtain instructions in the meantime," the bench said in its order and posted the matter for hearing next week. On March 27, RBI had issued a slew of measures to check financial impact of the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19. It issued a circular giving liberty to all banks and financial institution to allow a moratorium of three months on payment of installments in respect of all term loans outstanding as on March 1, subject to the borrower making such a request. It had said that repayment schedule for such loans as also the residual tenor would be shifted across the board by three months after the moratorium period. Interest shall continue to accrue on the outstanding portion of the term loans during the moratorium period, the RBI had said. Last week, RBI had extended the moratorium period by another three months to August 31. The plea, filed by Agra resident Gajendra Sharma, has sought a direction to declare the portion of RBI's March 27 notification "as ultra vires to the extent it charges interest on the loan amount during the moratorium period, which create hardship to the petitioner being borrower and creates hindrance and obstruction in 'right to life' guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India". It has also sought a direction to the government and the RBI to provide relief in re-payment of loan by not charging interest during the moratorium period. On April 30, the apex court had directed the RBI to ensure that its circular on three-month moratorium on loan repayment between March 1 and May 31 is implemented in its letter and spirit. The top court had told the Solicitor General, appearing for the Centre, that it appears that the benefit given by the RBI was not being extended to the borrowers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-notice-to-centre-rbi-on-plea-against-interest-on-loans-during-moratorium-842092.html
26-05-2020||National||Supreme Court takes suo motu cognisance of migrant workers' miseries||The Supreme Court on Tuesday (May 26) took a Suo Motu cognisance of problems and miseries faced by the migrant workers. It said that they must be provided adequate transport arrangement, food and shelters free of costs by the Centre and States. After the lockdown imposed across the country since March 25, migrant labourers continued to suffer due to loss of jobs and suspension of transport. They remained stranded in several states and hundreds of them walked back to their native villages.  A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah issued notice to the Centre and States, asking them to explain the all the steps and measures taken to improve the situation on Thursday. "In the present situation of lockdown in the entire country, this section of the society needs succour and help by the concerned governments especially steps need to be taken by the government of India, state governments/Union Territories in this difficult situation to extend helping hand to these migrant labourers," the bench said.  Acting on news reports and letters received from different sections of the society, the court said, "The crises of migrant labourers is even continuing today with large sections still stranded on roads, highways, railway stations and State borders." The court noted media reports showing the unfortunate and miserable conditions of migrant labourers walking on-foot and cycles from long distances. "Although the Union and the state governments have taken measures yet there have been inadequacies and certain lapses. We are of the view that effective concentrated efforts are required to redeem the situation," the bench said.  The bench asked Attorney General K K Venugopal to assist the court. Several PILs filed earlier failed to elicit effective directions to the Centre and states, resulting into criticism of the Supreme Court, by retired judges, lawyers and activists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-of-migrant-workers-miseries-842095.html
26-05-2020||National||No home quarantine for those returning to Assam from outside||The recent spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Assam has prompted the state government to make 14-days institutional quarantine compulsory for all coming back to their homes from the rest of the country. The state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had earlier announced that only those showing preliminary symptoms during screening would be put into institutional quarantine and the rest would be sent for quarantine at their homes. Thousands, who had already returned and did not show any symptom are in-home quarantine. The state Cabinet, which met on Tuesday, however, decided that no home quarantine will be allowed and all coming from rest of the country will be put into institutional quarantine in view of the increase in the number of COVID-19 positive cases.  The state's COVID-19 positive cases went up to 597 with 49 cases reported on Tuesday. Of these 62 have been discharged after recovery and four died. Nearly one lakh people have returned to Assam from rest of the country after the Centre started Shramik Special trains from May 12.  Sarma had earlier said most of those who tested COVID-19 positive had returned from Maharastra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Bengal and were in quarantine centres.  The COVID-19 positive cases have been reported from all the 33 districts.  The COVID-19 positive cases in Assam were low compared to rest of the country till May 4 but the number of cases started increasing after those living in rest of the country started returning home.   The Cabinet also decided to transfer financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 to the bank accounts of 3.61 lakh people, who decided to stay back in their work stations, till June. The same amount for April and May have been given so far. It was also decided to give similar assistance of Rs. 2,000 per month (April to June) to the folk artists in Assam, including the dhulias (drummers). Their work was affected as the annual Rongali Bihu celebration was cancelled this year due to coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-home-quarantine-for-those-returning-to-assam-from-outside-842104.html
26-05-2020||National||3,276 Shramik Special trains ferried more than 44 lakh migrants since May 1||The Indian Railways has ferried over 44 lakh migrant workers on board 3,276 'Shramik Special' trains since May 1, according to official data. Of the total trains, 2,875 have terminated, while 401 are in transit. On May 25, 223 ‘Shramik Specials’ ferried 2.8 lakh passengers, the railways said. The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has distributed over 74 lakh free meals and more than 1 crore water bottles to travelling migrants so far. "Over and above inter-state movement, the railways has been assisting state governments for intra-state movement of passengers by providing MEMU/DEMU and other train services. Over 11 lakh passengers have been moved within states till now,” the railways said. The top five states and union territories from where maximum trains originated are Gujarat (897), Maharashtra (590), Punjab (358), Uttar Pradesh (232) and Delhi (200). The top five states where maximum trains terminated are Uttar Pradesh (1,428), Bihar (1,178), Jharkhand (164), Odisha (128) and Madhya Pradesh (120), the railways said. The 'Shramik Special' trains are being operated primarily on the request of states, which want to send migrant workers stranded due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown to their native places. While the Indian Railways is bearing 85 per cent of the total cost of running each train, the rest is being borne by the states in the form of fares. The coronavirus-triggered lockdown has had a devastating impact on the economy as well as on the livelihoods of lakhs of migrant workers. The plight of migrant workers who were walking from several urban centres to their villages hundreds of kilometres away had grabbed headlines for almost two months. There have been incidents of many of them being killed in road accidents. A number of migrant labourers were even killed by a speeding train after they fell asleep on the tracks. The Indian Railways also said that the rail route congestion, which was witnessed on May 23 and 24, is now over. "The congestion had occurred due to convergence of more than two-third rail traffic on routes to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and late clearance of terminals due to health protocols etc. that needed to be completed by state authorities," it said. "The matter has been resolved through active consultation with state governments and also finding other feasible routes for the journey," it added. On May 1, the Indian Railways started the migrant special trains to facilitate the movement of such workers back to their home states. While on the first day, four such trains were operated, the number was increased to 279 on May 20. In the last four days, the railways has operated 260 trains on an average daily carrying about three lakh passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3276-shramik-special-trains-ferried-more-than-44-lakh-migrants-since-may-1-842105.html
26-05-2020||National||Timely lockdown, early detection and management of cases reasons for low COVID-19 fatality rate in India: Govt||The COVID-19 fatality rate in India is among the lowest in the world at 2.87 per cent, the government said on Tuesday, attributing the timely lockdown, early detection and management of coronavirus infection cases as the main reasons for the low death toll. From 3.38 per cent in April,  the fatality rate in the country has come down to 2.87 per cent as against 6.4 per cent globally.  The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,167 and the number of cases climbed to 1, 45,380 in the country registering an increase of 146 deaths and 6,535 cases in a 24-hour span till Tuesday 8 AM, according to the Union health ministry.   Responding to a question at a press briefing on why the country's death rate is one of the lowest in the word, ICMR DG Balram Bhargava said there is no substantiative factor behind it. "We have surprisingly found a low fatality rate in India and which is a very good thing. Ultimately we are interested in a patient surviving whether he gets COVID-19 or not.  "There are several hypothesis such as we are living in bad hygiene, have higher immunity and have been given certain vaccines like BCG and those for tuberculosis, but these all are hypothesis and we cannot say anything clearly on any factor. So long as the fatality rate is low it a good thing and I hope it continues," he said. Joint secretary Lav Agarwal, however, said that the country's graded response to COVID-19 and timely identification of cases along with their clinical management played a major role in keeping the death rate low. One of the main components of an infectious diseases is early identification, he said. "We had started screening of passengers and activated our healthcare workers even 13 days before the WHO declared it a public health emergency of international concern. If cases are detected on time they do not turn serious and to the extent automatically the fatality rate will be low," he said.  France has a fatality rate of 19.9 per cent followed by Belgium at 16.3, Italy at 14.3, UK at 14.2, Spain 12.2, Sweden 11.9, Canada 7.6, Brazil 6.3, the US at 6.0, China 5.5 and Germany at 4.6 per cent.   India has 0.3 deaths per lakh population as against the 4.5 deaths globally, which is among the lowest in the world. This has been due to lockdown, timely identification and management of COVID-19 cases, Aggarwal said. Referring to the WHO Situation Report 126 dated May 25, he said Belgium has 81.2 death per lakh population while Spain has 61.5 deaths per population and UK has reported 55.3 deaths per lakh population. Italy, France, Sweden, US, Canada, Brazil and Germany have 54.3, 42.3, 39.3, 29.3, 17.2, 10.5 and 10.0 deaths per lakh population respectively.  Aggarwal further said that while Belgium has reported 800.72 deaths per million, Spain, Italy , UK, France, US and Russia have reported 614.95, 542.24, 541.98, 434.59, 295.22 and 24.96 deaths per million respectively. "India has reported only 3.08 deaths per million. Further, the trajectory is relatively flat, there is no spike in the curve," Aggarwal said showing a graph to present global perspective: death per million population (as per European CDC situation update dated May 25). The recovery rate has improved from 7.1 per cent in March when the lockdown was initiated to 11.42 per cent during the second phase and 26.59 per cent in the third phase to 41.61 per cent now. The fatality rate remained the lowest in the world at 2.87 per cent now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/timely-lockdown-early-detection-and-management-of-cases-reasons-for-low-covid-19-fatality-rate-in-india-govt-842114.html
26-05-2020||National||Brahmaputra rises above danger mark, over 1.94 lakh people affected in Assam flood||Flood situation in Assam worsened on Tuesday (May 26) with over 1.94 lakh people already affected in seven districts while the Brahmaputra and Jia Bharali rivers flowed above danger levels at two places.  The situation may turn grim as the Central Water Commission issued a serious flood warning for Assam and neighbouring Meghalaya. Many parts of the two states have been witnessing heavy rains since Friday (May 22). The flood bulletin issued by Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) on Tuesday evening said that 8,971 people have already been rendered homeless in Goalpara and Tinsukia districts and are taking shelter in 35 relief camps. The number of affected people has increased by over 1.60 lakh--from 30,000 on Monday (May 25) to 1, 94, 916 on Tuesday.   A total of 229 villages have been inundated so far in Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Darrang, Nalbari, Goalpara, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts, said the bulletin.  More than 1.68 lakh people have been affected alone in the Goalpara district that shares borders with Garo Hills in Meghalaya. Heavy rains in Garo Hills inundated large areas under Balijana and Lakhipur block in Goalpara. Citing a report of Central Water Commission, the ASDMA bulletin said the Brahmaputra was flowing above the danger level at Nematighat in Jorhat in eastern Assam and the Jia Bharali in North Assam's Sonitpur district. No human casualty has been reported so far but 11,104 animals have been affected by the first wave of flood that hit the state on Friday, it said. The personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force have already been pressed into service.  The flood is a serious problem almost every Monsoon in Assam but the deluge amid the coronavirus pandemic has posed an added challenge to the administration. The state has reported 597 COVID-19 positive cases from all 33 districts. A total of 49 new cases were detected on Tuesday. Four people have died so far while 62 persons have been discharged after recovery.  Worried over the threat of COVID-19, the ASDMA has already prepared special safety guidelines to prevent the spread of coronavirus in flood relief camps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brahmaputra-rises-above-danger-mark-over-194-lakh-people-affected-in-assam-flood-842115.html
26-05-2020||National||Amid COVID-19 pandemic, doctors in Kashmir being ‘harassed’ by police||Amid prevailing COVID-19 pandemic, doctors in Kashmir Tuesday (May 26) announced black band protest against alleged manhandling and harassment of medicos by the police in recent days across the Valley. On Tuesday doctors at a super-specialty hospital in Srinagar held a token protest against the alleged harassment of healthcare professionals by police. A senior cardiologist posted at super-specialty SMHS hospital in Srinagar was allegedly thrashed and lodged in a police station for a day on Saturday (May 23)) when he was on his way to attend patients. The incident sparked outrage in Kashmir with Principal, Government Medical College (DMC) Srinagar, Dr. Samia Rashid calling for swift action. The Police have already ordered a probe into the incident, but not before he was asked to sign a “bail document”, and his vehicle was kept at the police station. In another incident on Tuesday, the Chief Medical Officer (CM) of northern Bandipora district was stopped by police while he was on his way to inspect a quarantine centre and sample collection centre. In a video of the incident that went viral on social media, the CMO was seen protesting against the incident.   “We are here to fight against coronavirus, you are habitual of harassing us,” he yelled at the cops. President of Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK), Dr. Suhial Naik said that in the past 48 hours, three medicos who were on their duty were ‘harassed and manhandled’ by the police. “We are announcing a one-day black band protest on Wednesday (27 May) against the excesses by government forces against the healthcare providers,” he said in a statement. Naik appealed to doctors, paramedics, and other related staff of J&K to wear black bands on Wednesday to protest the injustice meted out with the health care professionals.  “The families of doctors are already uncertain due to COVID-19 threat. Now the families of doctors are more concerned following the unfortunate incidents in the past four days,” he added. The DAK also appealed to the government, especially the law enforcement agencies to implement the ordinance recently framed by the President of India to safeguard the frontline workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-pandemic-doctors-in-kashmir-being-harassed-by-police-842118.html
26-05-2020||National||Cyber criminal puts up Truecaller records of 4.75 crore Indians on sale for Rs 75,000||A cyber criminal has put on sale records of 4.75 crore Indians claimed to be sourced from online directory Truecaller for about Rs 75,000, according to online intelligence firm Cyble. A Truecaller spokesperson denied any breach of its database and said it is a compiled database which is being sold by using the name of the company so that the data look credible. "Our researchers have identified a reputable seller, who is selling 47.5 million Indians Truecaller records for USD 1,000 (about Rs 75,000). The data is from 2019. We were also taken off by surprise with such a low price point," Cyble said in a blog. The data on sale includes phone numbers, gender, city, mobile network, Facebook id etc. "Cyble researchers are progressing with their analysis, but clearly, this leak may have a potential impact on broader users in India such as spams, scams, identity thefts etc. We will update this blog as we get more information," Cyble said. When contacted, a Truecaller spokesperson said, "There has been no breach of our database and all our user information is secure. We take the privacy of our users and the integrity of our services extremely seriously and we are continuously monitoring for suspicious activities." The spokesperson said that the company has information about a similar sale of data in May 2019. "What they have here is likely the same dataset as before. It's easy for bad actors to compile multiple phone number databases and put a Truecaller stamp on it. By doing that, it lends some credibility to the data and makes it easier for them to sell. We urge the public and users not to fall prey to such bad actors whose primary motive is to swindle the people of their money," the spokesperson said. The personal data leaked by cyber criminals leads to various nefarious activities such as identity thefts, scams, and corporate espionage. Last week, Cyble spotted personal data of 2.9 crore Indians being sold on the dark web which was sourced from job websites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyber-criminal-puts-up-truecaller-records-of-475-crore-indians-on-sale-for-rs-75000-842119.html
26-05-2020||National||Aviation Ministry gives revised figures, says 428 domestic passenger flights operated on May 25||A total of 428 domestic passenger flights operated on Monday, clarified the Civil Aviation Ministry on Tuesday, hours after Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said 832 flights operated on the day. An excel sheet issued by the ministry on Tuesday evening stated that 428 domestic flights carrying 30,550 passengers departed for their destinations on Monday. It also showed 404 of the 428 flights arrived at their destinations on Monday itself. Remaining 28 flights reached their destinations on Tuesday (after midnight) after departing from their origin city on Monday (just before midnight). The ministry's clarification came on Tuesday after Puri said on Twitter, "Airports are abuzz and passengers are back in the air. 58,318 passengers flew to their destinations on 832 flights on the first day, 25th May till midnight." A departure is considered as one "flight". Puri had quoted the 832 "flight movements" - which is a sum of departures (428 in this case) and arrivals (404 in this case) - of Monday as "flights". Meanwhile, the figures shared by the ministry through the excel sheet on the total number of Monday's flights were lower than the figures shared by Puri on Monday evening. On Monday evening, Puri had said on Twitter, "From no domestic passenger flights yesterday to 532 flights and 39,231 passengers today, action has returned to Indian skies." IndiGo, India's largest carrier that had around 50 per cent share in the domestic market in the pre-lockdown era, said on Monday it is operating just above 200 flights per day till May-end. Vistara said on Tuesday it operated 20 flights on Monday. Air India officials said they operated approximately 60 flights on Monday. All carriers except GoAir operated their flights on Monday and Tuesday. On the night of May 24, the central government announced that there will be no domestic flights in West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh on Monday and major airports like Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad will handle a reduced number of flights from Monday onwards. The airlines, which were allowed to operate one-third of their pre-lockdown domestic services from May 25, had to further truncate their flight schedules on Sunday night leading to cancellations. After a two-month suspension due to the coronavirus pandemic, domestic flights resumed in India on Monday. International scheduled commercial passenger flights remain suspended in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-ministry-gives-revised-figures-says-428-domestic-passenger-flights-operated-on-may-25-842130.html
26-05-2020||National||Govt should be more transparent on what is happening at border with China: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked the government to come clear on what is happening at the border with China in Ladakh and be more transparent. Amid a standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh, Gandhi refused to say anything more till he understood the facts. "I think, on the India-China issue, we would like to see some more transparency on what is going on. It becomes very difficult for us to have a position without understanding the facts," he told reporters when asked about the issue at a virtual press conference.  "The government should make it clear to the people of India, what exactly is happening on the border. We are hearing different stories so, I don't want to go into conjecture, but it is important that the government of India makes it clear, what is happening on the border so that people can understand and have a proper position," he said. "I leave it to the wisdom of the government. But, transparency is needed. We should know what is happening, but the country does not know," he said. He said till the time there is more transparency on the issue, it would not be proper on his part to comment. "If there is more information, only then can I express my views," he said. There has been a standoff between Indian and Chinese troops at the border in Ladakh, amid build-up of troops on both sides since early May. The external affairs ministry has, however, rejected China's claims of Indian troops trespassing the Chinese border and have instead accused Beijing of doing so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-should-be-more-transparent-on-what-is-happening-at-border-with-china-rahul-842132.html
26-05-2020||National||India's top military brass meets PM Modi amid escalating border tension with China||In the midst of escalating border tension between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held a meeting with National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs with a focus on bolstering India's military preparedness to deal with external security challenges, government sources said. The military brass is learnt to have apprised Modi about the evolving situation in eastern Ladakh, though officials maintained that the agenda of the pre-scheduled meeting was to discuss the ambitious military reforms and ways to boost India's combat prowess. The meeting came hours after the top four generals briefed Defence Minister Rajnath Singh about the situation in Pangong Tso lake, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldi where the Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in aggressive posturing for the last 20 days. People in the military establishment said the prime minister was briefed about the situation in Ladakh. There was no official comment or details available about the meeting. Official sources said NSA Doval has been closely monitoring the evolving situation along the LAC in Ladakh as well as in north Sikkim and Uttarakhand. "China's strategy to put military pressure on India will not work. We want restoration of the status quo along the LAC," said an official on the condition of anonymity. In the meeting, the top military brass is learnt to have apprised Modi about the implementation of key infrastructure projects along the LAC, the de-facto border with China. Official sources said India will not stop infrastructure development projects in strategic areas along the nearly 3,500-km Sino-India border, notwithstanding China's well-coordinated efforts to stall them by attempting to vitiate the situation in areas like eastern Ladakh. It is learnt that the defence minister has already conveyed to top military brass that there was no need for reviewing the implementation of any of the key projects along the LAC in Ladakh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand or in Arunachal Pradesh. In view of the nearly 20-day standoff between the two sides, the Indian Army has significantly ramped up its presence in sensitive border areas in North Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh besides Ladakh to send across a message that India will not be wilting under any aggressive military posturing by China, the sources said. The Chinese side has been particularly peeved at India laying a key road in the finger area of Pangong Tso Lake region besides another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to "disengage" following a meeting at the level of local commanders. Over 100 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in the violence. The trigger for the incident was China's strong objection to the road being laid by India in the Finger area in Pangong Tso lake. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in North Sikkim on May 9. Since then, Chinese military has increased its strength in Pangong Tso lake, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldi, and resorting to "aggressive patrolling" in these areas. The India Army is also carrying out similar exercise in the region, sources said. India last week said the Chinese military was hindering normal patrolling by its troops and asserted that India has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also strongly refuted China's contention that the tension was triggered due to trespassing by Indian forces on the Chinese side. India's response came two days after China accused the Indian Army of trespassing into its territory, claiming that it was an "attempt to unilaterally change the status" of the LAC in Sikkim and Ladakh. On May 5, the Indian and Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. In the meeting with the prime minister, sources said, Gen Rawat apprised him about the implementation of the recommendations by the Lt Gen (retd) Shekatkar committee for military modernisation. The government has accepted almost all recommendations of the panel including ways to bolster border infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-top-military-brass-meets-pm-modi-amid-escalating-border-tension-with-china-842135.html
26-05-2020||National||West Bengal govt issues guidelines for domestic flights||West Bengal government on Tuesday (May 26) issued guidelines for domestic air travel. It stated that all outgoing passengers will have to undergo health screening at the point of departure and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the aircraft. Domestic flights in the state will resume on Thursday. As for incoming passengers they will have to go through health screening upon arrival. Asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to go with the advice that they will monitor their health for 14 days. It also stated that if they develop any symptoms they will immediately inform the local medical officer or call the state call centre for medical attention.  “Samples will be collected for COVID-29 tests from all symptomatic passengers. They will be taken to the nearest health facility for sample collection and health condition assessment,” stated the guidelines. While passengers with “moderate or severe symptoms” will be admitted and treated at a dedicated COVID-19 health facility those with “mild symptoms” will be instructed to go for either home or institutional isolation.  West Bengal government has made it mandatory for all passengers to submit filled up self-declaration forms at the time of arrival to the state officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-govt-issues-guidelines-for-domestic-flights-842141.html
26-05-2020||National||Day 2 of domestic operations: 325 departures till 5 pm, cancellations continue||Airports across the country handled 325 departures and 283 arrivals with 41,673 passengers till 5 pm on Tuesday even as flight cancellations continued with passengers facing difficulties. Moreover, domestic operations resumed in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, a day after the restart of air travel across India. West Bengal was the only state where no domestic services took place. As major airports like Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad have a severe cap on the number of flights they can handle, cancellations continued on Tuesday. Just like Monday, a section of passengers reached their airports on Tuesday only to be informed that their flights have been cancelled. Many people vented their ire on social media. "Smooth operations of domestic civil aviation operation. Our airports have handled 325 departures & 283 arrivals with 41,673 passengers till 5pm on 26 May 2020, the second day after recommencement of domestic flight," Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. "Final report for the day will be prepared after details come in at midnight," he added. Chennai airport was scheduled to handle only 20 arrivals and departures each on Tuesday, said senior government officials, even though Puri on Sunday night said that it can handle up to 25 arrivals per day and has no limit on the number of departures. Even in Andhra Pradesh, where domestic services resumed on Tuesday, Vijayawada and Vizag airports were scheduled to handle just eight flights each during the day, officials said. On Sunday night, the central government had said these two airports can handle up to 20 per cent of the pre-lockdown flights from Tuesday onwards. The Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi, which is India's largest, was scheduled to handle around 277 flights on Tuesday, the officials said, adding that around 25 flights were cancelled during the day.     On May 23, the government officials had said they expected Delhi airport to handle around 380 flights per day from May 25 onwards. Mumbai airport, India's second busiest airport, handled just 44 flights on Tuesday. On Monday, it had handled 47 flights. On Sunday night, the central government had clarified that Mumbai will handle a maximum of 50 flights per day from Monday. Aarti Chaddha, a member of Aam Aadmi Party's social media team, had booked a seat on Tuesday's Mumbai-Chandigarh flight of IndiGo for her mother who had been stranded in Mumbai for the last two months due to the lockdown. This flight was cancelled and when Chaddha asked IndiGo about it on Twitter, the airline responded that the flight has been "impacted" due to the restrictions imposed by the Maharashtra government. She said on Twitter on Tuesday, "Can we get the list of 25 flights listed to take off from Mumbai? Airlines are booking tickets, not sending cancellation messages, cancelling last minute, deducting the money."  On Tuesday, IndiGo said one of the passengers who travelled on its Chennai-Coimbatore flight on Monday evening has tested positive for COVID-19. The low-cost carrier said the passenger was sitting with all precautionary measures like gloves, mask and face shield and he is currently quarantined at a Coimbatore medical facility. "The operating crew has been home quarantined for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per the government guidelines, to ensure safety of our passengers and staff," the airline added. West Bengal would be resuming domestic flights from Thursday. However, its Kolkata and Bagdogra airports will handle only 20 flights each per day. On Sunday night, the central government had announced that Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal will not handle any domestic flights on Monday and major airports like Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad will see reduced operations from Monday onwards. West Bengal, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu had expressed reluctance in resuming domestic flights from Monday due to rising number of COVID-19 cases. The officials said the first flight on Tuesday to Vijayawada landed from Bengaluru at 6.55 am, carrying 79 passengers. The Spicejet flight returned to Bengaluru with 68 passengers, they added. At Vizag airport, the first flight landed from Bengaluru at 7 am. "At Vijayawada, four flights are of IndiGo, two each are of SpiceJet and Air India," they added. Visakhapatnam airport is scheduled to handle eight flights on Wednesday, the officials mentioned. After a two-month suspension due to the coronavirus pandemic, domestic flights resumed in India on Monday with 428 flights carrying 30,550 passengers to their destinations. Around 630 flights were cancelled. The airlines, which were allowed to operate one-third of their pre-lockdown domestic services from May 25, had to further truncate their flight schedules on Sunday leading to cancellations. All carriers except GoAir operated their flights on Monday and Tuesday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/day-2-of-domestic-operations-325-departures-till-5-pm-cancellations-continue-842153.html
26-05-2020||National||Series of scams at Srisailam temple involving contract employees||A major scam was unearthed at the Srisailam temple in Andhra Pradesh where 20 contract employees siphoned off Rs 1.42 crore over a period of three years. The employees are those engaged by two nationalized banks to work in the Rs 150 special darshan and arjitha-seva ticket issuance counters in the temple premises. While one has pocketed Rs 750 only, Rs 22 lakh is the maximum amount bagged by another person. The fraud by others ranged mostly between Rs five to Rs eight lakh.   The famous Shaivaite shrine in the Nallamala forests of Kurnool district is visited by millions of pilgrims every year especially from AP, Telangana, and Karnataka. Based on a complaint of the temple trust executive officer K S Rama Rao on Sunday, the Kurnool police have registered two FIRs and are investigating the case. According to J Venkat Rao, DSP Atmakur, the investigating officer appointed by Kurnool SP Dr Fakeerappa Kaginelli, the accused used loopholes in temple software systems to divert money into their accounts. “The person in the counter used to log out from his user ID a little earlier than his shift end and then using different credentials, issued a few tickets to the pilgrims. Though these transactions are registered in the backend they are not reflected in the daily tickets-amount collection charts. Such daily fraud amounts being small went undetected since June 2017,” Rao told DH. However, a Rs 14 lakh misappropriation from the donations account by one contract clerk detected in February this year has alerted the temple and police officials to focus on the Srisailam Management Information System, the software used for all such electronic services at the temple. “And earlier this May, a Rs 56 lakh swindling by two other employees was detected in the abhishekam proceeds. Rs 42 lakh was recovered from them,” the DSP said. In the present case, 14 employees are engaged through one nationalized bank and cheated to the tune of Rs 76 lakh. Rs 66 lakh is by six who were first engaged by a reputed Public Sector Bank. Though the bank disassociated with them through a letter in December 2018, the temple management continued with their services when they grouped as a service provider, the police official stated. “Preliminarily, it is these contract workers’ deeds but we have to probe the involvement of the temple officials since they have the responsibility to keep tabs on money matters,” Rao told DH, when asked about the temple's senior management role. The accused are booked under IPC sections – 406, 409 (pertaining to criminal breach of trust by a public servant, banker, or agent), 420 (cheating), and various sections of the IT act. No arrests are made in the present case yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/series-of-scams-at-srisailam-temple-involving-contract-employees-842154.html
26-05-2020||National||Hotels refusing to refund excess money to quarantined Indians; MHA intervenes||Some hotels providing quarantine facilities for returning Indians from abroad are refusing to refund excess amount taken from them, prompting the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to ask state governments to ensure that people are not fleeced. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Tuesday shot off letters to state Chief Secretaries following reports that hotels were taking 14 days advance room charges but refuse to refund balance amount once a person vacates the facility after seven days following government guidelines. According to the revised guidelines issued by Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, stranded Indians arriving in special repatriation flights will have to undergo seven days institutional quarantine followed by seven days home quarantine after a medical assessment. Bhalla said it has been brought to the notice of the Ministry that Indian nationals who quarantined in hotels after their return from abroad were made to pay advance for 14 days. "Since they can now leave for home quarantine after seven days, the amount paid by them for the remaining seven days needs to be refunded to them, which some hotels are refusing to refund," Bhalla said. He asked states to issue necessary directions to hotels used for institutional quarantine to ensure that foreign returnees who were quarantined in hotels and paid an advance for 14 days should be refunded their balance amount "without any delay". State governments have arranged hotels to enable returning people paid quarantine facilities in hotels. The room charges start from Rs 700 per day depending on the facilities provided by hotels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hotels-refusing-to-refund-excess-money-to-quarantined-indians-mha-intervenes-842156.html
26-05-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi's remarks on Maharashtra COVID-19 handling, sends Sena, NCP on damage control mode||Rahul Gandhi’s remarks at a press conference on Congress not being a key player in the Maharashtra government has once again brought to the fore the unease in the coalition government in the state led by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Rahul’s statement at a time when Maharashtra has been grappling with the COVID-19 cases that have stretched its healthcare system triggered taunts from former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who accused the Congress of shirking responsibility during a crisis and putting the blame on Thackeray. “I would like to make a differentiation here. We are supporting the government in Maharashtra, but we are not the key decision-maker in Maharashtra. We are a key decision-maker in Punjab, Chhatisgarh, Rajasthan, Puducherry. So, there is a difference between running a government and supporting the government,” he said when asked about the rising COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra. Privately, Congress leaders complain of not being consulted in key decisions by Shiv Sena and NCP and point out that they do not handle any key departments involved in combating the COVID-19 crises.  BJP has been snapping at the heels of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government keeping up the heat on its handling of the COVID-19 crises. “Statement of mistrust between two alliance partners by Rahul Gandhi is a bad joke on the people of Maharashtra, humankind is facing this crisis. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should respond to allegations of non-cooperation by Shiv Sena in the interest of people of Maharashtra,” BJP spokesperson Shaina N C said. Shiv Sena troubleshooter Sanjay Raut and NCP leader Nawab Malik moved in quickly to douse the controversy with the message of all is well with the alliance. “What Rahul Gandhi said is true because Maharashtra has a government-run by three parties. “All parties are united and working to serve the people,” Malik said. Before Rahul’s press conference, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar had met Thackeray and declared that the state government was stable and would last its full term.  The meeting came in the wake of BJP leader and former chief minister Narayan Rane calling on Governor BS Koshiyari and demanding President’s Rule in the state due to the failure of the state government to handle the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhis-remarks-on-maharashtra-covid-19-handling-sends-sena-ncp-on-damage-control-mode-842159.html
26-05-2020||National||SC refuses to entertain plea for linking of social media accounts with Aadhaar, PAN, Voter ID||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a plea challenging a Delhi High Court order in which it had declined to direct linking of social media accounts with Aadhaar, PAN or voter ID card for weeding out fake accounts. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, however granted liberty to lawyer and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay to implead himself as a party in the transfer petition moved by the Centre in the apex court. The lawyer, who argued the case through video-conferencing, said that the Centre had earlier sought transfer of similar cases from some High Courts to the apex court. “We see no reason to interfere with the impugned order of the High Court. The Special Leave Petition is, accordingly,dismissed. However, liberty is granted to the petitioner (Upadhyay) to file impleadment application in Transfer Case …,” said the bench which also comprised Justices Krishna Murari and S Ravindra Bhat. The Delhi High Court had earlier declined to order linking of social media accounts with Aadhaar, PAN or voter ID card for weeding out fake accounts, saying it would lead to data of genuine account holders, who are much more in number, going "unnecessarily" to foreign countries. It had said that linking of accounts with social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp, with Aadhaar, PAN or any other identity document requires framing of policies or amendment in existing laws by the central government and this exercise cannot be done by the court. Upadhyay, in the plea, has said that 20 per cent of the social media accounts were "fake, ghost or duplicate". The plea said something has to be done as anyone can create a fake account on social media of any person, including the judges, and through that medium wrong or controversial information can be spread. He had also alleged in his petition that fake social media accounts are used to propagate "fake and paid news" during elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-for-linking-of-social-media-accounts-with-aadhaar-pan-voter-id-842160.html
26-05-2020||National||SC dismisses plea by BJP leader for weeding out fake social media accounts||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea by a BJP leader and advocate against the Delhi High Court's judgement that had declined to act against bogus Facebook accounts and Twitter handles which proliferated fake news, and caused radicalism and at times, riots as well. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Krishna Murari and S Ravindra Bhat rejected the petition filed by Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay for weeding out fake social media accounts. The court, however, allowed him to file an impleadment application in a pending matter related to linking of Facebook account with Aadhaar. Upadhyay challenged the validity of the Delhi High Court's order of December 9, 2019, saying it failed to consider that at present, the total number of Twitter handles in India are around 35 million and total number of Facebook accounts are 350 million, of which 10 per cent were duplicate, bogus or fake. In his plea, he has claimed, "Fake news is the root cause of many communal riots including the recent riots in Delhi, in which many people lost their lives. Fake social media accounts are used to promote casteism, communalism, regionalism, linguism, radicalism and separatism, which endangers fraternity, unity and national integration." He also contended various political parties and contesting candidates used fake social media accounts for not only self-promotion and image building but also to tarnish the image of opponent political parties and contesting candidates, especially during the elections. "The right to know the truth is an integral part of Article 19 of the Constitutuon and exposure to accurate information is a necessity for electors to make an informed choice, but, fake news has a tendency to influence this choice in a negative manner," he pointed out. The petition filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey contended the High Court has failed to appreciate that publication of fake news also involved use of black money, benami transaction, under-reporting of election expenses and indulging in other kinds of malpractices.  "Influence of black money has potential to result in an imbalanced election between people of different financial statures. Thus, in order to have free and fair elections, which is a basic dictum of democracy, level playing field is paramount and this cannot be achieved without weeding out fake social media accounts," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-by-bjp-leader-for-weeding-out-fake-social-media-accounts-842163.html
26-05-2020||National||SC asks NBE to consider holding common counselling for admissions in PG Medical from 2021||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said that from next academic year, the National Board of Examination (NBE) should consider having a “common or single online counselling” for admissions in Post Graduate Medical Courses leading to Degrees and Diplomas and the seats in DNB (Diplomate of National Board) courses in the country. A bench comprising Justices U U Lalit and Dinesh Maheshwari, however, refused to order the common counselling for the current academic year to NBE which conducts NEET PG (National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for Post Graduate) examination.   “Since the petitioners have approached the court at a stage where the entire process has been undertaken and many candidates have been allocated various courses in the Counselling, we do not deem it appropriate to pass any direction for the present year. “However, going by the assertions made in the response filed by the Medical Council of India, we may observe that a common counselling or single online counselling in the coming years would definitely take care of any similar grievance,” the bench said in its judgement. The NBE, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, was established to improve the quality of medical education and it conducts postgraduate and postdoctoral examinations. The degree awarded by NBE is called Diplomate of National Board. DNB is a postgraduate or postdoctoral diploma in which the training lasts for three years and FNB is a fellowship in a sub-speciality where the training lasts for two years. The apex court noted down the submissions of the NBE and said that the authority was agreeable “in principle” to conduct common counselling from the next year. “Consequently, while refusing to pass any directions in so far as the present year is concerned, we hope that the authorities will be able to have common counselling for DNB PG seats along with all Post Graduate seats leading to Degrees and Diplomas … for coming years starting with NEETPG 2021 Examination,” it said. The verdict came on a plea filed by four medical students seeking directions to the Centre, NBE and others to conduct “single counselling” for filling up seats in the PG Medical and DNB Courses. Alapati Jyotsna and others had secured certain ranks in the NEET PG test and in the counselling, undertaken by the Medical Counselling Committee, they could not get degree courses of their choice. “Their grievance is that it is only after the regular seats of Post Graduate Courses leading to Degree and Diploma are exhausted that the counselling for DNB courses is undertaken; and those who have secured any seat in courses leading to Degrees and Diplomas are disentitled to lay any claim for DNB courses,” the apex court said while noting down the grievances of students. The apex court, however, did not allow the plea for common counselling for the current year after taking note of the submissions of NBE and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare that the counselling and consequential process of admission were now at an advanced stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-nbe-to-consider-holding-common-counselling-for-admissions-in-pg-medical-from-2021-842164.html
26-05-2020||National||No political reasons for my Delhi visit: Omar Abdullah||Denying that there were any political reasons for his current visit to Delhi, former chief minister of Jammu & Kashmir and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah Tuesday asked his party leaders to discuss issues within themselves before going public. Finally, I’m in Delhi for the 1st time since 3rd August 2019. There is nothing political about my visit…. I needed a change of scene & some medical follow-ups & that’s why I’m here (sic), he tweeted. His comments come in the backdrop of suggestions that his visit was linked to reported moves for the formation of an Advisory Council which may be headed by Altaf Bukhari, leader of the BJP-friendly Apni Party set up in March. The former CM also clarified about perceived differences between two NC leaders Tanvir Sadiq and Agha Ruhullah Mehdi over the events of August 5 last which saw abrogation of Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir. “@JKNC_ remains committed to challenging what happened on 5th Aug using all lawful means,” he said in another tweet. “Beyond that we are a democratic party & we value all shades of opinion within our wider family though sometimes it’s better to discuss them amongst ourselves before we decide to make them public. I’ve burnt my hands a few times by not following my own advice,” Abdullah added. A newspaper article by Sadiq, the political secretary to Abdullah when he was the CM, on the political roadmap ahead skipped any reference to Article 370 which prompted Mehdi, the party’s chief spokesman, to comment, “This provokes a question in my mind. What is the political process for you? Only an election? If we go with a reason and stand our course, even being detained is a part of the political process.” Describing Sadiq and Mehdi as “valued colleagues and friends”, he said both were entitled “to an opinion and to disagree with each other.” “Neither’s views, expressed in a private capacity, change the stand NC has taken in the SC & outside regarding 5th Aug,” the NC leader added. Mehdi, who was a minister when Abdullah was heading NC-Congress alliance from 2009-2014, on Sunday(May 24) said the silence of all the political parties on abrogation of Article 370 is injustice with the people of Jammu & Kashmir. The powerful Shia leader threatened he will choose a separate path if the NC would compromise on the special status of J&K. “Of course, I will (choose a separate path). Why should we debate something which has not happened? Hope they will not do it,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-political-reasons-for-my-delhi-visit-omar-abdullah-842166.html
26-05-2020||National||Gujarat High Court judges to make surprise visit to hospital||The bench said this while passing an order on an application moved by the state government "discreetly" yesterday against the court's observation on May 22 with regard to the condition of civil hospital. In this urgent hearing, no other lawyers were allowed to participate leading to a fresh controversy. The government lawyers told the court that observations "has shaken the confidence of a common man in the Civil Hospital, and in such circumstances, he would be very reluctant to come to the Civil Hospital for treatment if he is tested COVID­19 positive." The state government told the bench for seeking urgent hearing yesterday that, "Media reports have tarnished the image of the civil hospital and the administration. Castigating the state government for all its efforts in combating COVID­-19. This has created a sense of panic in the public and with every passing minute, the credibility of the state and its efforts is under cloud..." It has been alleged by several lawyers, who are part of a clutch of petitions being heard in high court related to coronavirus pandemic, that the hearing was held behind their back. The state government has also contended the content of an anonymous letter sent to the court purportedly by a resident doctor of the civil hospital alleging poor management, scarcity of safety equipment and facilities for the doctors. The state government has claimed that the letter was doing the round in social media since first week of May and its content is not true. The government has submitted documents claiming that it has taken a number of steps to ensure smooth functioning. The court has responded to these claims as saying, "Prima facie, it appears from the materials which have been placed on record that due and proper care is being taken for the treatment of the COVID-­19 patients. However, the matter does not end over here. It is too early for this Court to give any final certificate to the state government as regards the Civil Hospital at Ahmedabad. There are many problems which the state government needs to look into closely and try to resolve the same at the earliest in the larger interest of the people of Gujarat, more particularly, the city of Ahmedabad."  The court has noted that "state government boasts that the Civil Hospital at Ahmedabad is the biggest hospital in Asia, but, it should now strive very very hard to make the same as one of the best hospitals in Asia.' The court has refused to accept that content of the anonymous letter has no truth. It says that the letter cannot be dismissed. It says that the government was expected to take appropriate action but instead it dismissed it as rubbish. The order reads, "No resident doctor will muster the courage of coming forward disclosing his identity for the purpose of redressing such grievances. In such circumstances, the resident doctors are compelled to address anonymous letters pointing out the difficulties they are facing as on date in the Civil Hospital. In such circumstances, it  is important that appropriate inquiry should be undertaken with respect to the contents of the anonymous letter." The bench has held that the content of the letter needs to be probed by a team of independent doctors, not government officers or associated with the civil hospital. Meanwhile, later Tuesday evening, government announced that it has appointed four doctors to address the issues including Dr Pankaj Shah, Tejas Patel, Atul Patel and Harish Doshi.  Meanwhile, the death toll from coronavirus crossed 900-mark on Tuesday with 27 fresh deaths in past 24 hours. The death toll in the state stood at 915, out of which 745 have died in Ahmedabad alone. State also recorded 361 new cases, taking the total figure to 14,829. A total of 7,139 patients have discharged till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-high-court-judges-to-make-surprise-visit-to-hospital-842181.html
26-05-2020||National||Govt opens up Aarogya Setu program code, announces reward for finding security flaws||To quell privacy and surveillance concerns, the Centre on Tuesday announced that the source code of Aarogya Setu has now been made open source.  The source code for the Android version of the application is available for review and collaboration on github. The iOS version of the application will be released as open-source within the next two weeks and the server code will be released subsequently. Almost 98% of Aarogya Setu users are on Android platform. The government has also launched a Bug Bounty programme with a goal to partner with security researchers and Indian developer community to test the security effectiveness of Aarogya Setu and to improve its security and build user trust. Details will be available at https://innovate.mygov.in. NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant asserted that no other government in the world has been open source at this scale. The government has opened the source code to address concerns around privacy of data being collected by the contact tracing app. "Transparency, privacy and security have been the core design principle of Aarogya Setu. Opening the source code to developer community signifies Government of India continuing principal to these commitments. No other government anywhere in the world has been open source at this scale," Kant said. Meity Secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney said that nothing that is done by human being can be perfect by definition but several developers volunteered for the app and made it close to a perfect product. He said the e-commerce and other companies are using this app as a precaution and get alerted about exposure to coronavirus. National Informatics Centre Director General Neeta Verma said that there will be four categories of rewards for people who find a bug in the app and come up with a suggestion to improve the programming of the app. "There are three categories of securities vulnerability for which Rs 1 lakh be given in each of the categories. Then there is Rs 1 lakh prize for code improvement bounty," Verma said. The app was launched on April 2 and has around 11.5 crore users at present. "The source code of Aarogya Setu will be available at Github after 12 am-midnight," Verma said. Advocacy groups have alleged that the government is using Aarogya Setu for mass surveillance especially in the absence of any legislation around privacy. A cybersecurity expert also made similar allegations that there are loopholes in the app. Following allegations and concern, the government on May 11 issued a set of guidelines for data processing of Aarogya Setu app users and added a few clauses that may lead to imprisonment of persons found guilty of violating certain norms. The new rules prohibit the storage of data beyond 180 days and enable individuals to seek deletion of their data from the government's Aarogya Setu related record within 30 days of raising the request. The new norms allow the collection of only demographic, contact, self-assessment and location data of persons infected by the coronavirus or those who come in contact with the infected person.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-opens-up-aarogya-setu-program-code-announces-reward-for-finding-security-flaws-842183.html
26-05-2020||National||PM Modi, Austrian prez agree on importance of global collaboration to deal with COVID-19 pandemic.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Austrian President Alexander Van der Bellen on Tuesday agreed on the importance of international collaboration to deal with the present challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.  The Austrian president also took note of the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan during a telephonic conversation with Prime Minister Modi, an official statement said   The leaders exchanged views on measures taken in their countries to manage the adverse health and economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.  "They agreed on the importance of international collaboration to deal with the present challenges, the statement said.  They also reiterated their shared desire to further strengthen and diversify India-Austria relations in the post-COVID world. Modi highlighted the opportunities for enhanced cooperation in sectors like infrastructure, technology, research and innovation, and small and medium enterprises. The leaders shared the hope that the world would soon overcome the current health crisis, so as to be able to focus on longer-term concerns like the health of the environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-austrian-prez-agree-on-importance-of-global-collaboration-to-deal-with-covid-19-pandemic-842194.html
26-05-2020||National||Creation of comorbidity category in COVID-19 death records has no scientific basis: Experts||Recording of the COVID-19 deaths in the "comorbidity category" is an "artificial distinction without any scientific basis" that should not be encouraged, said medical researchers and public health specialists tracking the pandemic in India. The death pattern in India so far matches with the trend seen around the world as elderly people with other ailments (comorbidity) fall prey to the virus more often. West Bengal is the first state that introduced such a category in its COVID-19 death records, raising eyebrows in the academic circle.  Delhi followed suit but suddenly dropped the idea on May 20.  "It is an artificial distinction. The World Health Organisation doesn't support it," said Giridhara R Babu, professor at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru.  Even if anyone killed by the pandemic virus had other disorders, the death certificate should mention the virus as the cause of the death while mentioning other conditions that he/she had, unless the cause of death was entirely different such as road accident, he noted. "In medicine, the most recent disease, if it by itself is a known cause of death, should be the cause of death in death certificate with contributory cause as diabetes, chronic heart disease etc, which at the moment of death was not, by itself, cause of death," T Jacob John, one of India's foremost experts on virus and a retired professor of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore told DH. "If someone had clinically Covid-19 with at least three major criteria, and died, the cause of death is COVID-19," he said. The experts are unanimous in their opinion that it is perfectly legitimate to carry out a post-death analysis to check how many of the deceased had other illnesses. This is precisely what Tamil Nadu did as it found that 84 per cent of COVID-19 deaths had some form of comorbidities. "But there is no way to distinguish (between COVID-19 and comorbidity deaths). The global practice is to record the Corona deaths," said a senior Indian Council of Medical Research scientist, who did not wish to be identified. "I really don't know why they (West Bengal and Delhi Govt) have created this. All deaths should be properly coded. In the COVID-19 context we need to be all the more diligent in attributing the correct cause of death," said Oommen John, a senior public health researcher from the George Institute for Global Health India. "There is nothing unusual in the death pattern in India as the toll is more among the elderly people with comorbidities. It is the same trend everywhere," said the ICMR scientist. More than 50 per cent Indians killed by the virus are above 60 years of age and nearly 40 per cent of them have an age between 60 and 75 years. Above 75, the death rate comes down to around 9 per cent. Another 35 per cent of the deceased have an age between 45-60 years, according to the data compiled by the Union Health Ministry. Further, 73 per cent of the death cases had underlying comorbidities. The elderly people (above 60 years of age) and people having co-morbidities are identified as high risk groups for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/creation-of-comorbidity-category-in-covid-19-death-records-has-no-scientific-basis-experts-842196.html
26-05-2020||National||India will not stop infrastructIndia to go ahead with infra development in key areas along LAC despite stiff resistance from China||India will not stop infrastructure development projects in strategic areas along the nearly 3,500-km Sino-India border notwithstanding China's well-coordinated efforts to stall them by attempting to vitiate the situation in areas like eastern Ladakh, government sources said on Tuesday. As the tense stand-off between the Chinese and Indian troops in Eastern Ladakh continues, top commanders of the Indian Army will carry out an in-depth review of the situation in several areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at a three-day conference beginning Wednesday. The main focus of the deliberations will be on the situation in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops were locked in an eyeball-to-eyeball face-off in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie, the sources said. In view of the nearly 20-day standoff between the two sides, the Indian Army has significantly ramped up its presence in sensitive border areas in North Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh besides Ladakh to send across a message that India will not be wilting under any aggressive military posturing by China, the sources said. Separately, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs held a meeting with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Army Chief Gen MM Naravane is learnt to have apprised Singh about the current situation in the disputed areas. Government sources said Singh has conveyed to the military brass that there was no need for reviewing the implementation of any of the key projects along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand or in Arunachal Pradesh in view of the aggressive behaviour by Chinese troops in several sensitive areas. The Chinese side has been particularly peeved at India laying a key road in the Finger area of Pangong Tso Lake area besides another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. In the last five years, India has been focusing on improving road and other key infrastructure along the LAC as part of efforts to bolster military preparedness to deal with any challenge from the Chinese side. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to "disengage" following a meeting at the level of local commanders. Over 100 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in the violence. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in North Sikkim on May 9 Since then, Chinese military has increased its strength in Pangong Tso lake, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldi, and is resorting to "aggressive patrolling" in these areas. The India Army is also carrying out similar exercise in the region, sources said. India last week said the Chinese military was hindering normal patrolling by its troops and asserted that India has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also strongly refuted China's contention that the tension was triggered due to trespassing by Indian forces on the Chinese side. India's response came two days after China accused the Indian Army of trespassing into its territory, claiming that it was an "attempt to unilaterally change the status" of the LAC in Sikkim and Ladakh. On May 5, the Indian and Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping held their first informal summit in April 2018 in the Chinese city of Wuhan, months after the Doklam standoff. In the summit, the two leaders decided to issue "strategic guidance" to their militaries to strengthen communications so that they can build trust and understanding. Modi and Xi held their second informal summit in Mamallapuram near Chennai in October last year with a focus on further broadening bilateral ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-not-stop-infrastructindia-to-go-ahead-with-infra-development-in-key-areas-along-lac-despite-stiff-resistance-from-china-842206.html
26-05-2020||National||Coronavirus cases rise, but fatalities low in India: Centre||India is witnessing fewer deaths due to COVID-19 when compared with the rest of the world, which the government claims is a testimony to its strategy of early identification of patients and effective clinical management. “Our fatality rate is one of the lowest – 2.87% as against the global average for case fatality which is around 6.45%. It was 3.3% on April 15 and has now reduced to 2.87%,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, told reporters. The statement came on a day India witnessed an increase of 6,535 new infections, taking the total number of confirmed cases to over 1,45,380. The death toll rose by 146 to 4,167, the health ministry said. According to a separate DH Covid-19 Tracker, the confirmed cases of COVID-19 in India had risen to over 1,50,000 and the death toll at 4,335 on Tuesday. India’s top health research scientist refused to hazard a guess on the reasons for the low fatality rate. “We have surprisingly found a low fatality rate in India and that is good because ultimately we are interested in the patient surviving. There were several hypotheses that we were living in bad hygiene, we have higher immunity, we have been given certain injections in the past for tuberculosis, BCG. But, these are all hypotheses. We cannot say clearly on any of these factors, but so long as the fatality rate is low, we should be happy,” Balram Bhargava, Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research said. However, Agarwal was quick to add that the fatalities were low on account of the government strategy of early identification of the patients and strict clinical management protocols that were being followed. He said an analysis of case mortality per lakh population indicated that India has about 0.3 deaths per lakh population which is among the lowest in the world against the statistics of 4.4 deaths per lakh population for the world. “The relatively low death figures, both in terms of mortality per lakh population and case fatality rate, represent timely case identification and clinical management of the cases,” Agarwal said. Health Secretary Preeti Sudan on Tuesday reached out to five states – Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand Chhatisgarh and Madhya Pradesh which have witnessed a surge in cases over the past three weeks after easing of the lockdown and inter-state movement of people. The health secretaries and senior officials of the five states were asked to follow strict containment measures, perimeter controls, door-to-door surveillance, active contact tracing and testing to combat the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-cases-rise-but-fatalities-low-in-india-centre-842207.html
26-05-2020||National||SC for common counselling for MD/MS and DNB degree courses||The Supreme Court on Tuesday put its stamp of approval for holding common counselling to fill up Post Graduate MD/MS and DNB courses for the candidates qualifying the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test 2021 and onwards. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Dinesh Maheshwari said, "We hope the authorities will be able to have common counselling for DNB (Diplomate of National Board) PG seats along with all Post Graduate seats leading to degrees and diplomas for coming years starting with NEET- PG 2021 Examination." The National Board of Examination, the designated authority to conduct NEET- PG, 2020, said before the court that it was agreeable “in principle” to conduct common counselling from the next year. The Medical Council of India, the regulatory body, submitted that at the post graduate level the entire counselling process, conducted from the perspective of the students revolved around the speciality and subject in which the student was able to secure the seat based on their rank in the NEET examination. Generally, students preferred to opt for a diploma or DNB course in clinical subject over Post Graduate degree course in non-clinical subject.  The court here was dealing with a plea by Alapati Jyotsna and others, who wanted a direction to the Union government and others to conduct “single counselling” for filling up seats in the Post Graduate medical courses leading to degrees and diplomas and the seats in DNB (Diplomate of National Board) Courses. They said if the counselling was conducted through a single stream for the DNB courses also, the candidates will be free to opt for a payment seat in DNB courses. As of now as they are not sure of getting a seat in DNB, they cannot forfeit their seat in the MD and MS courses though it may not be of their choices. In responses, the National Board of Examination as well as of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said the counselling and consequential process of admission is now at an advanced stage. If submission of petitioner were accepted at this stage, it would result in complete disturbance of the admission process of the present year. On this, the bench said since the petitioners approached the court at a stage where the entire process has been undertaken and many candidates have been allocated various courses, "we do not deem it appropriate to pass any direction for the present year".  However, the court said, "a common counselling or single online counselling in the coming years would definitely take care of any grievance of the candidate."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-for-common-counselling-for-md/ms-and-dnb-degree-courses-842210.html
26-05-2020||National Politics||Failed lockdown pushed PM on backfoot: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday claimed that the anti-COVID-19 lockdown had failed to achieve its desired result as the coronavirus continues to spread exponentially, forcing Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the backfoot. The Lok Sabha member from Wayanad also claimed that the state governments are fighting a “lonely battle” against COVID-19 and they require support from the Modi government. “The Prime Minister had said on national television two months back ‘we are going to fight COVID-19 pandemic in 21 days … Now we are past 60 days and the only country in the world where the virus is rising exponentially and we are ending the lockdown,” Rahul told a press conference through a video link.  He said even the Prime Minister would accept that his first plan has failed. “The Prime Minister has always played on the front foot. Now he has gone on the back foot. He should come on the front foot again,” Rahul said. He demanded that the Centre spells out its strategy or Plan B to combat COVID-19, claiming that the lockdown has failed to deliver desired results. “What is the strategy regarding opening India? What precautions will they take to now curb the disease? How will they support migrants? How will they support the state governments and MSMEs?” Rahul asked. The former Congress president, who is seeking to rebuild his political fortunes after two consecutive Lok Sabha poll reverses, claimed that unlike the Centre, the party-ruled states have a definite plan to tackle COVID-19 but are hamstrung in absence of support from the Modi government. “We are directly giving cash to people including farmers and labourers but we are not getting any support from the Union government. It is becoming extremely difficult for our states to function without adequate support from the Union government,” Rahul said. He wants the Centre to take economic action by injecting cash into the bank accounts of 50 per cent of the population and is dismissive of the financial package announced by the government Rahul, who had warned in February about an economic tsunami hitting the world on account of the COVID-19 outbreak, said he had the same warning for the government. “I am giving the same warning now. Telling the government to take economic action. Give cash injection. Protect small and medium businesses. Otherwise, we will face an economic crisis,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/failed-lockdown-pushed-pm-on-backfoot-rahul-gandhi-841976.html
26-05-2020||National Politics||Gujarat 'worse' in handling COVID-19 crisis: Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Tuesday hit back at BJP MP Narayan Rane's demand for President's rule in Maharashtra, saying Gujarat's performance in handling the COVID-19 crisis is "worse", hence it deserves to be put under the central rule first. Without specifying any party or leader, Raut said the opposition should get "quarantined", and that their efforts to destabilise the Maharashtra government could boomerang. However, senior BJP leader and former minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said though the COVID-19 situation in Maharashtra is "grim", it does not qualify for President's rule. Rane, who is the Rajya Sabha member, on Monday met Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari and demanded imposition of President's rule in view of the Shiv Sena-led state government's "failure" in tackling the pandemic. Reacting to it, Raut said, "If you go by the Gujarat High Courts strictures on tackling the COVID-19 crisis, the states performance is worse compared to Maharashtra." "If the Presidents rule has to be imposed, the Centre should start with Gujarat first," Raut told reporters. He also dismissed speculations over the 'stability' of the three-party (Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) alliance government in Maharashtra. "It is better that the opposition should get quarantined. Their efforts to destabilise the Maharashtra government could boomerang. The opposition is yet to find a formula to bring down this government," the Sena's Rajya Sabha member said. On NCP chief Sharad Pawars meeting with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday, Raut said, Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sought advice from Pawar. There should be no objection to Pawar making any suggestions or discussing issues with Thackeray." Meanwhile, Mungantiwar said the opposition BJP in Maharashtra is not of the opinion that President's rule should be imposed in the state.  "The situation in Maharashtra is grim, but it does not qualify for Presidents rule. We feel the current state government is not serious enough to tackle the situation, the BJP leader told a news channel. There are enough resources with Maharashtra to contain the coronavirus spread, but the state government is "not making enough efforts," he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-worse-in-handling-covid-19-crisis-shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut-841987.html
26-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown is India's 'success', Rahul making 'wrong' statements, says BJP||The BJP on Tuesday rejected Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi's statement that the lockdown had "failed" in its purpose, saying the doubling rate of coronavirus infection has fallen to 13 days from three before the lockdown, which, it asserted, is a "success" of India. BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar said the Modi government's decision to impose the lockdown has ensured that India suffered much less than countries like the US, France and Spain. He took a swipe at the Congress, saying it is doing politics at a time when the nation is fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.  "Rahul Gandhi's press conference today is an example of the politics the Congress is doing. What he said is wrong as well. The COVID-19 doubling rate was three days before the lockdown and it is 13 now. This is India's success," Javadekar said. He said the Congress earlier asked why the lockdown was imposed and is now raising questions again when it is being relaxed. "This highlights double-speak and hypocrisy of the Congress," the senior BJP leader said. He said over 45 lakh migrant labourers have been ferried back home in over 3000 trains, and this is historic, he said. On Gandhi's demand that the Centre give cash to the poor, he said BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka have given cash to migrants and asked which Congress-run state has done so.  Citing various welfare provisions of the Centre, including five-month free ration for over 80 crore poor, transfer of Rs 2000 to nine crore farmers and Rs 500 to 20 crore women, and free gas cylinders to eight crore households, Javasekar said these measures in real term are more than Rs 7,500 demanded by Gandhi for the poor. "People don't like such negative politics. The country is speaking in one tune and the Congress has struck a different chord. That is why the party is becoming disconnected with people," he said. Gandhi on Tuesday said the four phases of nationwide lockdown have "failed" and not given the results that Prime Minister Narendra Modi expected as he urged the Centre to spell out its strategy for "opening up" the country. The Congress leader expressed concern that if the government functions haphazardly during the non-lockdown period, the country will face a second wave of coronavirus which will be "extremely devastating".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-is-indias-success-rahul-making-wrong-statements-says-bjp-842048.html
26-05-2020||National Politics||Narendra Modi govt denying people benefit of low oil prices; no other nation doing so: M Veerappa Moily||When nations around the world have passed on the benefit of plunging oil prices to consumers, the Modi government has irrationally kept petrol and diesel prices at levels prevalent when crude prices had touched an all-time high of USD 107 few years back, former petroleum minister M Veerappa Moily said Tuesday. In a press statement, Moily said petrol was priced at Rs 71.41 per litre and diesel at Rs 55.49 a litre when during the UPA-2 regime international oil prices touched an all-time high of USD 107.09 per barrel. Currently, the cost of crude is USD 36.29, but diesel is priced at Rs 65.39 and petrol at Rs 71.26 in Delhi, he said. This has been done by the government raising excise duty on petrol by Rs 13 a litre and on diesel by Rs 16 per litre in two months to take away the gains arising from oil prices dropping to a two-decade low. "When all the economists of the world including India are canvassing for putting cash in the hands of the people, the present government is taking away the benefits which should have been passed on to them legitimately. This is quite an irrational decision," Moily said. "According to the data available, no other country is denying the benefit of reduction in crude prices to its people." Excise duty on petrol was Rs 9.48 per litre when the Modi government took office in 2014 and that on diesel was Rs 3.56. At present, this incidence is Rs 32.98 a litre on petrol and Rs 31.83 on diesel - a result of successive duty hikes. Moily said the Congress-led UPA II had taken a conscious decision to do away with the administered price regime and to fix the prices of diesel and petrol in accordance with the benchmark international price. "The idea was to pass the benefit/liability in accordance with the market trend. This is a sound principle of economics and also done in the interest of the consumers and the economy of the country." "In the days of crisis in the economy, such as the onset of COVID-19, the government should have been more sensitive to the plight of the people and consumers as they are in great distress," he said. The senior Congress leader said even now, it is not clear to people as to which welfare programmes the excess money, garnered through excise duty hikes, has been ploughed into. "While the decision of the UPA was to reduce imports and go for indigenous production and make India self-sufficient in oil and gas by 2030, the present government has not invested in oil and gas exploration since 2014, to make India self-sufficient," he said. The UPA, he said, took conscious decision to establish refineries and strategic storage facilities and particularly to utilise the strategic storage facilities at Padur in Udupi, Mangalore and Vishakapatnam, which have an underground storage capacity of 5.33 million tonnes. "The present NDA government has not expanded these strategic storage facilities," he said. "Currently, the NDA government has started filling up these caverns which are just sufficient to store reserves of up to 10 to 11 days of emergency supplies while it is prudent to have reserves for at least 90 days." "Even after 6 years there has been criminal neglect on the part of the present government either to put up new refineries or setup more strategic storage facilities in the public sectors or even in the private sector," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modi-govt-denying-people-benefit-of-low-oil-prices-no-other-nation-doing-so-m-veerappa-moily-842113.html
26-05-2020||National Politics||Political slugfest continues between Indian Railways and Maharashtra govt||Political slugfest between Railway  Minister Piyush Goyal and the Maharashtra Government continued on Tuesday over operating Shramik Special trains as Union Minister accused the state government of not providing information about passengers, as a result of which many trains could not be operationalised. "On request of Maharashtra Govt, we arranged 145 Shramik Special Trains today. These trains are ready since morning. 50 trains were to leave till 3 pm but only 13 trains have left due to lack of passengers", Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. "I request Maharashtra Government to fully cooperate in ensuring that the distressed migrants are able to reach their homes and bring passengers to stations in time, and not cause further delays. It will affect the entire network and planning," Goyal tweeted. Earlier, the Railways said though it had planned 125 trains for evacuating migrants from Maharashtra on May 25, the state government was only able to give information for 41 trains till 2 am. "Out of these 41 trains, only 39 trains could run as passengers could not be brought by local authorities and these two trains had to be cancelled. Over the past two days, a war of words broke over Shramik Special trains between Goyal and the Maharashtra government after the state government alleged non co-operation from railways regarding running special trains to ferry migrant workers. Goyal on Sunday night tweeted several times up to till 2 am, saying he is ready to provide 125 Shramik Special trains to Maharashtra and asked the state government to provide a list of passengers. As per the latest guidelines, receiving state approval is not required to operate special trains but sending states have to give a list of passengers to be boarded and bring such passengers to the stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-slugfest-continues-between-indian-railways-and-maharashtra-govt-842120.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Ajmer dargah felicitates doctors, nurses on Eid||The Ajmer dargah celebrated Eid on Monday by organising an event to felicitate doctors, nursing staff and healthcare workers for their efforts and dedication in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Khadim of Ajmer dargah Syed Bilal Chisty and others offered 'sewaiya' packets and mementos to the healthcare professionals during the event. "We are grateful to the 'corona warriors' who have been risking their lives to ensure that we remain safe from the spread of the virus. During the month of Ramzan, I have seen the way they have worked round the clock in our densely populated area to contain the spread of COVID-19," Chisty said. Dr Anil Jain, Medical Superintendent of JLN hospital, and Dr Sanjeev Maheshwari, Additional Principal of JLN Medical College, thanked the local people for their cooperation in the fight against the dreaded virus and said community intervention was very important in dealing with such kind of pandemic.  The festival saw subdued celebration in other parts of Rajasthan, with people largely staying at home and offering prayers indoors. In the state capital, the all-women 'Nirbhaya Squad' of Jaipur Police offered chocolates and gifts to kids in the walled city area where public movement is restricted. Police in the state had roped in religious leaders to convince people to celebrate Eid at home and not to venture out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ajmer-dargah-felicitates-doctors-nurses-on-eid-841867.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh govt authorises dist magistrates to extend curfew up to June 30, 3 DMs issue orders||The Himachal Pradesh government has authorised all district magistrates to extend the coronavirus lockdown beyond the current phase ending May 31 and three DMs issued orders indicating that the curfew will continue in their areas for another month. Hamirpur and Solan district magistrate ordered Monday that the curfew, imposed two months ago to enforce the lockdown, will be extended up to June 30. In Shimla, the district magistrate issued orders extending restrictions imposed on March 24 under section 144 of the CrPC up to June 30. In effect, this means an extension of the curfew in this district too. The separate orders by Hamirprur and Solan district magistrates mentioned curfew, not lockdown. But an extension of the curfew implies that. A state government spokesperson said the Cabinet took a decision on Saturday to authorise the district magistrates to extend the curfew imposed under Section 144 of the CrPC for up to June 30, “if situation so requires”.  Himachal Pradesh saw a spurt in COVID-19 cases in the past three weeks as people in large numbers started returning to the state from other parts of the country. The active cases in the state climbed to 151 as of Monday evening, whereas only one active case had left on May 3.   So far, the state has reported 224 cases, including six deaths. Hamirpur district has the highest 63 positive cases. The district has 56 active cases, while six have recovered and one died. Over 10,000 people have returned to Hamirpur from various red zones in the country in the past 30 days, District Magistrate Harikesh Meena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-govt-authorises-dist-magistrates-to-extend-curfew-up-to-june-30-3-dms-issue-orders-841868.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Jharkhand man runs away from quarantine centre in Greater Noida, brought back by police||A 31-year-old man ran away from a quarantine centre in Greater Noida but was caught and brought back to the facility by police, officials said on Monday. The incident took place on Sunday when the man, a native of Jharkhand and suspected COVID-19 carrier, ran away from the quarantine centre at the Galgotias University, they said. "He was staying at Gijhod village in Noida and was asymptomatic. He was kept at the quarantine facility in Greater Noida from where he escaped on Sunday afternoon despite local security there. Local police were alerted immediately and the man was caught and brought back soon," a statement from the health department said. According to the officials, the man wanted to return to his hometown in Jharkhand and had applied for an e-pass to travel there. "He had got the e-pass confirmed, while his COVID-19 test result was awaited," the officials said. The man has accepted his mistake and is currently in quarantine, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jharkhand-man-runs-away-from-quarantine-centre-in-greater-noida-brought-back-by-police-841871.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||14 more test COVID-19 positive in UP's Gautam Buddh Nagar; district tally rises to 359||Fourteen more people, including nine from a media house, tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Monday, taking the total number of infected in the district to 359, officials said. The entire building of the media house in sector 16A has been sealed by the district authorities for sanitisation, they said. "On Monday, 14 people have been found positive for COVID-19 and total positive cases till date stand at 359. Five patients were discharged on Monday and a total 235 patients have recovered so far. There are 119 active cases now," District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said in a statement. Among the new patients, 10 are employees of Zee Media, nine of whom are locals and one is from Delhi, a senior official told PTI. "A total of 10 employees of a private company located at Sector 16a in Noida tested positive. All patients were in institutional quarantine. Nine patients belong to Gautam Buddh Nagar and one patient was cross notified to Delhi," according to the statement. A 39-year-old employee of Zee Media from Delhi had tested positive for COVID-19 on May 15. The media house had then initiated mass testing, while the district health department launched a contact-tracing exercise. On May 18, 28 of the company's employees were found positive for COVID-19, of which 15 were locals and the remaining from Delhi, Faridabad and Gurgaon. Meanwhile, the district administration said it has sealed the entire building of Zee Media in sector 16A in the wake of the new cases. "The entire building will be sanitised and entry of employees has been stopped till the building is sanitized and is free from COVID-19 infection. After due sanitisation and following the protocol, the health team will issue premises fitness certificate after which the building shall be allowed to resume its operations," the surveillance officer said in a statement.   Five other patients were found positive for COVID-19 on Monday — a 55-year-old man from sector 105, a 63-year-old man from sector 12, an 11-year-old boy from sector 5, a 24-year-old man from Salarpur village and a 36-year-old woman from sector 36, the statement said. All patients have been shifted to hospital for treatment, the officer said. Dohare said 10,222 samples have been collected in Gautam Buddh Nagar so far for COVID-19 testing. "Since yesterday, 199 samples were sent to government laboratories and 144 to private laboratories for testing of COVID-19," he said. Gautam Buddh Nagar in western UP has so far recorded five deaths -- all of them males aged above 60 years, according to the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-ups-gautam-buddh-nagar-district-tally-rises-to-359-841874.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Two women die of coronavirus in Himachal as infection count rises to 224||Two elderly women died of COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh as the number of people testing positive for the infection rose to 224 with 20 fresh cases on Monday.   A seven-month-boy and her 28-year-old mother are among the 20 new cases, officials said.   So far, six people have succumbed to COVID-19 in the state.   According to officials, while a 65-year-old woman from Mandi's Ratti village died at Nerchowk's Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Hospital (SLBSGH) on Monday, a 72-year-old woman from Hamirpur died at Shimla's Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) on Sunday night.   They said both women were suffering from other ailments too.   The Mandi woman had suffered renal failure and was undergoing dialysis, Chief Medical Officer Jeevanand Chauhan said. The CMO said she tested positive for the infection on May 20 but it could not be traced from where she contracted the virus.   IGMC's Senior Medical Superintendent Janak Raj said the Hamirpur woman was referred to their hospital after her condition worsened.   Her husband too had tested positive for the virus on Thursday, he said, adding the woman had gone to Jalandhar in Punjab for the treatment of other ailments.   Upon her return, she was admitted to the Government Medical College in Hamirpur.   All 20 fresh patients had returned from other states recently. Ten of them returned from Maharashtra, four from Tamil Nadu, three from Delhi and two from Gujarat's Ahmedabad recently.   Eight of them had returned to Kangra, four to Chamba, four to Shimla, three to Bilaspur and one to Hamirpur.    In Kangra, a seven-month-old boy and her 28-year-old mother are among the eight people tested positive on Monday, a district official said.    The woman had returned from Delhi on May 19 in a taxi and quarantined at her mother's place in Kuther village of Jawali tehsil. They are being shifted to the Dadh COVID care centre. Besides, four men who returned from Maharashtra and two from Ahmedabad, tested positive for the infection in Kangra.   In Bilaspur, two Mumbai and one Delhi returnees tested positive for COVID-19.   The four Chamba men, aged between 21-32, had returned from Tamil Nadu recently, a district official said.      Two of them had returned on May 18 in a special train from Chennai.   Three men in Shimla's Chopal Tehsil had returned from Mumbai in a special train on May 18, Deputy Commissioner Amit Kashyap said, adding that they were institutionally quarantined at Deha.    The fourth man from Kotkhai also returned from outside and was institutionally quarantined, Shimla SP Omapati Jamwal said.   In Hamirpur, a 25-year-old woman tested COVID-19 positive for the virus, Deputy Commissioner Harikesh Meena said.   She had returned to her in-laws' house from Mumbai on May 22, he said, adding that her 29-year-old husband too had tested COVID-19 positive a few days ago.   Of the total 224 cases reported so far, 67 have recovered, leaving only 151 patients behind, according to officials.   Hamirpur has the highest number of active cases in the state at 56 followed by 42 in Kangra, 13 in Una, 11 in Solan, eight in Mandi, seven each in Chamba and Bilaspur, four in Shimla, two in Sirmaur and one in Kullu, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-women-die-of-coronavirus-in-himachal-as-infection-count-rises-to-224-841878.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Migrants protest in Punjab after rumour over train, bus||Migrant labourers protested in Punjab's Fatehgarh Sahib district on Monday after rumour spread over trains and buses that will ferry them to Bihar, police said. Senior Superintendent of Police Amneet Kondal said a rumour spread that buses will leave for Bihar from the Khalsa School in Mandi Gobindgarh town, following which a large number of migrant labourers assembled at the spot. The police reached and told the labourers that there was no such schedule of trains or buses, following which the agitated people protested against the district administration and shouted slogans. Civil and police officials rushed to the spot to control the situation. Mandi Gobindgarh police station incharge Mohinder Singh pacified the agitated migrants, Kondal said. According the SSP, misleading information was shared on social media that the labourers were beaten, they damaged police vehicles, and labourers and officials were injured, but nothing happened. Legal action is being taken against such persons who is misleading people on social media, Kondal said. Sub-Divisional Magistrate Amloh Anand Sagar Sharma said after coordinating with railway authorities, special buses were arranged and around 300 migrant labourers were sent to the Ambala railway station, from where they will leave for Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrants-protest-in-punjab-after-rumour-over-train-bus-841879.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Priyanka questions Aditynath's claim on migrant workers||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday asked UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to explain the basis of the statement in which he has reportedly claimed that a large number of workers returning from other states are infected with coronavirus. The Congress leader also shared a news clip on the CM's statement on her Twitter handle. In the video uploaded by Priyanka Gandhi, Adityanath is seen stating that 75 per cent of the migrant workers who are returning from Mumbai are infected with the virus. “Fifty per cent of the workers coming from Delhi are such who have infection. Cases of widespread infection have been reported in 25-30 per cent workers coming from other states,” he claimed in the video. “This is a challenge for us and all our teams are strongly working on it. Over 75,000 medical teams are working in the entire state. The result of the screening, testing and treatment is that today we have been able to control it (COVID-19) to a great extent,” the CM claimed in the video. Launching an attack against Adityanath, the Congress general secretary said in a tweet, "Does the chief minister mean to say that over 10 lakh people in UP are infected by corona? However, his government's figures tell that there are 6,228 infection cases. What is the basis of infection statistics.” ] “From where has this percentage of infection among the migrant workers who have returned to the state has come, and if this is the case, then why so less number of tests are being conducted," she added. In a direct question to the chief minister, the Congress leader said if there is truth in the statement of the chief minister, then the government should share the data pertaining to testing, infection and other preparedness with the public and tell that what is its readiness to control the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-questions-aditynaths-claim-on-migrant-workers-841884.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||VHP tries to keep row over seers’ murders alive||Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) had slammed the Maharashtra government over the killing of a Lingayat seer in Nanded. Now it has come to light that Lingayat sage Pashupati Maharaj along with another person was murdered by a petty criminal, who had entered the Ashrama for stealing things. Arrested accused Sainath Lingote (27) also belongs to Lingayat community. VHP on May 24 submitted a memorandum to the local administration on the Nanded killing while its spokesperson Vinod Bansal said, “Had the murders of seers in Palghar hanged, the Nanded killers would not have gathered the courage to do so.” After three people including two seers were killed near village Gadchinchale in Palghar on April 16, VHP said Hindu seers were in danger in Maharashtra. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh denied a communal angle to it, but the BJP and VHP alleged a Christian-Communist nexus behind the murders and sought a CBI probe. 134 persons including a dozen tribals have been arrested for the Palghar killings. However, the VHP reminded the Thackeray government that it is “now 38 days” and sought more action. On April 28, two seers were killed in Bulandshahar. The murderer turned out to be a drug addict who killed them inside a temple after the priest scolded him for stealing his belongings. In the third week of April, another seer was attacked in Hoshiarpur in Punjab. The police ruled out a communal angle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vhp-tries-to-keep-row-over-seers-murders-alive-841885.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: 229 fresh cases in UP take tally to 6,497; records 8 more COVID-related deaths||Eight more people have died of COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh, taking their number to 169 as 229 fresh coronavirus cases surfaced in the state on Monday, an official of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) said. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the state has reached 6,497, Vikasendu Agrawal, State Surveillance Officer, IDSP, said in a statement. "Of the eight deaths, two were reported from Meerut and one each from Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Pratapgarh, Gorakhpur, Bareilly and Etawah," Agrawal said. Among the fresh cases, 19 were reported from Rampur, 16 each from Basti and Ballia, 13 each from Varanasi and Gorakhpur, and 10 cases were reported from Firozabad, he said. So far, 3,660 COVID-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals in the state, while the count of active cases stands at 2,668, the statement said. Of the 169 deaths reported in Uttar Pradesh, Agra leads the tally with 33 fatalities, followed by 22 in Meerut, 12 in Aligarh, 11 each in Kanpur Nagar and Moradabad, and eight in Firozabad, it added.  Addressing a press briefing earlier in the day, Principal Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said pool testing of 936 samples was undertaken. "With migrants returning to the state, the positive outcome in the pool testing has increased. Overall positive outcome has also gone up. Hence, we are insisting that the migrant labourers who have come should undertake 21-day home quarantine. This will help in curbing the spread of the infection in the society," Prasad told reporters. The principal secretary also said air travellers arriving in the state would have to stay under home-quarantine for 14 days. "On the sixth day from their arrival, one can get themselves tested, and if they are negative for COVID-19, their home-quarantine will be ended," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-229-fresh-cases-in-up-take-tally-to-6497-records-8-more-covid-related-deaths-841901.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||JNU asks students residing in hostels to return home, union opposes||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) Monday "strongly advised" students "stranded and residing" in its hostels to return to their native places as special trains and some intrastate bus services have started following relaxations in the COVID-19 lockdown. The advisory led to a fresh confrontation between the students' union and the administration. The Students' Union opposed the circular, saying the university was deliberately putting students' lives and safety at risk. However, the university said some "self-proclaimed" student leaders always make it a point to oppose any advisory that comes from the administration and give an ideological colour to it. In a circular, the Dean of Students, Professor Sudheer Pratap Singh said the university had issued communications in March too, informing students about the closure of the institute and advising them to return home. "However, many students requested to stay back in hostels at that time due to non-availability of public transport during the lockdown," the circular said. It stated that the Railways has now begun running some special trains and around 200 more trains will be made operational from June 1. Intra-state bus and taxi services have also been started by state governments, it said. Moreover, some state governments have made transport arrangements for the return of students, it said. "Further, as per the Ministry of Home Affairs and Delhi government guidelines issued from time to time, the university has announced that students can return to the campus on or after June 25 and till then all academic activities are closed. "This is to underline that the Government of India updates daily about the COVID-19 pandemic situation. At present, the number of cases in Delhi is increasing swiftly day by day," the circular said. "Keeping the facts in view, all students who are stranded and residing in the hostels are, hereby, strongly advised to return to their hometown and come back after the opening of the university," it added. The students' union condemned the move in a statement. "Students who have stayed back on the campus have weighed the risk of staying on the campus versus travelling. At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic must unite us all, these moves of the administration are clearly jeopardizing not only the safety of students but the fight against COVID-19 itself," they said. The university said its advisories are always depicted as "diktats" by the habitual student opponents. "It also needs emphasis that it is reprehensible and inexcusable to discourage willing students who would like to go home," it said. In addition, when the administration has begun to install CCTVs at public places, including the hostel gates, yet again disruption has been organised by a handful of self-motivated student leaders, it added. It is extremely important to monitor outsiders coming into hostel premises for the safety of the students and the campus life. But the "old bogey of privacy" is being raised even though the CCTVs are being installed at the gates and not the interior of the hostels, it added. The students' union has also been opposed to the installation of CCTV cameras calling it a violation of their privacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-asks-students-residing-in-hostels-to-return-home-union-opposes-841905.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Rajyavardhan Rathore blames Rajasthan government for failing in its coronavirus response||Former Union minister and Jaipur (Rural) MP Rajyavardhan Rathore Monday accused the Congress government in the state of failing to fulfil its responsibility in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The Congress government failed to fulfil its responsibility properly in this fight against COVID-19 during lockdown as a result of which the number of coronavirus cases is rising in the state, Rathore told reporters in a video conference.  He said that coronavirus has now started affecting rural areas. The government is not prepared to deal with the issues of migrant labourers who are returning to the state in large numbers and a law and order situation is arising. Rathore also alleged that the state government has not made proper quarantine facility and employment arrangements for the migrants coming to the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajyavardhan-rathore-blames-rajasthan-government-for-failing-in-its-coronavirus-response-841911.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Row over Instagram post of Uttar Pradesh BJP MLA's son; case filed||An Uttar Pradesh BJP legislator's son courted controversy after a purported Instagram post by him stated that he got "respect and love" in the US and "disrespect and hate" in India. Shubham, son of BJP MLA Umesh Malik, is living in the United States for the past four years and studying at the Virginia University. After sharp reaction from the people, the Budhana constituency MLA has filed an FIR, claiming that post was made after his son's social media account was hacked and it was a conspiracy against him. A case has been registered against unidentified people under Section 66D of the Information Technology Act and an investigation is on, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/row-over-instagram-post-of-uttar-pradesh-bjp-mlas-son-case-filed-841917.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army resorts to shelling along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||Pakistan Army on Tuesday resorted to firing and shelling on forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, drawing befitting retaliation from Indian soldiers, a defence spokesperson said. "Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by small arm firing with mortar shelling along LoC in Balakote sector in Poonch district early Tuesday morning", he said. He said the Indian Army retaliated befittingly. The cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports were received, the officials said. However, there was no immediate report of any casualty during the shelling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-resorts-to-shelling-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-841932.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Expectant mothers' deaths, infections expose agonies of Kashmir Valley||The deaths of three expectant mothers due to COVID-19 and over two dozen others testing positive for the novel coronavirus has exposed the agonies that the Valley’s sick and pregnant women are undergoing amidst the prevailing crisis. Last week, a woman hailing from a red zone area of southern Anantnag district delivered at Lal Ded Maternity Hospital in Srinagar. Soon after the delivery, her sample, taken as a routine procedure for pregnant women in red zone areas, tested positive. The test report came as a shock for the staff that had carried out the delivery of the woman at the hospital. “We had not been told that she is a red zone resident. We would have attended to her according to the protocol we have in place for all such women here,” a doctor at the hospital said. “We face both the wrath of the people and exposure to the illness,” she said while blaming administrative decisions for this.  A doctor at the tertiary-care SKIMS hospital told DH that the way COVID-19 was being managed in Kashmir was putting every other patient’s life at risk. “If a heart attack patient from a red zone arrives at a hospital ‘not meant for suspected cases’, he will be asked to travel 100 km to reach some other hospital identified for the purpose,” he said. The doctor said that COVID-19 management was making healthcare difficult to access for most patients. However, he said, patients and attendants could not be blamed for exposing the doctors and nurses to the infection. “When a patient reports at a hospital, he or she is in pain and has to suffer a great deal before reaching here. The way administration is dealing with COVID-19 has put both routine patients and health workers at a risk,” he said. More than two dozen pregnant women across the Valley have tested positive till now and many of them have made visits to hospitals making them prone to contamination and subsequent spread of virus. Besides, over 20 doctors have also tested positive for the deadly virus till now. Dr Samia Rashid, Principal, Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar says that doctors were taking all precautionary measures and were wearing PPEs. “However, getting infected despite that is a professional hazard,” she said. J&K has reported 1668 cases of COVID-19 till May 25 since the first case was reported on March 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-expectant-mothers-deaths-infections-expose-agonies-of-kashmir-valley-841934.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||In two days, eight security personnel test COVID-19 positive in J&K||Eight security personnel, including an Army Major, an Army Lieutenant and a BSF Inspector have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last two days in Jammu and Kashmir. Reports said a 22-year old Army Lieutenant, who had returned from Dehradun, tested positive for COVID-19 in Jammu on Monday. Similarly a BSF Inspector deployed in 72 battalion at Khanetar Nallah in Poonch district, who had returned from New Delhi after leave and was under quarantine, tested positive for COVID-19. Two CRPF personnel posted in 84 and 187 battalions tested positive for novel Coronavirus on Monday, reports said. Both of them were shifted to hospitals after their reports came positive. An Army soldier posted at Corps Battle School (CBS) Doda, who was under administrative quarantine at Bhadarwah, also tested Corona positive and has been shifted to the Military Hospital Udhampur. Earlier on Sunday, an Army Major and one each jawan of BSF and police had reported positive for the deadly virus. The security agencies have been on the frontlines to contain the spread of COVID-19 as their facilities have been used for quarantining travellers and those suspected to have contracted the virus. However, the rise of COVID-19 cases in members of the Army, paramilitary forces and police is increasingly becoming a cause for concern. Sources said all the personnel reporting back from leave, temporary duty and courses undergo 14 days quarantine at the reporting station/unit. The top priority for rejoining duty has been accorded to those soldiers whose units or duty stations are within 500 km by private transport from their place of leave. J&K, like the rest of the country, has been under a lockdown since March 25 to combat the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-two-days-eight-security-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-in-jk-841937.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Delhi metro gearing up to resume services||The company has asked all its 14,000 employees to join the duty, said an official of the company. Though a section of employees was coming to office alternatively, now the company asked the entire staff to report on duty. Senior officers will brief the employees about the steps to be taken to smooth operations once services start.  The company is preparing itself to resume the services once it gets a nod from the government, said the official adding that a day's notice would be enough to start services. Once services resume, in the initial days may be only essential services and government employees may be allowed. Gradually others will be allowed to use the said services. The metro already prepared standard operating procedure (SOP) on maintaining social distances like mandatory wearing masks, downloading Aarogya Setu app. A limited number of passengers will be allowed to travel in each train,  keeping an alternative seat empty inside the coach and mandatory usage of a smart card.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-delhi-metro-gearing-up-to-resume-services-841943.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Jammu and Kashmir records another COVID-19 death; death toll rises to 24||Medical Superintendent, tertiary-care SKIMS hospital, Dr Farooq Jan said a 90-year-old man from Kulgam, who was referred from GMC Anantnag on Monday afternoon died at isolation facility on Tuesday morning  The patient was suffering from pneumonia besides having a history of chest disease, he said, adding that soon after he was admitted in the hospital, his samples were taken and that came positive on Monday evening. The fresh death in Jammu and Kashmir has taken the total death toll across the Union Territory up to 23. The mortality attributed to COVID-19 has increased in J&K in recent days as 12 positive people have died since May 17. Although doctors said all these patients suffered from other life-threatening illnesses, the deaths have steepened the mortality graph of the viral illness. In Jammu and Kashmir, the first death due to the coronavirus was reported on March 26. Till Monday evening, J&K had reported 1,668 COVID-19 positive cases out of which 809 have recovered and 836 are Active Positive cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-jammu-and-kashmir-records-another-covid-19-death-death-toll-rises-to-24-841945.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan eases lockdown norms, allows taxis, auto rickshaws to operate in red zones||The Rajasthan government on Monday decided to allow taxis and auto rickshaws to operate in the red zones of the state. The state government has also lifted the ban on the sale of paan, gutkha and tobacco products while making it clear that spitting in public is still a punishable offence. Amending the lockdown 4.0 guidelines, the government allowed the use of taxis, including Ola and Uber, and auto rickshaws within the red zones on a condition that social distancing and sanitisation will be ensured. Public parks in red zones will also be open from 7 am to 6.45 pm. These activities are already permitted in orange and green zones of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-eases-lockdown-norms-allows-taxis-auto-rickshaws-to-operate-in-red-zones-841950.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases rise to 3,103 in Indore; death toll reaches 117||As many as 39 more people tested positive for coronavirus in Indore in last 24 hours, taking the number of such cases in the Madhya Pradesh district to 3,103, an official said on Tuesday. The death toll in the district, which is the worst affected by COVID-19 in the state, rose to 117 as one more person succumbed to the disease, Indore's Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. The victim was a 74-year-old man who died during treatment at a private hospital on Saturday. He was also suffering from high blood pressure, diabetes and other ailments, the official said. With 39 more people testing positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours, Indore's tally has now gone up to 3,103 from 3,064, he said. So far, 1,484 patients have been discharged after recovery, he added. The disease outbreak was first reported in the district on March 24, when four people tested positive for the infection. Indore, which is the state's industrial hub, continues to be in the red zone in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-rise-to-3103-in-indore-death-toll-reaches-117-841963.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Char Dham project: BRO completes tunnel below Chamba town||In a major boost to ''Char Dham'' project to connect Gangotri, Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Badrinath, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has achieved a milestone in the construction of a tunnel below the densely populated Chamba town on Rishikesh-Dharasu road (NH-94). "Happy to announce that our Border Roads Organisation (BRO) team has made a major breakthrough in Chardham Project. They have successfully dug up 440 m long Tunnel below the busy Chamba town on Rishikesh-Dharasu road Highway(NH 94)," Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari tweeted on Tuesday. He also inaugurated the breakthrough event through video conference. Gadkari said, the opening of this tunnel will ease out congestion through the Chamba town and reduce the distance by one kilometre and journey through the town will take only ten minutes as compared to thirty minutes earlier. The six-km road and 450-metre tunnel is being constructed at a cost of Rs 88 crore. The latest Austrian technology has been used in the construction of the Chamba tunnel, the minister said. Director General of Border Roads Organisation, Lt Gen Harpal Singh said, BRO started the work on North Portal of this tunnel in January 2019 but work on South Portal could be started only after October 2019 due to stiff resistance from locals on account of safety concerns and compensation issues. To compensate for the loss in time, day and night working shifts along with the use of modern technology facilitated the breakthrough, he said. Under the ''Char Dham'' project costing about Rs 12,000 crore, BRO is constructing 250 km of National Highway leading to holy shrines of Gangotri and Badrinath. The tunnel will be ready for traffic by October 2020, almost three months ahead of its scheduled date of completion of January 2021. "The construction of the tunnel was a challenging task in terms of land acquisition, weak geology, continuous water seepage and densely built area above the tunnel increasing the chances of sinking," said a statement from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/char-dham-project-bro-completes-tunnel-below-chamba-town-841983.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Man in Uttar Pradesh commits suicide upset over not getting work||A 35-year-old man, who was upset over not getting work, allegedly committed suicide by hanging from a tree, police said on Tuesday. The body of Sitar Prajapati, a resident of Kamasin Road here, was found hanging from a tree near a pond on Monday afternoon, in charge of Oran police outpost Sultan Singh said. Prajapati, who was a mason by profession, was tensed over his unemployment, his father Rameen said. The body has been sent for post-mortem, the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-man-in-uttar-pradesh-commits-suicide-upset-over-not-getting-work-841984.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Man tries to commit suicide near Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot's residence in Jaipur||A man allegedly attempted suicide by consuming poison near the residence of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in civil lines area here. Police rushed him to SMS hospital, where he is being treated. Meanwhile, a purported letter written by him has surfaced on social media in which he has alleged that he was under stress because of police. The man, a resident of Riyan Bandi in Nagaur district, said police did not take action on his complaint against six people, who had "thrashed" him and threatened to kill him. In the letter, he alleged that the station house officer of the Padu Kalan police station in Nagaur, where he had lodged a complaint, was torturing him mentally. He said he had informed senior police officials but nothing happened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-tries-to-commit-suicide-near-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlots-residence-in-jaipur-842009.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Adityanath remark on migrant workers misleading, anti-Dalit: Cong||The Congress on Tuesday accused Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of targeting Dalits by saying that a large proportion of migrant workers returning home to the state are infected with coronavirus. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had on Monday taken on Adityanath over his remark that 75 percent of UP workers returning from Mumbai are infected, questioning the math.  In a video clip, Adityanath was also heard saying that 50 percent of workers returning from Delhi have coronavirus and 25-30 percent from other states are similarly infected. On Tuesday, All India Congress Committee (AICC) office-bearer P L Punia said Adityanath’s “misleading statement” could lead to “social hatred”. He said most migrant workers are Dalits or belong to “backward castes”. “This statement by the chief minister would send a message among people that they are bringing the disease with them. This amounts to conspiring against Dalits and the backwards,” Punia, who is the in-charge at AICC for Chhattisgarh. Congress legislature party leader Aradhana Misra also questioned the statistics. She said according to the government a little above 6,000 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the state, but going by what Adityanath said the figure should be 10 lakh.  Priyanka Gandhi had made a similar point on Twitter. Misra said if there is any truth in the CM's claim, the government needs to undertake testing with transparency and tell people about its preparedness to deal with the situation. Punia also attacked the government for the arrest of Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu, claiming he has been punished for serving poor labourers. “The Yogi government is doing injustice to our leader and this will not be tolerated,” he said. Lallu was booked for cheating and forgery over a list of buses on which Congress had recently offered to bring migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh. The UP government had claimed that a large number of buses lacked insurance papers and fitness certificates. Several registration numbers in the list were not even buses, it said during the row with the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adityanath-remark-on-migrant-workers-misleading-anti-dalit-cong-842035.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Death of Mumbai hospital worker sparks protest by colleagues||The death of a worker posted at Mumbai's KEM hospital triggered a protest by employees on Tuesday alleging apathy by the city civic body towards their working conditions amidst the COVID-19 crisis. A staff union official alleged that the worker was not sanctioned a sick leave despite him complaining about body pains.  "The worker had complained of body ache and weakness over the last two days but he was not sanctioned leave," he said. The official claimed that the worker hardly received any treatment and was not even tested for coronavirus. "His death shows the apathy of the BMC administration towards us. If we are not given (any basic protection like) gloves and face shields, our life could be in danger," he said. The official demanded concrete steps from the BMC.  Like other healthcare facilities, the KEM Hospital, run by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, has been stretched to the limit because of rising virus cases and inadequate staff. Among more than 52,000 coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, 31,972 cases were reported from Mumbai city, where the death toll crossed the 1,000-mark on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-death-of-mumbai-hospital-worker-sparks-protest-by-colleagues-842036.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Haven't arrested anyone in case against Tablighi Jamaat members, Delhi Police tells HC||The police told the Delhi High Court on Tuesday that it has neither arrested nor detained anyone in the case lodged against members of Tablighi Jamaat for participating in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz during the COVID-19 lockdown. The court sought the response of Delhi Police and the AAP government on a plea seeking release of 916 foreign nationals, who participated in the event and are being held in institutional quarantine since March 30 despite having tested negative for COVID-19. It was hearing a petition filed by 20 of the 916 foreigners who said the continued detention violates the very fabric of liberty. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar, conducting the hearing through video conferencing, was also informed that more than 900 foreign Tablighi Jamaat attendees, including the petitioners, have joined investigation of the case and were served notices under the CrPC. Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain said the investigation is being conducted on a day-to-day basis and the police will file a charge sheet in the case before the concerned trial court within a week. During the hearing, senior advocate Rebecca John and lawyer Ashima Mandla, appearing for the petitioners, urged that all foreign nationals who have tested negative for the virus be released from institutional quarantine to alternate accommodations, factoring social distancing. The counsel said they will submit places of alternate accommodation during the day and the costs and expenditure of the alternate accommodation will be borne by the community . They said the authorities will inspect the accommodation and will file a status report before the court which will hear the matter on Thursday. The court also took on record two status reports filed by Delhi Police and the concerned SDM who said the Department of Revenue (Delhi) has not kept these foreign nationals under any type of custody and it is just looking after them and providing all possible facilities. The police, in its status report, said the menace and hazard of COVID-19 viral infection during large gatherings was verbally conveyed to Maulana Mohd Saad and the management of Markaz on several occasions, including during meetings held in the police station in March in this regard. “The meeting in the police station was taken by the SHO on March 24 and was attended by members of Tablighi Jamaat Markaz Management. However, Maulana Mohd Saad and the Markaz Management did not inform any Health Department or other government agency about the huge gathering inside the Markaz. “They deliberately, willfully, negligently and malignantly disobeyed the lawful directions promulgated in this regard. Written notices were also issued to Maulana Mohd Saad and the Markaz Management. However, they refused to pay any heed. The premise was inspected by SDM/Defence Colony on various dates, between March 26 and 30,” it said. The report said around 1,300 devotees from various states as well as foreign countries were found residing in the premises without maintaining any social distancing and no one was seen following the directions such as use of facial mask and hand sanitisers to restrict the spread of the virus. “Maulana Mohd Saad and others had allowed a huge gathering to assemble inside a closed premises, over a protracted period of time, without any semblance of social distancing or provision of masks and sanitisers and have thereby caused a situation where a highly infectious disease such as Coronavirus (Covid-19) infection may spread and threaten the lives of the inmates and the general public at large,” it said.  The petition has challenged a May 9 order of the Department of Revenue which had directed handing over of 567 foreign nationals, presently held in institutional quarantine, to the custody of Delhi Police after being tested negative for the virus. Petitioners Mohammad Jamal and others said the order is ultra vires to the right to equality before law and right to life and liberty.  The plea said FIRs were lodged by Delhi Police in relation to the Markaz congregation against unknown persons. After being exposed to a large gathering in March amid the COVID-19 or coronavirus lockdown many members of Tablighi Jamaat from Markaz Hazrat Nizamuddin were taken out by the authorities and lodged in different quarantine centres in Delhi. Some of them were sent to the centres a few days later after being detained from various mosques. In April, COVID-19 cases in Delhi spiked after hundreds of Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended the congregation, tested positive.  The other members were directly taken to quarantine centres to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/havent-arrested-anyone-in-case-against-tablighi-jamaat-members-delhi-police-tells-hc-842037.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Heat wave continues in UP; Allahabad sizzles at 47.1 degree Celsius||Heatwave conditions continued unabated at many places in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday with Allahabad being the hottest place in the state at 47.1 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said. Such conditions are likely to continue for another three-four days over the state, it added. Heat wave conditions continued unabated at a few places over the state. There was a severe heat wave at isolated places over East Uttar Pradesh, the MeT office said. It said Allahabad continued to be the hottest place in the state, recording a maximum of 47.1 degrees Celsius. Day temperatures rose appreciably over Gorakhpur and Faizabad divisions, it said. The temperatures were markedly above normal over Varanasi and Faizabad divisions and appreciably above normal in the remaining divisions of the state, the MeT office said. The weather will most likely remain dry over West UP and rain or thundershower is very likely at isolated places over East UP on Wednesday, it said. The MeT office warned of a duststorm or thunderstorm accompanied with gusty winds very likely at isolated places over East UP on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heat-wave-continues-in-up-allahabad-sizzles-at-471-degree-celsius-842045.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Locust swarms attack alert in 10 districts of Uttar Pradesh after Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh||At least 10 districts in Uttar Pradesh that border Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have been put on alert after swarms of locusts attacked crops in the two states, an official said on Tuesday. The locusts initially entered Rajasthan from Pakistan. From Rajasthan, locust swarms also entered Madhya Pradesh over the past few days. "In view of the threat of locust attack in areas bordering Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, local officials have been put on alert and asked to remain prepared with chemicals in tractor-mounted sprayers, power sprayers and fire brigades, and undertake heavy spraying during the night," a government spokesman here said. Besides, local villagers have been asked to make noise by beating 'thalis' and bursting crackers to drive away a locust swarm. These measures will help in controlling or eliminating locusts at their resting place, the spokesman said, adding that officials have been asked to be in constant coordination with technical teams of the Locust Warning Organisation and farmers. He said a swarm of locusts was seen in the jungles of Jhansi on Sunday and 40 per cent of it was destroyed after chemicals were sprayed by state and central government teams. Due to the wind direction, there was a threat from this swarm in Mahoba district, which was put on high alert, he said. There are reports of partial damage to vegetables in 25 hectares of area and a detailed inspection of the extent of loss is being done, the spokesman said. Another swarm was active in Karauli in Rajasthan, following which an alert was issued for Jhansi, Lalitpur, Jalaun and Auraiya and their adjoining districts like Hamirpur, Kannauj ,Etawah and Kanpur Dehat, he said. Deputy Director Agriculture Kamal Katiyar said, "The swarm of locusts is moving and is small in size. We have got news that nearly 2.5 km to 3 km long swarm of locusts has entered the country. A team has come from Kota (Rajasthan) to tackle the locusts." He said at present, the locust swarm is at Bangra Magarpur. "Spraying of insecticides will be done in the night," Katiyar said. The Mathura district administration has started early preparations in view of the growing locust threat and formed a task force. Mathura District Magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra said 200 litres of chloropyriphos has been kept as reserve and its sellers in the area have been advised not to supply the chemical outside the district. The Jhansi administration has also directed the fire department to keep its vehicle ready with chemicals to tackle a sudden movement by locust swarms. District Magistrate Andra Vamsi, who chaired a meeting in this regard, said, "The villagers along with the common public has been told to inform control room about the movement. The locusts will go places where there is green grass or greenery. Hence, details about the movement at such places must be shared."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/locust-swarms-attack-alert-in-10-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-after-rajasthan-madhya-pradesh-842050.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Top Army commanders to deliberate on situation in Eastern Ladakh||Top commanders of the Indian Army will carry out an in-depth review of the tense standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in several areas of eastern Ladakh at a three-day conference beginning Wednesday. The commanders will also deliberate on the overall situation in Jammu and Kashmir besides delving into issues having national security implications, they said. However, the main focus will be on the situation in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops are locked in an eyeball-to-eyeball face-off in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie, the sources said. Both India and China have significantly increased their presence in all sensitive areas in the region, signalling that the confrontation may not see a resolution anytime soon. There have been efforts by both sides to resolve it through talks. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to "disengage" following a meeting at the level of local commanders. Over 100 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in the violence. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. "The apex level leadership of the Indian Army will brainstorm on the current emerging security and administrative challenges and chart the future course for Indian Army," Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said, without elaborating. The commanders' conference was originally scheduled to be held from April 13-18, but it was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. It will now be held in two phase. The first phase will be from May 27 to 29 and the second one in the last week of June, Col Anand said. "India has handled the situation in a mature way. The commanders are expected to have detailed deliberations including on the strategy to confront China's aggressive behaviour," an official said on the condition of anonymity. India last week said that it has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management but the Chinese military was hindering normal patrolling by its troops. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also strongly refuted China's contention that the tension was triggered due to trespassing by Indian forces on the Chinese side. India's response came two days after China accused the Indian Army of trespassing into its territory, claiming that it was an "attempt to unilaterally change the status" of the LAC in Sikkim and Ladakh. On May 5, the Indian and Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. China has been critical of India's reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir, and has particularly criticised New Delhi for making Ladakh a union territory. China lays claim over several parts of Ladakh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping held their first informal summit in April 2018 in the Chinese city of Wuhan, months after the Doklam standoff. In the summit, the two leaders decided to issue "strategic guidance" to their militaries to strengthen communications so that they can build trust and understanding. Modi and Xi held their second informal summit in Mamallapuram near Chennai in October last year with a focus on further broadening bilateral ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/top-army-commanders-to-deliberate-on-situation-in-eastern-ladakh-842054.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi Police charge 82 foreigners for attending Nizamuddin event||The Delhi Police on Tuesday filed charge sheets against 82 foreigners for attending a religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz here in violation of visa conditions and indulging in missionary activities amidst the COVID-19 outbreak in the country, officials said. The police has filed 20 charge sheets against the foreigners belonging to 20 countries, they said. A large congregation organised in March by the Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area of the national capital had emerged as a major hotspot of coronavirus.  Some of the participants, who were later tested positive for coronavirus, had travelled to their home states and other areas. More than 25,500 Tablighi members and their contacts have been quarantined in the country after the Centre and the state governments conducted a "mega operation" to identify them. “They not only violated government guidelines issued in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and regulations regarding the Epidemic Diseases Act, but also flouted the Disaster Management Act and subsequently the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,” the police said. An FIR was registered against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and six others on March 31 at the Crime Branch Police Station on a complaint of the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act, 2005, Foreigners Act and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to coronavirus, police said.  The case is being investigated by the Crime Branch which pertains to the religious gathering at the Markaz which congregated at Banglewali Masjid in Hazrat Nizamuddin, on March 13 and beyond. According to the police, the foreign nationals entered India on tourist visa and participated in the gathering at Markaz “illegally”. Besides, violating the provisions of visa, these foreign nationals also led to a situation where a highly infectious disease spread and threatened the lives of the inmates and the general public at large, they said. The police also said that more than 900 foreign nationals who are accused in the case belong to 34 different countries and charge sheets are being prepared country-wise, under sections of the Foreigners Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-police-charge-82-foreigners-for-attending-nizamuddin-event-842057.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Doctors protest against harassment of healthcare professionals by police in Kashmir||Doctors at a super-speciality hospital in Shireenbagh here on Tuesday held a token protest against the alleged harassment of healthcare professionals by police in Kashmir. The doctors were holding posters that read "they may stop us, beat us, strip us, arrest us but we will always be there for you". A video of Chief Medical Officer, Bandipora, Dr Tajamul Hussain being stopped by police has gone viral on social media. The medical officer was on way to inspect a quarantine centre and sample collection centre in the north Kashmir district. Last week, a senior doctor was allegedly humiliated and detained for a day by policemen in Srinagar while he was on way to the hospital. Dr Syed Maqbool, a senior cardiologist, had alleged that he was beaten up and abused by the policemen. The incident has sparked outrage in the medical fraternity with Principal, Government Medical College Srinagar, Dr Samia Rashid calling for a swift action. After the incident came to light, SSP, Srinagar, Haseeb Mughal had ordered a probe into it. He had said a complaint has been registered against the doctor for allegedly preventing a policeman from doing his duty. The Doctors' Association Kashmir (DAK) has called for a one-day black band protest against these incidents.  "We are announcing a one day black band protest on Wednesday over the excesses by government forces against the healthcare providers," DAK president Suhail Naik said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctors-protest-against-harassment-of-healthcare-professionals-by-police-in-kashmir-842062.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||UP CM directs completion of migrant workers' skill-mapping in 15 days||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials on Tuesday to complete the skill-mapping of migrant labourers in 15 days and get a survey conducted for their adjustment in MSMEs and industrial units. At a meeting with senior state officials to review the lockdown situation, the chief minister said the skill-mapping, which is in progress, should be completed in 15 days and the data should be prepared, an official spokesperson said. He asked for all-out efforts to increase industrial activity and directed that a survey be conducted in different industries, including the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), for adjusting the labourers and workers in accordance with their skills, the spokesperson said. Adityanath directed for a continuous dialogue between the Chief Minister Helpline and the migrant labourers and workers, and reiterated that his government is committed to ensuring a safe and respectable return of the workers, for which the state and central governments have made arrangements of free travel by trains and buses. He directed the officials to write to different state governments for getting a list of those labourers and workers who are willing to come back to Uttar Pradesh. Stressing on the need for a proper screening of all the workers returning from other states, the chief minister asked for putting them up in quarantine centres, before sending them for home quarantine, according to the need. Allowing morning walk in parks at a scheduled time, Adityanath asked for ensuring patrolling to maintain security and social distancing there, besides strengthening the patrolling of financial and industrial institutions. With the start of domestic flights, the chief minister also directed to allow taxis to ply from the airport with two passengers and a driver. Asking for continuing with the home-delivery system in the COVID-19 containment zones, he directed to ensure a proper supply of PPE kits, N95 masks, gloves, hand-sanitiser and other things required in checking the infection in all COVID hospitals, while seeing that they remain active round the clock. Asking for effectively controlling the infection in jails and among police personnel, the chief minister stressed on checking medical infection, for which he called for ensuring a proper training of doctors and other medical staff. Asking the officials to increase the bed capacity in the L1 ,L2 and L3 COVID hospitals to one lakh by month-end, he said maximum number of people should be tested for the virus and directed that the work to have at least one testing laboratory in every district should be given momentum. The chief minister said while adopting all safety measures to check the infection, the work on starting emergency services and necessary operations should be started in the non-COVID hospitals. He also stressed on equipping the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI), King George's Medical University (KGMU) and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute with all modern facilities. In view of the prevailing heatwave conditions, Adityanath directed to ensure proper drinking water supply in the water-scarce Bundelkhand region and tankers in urban areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-directs-completion-of-migrant-workers-skill-mapping-in-15-days-842071.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||2,827 air passengers have arrived in Uttar Pradesh: Official||As many as 2,827 air passengers have arrived in Uttar Pradesh and of them 2,007 are residents of the state, an official said on Tuesday, a day after domestic air travel services resumed after a gap of two months in the country. Scheduled commercial passenger flights were suspended on March 25, when the Centre imposed a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. "As many as 2,827 air passengers came of which 2,007 are residents of Uttar Pradesh, and they have been sent into home quarantine for 14 days,” Principal Secretary Medical and Health Amit Mohan Prasad said. The 2,827 people are the number of passengers who arrived on the first day of resumption of air travel on Monday. Data has been collected from the web link that was provided to passengers following resumption of domestic air travel, Prasad said. He said of the total, 820 air passengers have informed that “they will go back and hence, they were not sent into quarantine". The Uttar Pradesh government had said air travellers to the state will be home quarantined for 14 days unless they are staying for less than a week or clear the coronavirus test earlier. On the quarantining process, Prasad on Sunday had said passengers will have to follow the laid-down home quarantine protocol. They can get themselves tested for the virus on the sixth day from their arrival and end their quarantine if the results come out negative, he had said If passengers do not have adequate facilities at home, they will be kept at a quarantine centre, the officer had said. Outsiders on visits of less than a week to the state need not go into quarantine if they furnish details of their return journey, he had said, adding that but they will not be allowed to enter containment zones. On the current COVID-19 situation in the state, the principal secretary said 18.33 per cent of the total infected are in the age group of 0-20 years; 52.63 per cent in the age group of 21-40 years; 22.76 per cent in the age group of 41-60 years. Prasad said 6.29 per cent of the total infected are above 60 years. There are 6,497 confirmed novel coronavirus cases in the state. He also claimed that number of elderlies getting infected has come down because of the intervention of village and mohalla monitoring committees. Prasad said that strengthening home quarantine of migrant labourers will help in controlling the situation. "There is no need to panic about COVID-19. There should be no ill-feeling against a patient. Anyone who tests positive, should get treatment done, he/she will recover from the disease. Problem arises, when there is delay in testing, leading to complications during treatment,” he said. One should cover the face with a mask, 'gamcha' or 'dupatta' and adhere to social distancing, and regularly wash hands," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2827-air-passengers-have-arrived-in-uttar-pradesh-official-842075.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||No major side-effects of HCQ, should be continued as preventive treatment for COVID-19: ICMR||No major side-effects of Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) have been found in studies in India and its use should be continued in preventive treatment for COVID-19, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Tuesday. The ICMR's statement came against the backdrop of the World Health Organization (WHO) suspending the testing of the drug in COVID-19 patients temporarily in its global study following safety concerns. "The COVID-19 is an evolving field and we do not know which drug is working and which is not working. Lot of drugs are being repurposed for COVID-19, whether for prophylaxis or for treatment of COVID-19. "We found there were no major side affects except for nausea, vomiting, palpitation occasionally. Hence in our advisory we have recommended that it should be continued for prophylaxis as there is no harm. Benefit may be there," ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said. He said it has been "clearly advised that HCQ should be taken with food, not on empty stomach". "We also emphasized that one ECG should be done during the treatment. We expanded use of HCQ from healthcare workers to front-line workers also, considering the potential benefits," he added. Bhargava was addressing a press conference on the COVID-19 situation in the country where he mentioned that the ICMR has upscaled the testing facilities and over one lakh persons are being tested every day. Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health, said the recovery rate for COVID-19 cases in the country has seen an upwards trend. “The recovery rate in the country continues to improve and is presently 41.61 per cent. The COVID-19 fatality rate has reduced from 3.3 per cent on April 15 to 2.87 per cent which is among the lowest in the world," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-major-side-effects-of-hcq-should-be-continued-as-preventive-treatment-for-covid-19-icmr-842081.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt has sent nearly 2.41 lakh people back to their home states in 196 trains: Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government has sent around 2.41 lakh people back to their home states in 196 trains from May 7 till Monday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday. Addressing an online media briefing, Sisodia said nearly 1.25 lakh people were sent to Bihar, 96,610 to Uttar Pradesh, 3,000 to Jharkhand, 2,500 to West Bengal and 2,100 to Madhya Pradesh. The Delhi government has paid the train fares in most of the cases, he said. Recently, the AAP dispensation and the Bihar government had engaged in a war of words over train fares of migrant workers. According to the deputy chief minister, lunch and dinner are being served to the needy people in the national capital at 2,500 camps set up by the Delhi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-has-sent-nearly-241-lakh-people-back-to-their-home-states-in-196-trains-manish-sisodia-842084.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Migrant worker killed by fellow worker in Hoshiarpur||A 40-year-old migrant worker was allegedly killed by a fellow worker at Satiana village here, police said on Tuesday. Jatru Sahu and Mansit Sahu, both natives of Jharkhand, worked in the fields of Daljit Singh here, they said. The workers consumed liquor on the intervening night of May 25 and 26 at a motor room in the fields. An argument broke out between the two over some issue. Mansit in a fit of rage allegedly hit Jatru with a brick, police said. Jatru became unconscious and fell down whereas Mansit went to sleep, they said. Daljit found Jatru dead on Tuesday morning. The body was sent for postmortem, police said, adding an investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-worker-killed-by-fellow-worker-in-hoshiarpur-842096.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||SC takes suo motu cognizance of miseries of migrant labourers||The Supreme Court Tuesday took suo motu cognizance of the problems and the miseries of migrant labourers who have been stranded in different parts of the country after the COVID-19 lockdown. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah issued notice to the Centre, states and Union Territories and sought their replies by May 28 on the steps taken to redeem the situation. The top court listed the matter for May 28 and asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to assist it on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-takes-suo-motu-cognizance-of-miseries-of-migrant-labourers-842097.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||New Indian roads, air strips sparked border standoff with China, India observers say||A Himalayan border standoff between old foes India and China was triggered by India’s construction of roads and air strips in the region as it competes with China's spreading Belt and Road initiative, Indian observers said on Tuesday. Soldiers from both sides have been camped out in the Galwan Valley in the high-altitude Ladakh region, accusing each other of trespassing over the disputed border, the trigger of a brief but bloody war in 1962. About 80 to 100 tents have sprung up on the Chinese side and about 60 on the Indian side where soldiers are billeted, Indian officials briefed on the matter in New Delhi and in Ladakh's capital, Leh, said. Both were digging defences and Chinese trucks have been moving equipment into the area, the officials said, raising concerns of a long faceoff. "China is committed to safeguarding the security of its national territorial sovereignty, as well as safeguarding peace and stability in the China-India border areas," the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson's office said in a statement. "At present, the overall situation in the border areas is stable and controllable. There are sound mechanisms and channels of communication for border-related affairs, and the two sides are capable of properly resolving relevant issues through dialogue and consultation.” There was no immediate Indian foreign ministry comment. It said last week Chinese troops had hindered regular Indian patrols along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). But interviews with former Indian military officials and diplomats suggest the trigger for the flare-up is India’s construction of roads and airstrips. "Today, with our infrastructure reach slowly extending into areas along the LAC, the Chinese threat perception is raised," said former Indian foreign secretary Nirupama Rao. "Xi Jinping’s China is the proponent of a hard line on all matters of territory, sovereignty. India is no less when it comes to these matters either," she said. After years of neglect Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has pushed for improving connectivity and by 2022, 66 key roads along the Chinese border will have been built. One of these roads is near the Galwan valley that connects to Daulat Beg Oldi air base, which was inaugurated last October. "The road is very important because it runs parallel to the LAC and is linked at various points with the major supply bases inland," said Shyam Saran, another former Indian foreign secretary. "It remains within our side of the LAC. It is construction along this new alignment which appears to have been challenged by the Chinese." China's Belt and Road is a string of ports, railways, roads and bridges connecting China to Europe via central and southern Asia and involving Pakistan, China's close ally and India's long-time foe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-indian-roads-air-strips-sparked-border-standoff-with-china-india-observers-say-842101.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Jitendra Singh praises Ladakh administration, civil society's fight against coronavirus||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday appreciated the administration and the civil society in Ladakh to help the Union territory gradually come out from the coronavirus assault. In a meeting with Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh R K Mathur, who had called on the minister here, Singh conveyed the government’s appreciation for the consistent diligence and effort with which the Union territory administration had dealt with the COVID-19 pandemic and also succeeded in containing it, a statement issued by the personnel ministry said. “He noted that it was Ladakh which had caused initial alarm for the entire country when suddenly a number of cases reported coronavirus positive from among the returnees, who were coming back from Iran pilgrimage, but it goes to the credit of the administration and the civil society that Ladakh is among the first to gradually come out from the corona assault,” the statement said. During the meeting, they discussed the COVID-19 situation and other issues, including revival of development activity in the newly-created Union territory. Among the various projects in the pipeline, the minister also mentioned the project for processing of ‘Leh Berry’ for which the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has prepared a plan. The Minister of State for Personnel also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his clear instructions to give priority to peripheral areas of Ladakh and north east, as a result of which air cargo supplies started reaching there even before the lockdown. As of today, the store of ration, vegetables and fruit in Ladakh is in much bigger quantity than it would have normally been otherwise in this part of the year, he added. The minister also had a word of praise for the two young deputy commissioners of Leh and Kargil and the two Senior Superintendents of Police (SSPs) of these two districts respectively who were in touch on day-to-day basis and coordinated for different issues from time to time, which helped in facilitating supply of medical equipment and later the movement of people returning from different parts of the country. Mathur apprised Singh of the current situation and said now an effort is being made to revive the development activity. He also discussed some of the projects related to power generation and construction work which had got delayed due to the pandemic and said that very soon these would be revived. The LG thanked the minister for his day-to-day support and for facilitating central assistance during the entire period of the pandemic. Ladakh has 52 COVID-19 cases, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jitendra-singh-praises-ladakh-administration-civil-societys-fight-against-coronavirus-842116.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Area under cotton cultivation increases to over 10 lakh hectares in Punjab||A total area of over 10 lakh acres has been brought under cotton cultivation in Punjab so far, surpassing last year's 9.70 lakh acres, officials said on Tuesday. "Punjab has recorded sowing of cotton over an area of 10 lakh acres so far and the set target of 12.50 lakh acres will be achieved very soon," Punjab Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Viswajeet Khanna was quoted as saying in an official release. The increase in area under cotton cultivation will boost the state government's crop diversification programme, Khanna said. The state government has been encouraging farmers to shift area under paddy cultivation to other crops. Khanna said the agriculture department had made timely and adequate arrangement of fertilizer and hybrid seeds of Bt cotton well in advance to ensure seamless sowing of cotton crop across the state amid the lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic. Cotton is the second major traditional crop of southern Punjab. The Malwa belt of the state is known as its 'cotton belt', he added. Usually, cotton sowing gets completed by the end of May. However, sowing is expected to get completed by first week of June this year because of delay in wheat harvesting. Bathinda district has so far recorded maximum sowing of 3.39 lakh acres, followed by Fazilka with 2.38 lakh acres and Mansa with 2.10 lakh acres under cotton cultivation, Khanna said. In Muktsar, 2.02 lakh acres area is under cotton cultivation, while the number stands at 7,800 acres in Sangrur, 5,800 acres in Faridkot, 1,870 acres in Barnala and 1,257 acres in Moga district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/area-under-cotton-cultivation-increases-to-over-10-lakh-hectares-in-punjab-842127.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro staff gear up to resume services once nod comes||As the fourth phase of the lockdown nears completion, the Delhi Metro is all geared up to resume services in compliance with the safety norms once the order comes from authorities. Sources on Tuesday said ground staff and others of different teams were briefed by their respective team leaders on preparedness and precautions to be taken by them whenever the services are resumed. The Delhi Metro has been closed since March 22 when the Janata Curfew was imposed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and subsequently the nationwide lockdown. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) senior staff have already been coming to office since the lockdown norms were eased a week back. Also, metro staff, from train operators to sanitation workers, have been sensitised about the safety norms.  From thermal scanners to test temperature of commuters to stickers on social distancing norms pasted on seats and platform floors, the Delhi Metro has been preparing to handle commuters as per the safety guidelines, anticipating resumption in services. The preparations have to be done in advance as once the government order comes the system has to be ready. Domestic flight services resumed operations from Monday while the lockdown is in place till May 31. The sources said arrangements are being made to install a hand sanitiser dispenser near the security doors just before the frisking areas inside metro station premises. On regular days, the average daily ridership of the DMRC is over 26 lakh. One train coach has a capacity to accommodate about 300 passengers. With social distancing norms, this number will reduce drastically. Delhi Metro authorities have been working on protocols in the past few weeks to ensure social distancing norms are in place whenever the commuters return. Stickers on social distancing norms have been pasted at regular intervals on seats inside train coaches. Red lines have been drawn at regular intervals next to AFC gates and security checking gates, just before commuters enter near the platform areas. On platform floors, large stickers bearing 'Ensure Social Distancing' message have been pasted at regular intervals with a white circle bordered by an outer red circle to alert commuters. While there are no clear indications as to when the services might be resumed, Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot had recently said. The Delhi government is ready to resume the public transport services in the city with safety precautions in place for COVID-19 if the Centre allows it. Thermal scanners will be used to screen commuters before they proceed further. DMRC authorities, however, remain tight-lipped on whether keeping Aarogya Setu app will be mandatory for travelling in metro whenever the services are resumed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-staff-gear-up-to-resume-services-once-nod-comes-842133.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Ola resumes services at Delhi airport||Cab aggregator Ola has resumed services at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in the national capital, a company statement said on Tuesday. Specially trained staff will be deployed at the Delhi airport to perform car fumigation, temperature checks for driver-partners and car audit before every pick-up, it said. As part of '10 Steps To A Safer Ride' initiative, safety precautions have been stipulated for both drivers and passengers. “We are working closely with the team at the Indira Gandhi International Airport to ensure strict adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines,” Anand Subramanian, spokesperson at Ola, said. In addition to Delhi, people in 21 other cities, including Hyderabad, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Amritsar, Patna, Varanasi, among others can book Ola cabs. As a strong measure, drivers and customers have been given the option of cancelling a ride if someone is not wearing a mask to ensure safety from the COVID-19 infection. The cab drivers will require selfie-authentication to ensure they wear masks before the start of every ride. They will also be provided hygiene kits, including sanitisers and disinfectants. All cabs will be disinfected after rides, the statement said. The customers will also have to wear masks compulsorily and sanitise their hands. To avoid re-circulation of air, air conditioners will be switched off and windows will be kept open, it said. Only two passengers will be allowed in a cab. Passengers need to handle their luggage to maintain social distancing and preferably use cashless payment as further safety precaution against the infection, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ola-resumes-services-at-delhi-airport-842137.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Jamia student alleges denial of pvt meeting with counsel, Court allows fresh meeting||A Delhi court has allowed Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) university student Asif Iqbal Tanha, booked under the anti-terror law -- Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act -- to have fresh legal interviews with his counsel after he claimed that police refused to move out of the room during the meeting held earlier. He has been booked under the anti-terror law in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana directed the investigating officer to make necessary arrangements for the meetings and render all possible assistance to Tanha’s counsel for an effective legal interview, keeping in mind the right of privileged communication between counsel and her client. The court had on May 20 allowed his counsel to meet with him during police custody. The application, moved by advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, said as per the court’s order, she was allowed to have a meeting with Tanha during police custody. It claimed that although the investigating officer permitted her to conduct the interview but the police refused to move out of the room and denied the opportunity to converse in private with Tanha. The application sought fresh directions to the police officials to allow her to conduct legal interview with her client Tanha outside hearing of the police officials. During the hearing, Additional Public Prosecutor said that the conversation between client and his counsel is a privileged communication and for effective legal aid and assistance a certain degree of privacy was required for conducting legal interviews. According to the police, Tanha, a resident of Abul Fazal Enclave in Shaheen Bagh, is a member of the Students Islamic Organization and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee which spearheaded protests against the new Citizenship Amendment Law. Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, President of Jamia Alumni Association Shifa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain have also been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. Tanha, 24, is a third-year student of BA in Persian language and was also recently arrested by the police in a separate case related to riots in the Jamia area in December last year. He was named as an accused in the FIR. He is a close associate of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar who had been key organisers of anti-CAA protests and subsequent riots, the police had said. On December 15 last year, protesters torched four public buses and two police vehicles as they clashed with police in New Friends'' Colony near Jamia Millia Islamia during a demonstration against the amended Citizenship Act, leaving at least 40 people including students, policemen and fire fighters injured. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-jamia-student-alleges-denial-of-pvt-meeting-with-counsel-court-allows-fresh-meeting-842155.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||Migrant labourers hold protest to press for early evacuation from Jammu||A group of migrant workers on Tuesday assembled near the Bhagwati Nagar area of the city and held a protest to press for their early evacuation to their homes in different parts of the country, officials said. The protesters, including both men and women, later dispersed off peacefully after senior police officers rushed to the spot and persuaded them to end the protest, they said. The Jammu and Kashmir administration had already started the process of transportation of migrant workers from various districts of the union territory and had so far sent back nearly 18,000 workers to their states and UTs through Shramik special trains from Katra since May 19. "We want the government to take us home as soon as possible. We do not want to stay back," Guru Ram Yadav, a labourer from Chattisgarh, said. Amid high pitch sloganeering by the group in support of the demand for their early return to their homes, Yadav said he had only Rs 20 left in his pocket and is surviving the ongoing lockdown by begging for food from the local residents. Another worker from the Bilaspur area of Chattisgarh said they have filled up forms several times over the past week but no action was taken so far, prompting them to come on the roads. "We are apprehensive that the situation will take a long time to get normalised and, therefore, we just want to reach our homes. There are also rumours about suspension of all modes of transport for one year," she said. She said they want to reach their home states as the lockdown has made their lives miserable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-labourers-hold-protest-to-press-for-early-evacuation-from-jammu-842157.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||CSIR-IIIM, RIL to develop and scale-up new COVID-19 diagnostic test||The Institute of Integrative Medicine in Jammu has tied up with Reliance Industries Ltd to develop and scale-up a new Reverse Transcriptase-Loop Mediated Isothermal Amplification (RT-LAMP)-based COVID-19 diagnostic kit, the CSIR said in a statement. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) has also been signed between IIIM-Jammu and RIL, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) said in a statement. The IIIM is a research institute under the CSIR. COVID-19 RT-LAMP test is a nucleic acid-based test carried out from nasal or throat swab sample from patients. The test has been developed and successfully demonstrated using synthetic templates. It is a rapid (45-60 minutes), cost-effective and accurate test, the statement said.  It has been tested with a small number of samples of patients and validating the kit on more number of patient samples is planned and will be done together with RIL, it added. The advantage of this test is that the RT-LAMP-based COVID-19 kit components are easily available and these can be completely manufactured in India, the statement said.  The current COVID-19 testing is done by real-time PCR and their components are mostly imported.  These tests are expensive and require highly trained manpower, costly instruments and a relatively high-end lab and cannot be deployed at remote locations in quarantine centres, airports and railway stations, it said. On the other hand, the RT-LAMP test can be done with minimal expertise in a very basic lab setup like mobile units or kiosks for testing at airports, railway stations, bus stands and other public places, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/csir-iiim-ril-to-develop-and-scale-up-new-covid-19-diagnostic-test-842168.html
26-05-2020||North and Central||13,274 stubble-burning incidents in Punjab since mid-April||Punjab continued to witness an increase in the number of wheat stubble-burning incidents with the cumulative fire incidents since April 15 surpassing the 13,000-mark, officials said on Tuesday. A total of 13,274 wheat stubble-burning incidents have been reported between April 15 and May 26, which is the highest for the corresponding period since 2018, they said. As per satellite data provided by the Ludhiana-based Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, the number of stubble-burning incidents in the corresponding period of 2018 and 2019 were 11,343 and 11,287, respectively. On May 26, as many as 102 wheat straw-burning incidents were reported in the state. On the same date in 2018 and 2019, the numbers were 26 and 390 respectively, as per the data. Moga district reported the highest number of stubble-burning incidents at 1,189, followed by Amritsar at 1,143, Bathinda at 1,064, Ferozepur at 1,054 and Ludhiana at 986, as per the data available. Stubble-burning in Punjab, Haryana and other neighbouring states is often blamed as a major cause of pollution in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13274-stubble-burning-incidents-in-punjab-since-mid-april-842175.html
26-05-2020||Opinion||Why India needs to tread with caution on agricultural changes ||The changes proposed by the government raise important issues about the possible impact on the farming community. The proposed changes are fundamental and hence it may be useful to consider their possible impact. Since the fine print has probably not even been conceptualised one can only go by the statements of intent.  New investments in agricultural infrastructure and contract farming will invariably be built on greater use of existing practices, probably the introduction of some reforms and the inevitable entry of new players. In the case of agriculture, the transformation that may be expected includes – (a) agriculture becoming a technology and capital intensive, (b) emergence of large and probably global players, (c) increased importance of electronic trading and/or e-marketplaces, (d) highly financialised and therefore likely to be more prone to market volatility than at present. Most of these may seem inevitable and at times may be welcomed by some sections. An important cause for the recent collapse of oil prices into negative territory in the US commodity markets was due to the size of the Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) liquidation, which at the time was estimated at 25 percent of the outstanding futures contracts for the near month a few days before contract expiry date. This should be a cause for worry to any government.  Information asymmetry An area where the government may need to tread with extreme caution is the impact of information asymmetry in the context of entry of new participants with deep pockets and with access to technology in the agriculture sector – a luxury beyond the wildest dreams of millions of small and marginal farmers in India.  Over the past decade-and-a-half, thanks to technology, the nature of the financial and commodity markets nationally and globally have undergone a profound change. Electronic trading of all hues, complex derivative products, algorithmic and high-frequency trading, flash crashes, emergence of ETFs, rise of hedge funds along with the deep pockets of most of these institutional participants should be a cause for concern. The net result is that there is extreme volatility in all commodity markets, including those for agricultural commodities. The price volatility is often beyond the control of even large national governments. Indians need to understand that price discovery and success in present day electronic markets is dependent on a number of variables and especially the ability to mobilise large amounts of capital, invest in powerful electronic hardware, customised trading software and subscription to expensive information systems that enable automated systems to reduce response time to milliseconds and where a millionth of a second gives a competitive advantage. In comparison, the internet speeds used by most Indians are abysmally slow.  It is not easy to overcome this information asymmetry at the individual level. The cost of these news and information systems (or professional trading terminals) used by institutions and large speculators vary from Rs 25 lakh to Rs 75 lakhs per year or more excluding the cost of internet bandwidth and other costs. They offer those with sufficient resources not only the latest price quotes almost instantaneously in thousands of assets classes across widely dispersed markets but also allow traders to calculate with reasonable accuracy the time and quantity when commodities may be expected to reach particular destinations, including the near exact location of the consignment carrying ships – something that was not possible some years ago.  Add to this, any change in rules related to storage of agricultural commodities which will only add to the ability to control the supply of agricultural commodities. Such information and control will invariably exacerbate any shortage in supply. Thus, these changes have the potential to allow certain groups or persons to profitably deploy technology and capital to gain an undue advantage in the marketplace.  In other words, the competitive landscape will always and systemically be loaded against the mass of Indian farmers. These are not unreasonable fears if the experience in other screen-based, traded markets in the financial sector are anything to go by: High-frequency traders account for about 30 percent to 65 percent, a feature that is likely to be replicated if there is complete deregulation in agriculture. Protecting the producers  Globally, most countries have not been able to deal with market volatility and that may be one of the most important reasons for the higher protection to agricultural producers even in the advanced countries. India needs to be cautious in reforming agriculture due to its implications for food security and poverty. Once the old laws are removed it would be impossible to stop speculators from taking advantage. Instead, the focus should be on making it unremunerative and even expensive for speculators to enter these markets. Gradual opening in phases spread over a period of years may be the preferred method. A good beginning would be to prohibit derivative products of any kind, prohibit ETFs and, make agricultural commodities a 100 percent spot traded without any possibility of squaring off transactions. Also welcome would be measures that limit the amount of stock that non-producers can procure and store through warehouse receipts as a percentage of total crop produced within a geographic radius. This will prevent traders from gaining an undue advantage at the cost of the small and marginal farmers. (S Ananth is an independent researcher based in Andhra Pradesh. Views are personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-india-needs-to-tread-with-caution-on-agricultural-changes-841996.html
26-05-2020||Panorama||Das is right, Subramanian is wrong||Last Friday, Shaktikanta Das, the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), finally admitted to what had become fairly obvious by then: that the Indian economy will contract during the current financial year (April 2020 to March 2021). As Das put it: “GDP growth in 2020-21 is estimated to remain in negative territory.” GDP or gross domestic product is a measure of the economic size of a country. When Das said that GDP growth will remain in negative territory during this financial year what he meant was that the size of the Indian economy will contract. If Das turns out to be right, as he is more than likely to be, this will be the first time the Indian economy shrinks since 1979-80. The economy had contracted by 5.24% in 1979-80. This was the year of the second oil shock, when due to a revolution and regime change in Iran, oil prices had gone through the roof. In fact, in the last six decades, this is only the fifth time that the Indian economy is set to contract. The other four times were between 1960-61 and 1979-80. Getting back to the present, Das did not say by how much the economy will contract, preferring to wait till the end of the month when more data providing greater clarity will become available. Having said that, there are other projections that are already available. As per the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER), economic growth in 2020-21 is expected to contract by 12.5%. But this projection didn’t take into account the government’s so-called economic package amounting to Rs 21 lakh crore, most of it available to businesses of all sizes to borrow. As per the economists at Goldman Sachs and Nomura, the Indian economy is likely to contract by 5% in 2020-21. Economists at Bernstein expect it to contract by 7%. Amongst all these predictions, the government’s Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian expects the economy to grow by 2%. Now, that looks highly unlikely and there is a simple logic to it. Large parts of the economy have been shut since the last week of March and through April and May. Parts of it have begun to open up only this week and that too gradually. Even assuming that half of the economy was working in these two months, one month’s economic activity for this year has been more or less destroyed. In other words, 8.33% of the economic activity for the year is gone. Also, the negative economic impact of Covid-19 is unlikely to end even if a larger part of the economy opens up in the weeks to come. There are multiple reasons for it. Physical distancing is unlikely to end. Though the economy is being opened up, the number of Covid cases continues to rise in the economically more important parts of the country (Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, to name a few states). In this scenario, more and more people are likely to stay at home. When people stay at home, they don’t go out and spend money. Businesses like cinemas, malls, restaurants, apparel stores, hair-saloons, jewellery stores, electronic stores, etc., will lose out big time. In fact, even banks will see a fall in their non-interest income or the money they earn beyond their basic business of raising deposits at a certain interest rate and giving out loans at a higher interest rate. To tide over the crisis, businesses are firing employees and slashing their salaries. Many individuals working in the informal sector have already lost their jobs. This explains their rush to get home from India’s bigger cities to their native places. Without work and without money, there wasn’t much of an option left for the migrant workers. Many firms are not honouring new job offers they had made. New recruitments have also been put on hold. Vendor payments have been stopped. In this environment, it is difficult to expect people to go buy things beyond the basic stuff they need for survival. With the economic future looking bleak, automobile sales and housing sales will also take a beating. This is not the time when people want to commit to paying EMIs for years to come. The interesting thing is that both automobile sales and housing sales had slowed down during 2019-20. If 2019-20 was bad for these sectors, imagine what’s going to happen this year. Also, even before Covid-19 stuck, the psychology of a slowdown was setting in. Now, we have the psychology of a recession setting in. What does this mean? As more people lose jobs and see salary cuts, all of us will end up knowing someone who is feeling the pain because he has lost his job and can’t find a new one. Or has seen a substantial drop in salary and is struggling to make ends meet. Or has seen his small business simply shut down. In this scenario, economic survival will become key. And when this happens, people will hold on to the money they have and spend only on the things that are most required -- food, medicines, mobile and internet, housing rents, home loan EMIs and other EMIs already being paid and fast moving consumer goods (soap, detergent, shampoo, toothpaste, toothbrush, etc.). To cut a long story short, when someone loses his job or faces a cut in salary or his business shuts down, his behaviour on the spending front cannot continue to remain the same. But with the psychology of a recession in place, even the behaviour of people who are not in trouble becomes similar to the behaviour of people who are in trouble. This is why it is safe to say that Das is likely to be right about the Indian economy contracting this year. Our troubles might just be starting. (The writer is an economist and author of the ‘Easy Money’ trilogy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/das-is-right-subramanian-is-wrong-842148.html
26-05-2020||Panorama||What if some are already immune?||A sensational new study, to be published in a leading science journal, Cell, hints at the possibility that some of us may already be immune against COVID-19. The virus has devastated some countries, such as the UK and the USA, but so far seems to have relatively spared other countries. Perhaps different countries are in different stages of the disease, and that’s why the numbers are so different. Perhaps different countries are testing citizens using different methods and at different rates, and so it’s a question under-detection. A related puzzle is that some people exposed to SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease, don’t fall ill at all, while others experience only mild symptoms, and still others have the full-blown disease and may even die. So here is an almost absurd thought-- Is it possible that some of us are already immune to the disease, and that this may explain the two puzzles stated above? On the face of it, this seems impossible. SARS-CoV-2 is a novel coronavirus, which means that nobody was exposed to it before it burst on the scene in Wuhan, China, late last year. So nobody could already be immune against it. Then, if this is so, how did blood cells of people in the USA, identified from samples drawn in 2015-2018, show an immune response against SARS-CoV-2 proteins? Remember, people in the USA in 2015-2018 could not possibly have been exposed to a virus that first appeared in China in late 2019. The study was conducted at the Center for Infectious Disease and Vaccine Research, La Jolla Institute for Immunology, and the University of California at San Diego, California, USA. The investigators examined blood samples obtained from 20 COVID-19 outpatients who were recovering from the disease, and who hence had an immune response against the disease.  The investigators found that important immune cells in the blood of these patients, called CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes, could recognize several SARS-CoV-2 proteins. These included the spike protein, which gives the virus its distinctive appearance, but also included proteins called M, N, and others. Now here is the strange bit. The authors of this study also examined blood specimens drawn between 2015 and 2018 from 20 healthy American donors. Surprise. About 40-60 per cent of the healthy donor blood samples had CD4+ cells that were reactive against the different SARS-CoV-2 non-spike and spike proteins. Since these healthy donors could not possibly have been exposed to the virus before the pandemic, where did their immunity come from? One possibility is cross-immunity. There are four coronaviruses that cause the common cold in humans. It is possible that the cells that are reactive against common cold coronavirus proteins may be cross-reactive against SARS-CoV-2 proteins.  It is very tempting to speculate that this may explain why some people, and even some geographical territories, are less vulnerable to COVID-19 than others; perhaps pre-existing immunity against common cold coronaviruses may be an explanation. This would be wonderful news if true. However, we cannot be certain that it is true. We cannot know whether people are truly immune to COVID-19 if they have these cross-immune CD4+ cells. We will only know if we can compare blood samples of persons before and after they are exposed to SARS-CoV-2, and then see who gets the disease and who does not. Conducting such a study would be rather tricky. The hope arising from this study notwithstanding, readers must remember that, even in India, people are contracting COVID-19 and are dying from it. It is therefore important to stay with the basics: Using a mask, practicing social distancing, and sanitising hands and surfaces. On an important parting note, most of the COVID-19 vaccines under development target the spike protein with a view to amplify the CD4+ response against this protein. However, given that T cells in convalescent blood samples additionally target other SARS-CoV-2 proteins, it may be desirable to include other antigens in the vaccine, as well. (The writer is Dean, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-if-some-are-already-immune-842149.html
26-05-2020||Right in the Middle||Tribute to my father||It’s hard to define what a successful life is as each of us has different parameters.  Time pauses for no one--people come and people go, but few remain etched in public memory. My father Dr S N Visvanath, a geoscientist was one such person. That he was very intelligent, humorous, erudite and compassionate was well known among his peers, friends and relatives. But to be remembered even 33 years after retirement from Oil India Limited was remarkable. Last year, a series of memorial lectures were flagged off as a tribute to him.  When my flight landed in Dibrugarh it brought back so many memories-- of a little girl returning for vacations from boarding school.  Speaking at the function I had a lump in my throat, because it’s hard to encapsulate a father’s lifetime. There were so many anecdotes about his childhood, then came his scholastic achievements, career success, the books he wrote post-retirement. I wanted to present a side of him that the audience didn’t already know.  He was fluent in many languages, but Hindi was his stumbling block. Once a gardener spoke to him in chaste Urdu --“Iss baar fasal ka behad nuksaan hua. Agar yahi haalat barkarar rahe hum barbaad ho jaayenge.” He vaguely understood that it was about poor crop yield, but it sounded like sheer poetry to him. So he replied, “Wah! Aloo pyaaz, subahnallah!”  As a father, he was extremely indulgent. He used to ask us, “why aren't you first?” My impish brother would retort,“how boring it is to stand first every time!”  My father’s professor at Andhra University had advised him to get into the teaching profession, “once you get a job, you will lose interest in teaching,” he had told him. But my father proved him wrong.  At Dibrugarh University he helped set up the department of Applied Geology. In the 70s, the infrastructure was dismal --classes were held in bashas (like huts) and my father wondered when the students would have state-of-the-art labs etc. Today, the University campus is impressive and the students who graduate from here are recruited by reputed companies.  He used to tell us that we must give back to the land that we receive from. Most fathers leave behind something tangible or intangible for their children to build their lives upon, but when a person transforms the lives of those whom he works with, he gains the respect of the entire organization, the state and the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/tribute-to-my-father-842147.html
26-05-2020||Second Edit||A severe indictment of Gujarat govt||The Gujarat High Court’s comments on the state government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic is a severe indictment and exposes its lapses and failures in many respects. Courts in different parts of the country have dealt with issues related to COVID-19 in petitions and criticised, advised or issued instructions to governments. They have also refused to interfere in certain matters. But the Gujarat High Court’s is the most stringent criticism of a government to date. It touched on all areas of the fight against COVID-19, including the health infrastructure and facilities, the policies, strategies and attitudes of the government and the conduct of those like private hospitals and health professionals. The court found right and necessary actions and conduct lacking in all these areas and even personally criticised the state’s health minister, wondering whether he had any idea about the problems faced by the patients, doctors, health staff and others.   The COVID-19 situation is very bad in Gujarat, with the number of cases leaping up every day, patients not getting proper treatment, and the government failing to provide facilities and to take adequate preventive measures. The COVID-19 mortality rate in the state is the highest in the country. The court described the Ahmedabad civil hospital, where most cases in the city are treated, as a “dungeon’’, and noted that the hospitals are “burdened with the lack of PPEs, shortage of ventilators, ICUs and isolating wards’’. Private hospitals have refused to admit COVID-19 patients though the government asked them to reserve 50% of the beds for them, but no action has been taken against them. The court was also critical of the government’s reluctance to do more testing on the ground that more number of tests, which may bring out more positive cases, will create a fear psychosis among the people.  Among all the states, Gujarat’s handling of the COVID-19 situation has been particularly inept. The court has issued a series of orders to the government on the matter, after taking suo motu cognisance of the situation and also based on petitions, in the last few weeks. Last week's criticism was the most severe. In the first place the public health infrastructure in the state is poor and inadequate. The number of public rural hospitals in Gujarat is one-third of that in Bihar. Facilities are bad and there was no effort to improve them even after the COVID-19 situation started deteriorating. The court’s concerns and criticism will hopefully lead to more effective action from the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-severe-indictment-of-gujarat-govt-842143.html
26-05-2020||South||Kerala records 6th COVID-19 death||A 62-year-old woman COVID-19 patient from Kannur died at a hospital here on Monday, taking the toll due to the disease in Kerala to six, officials said. The woman died around 10 PM at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital where she had been under treatment after testing positive for the coronavirus on Friday. "She was shifted to the medical college on Friday after she was tested positive for coronavirus. Earlier,she was under treatment for neurological disease at a private hospital here. She passed away at around 10 PM," District Medical Officer Dr V Jayshree told PTI. This is the second death in two days and the sixth COVID- 19 fatality so far in the state. A 53-year old woman cancer patient, who had tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival from Dubai recently, died on Sunday. As per the medical bulletin issued at 5 PM on Monday, Kerala reported 49 fresh cases of COVID-19, including a health worker and two remand prisoners, taking the total to 896.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-6th-covid-19-death-841865.html
26-05-2020||South||Kerala records 6th COVID-19 death||A 62-year-old woman COVID-19 patient from Kannur died at a hospital here on Monday, taking the toll due to the disease in Kerala to six, officials said. The woman died around 10 PM at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital where she had been under treatment after testing positive for the coronavirus on Friday. "She was shifted to the medical college on Friday after she was tested positive for coronavirus. Earlier,she was under treatment for neurological disease at a private hospital here. She passed away at around 10 PM," District Medical Officer Dr V Jayshree told PTI. This is the second death in two days and the sixth COVID- 19 fatality so far in the state. A 53-year old woman cancer patient, who had tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival from Dubai recently, died on Sunday. As per the medical bulletin issued at 5 PM on Monday, Kerala reported 49 fresh cases of COVID-19, including a health worker and two remand prisoners, taking the total to 896.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-6th-covid-19-death-841866.html
26-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: One death, 97 fresh cases reported in Andhra Pradesh||With 97 fresh COVID-19 cases, the total number of infections in Andhra Pradesh climbed to 2,983 while one death due to the virus was reported, taking the toll in the state to 57, a government bulletin said on Tuesday. The lone death was reported in East Godavari district. Of the new cases in the past 24 hours ending 9 AM on Monday, four were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, the bulletin said.  Samples of 8,148 people were tested and 55 have been discharged from various hospitals after treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,903. The number of active patients are now at 759. Cumulative positive cases from other states remained at 153 with 47 active cases while the total number of positive cases of foreign returnees so far was 111 out of which 49 were reported on Tuesday, it added. A separate bulletin said over 3.22 lakh tests have been conducted in the state so far resulting in 6,043 examinations per million population. The state has a 67.35 per cent recovery rate and 1.91 per cent mortality rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-one-death-97-fresh-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-841962.html
26-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Flight services resume in Andhra Pradesh||After almost two months of COVID-19 induced lockdown, domestic flight operations resumed in Andhra Pradesh as the first Spicejet plane from Bengaluru landed at Vijayawada airport early Tuesday with 79 passengers. According to the Airport Director G Madhusudhana Rao, the aircraft returned to Bengaluru at 7.40 AM carrying 68 passengers. He said the airport also received an Indigo flight from Bengaluru with 48 passengers and departed with 50 travellers. He said as per the state government instruction all the passengers who landed here had to register their details with the state government's Spandana website. "As Bengaluru is a non-high sensitive area (as far as COVID-19 cases are concerned), the passengers who landed here were advised home quarantine for seven days. In case of high- sensitive areas the passengers will have to undergo either institutional quarantine or paid quarantine," Rao told PTI. He said the passengers were handled as per standard operating procedures laid out by the Civil Aviation Ministry. Though the flight services were supposed to resume from Monday, they did not begin.  Last week, the Centre had announced the resumption of domestic flight services from May 25 under specific rules and guidelines like a cap on ticket pricing, wearing of face masks by passengers and making available details of medical conditions by travellers through the Aarogya Setu app or by filling up of a self-declaration form. The central government's decision came as the aviation sector was reeling under severe stress triggered by the coronavirus lockdown that began on March 25. Many states have expressed serious reservations about the Centre's decision to start flight services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-flight-services-resume-in-andhra-pradesh-841965.html
26-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: As Kerala resumes school exams, govt keeps fingers crossed||The CPM-led Left-front government in Kerala is keeping its fingers crossed owing to concerns that the examinations, being attended by around 12 lakh students, would lead to a further spike of COVID-19 in Kerala through local contact.  High level of precautionary measures like ensuring social distancing, disinfecting schools, thermal screening and mandating the use of masks were taken by the government. For the Left-front government, the conduct of the tenth and higher secondary examinations are posing a bigger political challenge as the decision to conduct examination amidst a fresh spike in COVID-19 cases had faced stiff political resistance. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was quite adamant in conducting the examination from May 26 itself. Even as the government at one point of time decided to postpone it to June, the state obtained the Centre's nod to conduct the exam in May itself. Sources in the Left front said that since there would be an obvious spike in COVID-19 cases in the coming months it was a wise decision to conduct the exam at the earliest. However, in case students who appear for exams happen to contract COVID-19 infection, the political opponents may use it to tarnish the goodwill earned by the government so far by effectively containing COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-as-kerala-resumes-school-exams-govt-keeps-fingers-crossed-841975.html
26-05-2020||South||Destruction of film set in Kerala an attempt to trigger communal sentiments||The destruction of a church like structure, set up for film shooting close to a temple in Kerala, has triggered widespread resentment even from mainstream pro-Hindu outfits. The structure set up on the banks of Periyar river at Kalady on the rural parts of Ernakulam district was destroyed on Sunday evening by Rashtriya Bajrang Dal activists alleging that it affected the view of the nearby Mahadeva temple.  The incident triggered strong protest from the socio-political sector and Kerala Chief Miniter Pinarayi Vijayan warned of stringent action against attempts to create communal tensions. The BJP state leadership and other Sangh Parivar organisations also condemned the incident. Police sources said that two Rashtriya Bajrang Dal activists, Rateesh and Rahul, have been arrested in connection with the incident and several other accused in the case have criminal history. So far, there is no evidence of a larger conspiracy. Various sections of IPC, including 153 A for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, have been invoked against the accused. The structure was set up for shooting climax scenes of Tovino Thomas starring Malayalam movie 'Minnal Murali'. But the shooting of the film got delayed owing to the lockdown and the producer Sophia Paul and director Basil Joseph were planning to resume the shooting as soon as the restrictions were over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/destruction-of-film-set-in-kerala-an-attempt-to-trigger-communal-sentiments-842049.html
26-05-2020||South||Increased urbanisation possibly causing heavy rainfall events in South India: UoH study||Increased urbanisation is possibly causing heavy rainfall events in cities of Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Kerala over the past few years, according to a study by city-based University of Hyderabad (UoH). Several heavy rainfall events have been reported in cities of South India including the extreme rainfall that created havoc in Chennai and nearby areas in Tamil Nadu in December 2015, the heavy rain over Hyderabad and adjoining regions in Telangana in September 2016, and the extreme rainfall event in Kerala in August 2018, a release from UoH said on Tuesday. These three states differ in their geographical locations, and also the season in which they receive rainfall. A team led by Prof Karumuri Ashok from the Centre for Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences of the University of Hyderabad, examined whether a common factor, the changing land use land cover (LULC) in these states, has any implications for the heavy rainfall events. Their study showed that the precipitation during heavy rainfall events in these states has significantly increased from 2000 to 2017. Their findings were reported in the 'Quarterly Journal of Royal Meteorological Society' on May 18. Using the land use land cover data from ISRO, and by conducting 2 km resolution simulation experiments of twelve heavy rainfall events over the states, the researchers found distinct LULC changes in these three states, which led to higher surface temperatures and a deeper and moist boundary layer, it said. These in turn caused a relatively higher convective available potential energy and, consequently, heavier rainfall, according to the study. It further stated that increasing urbanisation in Telangana and Tamil Nadu is likely to enhance the rainfall during the heavy rainfall events by 20 per cent to 25 per cent. Prof Ashok felt that improving the density of observational rainfall and other weather parameters may help in forecasting extreme rainfalls at city level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/increased-urbanisation-possibly-causing-heavy-rainfall-events-in-south-india-uoh-study-842053.html
26-05-2020||South||India senior women football team member Indumathi busy enforcing lockdown in police uniforms||Her team-mates are confined to their homes due to coronavirus-forced lockdown but senior national women side's midfielder Indumathi Kathiresan is busy in poilce uniforms on the streets of Chennai, asking people to follow government guidelines to fight the pandemic. Wearing the traditional 'khaki' uniform of the Tamil Nadu Police, along with a surgical mask over her face and a pair of gloves pulled over her hands for protection, Indumathi is barely recognisable to those stopped by her for checking at Anna Nagar in Chennai. "It has been a difficult situation for the entire country. But taking the necessary precautions is paramount to the safety of one and all," said Indumathi, according to the official website of All India Football Federation. "We try to ensure that everybody is observing the guidelines and that nobody who does not need to be outside," said the 25-year-old. Being a footballer at the highest level, Indu, as she is fondly called by her teammates in the dressing room, is no stranger to a disciplined and regimental life. However, the lockdown has meant that she has had to follow a rigorous routine, where she has to report for duty at 7 in the morning and has to keep patrolling the streets till almost midnight every day. "It has been a demanding time for me personally. I have barely had the time to do anything else. In difficult times like these, you generally want to spend some time with your family, but I have not had much opportunities to do that," she said. "It is a call for the nation. I have to play for the nation every day during COVID-19 pandemic, and I had to respond fast." The creative midfielder, whose duties keep changing on a day-to-day basis, feels that the lockdown has been especially difficult for her fellow police officers. "Our duty schedules keep changing. Sometimes we are on night duty as well, sometimes vehicle-check, and so on," the Tamil Nadu Police Sub-Inspector said. "Some of us like myself, have to travel long distances to our stations as well. It has been a difficult time. But I don't have any complaints." Despite such difficulties, however, the 2019 SAFF Women's Championship joint-top scorer feels a sense of honour by serving the country whichever way she can. "Of course, it is an absolute honour to play for India. There are some moments in the India jersey, like when we qualified for the Olympic Qualifiers Round 2, or when we won the SAFF Championship last year… I will never forget these moments," she said. "But I also take a lot of pride in serving the country in my police uniform, at a time when the nation needs us the most. I will keep serving as long as my nation needs me to serve," said Indumathi who won the IWL title with Sethu FC last season. She said her toil in the police uniform during this health crisis will help people understand the importance of taking the necessary precautions in order to prevent contracting the Coronavirus. "It is for the people of this country that my colleagues and myself are working day and night. We hope that you too, in turn, would help us out by following the safety precautions and keeping yourself safe."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/india-senior-women-football-team-member-indumathi-busy-enforcing-lockdown-in-police-uniforms-842089.html
26-05-2020||South||67 fresh cases in Kerala, over 1 lakh people under observation||Sixty-seven new COVID- 19 cases were reported in Kerala on Tuesday, the highest single day spike so far, with Palakkad district alone clocking 29 cases and those under observation crossing the one lakh mark. The total COVID-19 tally in the state has touched 963 with 415 presently under treatment and over 1.4 lakh under observation. Of the total positive cases, 27 came from abroad and 33 from other states, including Maharashtra 15, Tamil Nadu nine and Gujarat five. Seven people have been infected through contact, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here. While Kannur had eight cases, Kottayam six, Malappuram and Ernakulam five each, Thrissur and Kollam had four each and Kasaragod and Alappuzha recorded three cases each, he said. "We have entered another phase with a lot of people coming from abroad and other states", he said. The Chief Minister said he held a virtual meeting with MPs and MLAs from the state on Tuesday and all of them supported the government's efforts in tackling the pandemic. Among those who participated were Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, Opposition leader in the assembly, Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy. Vijayan pointed out that 133 people who came from abroad, including 75 from the UAE and 25 from Kuwait tested positive for the virus, while 72 who had returned from Maharashtra, 71 from Tamil Nadu and 35 from Karnataka have tested positive so far. "On May 8, only 16 people were under treatment in the state and today 415 are under treatment,"he said and expressed concern at the increase in number of cases. The Chief Minister said that the state would face immense difficulty if all Keralites in foreign countries and other states returned at the same time, as lakhs of Keralites are settled in various parts of the country and abroad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/67-fresh-cases-in-kerala-over-1-lakh-people-under-observation-842099.html
26-05-2020||South||AirAsia Hyderabad flight develops technical glitch, carries out 'precautionary' engine shut down||Budget carrier AirAsia India on Tuesday said that one of its Hyderabad-bound flights from Jaipur faced a "technical" glitch, forcing it carry out a "precautionary" landing on one engine only. The incident that happened on Tuesday is being probed by regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation while a detailed inspection of the aircraft is being carrier out, the airline said in a statement. "AirAsia India aircraft VT-IXC operating as i51543 from Jaipur to Hyderabad on May 26, encountered a technical issue and carried out a precautionary engine shut down," AirAsia India said. Handling the situation calmly in a professional manner, the crew landed at Shamshabad, as scheduled, it said.  The airline, however, did not share the number of passengers onboard the Airbus 320 aircraft. "We are carrying out a detailed inspection of the aircraft, having informed DGCA we are assisting in the investigation to establish the cause," the airline said in the statement. Stating that the safety of its passengers and crew is the single most important criteria in every aspect operations, it said. AirAsia India pilots and crew are experienced and well-trained to manage these situations. This is the first reported incident since the resumption of domestic flight services on Monday. All commercial passenger services were suspended on March 25 when the government imposed the nationwide lockdown. Though the civil aviation ministry lifted the curbs on the domestic flights allowing them to commence operations in a phased manner, the ban on international flying continues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/airasia-hyderabad-flight-develops-technical-glitch-carries-out-precautionary-engine-shut-down-842117.html
26-05-2020||South||Life limping back to normalcy in Tamil Nadu, sans Chennai||Tamil Nadu might have over 17,000 COVID-19 cases, but major parts of the state are slowly trying to limp back to normalcy with industrial and economic activity beginning in a phased manner. While government offices across Tamil Nadu are functioning with half of its workforce, industrial estates within the state capital Chennai have upped their shutters with 25 per cent of its staff from Monday. Autos have been allowed to ply across the state, except in Chennai, which is a coronavirus hotspot in Tamil Nadu, while government buses have resumed very limited services in districts that are not classified as red zones. However, the ban on public transport continues in Chennai and 11 other districts, considered red zones. Industrial estates across the state have begun functioning since last week even as automobile majors like Hyundai, Nissan, and TVS Motors are rolling out vehicles from their plants.  As air services have resumed, the government has also allowed plying of autos and taxis in Chennai and other cities where airports are located. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has maintained that people should take precautions like wearing a mask as there is "no cure" for Coronavirus for now. The government has also begun work like resuming excavation at Keezhadi, where an urban civilization is believed to have existed during the Sangam era, and desilting lakes, tanks and ponds in the fertile Cauvery Delta region to enable the water bodies store water as the sluices of the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur are set to be opened on June 12 for the cultivation of kuruvai (short-term crop). Evaluation of 12th standard answer sheets will also begin from Thursday, while the government has already opened up activities like registration of land. While the knitwear cluster in Tiruppur has begun manufacturing masks, gloves, and personal protective equipment (PPEs) for paramedics and housekeeping staff, the fireworks hub of Sivakasi has also opened its manufacturing facilities by maintaining social distance. Economic activity has resumed in the industrial town of Coimbatore as well with factories upping their shutters, but lack of enough public transport and labour shortage is adding to the woes of the manufacturers. “We reopened our factories on Monday by following social distancing norms, but we have some issues regarding labour. But we are happy that the factories have reopened after over two months. We need to learn to live with the virus,” an entrepreneur who has a factory at the Ambattur Industrial Estate in Chennai told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/life-limping-back-to-normalcy-in-tamil-nadu-sans-chennai-842122.html
26-05-2020||South||'Depressed' dental student leaps to death in Hyderabad||A 25-year-old woman dental student allegedly committed suicide by jumping off a residential complex on Tuesday apparently depressed for not getting an MBBS seat, police said. The fourth-year BDS student at a dental college here leapt from the 14th floor of the complex and she died on the spot, the police said based on a complaint filed by her father. According to the complainant, his daughter was not interested in the BDS course and wanted to study MBBS, but did not secure a seat. On Monday, the student told her parents about her interests and was depressed. That drove her to the extreme step, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/depressed-dental-student-leaps-to-death-in-hyderabad-842123.html
26-05-2020||South||TTD land sale move - BJP wants Jaganmohan Reddy to scrap all such plans||BJP leaders and workers in Andhra Pradesh observed an eight-hour fast on Tuesday protesting the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams plan to auction the devotee donated properties. The demonstration from 9 AM to 5 PM at the party offices or respective houses was held, despite a Jaganmohan Reddy government order late on Monday night keeping a TTD resolution in abeyance. Andhra Pradesh BJP unit chief Kanna Lakshmi Narayana said they would not believe "the deceptive orders which only halted one TTD land auction-related resolution of 2016.” “The TTD resolution 309 issued under the present government is not cancelled. This is nothing but deceit. By issuing this fraudulent GO, YSRCP government has even cheated the God” Kanna said adding that BJP’s agitation would continue till TTD’s all property auction plans are totally scrapped. 309 resolution dated 29-02-2020 pertains to disposal of 50 immovable properties worth Rs 23.92 crore through public auction.     The BJP leader demanded Jagan to issue definite orders that no temple properties anywhere in the state would be sold by the government. “The state should also probe the allegations of encroachments of the temple properties.”   The TTD trustee board under chairmanship of YV Subba Reddy was scheduled to meet on May 28, where the controversial issue of land parcels sale would be discussed. The temple lands sale issue has come to trouble the Jagan government. In addition to BJP, its ally Jana Sena and main opposition TDP are vehemently opposing the move stating it as hurting the Hindu sentiments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-land-sale-move-bjp-wants-jaganmohan-reddy-to-scrap-all-such-plans-842151.html
26-05-2020||South||IndiGo crew grounded after passenger on Chennai-Coimbatore flight tests coronavirus positive||A 24-year-old man, who arrived in Coimbatore by an Indigo flight from Chennai on Monday, has tested positive for COVID-19, leading to grounding of the crew.  Indigo confirmed that it has grounded the crew that operated the flight from Chennai-Coimbatore on Monday evening.  The man, who arrived in Coimbatore on Monday evening, was tested for coronavirus and then sent to a quarantine facility. On Tuesday, he was admitted to the ESI Medical College and Hospital after his swab samples came positive.  In a statement, IndiGo said that a passenger who travelled on 6E 381 from Chennai to Coimbatore on May 25 evening has tested positive for COVID-19. The crew has been grounded for 14 days, the airline said, adding that it is in the process of notifying other passengers who travelled on the flight.  "All our aircraft are regularly sanitised as a standard operating procedure, and the aircraft operating this flight was also immediately disinfected as per protocol," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indigo-crew-grounded-after-passenger-on-chennai-coimbatore-flight-tests-coronavirus-positive-842170.html
26-05-2020||South||90% of Goa's coronavirus cases from Maharashtra: CM Pramod Sawant||With 90 per cent of Goa's 48 active COVID-19 cases originating from persons with travel history from Maharashtra, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that his government is considering to formulate a separate SOP for inter-state passengers arriving from across the border-state. "We have already informed the Civil Aviation Ministry and the Railway Ministry. If Goa has any to fear, it is from Maharashtra. Therefore, we are thinking about drafting a separate SOP for Maharashtra, after discussing with everyone concerned," Sawant told reporters here. The Chief Minister also said that he has had sounded out the central government about the issue. "We are thinking separately about a separate SOP for Maharashtra, because most of our cases, 90 per cent of the patients who are positive (in Goa) are from Maharashtra. We could issue a separate SOP," Sawant said. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has repeatedly said, that all of the active COVID-19 cases in the state are "imported" and insisted that there is no community transmission in the coastal state. A large chunk of the persons who have tested positive in Goa are passengers of the Delhi-Goa Rajdhani Express, most of whom have boarded the train in a Mumbai railway station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/90-of-goas-coronavirus-cases-from-maharashtra-cm-pramod-sawant-842186.html
26-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 646 coronavirus cases, nine deaths in one day||Tamil Nadu continued to witness massive spike in the number of coronavirus cases with the swab samples of 646 people, including 54 persons who returned from other states and abroad, rendering positive on Tuesday alone. Nine people who were receiving treatment for coronavirus in Chennai, Chengalpattu and Tiruvannamalai died, taking the death toll to 127, though the Tamil Nadu government maintains that the mortality rate in the state is one of the lowest at less than one per cent. The daily health bulletin said all nine deaths are due to “co-morbidities” like diabetes and hypertension, a day after a study done by the Health Department said 84 per cent of COVID-19 deaths in the state are due to comorbidities. The state’s toll went up to 17,728 on Tuesday with 646 fresh cases of which 509 were reported from Chennai, the biggest COVID-19 hotspot in the state, alone. The city has 11,640 cases of which 5,492 are discharged from hospitals and 6,056 are still active. Of the 646, 54 persons who tested positive have returned from abroad or other states like Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat, and Delhi.   And the number of discharges also continued to report an increase with 611 people leaving hospitals “following treatment” in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of discharges in the state to 9,342 against 8,256 active cases. Tuesday also saw Chef Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami holding a meeting with experts on the way forward after the lockdown 4.0 ends on May 31. A government release said testing strategies, treatment protocols, flattening the death curve, identifying vulnerable groups and preparedness in hospitals were discussed at the meeting. Sources said the expert team suggested more testing, while the Chief Minister asked the concerned to concentrate more on prevention and containment activities in Chennai, which has over 11,000 cases. The state has so far tested 4,31,739 samples, one of the highest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-646-coronavirus-cases-nine-deaths-in-one-day-842192.html
26-05-2020||South||Pinarayi Vijayan slams Railways for scheduling trains to Kerala without informing state||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday lashed out at Railway Minister Piyush Goyal for his alleged comments that the CM doesn't care about the people of the state, after the state government cancelled an "unannounced train" to Kerala from Maharashtra. Asked about the alleged comments, Vijayan described it as unfortunate and "totally unbecoming of a union minister." The chief minister said he had sent a letter to the Railway Minister requesting to inform the state government in advance about the special trains allotted and details of the passengers so as to arrange quarantine facilities at local level. He said despite the request, one more train was arranged from Maharashtra without informing Kerala about the passenger details and the state had to intervene to cancel it and schedule its journey to another date in order to obtain the passenger details. "This might have prompted him to make the comments. One train came to the state from Mumbai, a red zone, unannounced but we managed to accommodate the people. Those who come to the state must register with the web portal in order to arrange quarantine facility for them. Otherwise our (COVID-19) containment efforts would go in vain," Vijayan said. He said the state government has brought the incident to the attention of the Prime Minister as well. "His (Goyal) comments were unfortunate. It is totally unbecoming of a union minister. He does not even take into consideration the seriousness of the situation. And it's not Piyush Goyal who decides whether the chief minister cares for the people of the state, it's the people who will decide," Vijayan said. He said the state has only one demand and that is those coming should register with the web portal in order to arrange quarantine facilities and it was not against Keralites coming to the state. Vijayan said Railways should send trains to the State only after prior intimation and it was mandatory for the travelling passengers to register on the 'COVID-19 Jagratha portal.' "Certain arrangements are necessary to be made in the state when expats reach here.People are coming from areas where the spread of the disease is huge. Naturally, the number of patients here will increase. So far 72 cases have been reported among those who returned from Maharashtra, 71 from Tamil Nadu and 35 from Karnataka. We need to receive them with care and no one will be excluded," Vijayan said. The chief minister has said around 3.80 lakh people have registered to come to Kerala from other states and of these, 2.16 lakh passes have been issued and 1,01,779 people have already reached the state. He said 1.34 lakh have registered to come back from abroad and of this, 11,189 have reached the state till May 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pinarayi-vijayan-slams-railways-for-scheduling-trains-to-kerala-without-informing-state-842193.html
26-05-2020||South||Goa files objections to Karnataka's fresh DPR on Kalasa-Bhandura||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/goa-files-objections-to-karnatakas-fresh-dpr-on-kalasa-bhandura-842203.html
26-05-2020||State||101 new COVID cases in Karnataka;concerned about recent spike,but well prepared to handle: govt||The Karnataka government on Tuesday said it is concerned about the recent spike in number of cases, but is well prepared to handle the situation, as the state reported 101 cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of infections to 2,283. "It (spike in cases) is definitely a cause of concern, but at the same time we are well prepared also," Minister S Suresh Kumar, who is spokesperson for COVID-19 in Karnataka, said in response to a question from reporters. He said the total bed strength in the state for COVID-19 is 28,686, out of which 1,489 patients are in hospital at present, with a bed occupancy rate of around 5.1 per cent. "...in fact we were given an indication that we may have 15,000-20,000 patients by now. We have 1,498 patients, but that does not mean that we are not concerned. We are working out things, discussing with the Centre, more than 80 per cent cases are imported," he said, adding that there was no link between reviving economic activities with the spike in cases, as they are coming from outside. As of May 26 evening, cumulatively 2,283 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 44 deaths and 748 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said that out of the 1,489 active cases, 1,471 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 18 are in Intensive Care Units. Forty three patients were discharged on Tuesday. Forty seven out of the 101 newly confirmed cases are returnees from neighboring Maharashtra, 21 from Tamil Nadu, 13 from Jharkhand and one from Gujarat, while four had an international travel history from Qatar. The remaining cases include 10 contacts of patients already tested positive, two with a history of Influenza Like Illness (ILI), and one with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Two patients contact history is still under tracing. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Chitradurga accounted for 20, followed by Yadgir 14, thirteen each from Belagavi and Hassan, Davangere 11, Bidar 10, Vijayapura 6, three each from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, two each from Bengaluru urban and Kolar, and one each from Bagalkote, Chikkaballapura, Koppal and Ballari.  Bengaluru urban district still tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 276 infections, followed by Mandya 254 and Kalaburagi 157. Among discharges too, Bengaluru urban tops the list with total of 150, followed by Mysuru and Belagavi 88 each and Kalaburagi 73. A total of 2,28,914 samples have been tested so far, out of which 9,020 were tested on Tuesday alone. So far 2,23,477 samples have reported as negative, and out of them 8,169 reported negative on Tuesday. As of date, 1,09,000 people are in institutional quarantine in Karnataka at various places like hostels, schools, hotels, while 10,000 are in home quarantine. Out of the first 500 cases reported in the state between March 8 to April 24, 473 patients have been discharged so far, five are active cases undergoing treatment, and 22 deaths have occurred including one with non COVID reason. Pointing out that domestic flight services have resumed since Monday, Minister Kumar said, till Tuesday morning 32 flights have landed from the red zone with 685 passengers, while two flights arrived from green zones with 47 passengers. From May 14 till date, 12 trains have come to Bengaluru carrying 4,302 passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/101-new-covid-cases-in-karnatakaconcerned-about-recent-spikebut-well-prepared-to-handle-govt-842161.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Karnataka govt resolves to continue with online education||Contrary to the growing discomfort towards online method of education among the teaching fraternity, the state government on Tuesday resolved to continue with the same system as a new normal in the field of higher education. Holding the review of the Higher Education department, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressed interest in providing online education to students in higher educational institutes. Chief Minister Yediyurappa directed the officials to look into the possibilities of extending online education from as early as Pre-University level so that the new method can easily be followed as they scale up the academic career. Keeping in mind the less expenditure and online teaching being cost-effective, Yediyurappa said, “If you compare online teaching with the regular classroom teaching, it is not only cost-effective but also helps in savings in terms of resources. Officials must look into the new method and start introducing it as early as PU classes.”  “The online classes are being conducted using Skype, WebEx and other online platforms. Till date about 30,000 online classes have been conducted and has reached about 85 percent of the students through Whatsapp, YouTube channel of the department,” explained Higher Education minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-govt-resolves-to-continue-with-online-education-842005.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hassan sees 13 more COVID-19 cases, total breaches 100 mark||Hassan district crossed the 100 mark by registering 13 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday (May 26).  With this, the total number of cases has increased to 112. More cases are expected to be reported by evening bulletin as most of the people from Maharashtra are testing positive for COVID-19. Out of 13 cases, eight are male and five are female. All have a travel history of Maharashtra, who had returned to Channarayapatna.   Mandya district which confirmed two positive cases on Monday (May 25) had not reported any positive case on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hassan-sees-13-more-covid-19-cases-total-breaches-100-mark-842011.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt cancels summer vacation for colleges, universities in 2020-21 academic year||Keeping in mind the loss of academic days due to the lockdown to contain the pandemic, the Higher Education Department has decided to go in for ‘Zero Vacation’. The state government decided to cancel all holidays particularly the summer holidays after holding a series of meetings with the Vice Chancellors and other academicians from various parts of the state.  The decision was also communicated during the review meeting of the Higher Education Department held by CM Yediyurappa on Tuesday in Bengaluru||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-cancels-summer-vacation-for-colleges-universities-in-2020-21-academic-year-842012.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No hike in bus fares, clarifies Karnataka Transport Minister||Karnataka Transport Minister Laxman Savadi clarified that in spite of ‘compulsion’, the State government has decided not to make any hike in bus fares. Speaking to media persons after chairing a meeting of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) officials at its headquarters office in Hubballi on Tuesday, he said the four transportation corporations in Karnataka have sustained accumulative loss of Rs 1,700 crore during the lockdown period. He said the spread of coronavirus will decide the extent of revenue loss for the four corporations in coming days, as maintaining social distancing would mean that buses cannot run to full capacity. “The government don’t want to rub salt on the injuries by hiking the bus fare,” he said. Savadi said clear instructions have been given to corporations not to run buses that would result in more losses. “At present, more trips mean more losses,” he said. Night journey Currently, all four corporations are running buses between 7:00 am to 7:00 pm. However, few of the long-route buses are running extra hours also. He said depending upon the passenger demand, the corporations are ready to start night journey from tomorrow itself. He said the State government is waiting for the new guidelines from the Union government, which is expected by June 1, for improving better connectivity. No job cut The deputy chief minister also clarified that none of the permanent staff of the four corporations will be sacked. Only those contract employees in BMTC and KSRTC (Bengaluru division) may face the axe, he said and added that all the 1.30 lakh employees of the four corporations have received April month’s full salary (Rs 326 crore). However, the State government has released 50% of May salary and said he would speak to the chief minister to increase its share to ensure that staff get their dues. He said managements of all the four corporations will be asked to prepare a blueprint for three months on how to review the public transportation and increase its revenue. One of the proposals being put forward is by minimising the ‘overtime’ of staff and preventing pilferage of resources. “Corruption runs from top to bottom in Transportation department and efforts will be made to end that,” he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-hike-in-bus-fares-clarifies-karnataka-transport-minister-842090.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mosques, churches, temples in Karnataka to open from June 1?||The state government on Tuesday hinted that places of religious worship may be allowed to reopen from June 1, keeping social distancing and other norms in place. In principle, the government has decided to open temples coming under the Muzrai department after Lockdown 4.0 ends on May 31. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. Poojary said all day-to-day activities will be allowed in temples. “But religious fairs and ceremonies will not be permitted,” he said.  Officials said this will apply to mosques, churches and other places of religious worship as well. However, this decision will be subject to whether or not the Centre will allow places of religious worship to be open for the public after Lockdown 4.0, an official said.  All places of religious worship have been closed for the public ever since Karnataka enforced a state-wide lockdown on March 24 to contain COVID-19.    On the occasion, Yediyurappa launched an app-based online booking of sevas that will be rolled out in 52 Muzrai temples from Wednesday. These include the Sri Mookambika Temple in Kollur, Kukke Sri Subramanya Temple, Renuka Yellamma Temple in Saundatti, Banashankari Temple and Gavi Gangadhareshwara Temple in Bengaluru among others. “This means that citizens can book a seva online. A few temples had this facility already. In the last one year, the Kukke Subramanya had 32,000 Sarpa Samskaras via online booking. In the Kollur temple, some 3,000 sevas were booked online. In the Chamundeshwari temple, sevas worth Rs 49 lakh were booked online,” Poojary said.  The government’s original plan was to also provide e-darshan and send prasadam through postal service. “No decision has been taken on live-streaming yet. The main temples of Kukke Subramanya and Kollur Mookambika are resisting going live. We will live-stream other temples, but after some time,” a Muzrai official said. “We will look at sending prasadam in a week’s time.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mosques-churches-temples-in-karnataka-to-open-from-june-1-842100.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cuts duty on new apartments below Rs 35 lakh||In a move aimed at making the ailing realty sector buoyant, the state government on Tuesday decided to slash stamp duty on new apartments that cost up to Rs 35 lakh.  The government also hopes that this will give a boost to affordable housing. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa took this decision during a meeting to review the progress of the Stamps & Registration department.  The stamp duty on apartments costing less than Rs 20 lakh getting registered for the first time will be cut from the existing 5 per cent to 2 per cent. Further, the stamp duty on apartments costing between Rs 21 lakh and Rs 35 lakh will be down from 5 per cent to 3 per cent.  In his 2020-21 Budget, Yediyurappa had announced the reduction in stamp duty only for new apartments that cost less than Rs 20 lakh. A new category has been included keeping in mind the COVID-19 crisis.  In fact, officials informed the CM that the Stamps & Registration department might fall short of its revenue target by Rs 3,524 crore this fiscal because of the COVID-19 lockdown. The revenue target for 2020-21 is Rs 12,655 crore.    Property registration was hit because of the lockdown and all sub-registrar offices were allowed to resume operations after being closed for nearly a month following enforcement of the state-wide lockdown on March 24.  Yediyurappa also took stock of the Swamitva Yojana, under which drones will be used to survey properties in villages. Some 16,000 villages have been identified in the state where people will be given property cards based on the drone survey.  The CM also directed officials to set up land tribunals (Bhoo Nyaya Mandali) at 164 taluks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cuts-duty-on-new-apartments-below-rs-35-lakh-842134.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||App-based online seva-booking launched at select temples||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday launched an app-based online seva-booking service that will be rolled out in 52 Muzrai temples from Wednesday. "Citizens can book a seva online. A few temples had this facility already. In the last one year, the Kukke Subrahmanya Temple had 32,000 Sarpa Samskaras via online booking. In the Kollur temple, some 3,000 sevas were booked online. In Chamundeshwari temple, sevas worth Rs 49 lakh were booked online," Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said.  The government’s original plan was to provide e-darshan and send prasadam through postal service. "No decision has been taken on live-streaming yet. The main temples of Kukke Subrahmanya and Kollur Mookambika are resisting going live. We will live-stream other temples, but after some time," a Muzrai official said.  The app-based service is available in the following temples: Sri Mookambika Temple in Kollur; Kukke Sri Subrahmanya Temple; Renuka Yellamma Temple in Saundatti, Banashankari Temple and Gavi Gangadhareshwara Temple in Bengaluru among others. During the meeting, Yediyurappa directed officials to start work on developing seven acres of land belonging to the state government at Tirumala. The government wants to construct facilities for pilgrims there at a cost of Rs 200 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/app-based-online-seva-booking-launched-at-select-temples-842158.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Engineers cry foul as govt asks them to pick and choose||Hundreds of government engineers fear that they will face a serious career setback with the B S Yediyurappa administration moving to distribute the workforce among three major departments - Public Works, Water Resources and Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR).  In an order dated May 19, the government has asked all officials recruited through PWD, but serving in the water resources or RDPR departments, to make a one-time choice on where they want to be absorbed or they can choose to remain with PWD, water resources or RDPR.  Separately, the Water Resources department has started the process, giving an option to its engineers to be absorbed there.  This has irked engineers who were recruited by the PWD for ‘combined services,’ meaning they could serve in water resources as well as RDPR. Their grouse is that they have still not been given the choice to exercise such an option, as to where they would like to be absorbed.  Historically, it was the PWD that provided engineers to various government departments for execution of developmental works. In the 1990s, upon the insistence of the World Bank, engineers were recruited expressly for irrigation projects such as the Upper Krishna under a new department.   “Hundreds of us were recruited for combined services, which means that we can work for public works, water resources and rural development &panchayat raj (RDPR). The Water Resources Department decided to break away from the PWD by having its own engineering cadre. In that case, they should take with them all engineers who were recruited for irrigation projects. If they are left behind in the PWD, our seniority and promotions get affected,” an executive engineer explained, adding that some 2,000 engineers of the ‘combined services’ stand to be affected.  “The entire process lacks transparency. We want this to be done by all three departments together under the PWD’s supervision,” they say.   According to them, it is “illegal and unfair” for the Water Resources Department to give its engineers an option. Once recruited by the Water Resources Department, they should belong there as that will be the “parent department,” they argue. They also claim that only the 2009-batch of engineers has been given the option by the Water Resources Department because “one of them has pulled some strings.”   Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi told DH he will look into this. “I will discuss this with everyone concerned and take a decision after weighing the pros and cons.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/engineers-cry-foul-as-govt-asks-them-to-pick-and-choose-842162.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka govt's door-to-door survey finds 54 lakh vulnerable to COVID-19||The statewide survey on finding COVID-19 vulnerable population particularly with comorbidities and cases like SARI, ILI has revealed that there are over 53.99 lakh households vulnerable to the infection.  The survey, which is 67.16% complete so far, finds 1.37 lakh households across Karnataka have people with comorbid conditions, excluding a further 13,341 households with symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Covid-19. Over 48 lakh households have senior citizens, who on account of their age are at highest risk of death  from the disease. Munish Moudgil, Director of the State COVID War Room, clarified that households could have multiple types of vulnerable people. According to the survey data (which is dated May 26), Kalaburagi and Bengaluru Urban have the highest cases of SARI, ILI with 1,902 households and 1,703 households respectively, although these numbers are likely to rise, as the survey is still incomplete in these districts.  A BBMP source said that 68% of the survey has been completed in the city, but the data has not been logged yet. The number of SARI/ILI cases is next highest in Shivamogga with 1,217 households, Mysuru with 1,200 and Davangere with 1,178. SARI/ILI as indicators The government regards SARI and ILI as indicators of coronavirus and on April 17, had passed an order instructing healthcare workers to test people with these conditions for the coronavirus. Consequently, 51 COVID-19 cases were discovered by testing people with these symptoms. Belagavi, meantime, has reported the highest incidents of households with comorbid conditions with 12,427 identified so far, followed by Mandya with 9,289, Kalaburagi with 8,311, Shivamogga with 8,140 and Bengaluru Urban with 7,562. Importantly, 3,45,443 vulnerable people have been identified in Bengaluru Urban within 28.26% of data logged in so far. The survey was described by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Secretary to the Government, Department of Health, as an effort to determine which households are vulnerable so as to give them more support and keep a track of them through Asha workers and midwives. When asked if it was perhaps too ambitious, Akhtar said that the data collection is being done through the Aptha Mithra app. “This is an effort to identify at-risk households using technology. The survey is a proactive effort. It helps us monitor the situation and offer help if required,”he added. Some 50.73 lakh vulnerable households have been earmarked for a follow-up. But the Additional Secretary said that not all the households identified so far will actually require assistance. According to Moudgil, the door-to-door survey will include the entire population of the state and will be done by teachers, staff and booth-level officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-govts-door-to-door-survey-finds-54-lakh-vulnerable-to-covid-19-842165.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt cuts duty on new apts below Rs 35 lakh||In a move aimed at making the ailing realty sector buoyant, the state government on Tuesday decided to slash stamp duty on new apartments that cost up to Rs 35 lakh.  The government also hopes that this will give a boost to affordable housing. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa took this decision during a meeting to review the progress of the Stamps and Registration department.  The stamp duty on apartments costing less than Rs 20 lakh getting registered for the first time will be cut from the existing 5% to 2%. Further, the stamp duty on apartments costing between Rs 21 lakh and Rs 35 lakh will be down from 5% to 3%.  In his 2020-21 Budget, Yediyurappa had announced the reduction in stamp duty only for new apartments that cost less than Rs 20 lakh. A new category has been included keeping in mind the Covid-19 crisis.  In fact, officials informed the chief minister that the Stamps and Registration department might fall short of its revenue target by Rs 3,524 crore this fiscal because of the Covid-19 lockdown. The revenue target for 2020-21 is Rs 12,655 crore.  Property registration was hit because of the lockdown and all sub-registrar offices were allowed to resume operations after being closed for nearly a month following enforcement of the statewide lockdown on March 24.  Yediyurappa also took stock of the Swamitva Yojana, under which drones will be used to survey properties in villages. Some 16,000 villages have been identified in the state where people will be given property cards based on the drone survey.  The CM also directed officials to set up land tribunals at 164 taluks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-cuts-duty-on-new-apts-below-rs-35-lakh-842167.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Online teaching may be the in thing, govt plans it from PU level||Contrary to the growing discomfort towards online education among the teaching fraternity, the state government on Tuesday resolved to continue with the system as a new normal in higher education. At a review of the Higher Education department, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressed interest in providing online education to students in higher educational institutions and directed officials concerned to extend the same to pre-university college level. Impressed by the videos presented by higher education department on online classes and demo of a few live classes, the CM directed officials to continue the same and adopt online education wherever possible. Officials briefed the CM in the meeting about the low expenditure to conduct online classes compared to classroom teaching. The CM said, “Compared to regular classroom teaching, online teaching looks cost effective and officials should look at starting the same from PUC level.” The Higher Education department is conducting online classes for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Lecturers had completed about 79% of the syllabus before the lockdown and the remaining 21% is expected to be completed by May 31, online. “Online classes are being conducted using Skype, WebEx and other online platforms. So far, over 7,000 videos have been uploaded in 65 different subjects. A whopping 5 lakh people have watched it on WhatsApp, YouTube channels of the department,” Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said. About 30,000 online class sessions have been conducted till date and 85% of the students have been provided with notes and old question papers through WhatAspp andTelegram. The teaching fraternity, however, expressed discomfort while conducting online classes as it is difficult to monitor students. Some teachers said students were more mischievous during online classes. The Higher Education department is providing online coaching for NEET and CET aspirants through an App and regular classes for degree students through the YouTube channel. Engineering students too are attending online classes. Some universities said the attendance for online classes is 90%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/online-teaching-may-be-the-in-thing-govt-plans-it-from-pu-level-842173.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Schools in Karnataka likely to reopen on July 1||The schools across Karnataka are likely to reopen from July 1 to commence the 2020-21 academic year. Primary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar discussed the issue with the officials from the department at a meeting held on Tuesday. The expert committee in its report submitted to the Union Ministry for Human Resource Development recommended reopening of schools on July 1. The state department of primary and secondary education also discussed the issue.  However, no decision has been taken yet and final decision is expected to out in a day or two. A source said that since the timetable for SSLC examination had been published and the lockdown was expected to be lifted after May 31, it had been planned to reopen the schools on July 1. Following the recent representation by several academicians and social activists urging to cancel SSLC exams, the primary education minister met chief minister and briefed him about preparations for the safe conduct of exams. “As of now there will not be any changes in SSLC exam schedule. We have reviewed the situation and preparations are underway for ensuring safety of children,”  the source added.  The report submitted by Nimhans about online education is yet to reach the secretariat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-schools-in-karnataka-likely-to-reopen-from-july-1-842178.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Five out of the first 500 COVID-19 patients are still active||Out of the first 500 COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka, five are still active. "The first case was reported on March 8, and the 500th case on April 24. Out of these cases, 473 have been discharged, 22 have died, one committed suicide and five cases are still active,"  revealed Minister S Suresh Kumar, minister in-charge of COVID-19 briefings here on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Karnataka reported 101 new cases on Tuesday, out of which 81 were interstate travellers. Four are international passengers from Qatar. As many as 1,489 cases are active and 18 patients are in the ICU. With 2,283 people to have tested positive so far, the state has a positivity rate of 1%. The source of infection is being traced for two patients - one in Bengaluru Urban and the other in Ballari. Two patients have presented with Influenza-like illness and one with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The others are contacts of previously diagnosed patients.  Chitradurga reported the highest number of cases in the state today - all 20 new cases - recently returned from Tamil Nadu. All 14 new cases in Yadgir district, 13 in Hassan and 10 in Bidar, have returned from Maharashtra. Of the 13 new cases in Belagavi, 12 have returned from Jharkhand and one from Maharashtra. Dakshina Kannada and Bagalkote have reported cases from those who have returned from Qatar. A total of 748 patients have recovered, while 44 have died and two have ended their lives. The state tested 9,020 samples in the last 24 hours. "Out of the domestic flights that since May 25, 685 passengers travelled from from red zone areas and 47 from green zone. In 12 trains since May 14, a total of 4,302 passengers arrived out of whom 334 swabs have been taken," he said. While 1,09,000 are housed in hotels, hostels and schools so far 10,000 are in home quarantine. Out of the 2,283 cases reported so far 1,184 have a domestic travel history, 812 have a contact history, 106 have an international travel history.  Suresh Kumar said that the state's Covid-19 bed occupancy stood at 5.10%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/five-out-of-the-first-500-covid-19-patients-are-still-active-842180.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||New norms for discharge||The government, on Tuesday, issued a new circular about discharges, mandating that Covid positive patients could be released from hospital care after 10 days if they have no fever and no symptoms of the disease for three previous days (without the use of antipyretics). The patient must also maintain 95% oxygen saturation for four previous days (without extra oxygen support). The patient’s breathlessness must also be resolved as must all clinical symptoms. The new circular also mandates that patients must be subject to one RT-PCR test three days after being symptom-free, and the patient can only be discharged if the test comes out as negative. Patients are to spend 14 days in home quarantine following discharge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-norms-for-discharge-842182.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to election commission: Postpone GP elections||The State government has written a letter to the State Election Commission to postpone elections to gram panchayats due to Covid-19 crisis. “We have requested the state election commission to postpone the elections to the gram panchayats. However, we will conduct the elections if we are asked to do so,” Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa told reporters here on Tuesday. He claimed that the BJP was strong at the grassroots and the Congress and JD(S) were afraid of the elections. “There is time till six months to conduct the elections after the expiry of the present term. The government hasn’t taken any decision either to continue the sitting members or appoint administrators,” he said. He alleged that there were two factions in the Congress headed by leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D K Shivakumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-election-commission-postpone-gp-elections-842184.html
26-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Labour dept meeting with unions, employers ends in stalemate||A meeting of the Labour department with owners of various enterprises and representatives of workers' unions ended in a stalemate on Tuesday. While the owners of various factories demanded more time to pay the mandatory Dearness Allowance (DA) to employees, the union representatives voiced concerns against this demand, according to officials.  The meeting discussed the issue of minimum wages and the issue of DA. Since the workers' union and the owners had contrary points of view to present, their opinions will be presented before the government for consideration, Labour Commission K G Shantharam said.  This comes at a time when several enterprises, that are struggling for survival in the wake of the lockdown, are yet to pay workers' wages. The Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) has already submitted a representation to the government about the various challenges faced by the factories and the small enterprises, in spite of the government relaxing the lockdown. While the government has relaxed regulations, allowing for work hours to be stretched, it has also insisted on payment of overtime compensation. Majority of the enterprises are not in a position to afford payment of wages, which is affecting operations, KASSIA president R Raju said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/labour-dept-meeting-with-unions-employers-ends-in-stalemate-842195.html
26-05-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Hundreds of people rush to Suresh Angadi's office amidst food kit distribution rumours||Hundreds of people rushed to the office of Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi in Belagavi after learning that food kits were being distributed, but the union minister denied making such announcement on Tuesday. Since early morning people and weavers, in particular, had begun to assemble near Angadi's office for collecting of food kits. As the day progressed, their numbers swelled.  Some people broke the queue and violated social distancing norms. Police rushed to the spot to control the crowds that were increasing. Crowds included people of all ages and women in large numbers. Angadi informed them that he had not made any announcements of giving food kits and somebody had spread false rumours. He said he has asked the Deputy Commissioner for making food grains available to the needy under programmes of union and state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/hundreds-of-people-rush-to-suresh-angadis-office-amidst-food-kit-distribution-rumours-842030.html
26-05-2020||West||COVID-19 cases in Thane district cross 6,000; death toll 183||With 343 more people testing positive for coronavirus, the number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra's Thane district mounted to 6,044 on Monday, a civic official said. With 11 more people succumbing to the viral infection, the number of the fatalities rose to 183. "A total of 154 people from Thane city tested positive on Monday, including 100 high-risk contacts," said Sandeep Malavi, Deputy Municipal Commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation. Neighbouring Palghar district has so far reported 625 COVID-19 cases and 22 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-in-thane-district-cross-6000-death-toll-183-841877.html
26-05-2020||West||Fire in scrap godown in Thane district||A fire broke out at a scrap godown near Dombivali in Thane district of Maharashtra on Monday night, Fire Brigade officials said. No casualties were reported. The blaze was noticed at the godown located in Govili village at 10 pm and two fire enginesand water tankers were rushed to the spot, they said. According to officials, the fire engines struggled to reach the location due to ongoing road repair works in the area. The cause of the fire cannot be known immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-in-scrap-godown-in-thane-district-841883.html
26-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Mumbai to ramp up hospital bed capacity||Multiple COVID-19 treatment hospitals and centres with a combined capacity of 7,000 beds will come up in Mumbai in the next two weeks, said an official from Maharashtra Chief Minister's office on Monday. These hospitals and centres, with a combined capacity of 7,000 beds, will come up at Mahalaxmi Racecourse, Goregaon, Dahisar and Mulund in the suburbs, he said. By May 31, Mumbai's bed capacity will be increased by 2,475, including a facility at Bandra (East) which has commenced operations, he said. The state government has started taking over non- public hospitals having at least 100 beds and 20 ICU beds in all wards of the BMC to covert them into COVID-19 care centres. The number of ambulance is also being increased from 100 now to 450, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-mumbai-to-ramp-up-hospital-bed-capacity-841902.html
26-05-2020||West||CM Uddhav Thackeray meets Sharad Pawar; Shiv Sena says Maharashtra govt strong||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with NCP president Sharad Pawar here, senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday while asserting that the state government is "strong". The two leaders met for about one-and-a-half hours late Monday evening, Raut said while dismissing speculations about the Thackeray-led government's stability. The Sena Rajya Sabha MP, however, did not reveal what transpired between the two leaders. The meeting between Thackeray and Pawar took place after the NCP chief met state Governor B S Koshyari on Monday morning. NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had a meeting for one-and-a-half hours. Those doubting about the stability of this government are doing so out of their own grudge. This government is strong," Raut tweeted in Marathi. Earlier, Pawar met Koshyari on Monday morning, following which the NCP claimed the meeting took place on the invitation of the governor and no political issues came up for discussion. However, the timing of the meeting is significant as it took place against the backdrop of strained relations between the Shiv Sena, which heads the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, and the Raj Bhavan. The NCP is one of the key constituents of MVA. Pawar was one of the key leaders from Maharashtra who had openly complained about Koshyari's "intervention" in the functioning of the state administration. Recently, senior BJP leader and former state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis complained to the governor about the "failure" of the Thackeray government in handling the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-uddhav-thackeray-meets-sharad-pawar-shiv-sena-says-maharashtra-govt-strong-841953.html
26-05-2020||West||Goa: 50 flight passengers test negative for coronavirus||Samples of 50 passengers who arrived in Goa by domestic flights have tested negative for coronavirus infection, state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Tuesday. Three flights - two from Delhi and one from Bengaluru - ferried 91 passengers to Goa on Monday, the first day of resumption of domestic air services. After their arrival, samples of 50 passengers were tested and results of all of them came out negative, the minister said. The remaining 41 passengers were home quarantined and their health was being monitored by authorities, he said. The standard operating procedure (SOP) set by the Goa government lays down that arriving passengers need to have a COVID-19 negative certificate from an ICMR-accredited lab, or must pay Rs 2,000 for testing or spend 14 days in home quarantine. "Those travellers who are carrying COVID-19 negative certificate from ICMR-approved labs would be exempted from checking at the state border. Others will have to get themselves tested for COVID-19 by paying Rs 2,000. Those who don't want to be tested will have to stay in home quarantine for 14 days," Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday. He said this SOP will be applicable to all those coming to Goa by flights, trains, road or water routes. Meanwhile, Rane said two out of the 48 COVID-19 patients, who were undergoing treatment at a hospital in the state, have been discharged after recovery. Both the patients have been shifted to a quarantine facility where their health will be monitored for 14 days. With this, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the coastal state is now 46, Rane said. Goas COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases- 67, deaths-nil, discharged-21, active cases 46.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-50-flight-passengers-test-negative-for-coronavirus-841956.html
26-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Mumbai's leading mandal postpones Ganpati festival celebration||A leading Ganesh mandal in Mumbai has decided to postpone its annual Ganpati festival celebrations this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The 10-day festival begins on 'Ganesh Chaturthi', which is falling on August 22 this year. However, in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the GSB Ganeshotsav Samiti in Wadala area of Mumbai has postponed the celebration to 'Magh Shudh Chaturthi' in February next year, the samiti's trustee secretary Mukund Kamat said in a statement. The decision has been taken in view of the health and safety of the public, he said. The decision has been taken under the directions of 'His Holiness Vidhyadhiraj Swamiji' of Gokarn Partagali Jeevottam Muth in Goa, the statement said. The Wadala-based GSB Ganeshotsav Samiti, which has been organising the celebrations for last 65 years, is one of the richest and most famousmandals in the city. Over 15,000 devotees visit the mandal to offer prayers to LordGanesh every day during the 10-day festival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-mumbais-leading-mandal-postpones-ganpati-festival-celebration-842000.html
26-05-2020||West||20 Maharashtra police personnel died of coronavirus so far: Official||As many as 20 police personnel have so far died of coronavirus infection in Maharashtra, a senior police official said on Tuesday. Till now, 1,889 police personnel, including 207 officers, have tested positive for the disease in the state. Most of them are from Mumbai and Nashik rural, he said. "So far, 20 police personnel, including an officer, have succumbed to the viral infection," he said. At least 838 police personnel, including 67 officers, have till now been discharged after recovery, he said. The official further said there have been 252 incidents of assault on police since the lockdown in the state in which 86 personnel got injured. More than 40 health professionals, who were at the forefront of the battle against COVID-19, were also attacked by anti-social elements since the lockdown, he said. Maharashtra Police have so far registered 1,15,263 offences under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for which 23,204 people have been arrested, the official said. The police also traced 695 people who violated quarantine norms in the state, excluding Mumbai, he said.  Various police control rooms in the state handled 96,238 calls in connection with COVID-19 since the lockdown, he said. The police also registered 1,322 offences pertaining to movement of vehicles without valid permission during the lockdown period, he said, adding that 72,687 vehicles were seized in this connection. The state police have also collected fine worth Rs 5.48 crore for various offences during the lockdown, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/20-maharashtra-police-personnel-died-of-coronavirus-so-far-official-842018.html
26-05-2020||West||COVID-19: With no hearse helper, sons don PPEs to cremate dad in Mumbai||The unavailability of a hearse van helper forced two sons of a deceased COVID-19 patient to don PPE kits and carry his body to a crematorium in eastern suburb of Ghatkopar in Mumbai, an official said on Tuesday. An elderly doctor from Ganesh Nagar area of Ghatkopar, died of COVID-19 at Hindu Mahasabha Hospital late on Sunday night, the official said. The infected doctor was admitted to the hospital's COVID-19 care centre on Saturday night, following which his condition deteriorated and he died of the infection on Sunday, he said. One of the deceased's sons, who is also a doctor, then tried arranging for a hearse van, but was forced to call local corporator Archana Bhalerao, as no vehicle was available till early hours of Monday, the official said. However, when the van finally arrived, there was no helper to move the body into the vehicle and later take it inside the crematorium, he said. As per the standard procedure, a helper needs to don a PPE kit, before moving bodies into hearse vans and later inside crematoriums, the official said. With no solution in sight, the deceased's sons along with their friend and the van driver wore PPE kits and transported the body to the crematorium, where the last rites were performed at 10 am, he added. Mumbai has so far recorded 31,972 COVID-19 cases and 1,026 deaths. The rise in coronavirus cases has put tremendous pressure on medical and allied staff and has also led to shortage of manpower.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-with-no-hearse-helper-sons-don-ppes-to-cremate-dad-in-mumbai-842019.html
26-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Nashik-based senior citizen makes sprayer to sanitise roads, compounds||For months, Rajendra Jadhav had been following the news of how coronavirus was creating upheavals by devastating the health infrastructure and paralysing normal life. The sexagenarian villager from Satana in Nashik district had the vision to realise that this virus has the potential to create havoc if it happens to enter his village. The self-taught engineer, who has been putting his technical knowledge to use in making agricultural tools and types of machinery to suit the needs of the local farming community, decided to develop a mass sanitising machine.   Accordingly, Jadhav started his research in his village workshop to develop a machine that can be used for mass cleaning of roads and public spaces. Within 25 days, he came up with an innovative sprayer mounted on a tractor which is capable of sanitising or washing large areas like roads, societies, doors, compounds, walls, etc.The sprayer consists of two radial fans of aluminium, moving opposite to each other. In terms of mechanism, each fan sucks air from two opposite directions, which is released through nozzles at high pressure with minute droplets. As the panel rotates 180 degrees, it can cover from the ground up to 15-feet-tall walls. Any 15 HP tractor can be used to operate this sprayer. Jadhav's machine has a capacity to store 600 litres of disinfectant-mixed-water in the tanker. As a result, compounds, doors can easily be sanitised with this sprayer. An added advantage of using this sprayer for disinfecting works is that it hardly requires any human intervention thus preventing human contact.  A single person can drive the tractor and operate the sprayer.   ‘Yashwant’ santisation sprayer has been identified as a potential S&T based innovative solution in the Challenge COVID-19 Competition (C3) organised by the National Innovation FoundationThe cost incurred for developing this machine is around Rs 1.75 lakh, Jadhav said. This sprayer is being used by Satana Nagar Nigam to cleanse and disinfect about 30 sq km area in Satana. Upon seeing the utility of this tractor-mounted sprayer machine, a friend from Dhule district requested Jadhav to make one for sanitising his village. The second machine manufactured by Jadhav has been deployed for sanitisation in Dhule district.  "It has been named ‘Yashwant’ sanitisation sprayer. This is the brand name that I use for all the agricultural tools I make," he said.                             While Rajendra Jadhav has applied for a patent for his unique sprayer, he has also sent across his innovative design to the National Innovation Foundation (NIF). The Yashwant sprayer has been identified as a potential S&T based innovative solution in India's fight against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-nashik-based-senior-citizen-makes-sprayer-to-sanitise-roads-compounds-842032.html
26-05-2020||West||145 Shramik Special trains planned for Maharashta, state gave info on only 41 trains so far: Indian Railways||As the feud between the Maharashtra government and the Railways refuses to die down, the national transporter on Tuesday accused the state of not providing information about passengers as a result of which many Shramik Special trains could not be operationalised. The Railways said it had planned 125 trains for evacuating migrants from Maharashtra on May 25 but the state government was only able to give information for 41 trains till 2 am. "Out of these 41 trains, only 39 trains could run as passengers could not be brought by local authorities and these two trains had to be cancelled. "After meticulous planning and sustained effort, the Railways mobilised its resources at a very short notice and prepared 145 Shramik trains to depart from Maharashtra on May 26," a statement issued by the Railways said. "Till 12 noon, 25 trains were planned from Maharashtra to run but no departure could happen due to lack of passengers. Boarding of the first train could only commence at CSMT at 12.30 pm," it said. According to the Railways, 68 trains were planned to depart for Uttar Pradesh, 27 to Bihar, 41 to West Bengal, one each to Chattisgarh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Kerala and two each to Odisha and Tamil Nadu. Over the past two days, a political slugfest over Shramik Special trains had begun between Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and the Maharashtra government with the state alleging that not enough trains were being provided to them. Goyal on Sunday night said, "We are ready to provide 125 Shramik Special trains to Maharashtra." "Since you have said that you have a list ready that is why I am requesting you to please provide all information like from where the train will run, the list of passengers according to the trains, their medical certificate and where the train is to go, to the General Manager of Central Railway within the next hour, so that we can plan the time of trains," he tweeted. Commenting on it, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday tweeted, "Maharashtra government has given you a list of workers who wish to return home. The only request is that the train should reach the station, as announced earlier." "The Gorakhpur-bound train had reached Odisha," the Sena's Rajya Sabha member further said. He also asked Goyal if the Ministry of Railways had made any such list while running the Nagpur-Udhampur migrant train on May 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/145-shramik-special-trains-planned-for-maharashta-state-gave-info-on-only-41-trains-so-far-indian-railways-842041.html
26-05-2020||West||Complete lockdown in Thane's Mumbra area from midnight of May 26||The Thane Municipal Corporation in Maharashtra has ordered complete lockdown in Mumbra area from Tuesday midnight in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the city. Only milk and medical shops will be open in Mumbra from 7 am to 9 am, while all other shops, including of vegetables and groceries, will remain shut till further orders, municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal said in an order. Till Monday night, Thane city recorded 2,172 COVID-19 cases, including 288 in Mumbra area, as per official figures. Despite warnings and directives issues by the civic authorities, people were not following the lockdown and social distancing norms and crowding public places, an official release said. Hence, the corporation decided to enforce a total lockdown in Mumbra area, it said. Meanwhile, the Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC) in Thane district has asked office-bearers of the housing societies in the area to strictly implement the lockdown orders. KDMC Commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi asked the housing societies to procure pulse oximeter and thermal screening gun. Residents should be checked on a daily basis and the civic health department should be informed of any unusual readings in the oximeter and thermal screening gun. Housing societies should appoint volunteers for the purpose, he said. Suryavanshi said the housing societies should also maintain a list of persons suffering from various ailments, including blood pressure and diabetics. A list of senior citizens and handicapped persons should also be maintained and housing society office-bearers should check with them on a daily basis if they need medical help or any other assistance, he said in the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/complete-lockdown-in-thanes-mumbra-area-from-midnight-of-may-26-842073.html
26-05-2020||West||No plans to topple Maharashtra government: BJP||Amid hectic political developments in Maharashtra involving multiple camps, the BJP on Tuesday vehemently denied the claim that it was out to topple the six-month-old Maha Vikas Aghadi government, led by Uddhav Thackeray.  However, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the MVA government will "collapse on its own" because of "internal contradictions" between Shiv Sena,  NCP and Congress. "We do not want to topple the government.... hamara kaam bhagana nahi hai,  jagana hai," Fadnavis said. He said that the MVA partners are engaging in "cover firing" to hide its failure in handling the COVID-19 situation by spreading rumours like -  BJP was trying to topple the government and that the Centre wants to impose President's Rule in the state.  Fadnavis, a former state two-time Chief Minister,  however, said that what the state needs at this stage is "assertive leadership". Fadnavis's statement comes barely after NCP supremo Sharad Pawar's meeting with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and back-to-back meetings with Thackeray coupled with a statement of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. "I would like to make a differentiation here. We are supporting the government in Maharashtra, but we are not the key decision-maker in Maharashtra. We are decision-makers in Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Puducherry. There is a difference between running the government and supporting it," Gandhi had said in New Delhi,  during his online media conference.  Reacting to this, Fadnavis said that Congress has clearly shirked away from the responsibility. "It seems they (Congress and NCP) are trying to put everything in the Shiv Sena and CM....Congress is not just supporting the government but they are part of the government... these are two different things," he said.  State Congress President and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said that the BJP is leaving no stones unturned to get the MVA out of power but the government is intact. "There is nothing to worry about....they (BJP) are greedy for power," he added. NCP chief spokesperson and state Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said that the government is united and stable. "BJP is spreading the rumours with a vested interest," he added. Meanwhile, close Thackeray aide and Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that Opposition should get "quarantined" but he did not name any leader.  "If you go by Gujarat High Court strictures against the government,  they are worst positioned...Maharashtra is doing everything possible to tackle the crisis," he said. Asked about the statements of MVA leaders,  Fadnavis said that they are playing the role of "constructive opposition". On charges that BJP was rushing to Governor every now and then,  he said: "The government works under the name of Governor... the Cabinet and Chief Minister plays an advisory role...those who have read Constitution will know about it...it's my duty and my right to approach Governor's office." On the other side, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar,  who is the chief architect of the MVA government, said that Uddhav Thackeray-led government is safe.  "Devendra Fadnavis is getting impatient," he said.  "There is no threat to the Maharashtra government. All MLAs are with us, any attempt to break them at this time will result in public beating us," he told a TV channel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-plans-to-topple-maharashtra-government-bjp-842087.html
26-05-2020||West||Show strong leadership to tackle COVID-19: Fadnavis to Maharashtra CM||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday asked Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to show "assertive leadership" amidst the coronavirus pandemic. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of COVID- 19 cases in the country. Addressing a press conference,the Opposition leader said Thackeray needed support of other constituents (read the NCP and the Congress) of the Shiv Sena-led government whose only focus should be fighting against the coronavirus "without any vested interests".  "Currently there is no coordination in the state government. Ministers of the Congress are not being invited for the meetings held by the Shiv Sena and the NCP," Fadnavis claimed. Responding to a question on allegations that Raj Bhavan has become a centre of politics,Fadnavis said he had the right to submit a memorandum to the governor by virtue of being the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly. "When there is no access to the chief minister and when things do not get resolved where do we go?" he asked. Fadnavis was apparently referring to his meeting with Governor B S Koshyari at Raj Bhavan recently when he had submitted a memorandum complaining about the state government's "failure" in handling the COVID-19 crisis. The Sena had taken objection to the meeting and accused the BJP, without taking its name, of plotting to destabilise the state government.  Meanwhile, Fadnavis asked the MVA government to take the Opposition into confidence in its fight against coronavirus pandemic. "When we make constructive suggestions, we get trolled on social media. You (ruling parties) indulge in politics and blame us," the former CM told reporters. Attacking the government over its handling of the crisis, Fadnavis said, "people are not getting ambulances. The number of beds in hospitals are insufficient. Private hospitals are charging exorbitant rates from the people. The government seems to have lost its control on administration". Fadnavis said Maharashtra can get Rs 78,000 crore from the Centre's Rs 20 lakh crore "Atmanirbhar" economic package. "The Centre has already given Rs 28,104 crores to Maharashtra for its fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The share for the state in the Central package is Rs 1.65 lakh crore. The government should take bold steps to help the affected people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/show-strong-leadership-to-tackle-covid-19-fadnavis-to-maharashtra-cm-842093.html
26-05-2020||West||Give details about COVID-19 labs in districts: HC to Maharashtra govt||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to furnish details about the steps or measures it had taken to set up COVID-19 testing facilities in all districts. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice K K Tated was hearing a petition filed by one Khalil Wasta, a fisherman, seeking a direction to the government to set up testing labs in non-red zone districts like Ratnagiri.  According to the plea, Ratnagiri district, with a population of 16 lakh, has six hospitals, of which two are reserved for COVID-19 patients. Ratnagiri had reported only seven cases so far, of which two patients had died and the remaining had recovered from the infection, the petition stated. However, the number of positive cases may shoot up, as over 44,000 migrants were permitted to enter Ratnagiri from Mumbai and Pune and another 30,000 entered without passes, the petitioner claimed. Wasta further said Ratnagiri did not have any testing labs and swab samples from the district were being sent to the Government Medical College at Miraj in Sangli, which is over 150 km away. Apart from Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad districts also did not have testing labs, he claimed. The petitioner's advocate Rakesh Bhatkar informed the court that on May 7, the Indian Council of Medical Research had issued a list of eight government hospitals and medical colleges and 18 private hospitals in Maharashtra which can conduct tests. The B K L Walawalkar Rural Medical College in Ratnagiri district was on the list, he said.  Assistant government pleader Manish Pabale informed the court that the hospital was yet to collect a certificate from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). The court then noted that when the government had set up multiple testing facilities in Mumbai and Pune, why the same had not been done in other districts of the state. The court said the problem does not pertain only to three districts mentioned in the petition, and said every district of Maharashtra should have at least one testing facility. The court suggested that the government must consider setting up mobile testing units. The bench directed the government to file an affidavit and posted the plea for further hearing on May 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/give-details-about-covid-19-labs-in-districts-hc-to-maharashtra-govt-842094.html
26-05-2020||West||India yogi who claimed to live without food or water passes away aged 90||An Indian yogi whose claims he spent decades without food or water earned him a band of devotees and the scepticism of doctors died Tuesday, his neighbour told AFP. The long-haired and bearded Prahlad Jani -- who dressed in red and wore a nose ring in the fashion of Hindu goddesses -- hailed from Charada village in the western state of Gujarat, where he spent his life in a routine of yoga and mediation. He was 90 based on his claim that he was born in August 1929. "He died early Tuesday morning at his residence due to old age," Sheetal Chaudhary, who lived next door to Jani, told AFP. "He was rushed to hospital after midnight, but was declared dead on arrival by the doctors there." Jani's body was taken to Ambaji, a town renowned for its temples and where he had built a small ashram and was known as "Mataji" (goddess). "The body will be kept at the ashram for the next two days for people to pay their last respects," Chaudhary said, adding that Jani would be cremated on Thursday. Jani's tale that he was blessed by a goddess when he was a child which enabled him to survive without sustenance won him a small group of followers -- despite the doubts of medical professionals. He told AFP in 2003 he got the "elixir of life from the hole in my palate, which enables me to go without food and water". There was no way of verifying Jani's claims, but doctors have said a person cannot go for long periods without food or water without organ damage and the body breaking down. Nevertheless, Jani's claims attracted the interest of India's medical community. In 2010 a team of military doctors studied him for two weeks at a hospital in Ahmedabad, Gujarat's biggest city. Jani was watched with cameras and closed circuit television. Doctors took scans of his organs, brain and blood vessels, and conducted tests on his heart, lungs and memory capacity. They said he did not eat, drink or go to the toilet, and his only contact with fluid was during gargling and bathing periodically. "We still do not know how he survives," neurologist Sudhir Shah told reporters then. "It is still a mystery what kind of phenomenon this is." The results of the study, initiated by India's Defence Research and Development Organisation, were never published or submitted for peer review.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-yogi-who-claimed-to-live-without-food-or-water-passes-away-aged-90-842098.html
26-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: MVA allies slam President's rule demand, BJP says not in favour||A day after a BJP MP demanded President's rule in Maharashtra, leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on Tuesday accused the opposition party of trying to destablise the state government. The BJP, on the other hand, denied that it wanted President's rule, but said the state government was not doing enough to contain the coronavirus pandemic. BJP's Rajya Sabha MP Narayan Rane on Monday met governor B S Koshyari and demanded President's rule, accusing the Uddahv Thackeray-led government of failing to bring the pandemic situation under control.  Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut hit back on Tuesday, saying it was the neighbouring BJP-ruled Gujarat that needed President's rule. "If you go by the Gujarat High Court's strictures about tackling of COVID-19 crisis, that state's performance is worse compared to Maharashtra's. "If President's rule is to be imposed, the Centre should start with Gujarat," Raut said, while asserting that the Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra was stable. BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar distanced his party from Rane's view. "The situation in Maharashtra is grim, but it does not qualify for President's rule. We feel the state government is not serious enough about tackling the situation," the former state minister said. Maharashtra has enough resources but the state government is "not making enough efforts," he alleged.  NCP leader and minorities affairs minister Nawab Malik accused the BJP of spreading rumours that President's rule will be imposed in Maharashtra. The state government was strictly adhering to the Centre's guidelines on combating COVID-19, he said. Congress leader and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said the state BJP leaders were trying to destabilise the government, but there was no reason to worry about its stability. "BJP leaders in the state are greedy for power. They cannot think of helping the government in the current situation. They are trying to destabilise the government," Thorat told reporters. As Maharashtra has recorded over 52,000 coronavirus cases, the highest in the country, the BJP has been questioning the MVA government's capability to handle the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mva-allies-slam-presidents-rule-demand-bjp-says-not-in-favour-842102.html
26-05-2020||West||Rahul's remarks on Maharastra govt aimed at blaming Sena, CM: Fadnavis||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's remarks on his party's role in the Maharashtra government are aimed at pinning the blame for failure in handling the COVID- 19 situation on the Shiv Sena and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said on Tuesday. He also distanced the BJP from the demands for imposition of President's rule in the state and dismissed speculations that the Opposition was trying to destabilise the government. Expressing surprise over the remarks, the former chief minister said, "the Congress actually wanted to run away from the shared responsibility for the government's failure".  "Rahul Gandhi wanted to blame only Shiv Sena and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray..."he said. Rahul Gandhi has said in Delhi that his party is not a key decision-maker in the Sena-led Maharashtra government. "We are supporting Maharashtra government, but we are not in the key decision-making role in Maharashtra," he said in an online press conference, adding that Maharashtra requires full support of the Central government as the state is fighting a very difficult battle. Fadnavis also clarified that the BJP was not in a hurry to form government in the state and distanced his party from the demands made for imposition of President's Rule in the state. "We are not in hurry to form a government in Maharashtra. This government will fall due to its own contradictions and due to lack of corordination," the Opposition leader told reporters. He also said this was not the time to play politics.  "The BJP's focus is on fighting against the coronavirus," he added. Fadnavis said speculative statements like Opposition trying to destabilise the Sena-led government are being purposefully made to divert the attention of people from the government's failure. "This is a cover firing," he added. He said the Opposition will continue to put pressure on the government for taking effective steps to curb the pandemic. Replying to a query on speculations regarding imposition of President's rule in the state, Fadnavis distanced the BJP from such demand. "Subramanian Swamy and Narayan Rane have demanded imposition of President's Rule in the state. The BJP has no role to play," he said. Meanwhile, state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat said Rahul Gandhi hasn't said anything wrong. "We are part of the government but not a key decision-maker. The final authority (on taking decisions) is the chief minister," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rahuls-remarks-on-maharastra-govt-aimed-at-blaming-sena-cm-fadnavis-842109.html
26-05-2020||West||Maharashtra reports 97 coronavirus deaths in one day||In the worst day for Maharashtra, 97 COVID-19 deaths were reported on Tuesday.  Of the 97 deaths,  39 were reported in Mumbai, 15 were in Thane city,  10 in Kalyan-Dombivli, 8 in Pune,  7 in Solapur, 5 in Aurangabad,  5 in Mira-Bhayender,  3 in Malegaon, 3 in Ulhasnagar, 1 in Nagpur and 1 in Ratnagiri.  The total deaths in Maharashtra now stand at 1,792 and total positive cases rose to 54,758 with the addition of 2,091 cases in a  day's time. In Mumbai, the financial capital of India and worst-affected city,  the toll was 1,065 and positive cases 32,974. Meanwhile, 1,168 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours taking the total to 16,954.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-97-coronavirus-deaths-in-one-day-842126.html
26-05-2020||West||HC seeks lawyers' views on making virtual hearings effective||Amid the rising number of coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad, the Gujarat High Court on Tuesday sought the response of lawyers on making the hearing of cases through video conferencing "more participatory and all-inclusive". Lawyers have been asked to respond to a series of questionnaires seeking their opinion and assessment about virtual hearing of cases. The HC sought to know whether lawyers are facing any issue regarding electronic gadgets or internet connectivity, and whether they would prefer handling of cases through virtual court system "if a satisfactory mechanism is developed".  Chief Justice Vikram Nath said the HC has initiated remote hearing following the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, which was the need of the hour, and that a few courts continue to function on a regular basis through video conferencing. "With many representations received for moving forward in the functionality of court, and as the condition in the city of Ahmedabad continues to be extremely worrisome, in a move to make this exercise more participatory and all inclusive, this questionnaire is forwarded to each member of the Bar for them to respond to the situation, thoughtfully and wisely fulfilling obligations of the citizenry," the chief justice stated in his note on the questionnaire. Lawyers have also been asked if they require assistance in filing e-mails, any technical training or professional guidance to conduct cases through video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-seeks-lawyers-views-on-making-virtual-hearings-effective-842131.html
26-05-2020||West||Over 1,000 migrants from Dharavi transported to rly stations||Over 1,000 migrant workers from Dharavi in central Mumbai on Tuesday were transported to railways stations for their onward journey to their hometowns in the northern states amid the COVID-19 lockdown, an official said. Dharavi, which is one of the severely affected areas in the city, has reported 1,621 coronavirus cases so far. Unmindful of the social distancing norms, more than 1,000 migrants thronged the area to board civic-run buses, which would take them to railway stations for their journey in Shramik Special trains, the official said. Workers were headed to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, but only some of them were allowed to board the buses after their documents and medical check-ups were cleared, he said. There was a heavy deployment of police personnel in the area to control the crowd and maintain law and order, the official said. Over 2,000 migrant labourers were leaving the area on a daily basis, Dharavi resident and social activist Gulzar Khan said. Most of these labourers were employed in units that manufactured dress materials, zari, leather and reusable plastic items, he said. Several workers had started vacating the Kumbharwada area, as they were unable to make ends meet during the lockdown, he said. Many of the stranded labourers were taken to Lokmanya Tilak Railway Terminus, where they queued up for seats in special trains. Similar scenes were witnessed at Suncity Ground in Vasai in the neighbouring Palghar district, where thousands of labourers are currently waiting to get seats in special trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-1000-migrants-from-dharavi-transported-to-rly-stations-842150.html
26-05-2020||West||2,091 new coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, 97 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 97 coronavirus deaths -- highest in a day -- and 2,091 new patients, a health official said here. Mumbai city alone accounted for 39 deaths, he added. The death toll due to COVID-19 in the state thus rose to 1,792 while the tally of coronavirus cases reached 54,758, he said. "Out of 97, 35 deaths took place in the last two days while remaining 62 had taken place between April 17 to May 23," the official added. 1,168 patients were discharged from hospital, taking the number of recovered patients to 16,954, he said. Maharashtra COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 54,758, new cases: 2,091, deaths 1,792, discharged 16,954, active cases: 36,004, people tested so far 3,90,170.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2091-new-coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-97-deaths-842177.html
26-05-2020||West||CID to probe abetment of suicide case against Arnab Goswami||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday ordered reinvestigation by the CID into the suicide of a 53-year-old interior designer and his mother, allegedly over non-payment of dues by TV journalist Arnab Goswami and two others. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said he ordered reinvestigation after Adnya Naik, daughter of interior designer Anvay Naik, claimed that Alibag Police in neighbouring Raigad district did not probe the non-payment of dues which had driven her father and grandmother to suicide. "Adnya Naik had complained to me that #AlibaugPolice had not investigated non-payment of dues from #ArnabGoswami's @republic which drove her entrepreneur father & grandmom to suicide in May 2018," Deshmukh tweeted. "I've ordered a CID re-investigation of the case," the minister, an NCP leader, added. He also used the hashtag "Maharashtra government cares" while sharing the tweet. Earlier this month, the police registered an abetment of suicide case against Republic TV editor-in-chief Goswami and two others. The suicide note purportedly written by Anvay Naik, managing director of Concorde Designs Private Limited, said he was forced to take his life as he was not paid dues of Rs 5.40 crore by the three accused. Republic TV denied the allegation and said that certain vested interest groups were running "a false and malicious campaign and making false statements and innuendos against the company by exploiting the tragic event". Mumbai Police are also conducting a probe against Goswami over his statements about the Palghar lynching case of April this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cid-to-probe-abetment-of-suicide-case-against-arnab-goswami-842188.html
26-05-2020||West||Bombay High Court allows minor rape victim to terminate 24-week pregnancy||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday permitted a 13-year-old girl, raped by her father, to terminate her 24-week pregnancy after noting that continuing with the condition would be physically and mentally stressful for the victim. A division bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and N R Borkar allowed a petition filed by the minor's mother seeking permission to terminate the pregnancy. As per the petition, the victim was raped by her father while she was staying at her aunt's home in neighbouring Thane district. The girl confided in her aunt and mother on May 14, following which a FIR was lodged against the accused. When the victim was taken for a medical check-up, she was found to be pregnant. As per provisions of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, abortion beyond 20-weeks of pregnancy can be performed only with the high court's permission. The high court had last week directed for a medical board to be set up at the state-run J J Hospital in south Mumbai to examine the victim and submit its report. "Having considered the opinion of the medical board, the continuation of the pregnancy would be a physical and mental stressful for the minor mother. Considering the circumstances leading to the pregnancy, it would be necessary to permit medical termination of pregnancy," the court said. The bench said since the FIR has been filed, the tissues and blood sample of the foetus will be preserved for requisite medical tests, including DNA tests, against the accused during the trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-allows-minor-rape-victim-to-terminate-24-week-pregnancy-842191.html
26-05-2020||West||1,002 new coronavirus cases, 39 deaths reported in Mumbai||With 1,002 new patients detected on Tuesday, the number of coronavirus cases in Mumbai increased to 32,791 and death toll reached 1,065 with 39 deaths, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. On the other hand, 410 patients were discharged from hospitals taking the number of recovered coronavirus patients in the city to 8,814. 866 new suspected patients have been admitted to various hospitals, the BMC release added. "Out of 39 patients who died due to coronavirus, 25 patients had comorbidities," it added. The civic body has conducted over 1.74 lakh COVID-19 tests at 20 labs, 13 of them private, and of those only 18 per cent came out positive for virus. The first coronavirus positive case was found in Mumbai on March 11 and first death due to pandemic was reported on March 17.  The BMC has sealed 2,826 buildings and set up 686 containment zones in slums and chawls, the release said. Over 16,000 high-risk and over 52,000 low-risk contacts have been admitted to various COVID-19 facilities created in the city, the BMC added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1002-new-coronavirus-cases-39-deaths-reported-in-mumbai-842208.html
