27-05-2020||First Edit||Madras HC ruling enhances press freedom||The Madras High Court has reaffirmed the value and importance of freedom of expression by quashing 28 defamation cases against editors and journalists filed by the Tamil Nadu government during 2011-13 when the late J Jayalalithaa was the chief minister. The judgement is important not only because it threw out so many defamation cases against various media organisations in the state but also because it has set limits for governments in taking action for defamation in a democratic system. Jayalalithaa was intolerant of criticism and during her tenure many defamation cases were filed against journalists for reports which were critical of her or her government. This practice has existed in other states also and media organisations and journalists have been subjected to frequent harassment. Multiple cases are sometimes filed against them from various places. The High Court’s ruling and observations will hopefully serve as the norm and put an end to this practice, especially when the State sets out to prosecute the media for defamation.  The court made it clear that there was a higher threshold for the State to initiate criminal defamation against citizens, compared to ordinary cases of defamation involving private parties, and that it cannot be impulsive to launch prosecution. Public servants and constitutional functionaries should not misuse the law of criminal defamation by using the State as a tool to initiate proceedings against critics. The court also held that there was no case of defamation even if a report contained some inaccuracies. The case for criminal defamation is made only when an imputation is made “recklessly with malice.” Earlier this month, another bench of the court, again quashing charges against two journalists, had said that defamation cases had become a tool of intimidation by powerful politicians and corporates and the judiciary had the duty to protect the fundamental rights and the freedom of the press in such cases.  The principles laid down by the court and its comments are relevant when many rights of citizens, including freedom of the press, are facing challenges and threats in many ways. Cases are foisted and financial pressure is used, and there are threats of, and even actual use of, violence. Harassment and suppression take many forms. The court found that there were 226 cases filed against journalists in the state. It should be noted that the Jayalalithaa government had filed cases against journalists even after the Supreme Court had quashed some cases and warned against the practice. In a country where corruption is endemic, it is important to prevent such brazen harassment and intimidation of journalists and media organisations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/madras-hc-ruling-enhances-press-freedom-842570.html
27-05-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Coronavirus: Jagadish Shettar to ask CM B S Yediyurappa for special package for working class in Cabinet meet||Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Wednesday stated that the demand for financial help for some sections of the working class which are not included in the special package announced by the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa would be raised in the Cabinet meeting, and the chief minister would be urged to extend help for them also. "I have received memoranda in this regard from some sections of unorganised sector workers, and the issue would be brought to the notice of the chief minister, as done with regard to autorickshaw drivers earlier," he said. There is a procedure to provide financial help already announced for farmers, autorickshaw drivers and others. Even amidst the financial problem, the government has announced a package for poor people and labourers. After collecting all details required, money would be transferred to the bank accounts of all genuine beneficiaries, he noted. Clarifying that he has no information about the possibility of deduction in the salary of government employees, Shettar said, "Chief minister, who is also the finance minister, will take a suitable decision. Such a step is taken in some other states".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/coronavirus-jagadish-shettar-to-ask-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-for-special-package-for-working-class-in-cabinet-meet-842352.html
27-05-2020||In Perspective||Quandry, the present state of MSMEs||The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector, besides being the largest jobs provider in the country after agriculture, also contributes to more than one third of the country’s manufacturing output, almost half of the country’s exports and provides approximately 85% of the jobs in the industrial sector. It is the sector which does not ask for any subsidy or concession, like other major sectors of the economy do. Ironically, despite being called the backbone of the country’s economy, this is the sector which is never successful in getting itself heard by the powers-that-be. Governments either listen to agriculturalists’ problems, as they are the vote-deciders, or to corporate houses, as they are the players having huge influence. The MSME promoter neither commands votes nor does he command heft. He keeps on working silently as long as he can and if he can’t anymore, simply dies his own painful death without even leaving a trace behind. Does he really deserve such a fate? It makes for usual news that the Prime Minister had a ‘brainstorming session’ with industrialists to know their problems. The attendees are businessmen like Tata, Godrej, Ambani, Birla, Adani, L&T, Unilever, etc. They definitely are highly distinguished personalities with a lifetime of hard work and experience behind them, but the thing is, the problems of the country’s 63 million MSMEs and those of few hundred large corporate houses are entirely different from one another. The large corporations discuss land acquisition policies, always needing hundreds of acres of land. The MSMEs are usually located on plots of a few hundred yards to a few thousand yards, and they are not concerned with land acquisition policies. While the big players discuss the labour (exit) laws, being employers of thousands of workers, the MSMEs are usually fine with the existing labour laws, being employers of smaller labour forces. The corporates discuss the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in power sector and in getting the norms simplified for captive power generation, whereas the MSMEs are more interested in supply of power at reasonable rates by the respective power corporations. While the MSMEs are more concerned about banks’ interest rates, the larger ones are more interested in simpler SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of India) norms for equity issues or simplified norms for foreign currency loans, and so on. The worst of it all is that when punitive laws are framed, based on the country’s experiences due to large corporations’ undisciplined financial affairs, the MSMEs are treated equally harshly. Draconian acts like Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC), unfortunately, are equally applicable to MSMEs also. Thousands of MSMEs have been wound up for liquidation under this law in the last three and a half years since it became law. It is really pitiable. The government must appreciate that the agricultural sector reached its saturation long ago as far as providing employment is concerned. For the perpetually migrating unemployed youth from villages to cities, the availability of government jobs is limited. This, in fact, makes the MSME sector an important policy tool which, if used correctly, can provide almost unlimited job opportunities. An arguable fact is that since the advent of the era of liberalisation in the early nineties, which was ushered in for the larger good of the country, the entrepreneurial appetite of educated youth has died gradually. New entrepreneurs were not able to face the tough competition brought about by emerging globalisation in the country. Almost every undergraduate engineer, who earlier used to be eager to set up a unit after completing his degree, in contrast, is now only interested in getting a good job in a large company. First-generation entrepreneurs are hardly to be seen in the last few decades. The government’s much-hyped ‘Skill India’ and ‘Make in India’ have obviously not helped matters much. The situation needs some out-of-the-box thinking. For that, the government will have to come out of its ‘denial-mode’ first, trying to make us believe that everything is hunky-dory with the economy. Laws will have to be suitably amended to ensure that the actions of promoters, taken in the normal course of business, are not seen through the prism of criminal laws. The promoter of a defaulting entity should have a “first right of denial” to the terms agreed with the potential buyer/asset reconstruction companies. The policies should be evolved with a view to encourage educated youth to become employers. The policymaking for MSMEs should involve MSME promoters with long experience. The situation that has arisen due to the onslaught of COVID-19 is perhaps the toughest-ever challenge to the world. The entire dimensions of the disaster are yet to dawn on us. Naturally, the most fragile sector of the economy, the MSMEs, is the worst hit. The government at this juncture has a very vital role to play. The repeated interest rate reductions by the Reserve Bank of India in the last one year are a welcome change in a long time. The recent financial package announced by the central government also seems to hold promise for MSMEs, including those MSMEs that are under stress. However, implementation on the ground will be the key for the resurrection of the flagging MSME sector. (The writer is an engineer and entrepreneur based in Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/quandry-the-present-state-of-msmes-842573.html
27-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka reports one more death due to coronavirus, 122 new positive cases||A 69-year-old woman from Yadgiri became the 45th COVID-19 related fatality in Karnataka, where 122 fresh cases have been reported, taking the total number of infections in the state to 2,405, the health department said on Wednesday.  With 45 deaths and 762 discharges, there are 1,596 active coronavirus cases in the state, the department said in its mid-day bulletin. It said, the deceased woman, a returnee from Maharashtra was brought dead to designated hospital in Yadgiri on May 20 and tested positive for COVID-19. Fourteen patients have been discharged in the state so far on Wednesday. Of the 122 new cases, 108 are returnees from neighboring Maharashtra, three from Tamil Nadu, and one each from Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Delhi. While two are returnees from foreign countries- one each from UAE and Nepal. Remaining four cases are contact of patients earlier tested positive. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Kalaburagi accounted for 28, Yadgiri 16, Hassan 15, Bidar 13, Dakshina Kannada 11, Udupi 9, Bengaluru Urban 6, five each from Uttara Kannada and Raichur, Belagavi 4, Chikkamagaluru 3, two each from Bengaluru Rural and Vijayapura, and one each from Ballari, Mandya and Tumakuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-reports-one-more-death-due-to-coronavirus-122-new-positive-cases-842353.html
27-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hassan reports 15 new COVID-19 cases, Mandya 1||It may be mentioned that no positive case was reported from Mandya, on Tuesday.  However, Hassan continued to report a spurt in COVID-19 cases on Wednesday with 15 new positive cases. While a 28-year-old female, P 2370, has a travel history to Tamil Nadu. All the other 14 cases have a travel history of Maharashtra. Out of 15, eight are female and seven male.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-reports-15-new-covid-19-cases-mandya-1-842397.html
27-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Triple murder in Gundlupet||One person has been arrested in connection with the triple murder at Zakir Hussain Nagar in Gundlupet town, on Tuesday night. The police have formed four teams to arrest the others. The deceased are Idris (30), Khaisar (30) and Zakaulla (35). They were attacked with lethal weapons. Old enmity is said to the reason behind the murders, according to the police. Superintendent of Police H D Anand Kumar said that prima facie, murder is suspected to be due to financial dispute and enmity. Five people were injured in the incident. Two are critical and three are out of danger. They are being treated at the hospital in Mysuru, he said. According to the police, there was enmity between the two groups as the deceased had informed the police about illegal cattle transportation. Besides, Zakaulla and Khaisar were said to be history-sheeters. IGP (Southern Range) Vipul Kumar and SP Anand Kumar visited the spot on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, the IGP said, “The murders were due to personal enmity. Several persons are said to be involved in the murders. The accused would be arrested soon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/triple-murder-in-gundlupet-842538.html
27-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Tiger, suspected to have killed man, rescued||Forest department officials have rescued a male tiger, approximately eight years old, which is said to have killed a man, at Handi Halla under Nararahole Tiger Reserve in Hunsur taluk on Wednesday. According to Forest department officials, the tiger had killed 65-year-old Jagadish of Neralakuppe B Hadi and his body was found near Handi Halla on Tuesday. Following the incident, the Forest department personnel had placed a cage to rescue the big cat. It has to be recalled that Jagadish, who had ventured into the forest, to herd sheep and goats on Monday, was missing since Monday. The Forest department personnel had launched a search for him, with the help of tamed elephants, from Monday night.  As the body of Jagadish was found, villagers had demanded the Forest department officials to kill the tiger. The tiger is shifted to Chamundi Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre in Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tiger-suspected-to-have-killed-man-rescued-842541.html
27-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||5 cops test positive for Covid in Hassan & Mandya||In all, five police personnel from the region have tested positive for Covid-19, so far. While four police personnel, including a sub-inspector from Holenarasipur town and rural police stations have tested positive for Covid-19, in Hassan district, a head constable tested positive in Mandya district. A head constable deputed at a quarantine centre at KR Pet town and a Child Development Protection Officer, who was deputed as in-charge of containment zones in Malavalli town, have tested positive in Mandya district. The urban and rural police stations in KR Pet taluk in Mandya district, were closed for four days and the station activities were shifted to Kikkeri station. It is a huge challenge for the authorities concerned to trace the primary and secondary contacts of the frontline workers, like doctors, paramedics, police officers and Asha workers, as they come in contact with a large number of people every day, as part of their duty. In Holenarasipur, two personnel and an SI were deputed on a 15-day duty at a checkpost in Nippani, Belagavi district. They returned to the town on Sunday. They were under home quarantine. Upon testing their samples, they were found to be positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The jeep driver, who had gone to pick up the police personnel too has tested positive. In all, four persons from the department have tested positive in Hassan district. The authorities swung into action and closed all shops in Holenarsipur town, as a precautionary measure. The localities where the personnel were on home quarantine have been sealed down. Assistant Commissioner Naveen Bhat visited the spot and directed the officials to spray disinfectants and erect barricades, to prevent the movement of people. According to the guidelines, the Police department is not deploying personnel, aged above 55 years, on Covid 19 duty. Besides, the staff are regularly monitored. It is mandatory for the personnel on duty to get sanitised and to use gloves. After Mandya, it is Hassan, which is facing the challenge of migrants from Maharashtra. Hassan district is continuously reporting a spike in Covid cases, since the past few days. It breached the 100-mark and stood at 121 cases on Tuesday. However, the declining cases is a big relief for Mandya. While there were no positive cases on Tuesday, it reported one case on Wednesday morning. The number of results awaited is approximately 1,100 cases and the administration hopes that the figures will continue to decline in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/5-cops-test-positive-for-covid-in-hassan-mandya-842542.html
27-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid: Rs 15 cr revenue loss for MM Hill temple||The impact of Covid and the lockdown has left the popular Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple poorer by approximately Rs 15 crore, in the form of revenue loss. The temple has been closed for public from March 20. Thousands of devotees from across the state and neighbouring states used to visit the temple every day. The devotees usually increases during summer vacation. As the temple was closed since two months, it has seen a revenue loss of around Rs 15 crore, according to sources. On an average, the temple earns a revenue of Rs 1.4 crore every year from the offering boxes (hundi). Besides, tickets for the golden chariot and other sevas, sale of laddus, booking of guesthouses and other sources used to earn more than Rs 6 crore every month. The temple has incurred a huge loss due to the lockdown this year. It may be mentioned that Ugadi jatra too was not conducted this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-rs-15-cr-revenue-loss-for-mm-hill-temple-842544.html
27-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Rumour mongers are anti-nationals: Nagesh||District In-charge Minister H Nagesh said that people spreading rumours about rice he had distributed in containment zones were anti-nationals. “Some people were making baseless allegations that the rice I had distributed in the containment zones had insects. People spreading such rumours are anti-nationals,” he told reporters. Nagesh said that the quality of the rice was tested before its distribution. There was verification after the rumours and it was top quality rice. Some miscreants hatched a conspiracy. They videographed the distribution of the ration and handed over the footage to media. The Minister suspected involvement of his political rivals in the incident.Some people in Mulbagal were behind such activities. Members of some Stree Shakti groups and BJP leaders had also been targeted. “Top quality ration has been distributed. I can openly say it on any platform.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rumour-mongers-are-anti-nationals-nagesh-842547.html
27-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Shivamogga govt medical college to offer BSc in S&H||Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences (SIMS) will become Karnataka's first government medical college to offer a BSc course in Speech & Hearing (S&H). The governing council has approved financial expenses of Rs 5 crore in this regard. The course procedural approvals are in progress. As per the norms, it needs approval from Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences and Rehabilitation Council of India. If things go as planned, SIMS will start offering BSc in Speech & Hearing from 2021-22. Rs 5 cr grant Confirming this, SIMS ENT Department Head K S Gangadhar told DH that the state government has approved the one-time financial grant of Rs 5 crore to start the course. The duration of the course is four years and that of a diploma is one year. SIMS is also the first government medical college in the state out of 19 to have full-fledged speech & hearing centre. Though it is not comparable to All India Speech & Hearing Centre (AIISH) in Mysuru in magnitude, SIMS has the all necessary equipment. It has ear microscope worth Rs 30 lakh, bronchoscopy used in diagnosis & treatment of bronchus, lungs, video laryngoscope used for precise surgery of disorders of the larynx. It has hi-tech speech and hearing equipment. Gangadhar said the intake for BSc is 40 per year and diploma 20. He exuded confidence that the commencement of this course would play a vital role in addressing the severe shortage of audiologists and speech therapists in the country. It caters to the needs of six districts -Shivamogga, Chitradurga, Chikkamagaluru, Davangere, Haveri, Uttara Kannada as they need not go to AIISH, Mysuru. Speech disorders like stammering, stuttering, delayed speech are treated here. All hearing disorders too are managed. Also, cochlear implant surgery for deaf children and post-surgery rehabilitation can be done here. He said it is an expensive surgery costing around Rs 10 lakh to Rs 12 lakh, which is done almost for free under government schemes. SIMS Director Gurupadappa said, "Though we have speech and hearing centre, the new building is required to start the course. We will submit a detailed plan to the government shortly. It is delayed due to Covid crisis."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shivamogga-govt-medical-college-to-offer-bsc-in-sh-842586.html
27-05-2020||Main Article||Ominous signals from Beijing||Strange are the ways of China. The ongoing border tensions between India and China in the Ladakh sector have revealed how Beijing operates. For instance, China wants to build roads everywhere, including in regions claimed by India, but will not allow India to do so in its own regions. China’s military wants to change the status quo in its favour but it will not countenance others wanting the same. After laying down extensive road, railway and fibre-optic networks and deploying military forces over years, now, China is trying to stop India from doing the same on the Indian side. This is not just in the India-China border areas, but Beijing is doing the same with its neighbours in the South China Sea region, too. Strange also are China’s words depicting the nature of the conflict at the borders. China’s officials and media claim that India is “violating” their “sovereignty and territorial integrity” and “trespassing” in the western sector currently, as if the two countries have agreed-upon maps delineating their respective borders in these areas. None exist between India and China. China is now claiming the Galwan area, which was traditionally part of the Kashmir princely state and at no point in China’s history did it have control over it. Previously, China received Kashmir territory from Pakistan, including Aghil, Shimshal, Ruksam and Sakshgam valleys, in addition to expanding its encroachment on Indian land of 52,000 sq km, including 38,000 sq km of Aksai Chin area. China’s territorial appetite seems to have no limits. Its discourse in the South China Sea dispute is similar -- that it has “indisputable” sovereignty over the whole of the South China Sea, even though many islands are clearly in Vietnamese or Filipino waters, besides the Senkaku islands of Japan. Home Minister Amit Shah’s August 6, 2019 statement that Aksai Chin and Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir are integral parts of India has been cited as the reason for China’s current overdrive in this region, though External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a week later  clarified to his counterpart Wang Yi in Beijing that India was making no new territorial claims with the new legislation bifurcating J&K and Ladakh as new Union Territories. Strange also are the ways of resolving the stand-offs. The Depsang Plains incident in April-May 2013 was resolved after three weeks of similar pitching of tents as is being seen now. In comparison, the Doklam crisis in 2017 took 72 days to resolve. But, soon after the stand-off was reported to have been resolved, China resumed building the road to Jampheri Ridge, which India had objected to and was the trigger for that stand-off. In the current episode at Galwan in Ladakh, China demands that India stop building a feeder road to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the Indian side. On the other hand, the Naku La incident in Sikkim earlier this month was resolved with the implementation of confidence-building mechanisms. However, the Chinese have resisted similar mechanisms in the three-week long Galwan stand-off so far, despite the reported six meetings between the two sides. Are the Chinese digging in for a long haul here that might possibly last until September when the freezing winter will start taking its toll on both sides? Strange again that there are no major announcements on either side about the ongoing tussle in Galwan. Rumours are flying thick and fast that the Chinese have deployed a division-strength troops spread across multiple points. On May 21, China’s foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said that the “Chinese border troops are…responding resolutely to India's trespassing and infringing activities…[and] refrain from taking any unilateral actions that may complicate the situation.” India rejected this position. However, Zhao said that both sides are discussing the issue through diplomatic channels. Strange, that while China stated that the United States has no role in the bilateral boundary issues of India and China, its party-state controlled newspapers seek to threaten India into not joining the global criticism of China’s handling of the Covid-19 epidemic or the resultant re-location of supply chains in the Indo-Pacific region. China’s comments came after outgoing US Assistant Secretary of State Alice Wells said that whether in South China Sea or on the border with India, China exhibited “provocative and disturbing behaviour”. Interestingly, the US has since 1962 acknowledged the McMahon line as India’s border with China in the eastern sector but has so far refrained from saying anything on the western sector of the border. Strange, yet again, is the logic of China’s government owned think-tanks and party scholars. They suggest that India has resorted to road-building in Ladakh to divert attention from the Indian economy’s parlous state due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Truth is, the Indian Border Roads Organisation built the 255-km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie road long ago and the work on even the feeder roads to the LAC began last year. Why is China being economical with facts and its own intentions? On May 15, foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian skirted around the issue of the Diamer Bhasha dam project in Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir, which is violative of India’s sovereignty. However, ever since China began the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor in 2014, investing $62 billion (of which $42 billion has already been spent) for connectivity projects between Kashgar in Xinjiang to Islamabad and beyond to Gwadar port, these roads have passed through Kashmiri territories occupied by Pakistan. And to secure these projects, China has deployed 36,000 ‘security guards’ in this region, besides the Pakistan Army committing one division of troops. If China’s intention is to gain unfair advantage in the border areas by dominating them through dual-use infrastructure projects, intervening in the internal affairs of India on the Kashmir issue at the UN Security Council meetings, and mobilising ‘security guards’ in Pakistan/China-Occupied Kashmir, keeping India off guard in the region or “not allowing thy neighbour to sleep properly at night,” as Mao Zedong once said, then India has some hard choices to make now. (The writer is Professor in Chinese Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/ominous-signals-from-beijing-842572.html
27-05-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus lockdown: Kerala tipplers swim across Kapila River to purchase liquor in Karnakata||A few people swam down the river which originates in Wayanad in Kerala and enters Karnataka in HD Kote taluk in Mysuru district.  According to the villages, a few people are crossing the border swimming down the river. They purchase liquor and return to their village crossing border through the rural route.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-lockdown-kerala-tipplers-swim-across-kapila-river-to-purchase-liquor-in-karnakata-842318.html
27-05-2020||Mysuru||Forest Dept rescues tiger at Handi Halla in Karnataka||Forest Department officials have rescued a tiger, which is said to have killed a man, at Handi Halla in Nararahole Tiger Reserve on Wednesday. The tiger had killed one Jagadeesha and his carcass were found near Handi Halla. Jagadeesha had gone missing since Monday.  Following the incident, the villagers had demanded the Forest Department officials to kill the tiger. The officials had placed caged to rescue the big cat. Following the death, the department personnel began the search operation, with the help of tamed elephants on Monday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/forest-dept-rescues-tiger-at-handi-halla-in-karnataka-842333.html
27-05-2020||National||PM Modi reviews situation amid LAC tensions||Amid rising border tensions between India and China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reviewed the developments, while Beijing warned New Delhi that the situation might turn more intense than the 2017 Doklam face-off if the Indian Army was not reined in. India has asked Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to restore the status quo to defuse tension along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. But so far, there has been no headway in de-escalating the situation even though diplomats from both sides are in touch.  On Tuesday, Modi met with his National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh, R K Mathur. He reviewed the situation on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh, where troop build-up by both the Indian Army and Chinese PLA has continued along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) — the de facto border between the two nations. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also had a separate meeting with top military officials. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the chiefs of Indian Army, Air Force and Navy — Gen M M Naravane, Air Chief Marshal R K Singh Bhadauria and Admiral Karambir Singh — were present in the meeting with Defence Minister. Sources told DH that both sides were still exploring the possibility of talks between Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister and State Councilor Wang Yi over phone to avert further escalation. Doval and Wang are currently designated as the Special Representatives of India and China respectively to lead the negotiation to resolve the boundary dispute. China deployed nearly 5,000 additional troops on its side of the LAC near the lake, but sent smaller units, each comprising nearly 100 to 200 soldiers, across the line into the Indian territory in at least three or four nearby locations. The Indian Army, too, rushed in additional troops as a countermeasure, but none of its soldiers transgressed the LAC to enter the Chinese territory. New Delhi has ruled out the possibility of accepting the Chinese PLA’s demand for suspension of construction of a road and a bridge closer to a forward post of the Indian Army near the Pangong Tso lake. India conveyed to China that it was building infrastructure well within its side of the LAC and would continue to do so.  Chinese daily warns India Meanwhile, China’s state-owned “Global Times” newspaper warned that if India failed to stop provocative actions by its soldiers in the area, it would have an impact on bilateral relations. The paper also said the situation along the LAC might even “exceed” in “intensity” the 72-day-long face-off at Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan in June-August, 2017.      “Some Indians believe slowed Chinese economy growth and some Western countries' blame game on China provide them a great opportunity where the border issue will fall to their advantage amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” Long Xingchun, president of Chengdu Institute of World Affairs, wrote in an article for the paper. “This may reflect the viewpoints of certain circles from the Indian government and military. However, this speculative mind-game is based on an incorrect judgment of the international order and China's national condition. This is flawed logic and ultimately detrimental to India.” “Although China's relationship with the US is tense, the international environment for China is much better than it was in 1962 when India started and crushingly defeated in a border war with China,” he argued, adding: “In 1962, the national strength of China and India were comparable. Today by stark contrast, China's GDP is about five times that of India.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reviews-situation-amid-lac-tensions-842215.html
27-05-2020||National||ICMR removes price cap of Rs 4,500 for coronavirus test; asks state governments to negotiate with private laboratories||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has backtracked on the Rs 4,500 price ceiling it had set for conducting Covid-19 tests in private laboratories. But instead of setting up a lower ceiling, the council has now asked the state governments to negotiate with private laboratories to offer the tests at a lower price. “Testing supplies are stabilising and due to the availability of a variety of testing materials and kits, including indigenous ones, the prices are becoming competitive and are undergoing reduction. Considering these developments and the evolving prices of the testing kits, the earlier suggested upper ceiling of Rs 4,500 may not be applicable now,” ICMR director general Balaram Bhargava wrote in a letter to the states on Monday. “All state governments and Union Territory administrations are advised to negotiate with private laboratories and fix up mutually agreeable prices for samples being sent by the government and also for private individuals desirous of testing by these labs,” he wrote.  The council in March fixed the price ceiling and defended the decision in the Supreme Court a month later. The price includes Rs 1,500 for screening and the rest for the confirmatory RT-PCR test.  However, the public health activists questioned the cap and pointed out that it was too high for a large section of Indians who won’t be able to afford it. The high price is considered one of the reasons for low Covid-19 testing at the government laboratories. “There were several negative consequences of the high cap. There was also lack of clarity on how the cap was fixed,” commented Malini Aisola, co-convenor, All India Drug Action Network.  Several state governments like Karnataka (Rs 2,250), Delhi (Rs 4,500-2,200) and Mumbai (Rs 3,500-2,500) have negotiated reimbursement rates for testing of government samples that are lower than Rs 4,500. “But these rates were not extended to individuals, resulting in families shelling out large amounts of money for testing of their family members,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-removes-price-cap-of-rs-4500-for-coronavirus-test-asks-state-governments-to-negotiate-with-private-laboratories-842230.html
27-05-2020||National||Schools, colleges still not allowed to open: MHA||No decision has been taken on opening of schools and colleges and all education institutions across the country are still prohibited to open, the Union Home Ministry said Tuesday night. The statement by the home ministry spokesperson came after a section of media reported that the ministry has given permission to all states to open schools. "No such decision taken by MHA. All Educational institutions are still prohibited to open, throughout the country(sic)," the spokesperson tweeted All educational institutions have been shut since mid-March -- some of them from March 25 when the nationwide lockdown started -- to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic. The nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat the pandemic. It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17. The lockdown has now been extended till May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/schools-colleges-still-not-allowed-to-open-mha-842231.html
27-05-2020||National||Fewer cancellations on second day of domestic flights||The second day of resumption of domestic flights witnessed fewer cancellations as more passengers took to the skies on Tuesday. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said airports across the country handled 325 departures and 283 arrivals with 41,673 passengers on board till 5:00 pm on Tuesday. Andhra Pradesh re-joined the aviation map on Tuesday with Vijaywada and Vishakhapatnam airport scheduled to handle eight flights each “So far limited cancellations have been seen. Overall, the second day is better than the first,” Nishant Pitti, Co-founder and CEO, Easemytrip.com told DH. Delhi airport witnessed 25 cancellations due to operational reasons, leading to disappointment and anguish to some passengers. “Smooth operations of the domestic civil aviation operation. Our airports have handled 325 departures and 283 arrivals with 41,673 passengers till 5 pm on  May 26 the second day after recommencement of the domestic flight,” Puri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fewer-cancellations-on-second-day-of-domestic-flights-842234.html
27-05-2020||National||China’s military build-up a diversion tactic||China’s military build-up on the north bank of the Pangong Tso lake along its disputed boundary with India is just one of the many facets of its aggression, which it deliberately ratcheted up amid the pandemic. Beijing recently nudged the Nepal Communist Party government in Kathmandu to raise its pitch on Nepal’s territorial dispute with India. The Power Construction Corporation of China of late signed a contract with Pakistan to build a controversial hydro-electric plant in Gilgit-Baltistan, which is part of the area India accuses Pakistan of illegally occupying. China’s People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) of late deployed research vessels, underwater drones and 35th Task Force fleet, with 690 personnel, in the Indian Ocean, in order to spread its tentacles in the maritime neighbourhood of India. The message that China wants to send out to India is clear: It wants to warn New Delhi against going into a tighter embrace with the United States in the post-COVID-19 world order. After Donald Trump launched a tirade against China, Beijing responded to it with belligerence. The Chinese PLA Navy stepped up aggression in the disputed waters of the South China Sea and the East China Sea, rattling the US allies in the region. Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday asked the PLA to scale up the battle preparedness. What is clear is that China chose offensive defence as its policy to respond to counter the US campaign to hold it responsible for the COVID-19 crisis, and cover up its failure to handle the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-s-military-build-up-a-diversion-tactic-842235.html
27-05-2020||National||Pak to bring back 176 Pakistanis stranded in India through Attari-Wagah border||Pakistan on Tuesday said that 176 Pakistanis stranded in India due to the current coronavirus lockdown will return home on Wednesday through the Attari-Wagah border. India like many other nations in the world has imposed a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus which has created havoc around the world by infecting 5,543,439 and killing 347,836 people. “These 176 Pakistanis were stranded in different Indian states including Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and Delhi due to the extended lockdown and closure of Attari-Wagah border following the outbreak of coronavirus,” the Foreign Office (FO) said in a statement. “In line with the Prime Minister’s directions, for safe and smooth repatriation of stranded Pakistanis, the High Commission for Pakistan in New Delhi remained in close contact with the Indian side and the Foreign Office has been coordinating with other national authorities in Pakistan,” the FO added. It said the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi also facilitated and coordinated logistics for transfer of these Pakistanis to Attari from more than twenty different Indian cities, amid the lockdown. More than 400 stranded Pakistanis have been repatriated from India through Attari-Wagah border since March 20, 2020. The ongoing efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue till the repatriation of all remaining stranded Pakistanis, the FO said. Earlier, Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said that more than 110,000 Pakistani stranded in various parts of the world wanted to come back.  Pakistan has till now witnessed 57,705 cases of coronavirus, with 1,197 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-to-bring-back-176-pakistanis-stranded-in-india-through-attari-wagah-border-842241.html
27-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 27, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-27-2020-edition-842248.html
27-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 27||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,57,677 as of May 27. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 4,523 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 60,491 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-27-842249.html
27-05-2020||National||Safdarjung Hospital files complaint as audio clip claims under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths there||The Safdarjung Hospital has filed a police complaint about a purported viral audio clip of a conversation between two unidentified men who claim that the number of bodies of COVID-19 victims being taken away from the facility every day is much higher than the government reported figures on deaths. Additional Medical Superintendent of the hospital Dr Rajiv Sharma said a complaint was filed with the Cyber Crime Cell in this regard on Sunday. In the audio, two unidentified men are engaged in a conversation about the number of bodies of coronavirus victims being taken away from the Centre-run hospital in ambulances every day. One of them, claiming to be associated with the Safdarjung Hospital, alleges that the COVID-19 deaths in the hospital was much higher than the government reported figures. "This is totally fake and is a rumour with an aim to spread panic. Such kind of audio is demoralising to the healthcare personnel working so hard in treating persons afflicted with the disease.  "The information given out seems to be probably with a mala fide intention to malign the reputation of the hospital," he said. The Safdarjung hospital is the nodal agency under the Central government for admitting and treating COVID-19 patients. "The exact figures are being reported on a daily basis to the Central agencies and nothing is hidden," Dr Sharma said. "We have filed a complaint and have asked them to track the source of the audio. We have also urged them to stop the transmission of this audio further in the social media and catch the culprits," he said.  Till Tuesday, there have been 69 COVID-19 related deaths in the hospital and around 182 patients infected by the novel coronavirus are currently admitted. Already, 238 patients have been discharged after recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/safdarjung-hospital-files-complaint-as-audio-clip-claims-under-reporting-of-covid-19-deaths-there-842250.html
27-05-2020||National||Fed up with living in containment zones, mob attacks police||At least 12 police personnel and a journalist were injured when a mob indulged in stone-pelting in the steel city of Rourkela on Tuesday, demanding the withdrawal of containment tag from some areas. The areas were declared as containment zones last month to curb the spread of COVID-19, police said. Residents of Mahatab Road and Main Road localities hit the streets, confronted the policemen deployed to enforce containment restrictions and sought to know why the areas should remain sealed for such a long period. They demanded immediate steps to withdraw the containment zone tag from the areas, a police officer said. Claiming that they are facing immense hardship because they were kept in illegal confinement, the protesters entered into a heated altercation with the policemen on duty. Unable to get a favourable response from the police personnel, the crowd manhandled them and pelted them with stones, the officer said.  The protesters also uprooted the barricades that were put up around the containment zones and vandalised a police control room, he said. As the agitators burnt tyres in the area, some portions of the bamboo barricades caught fire. At least a dozen policemen and a journalist covering the incident suffered injuries in the attack. All of them were hospitalized. Additional police personnel were deployed in the area and the protesters were pacified. "The situation is tense but under control," the police official said. Sundergarh district Collector Nikhil Pavan Kalyan convened a meeting of the peace committee to resolve the issue. "It is our prime objective to resolve the issues and we will try to do that. We will listen to the grievances of the people and try to address them. We will hold talks with an open mind. This is not simply a local issue as all of us are fighting a bigger enemy - coronavirus," Collector Kalyan said. The area had been declared a containment zone around a month ago following the detection of some Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fed-up-with-living-in-containment-zones-mob-attacks-police-842253.html
27-05-2020||National||Bihar COVID-19 toll reaches 15 as 2 migrants die; tally 2,968 with 231 fresh cases||Two migrant workers, whose samples were collected after they breathed their last in different districts of Bihar recently, have tested positive for COVID-19, raising the death toll in the state to 15, officials said on Tuesday. The total number of positive cases, meanwhile, rose to 2,968 with 231 cases being reported during the day. A 40-year-old man from Nalanda district, who returned from Noida on May 20 and died at a hospital in Pawapuri town four days later, has tested positive for the dreaded coronavirus, Civil Surgeon Ram Singh said. He said the deceased, who belonged to a village in Nalanda, had been lodged at a quarantine centre in Bihar Sharif, the district headquarter town, but was rushed to the Pawapuri-based facility upon developing severe symptoms of fever and cough. He died within hours of being admitted to Pawapuri hospital on Sunday afternoon, the civil surgeon said, adding that tests conducted locally, by Truenat, suggested that he was COVID 19 positive, following which his sample was collected for comprehensive testing to Patna, which confirmed the infection. The results triggered panic in the area with family members refusing to attend the funeral, which was conducted by the administration. An FIR has been registered against an ambulance driver who refused to drive the vehicle, carrying the body for cremation, the Civil Surgeon said, adding the body was preserved till results from the state capital confirmed the COVID-19 status. Another migrant in his late 30s, who was declared brought dead at the Sadar hospital in Jehanabad district on May 23, has also tested positive for COVID 19, Civil Surgeon Vijay Kumar Sinha said. He said the deceased hailed from East Champaran district and was said to have left for his home district on foot on May 19 from Maharashtra. Hitching rides on trucks en route, he reached Karmanasha station – situated along Bihar's border with Uttar Pradesh –- and boarded an intra-state train to reach his home district. "He lost consciousness on the train and when co-passengers raised an alarm at Jehanabad station, he was deboarded by police and taken to hospital where he was declared as having been brought dead. "Contact-tracing is on for all those who might have travelled in the same compartment as he did. The body has been sent to East Champaran with due precautions for burial," Sinha added. The state Health Department has updated its records with regard to the Nalanda casualty, registering it as the 14th fatality caused by the pandemic in the state. The process was underway for the death in Jehanabad. Meanwhile, the number of fresh cases continued to rise rapidly in the state, which has been attributed largely to the massive influx of migrants from other parts of the country since the beginning of this month. Patna district, the worst affected in the state, reported six fresh cases which caused its tally to reach 217. Among those testing positive, four were personnel of the Bihar Military Police. The second-worst affected district, Rohtas, was rocked by an explosion of 35 fresh cases which caused its tally to breach the 200-mark.  Those testing positive in the district, which has reported a total of 201 cases, included four children under five years of age, the youngest being a one-year-old boy, according to figures made available by the health department. A boy and a girl, both a year-old, were among 31 people testing positive in the remote north Bihar district of Madhubani, which now ranks third with 176 cases. Significant numbers of cases were also reported from districts like Darbhanga, Banka, Sheikhpura and Kishanganj. In addition to the three worst-affected districts, Begusarai, Munger, Khagaria, Katihar, Buxar and Jehanabad have tallies in three digits. None of the 38 districts in the state has a tally below 10. The districts reporting casualties -- other than the two latest ones -- are Patna, Vaishali and Khagaria (two each) and Rohtas, East Champaran, Munger, Sitamarhi, Saran and Siwan (one each). Altogether 800 people have recovered after having tested positive. As per the state health department, the number of migrant workers testing positive since May 03 was 1,900, which is roughly 80 per cent of the total number of cases reported during the period. Returnees from Maharashtra (447), Delhi (428), Gujarat (287), Haryana (166) Uttar Pradesh (103), Rajasthan (102), West Bengal (85) and Telangana (84) comprise a major chunk of migrants testing positive. According to Anupam Kumar, Secretary for Information and Public Relations Department, 15.41 lakh migrant workers have come back to Bihar during the lockdown by 1,026 Shramik Specials so far and another 5.29 lakh are scheduled to arrive soon in 321 special trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-covid-19-toll-reaches-15-as-2-migrants-die-tally-2968-with-231-fresh-cases-842254.html
27-05-2020||National||Doctor tests positive for coronavirus in Odisha's Cuttack||For the first time in Odisha, a doctor has tested positive for coronavirus infection here, a senior official said here on Tuesday. The doctor was shifted to a designated COVID-19 hospital in the city, the Commissioner of Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC), Ananya Das, said. Das said that the doctor went to a relatives place in Kendrapara district recently, and after returning to the city on May 18, he complained of fever, cough and cold. "His swab samples were sent for COVID-19 testing and the reports came on Monday, showing he was coronavirus positive," Das said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctor-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-odishas-cuttack-842258.html
27-05-2020||National||1 lakh people complete COVID-19 quarantine period in Odisha||As many as 1 lakh people, mostly migrant workers returning from other states, have completed their quarantine period in Odisha, which continues to change its strategies to contain the spread of COVID-19, a top official said. Odisha's model of coronavirus management has been appreciated by "one and all" as well as its morbidity rate that is "lowest (0.46 per cent)" in the country, Chief Secretary A K Tripathy said. "This is an evolving crisis and, therefore, our strategies should be well-calibrated. Our response is fast and flexible," he said. Odisha has 777 active COVID-19 cases, while 733 people have so far been cured, the senior official said. Seven people have died in the state due to the contagion. Tripathy said the state's stress is on four aspects -- mandatory quarantine for all returnees, massive corona sample testing, involving the panchayati raj institutions or community involvement and scientific approach towards the disease. He said Odisha also conducts more sample tests than the national average. "The state conducts 2,861 sample tests per 10 lakh population, while the national figure is 2,360." The chief secretary added that the state government has decided to launch a 15-day IEC (information, education and communication) campaign for patients with comorbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-lakh-people-complete-covid-19-quarantine-period-in-odisha-842259.html
27-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets Gadkari on 63rd birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday greeted his cabinet colleague Nitin Gadkari on his 63rd birthday, saying he is working hard to ensure futuristic infrastructure. "Birthday wishes to our senior Cabinet colleague, Shri @nitin_gadkariJi. He is working hard to ensure futuristic infrastructure as well as vibrant MSMEs in the nation," the prime minister tweeted. "Praying for his long and healthy life," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-gadkari-on-63rd-birthday-842282.html
27-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi pays tributes to Jawaharlal Nehru on his death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to Jawaharlal Nehru on his 56th death anniversary on Wednesday. Nehru, the first prime minister of India, held office between August 1947 and May 1964. Tributes to our first PM, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Ji on his death anniversary. "Tributes to our first PM, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Ji on his death anniversary," the prime minister tweeted. Nehru died on this day in 1964.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pays-tributes-to-jawaharlal-nehru-on-his-death-anniversary-842289.html
27-05-2020||National||5 Indian peacekeepers to be honoured posthumously with UN medal for sacrifice in line of duty||Five Indian peacekeepers, who laid down their lives while serving in UN peacekeeping missions last year, are among 83 military, police and civilian personnel to be honoured this week with a prestigious UN medal awarded posthumously for courage and sacrifice in the line of duty. Major Ravi Inder Singh Sandhu and Sergeant Lal Manotra Tarsem, who served with the UN Mission in South Sudan; Sergeant Ramesh Singh with the UN Interim Force in Lebanon; Private Johnsion Beck with the UN Disengagement Observer Force and Edward Agapito Pinto, who served in a civilian capacity with the UN Organisation Stabilisation Mission in Congo, will posthumously receive the Dag Hammarskjold Medal on the International Day of UN Peacekeepers observed on May 29. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres will lay a wreath to honour all the UN peacekeepers who lost their lives since 1948. He will then preside over a ceremony at which the Dag Hammarskjold Medal will be awarded posthumously to 83 military, police and civilian peacekeepers, who lost their lives in the line of duty in 2019. The world organisation said this year, the challenges and threats faced by its peacekeepers are even greater than ever, as they, like people around the world, are not only coping with the COVID-19 pandemic, but are also supporting and protecting the people in the countries they are based in. They are continuing their operations to the best of their abilities and supporting the governments and the local populations, despite the risk of COVID-19, it said. The theme for this year's Day is "Women in Peacekeeping: A Key to Peace" to mark the 20th anniversary of the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. The International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers is commemorated to pay tribute to the uniformed and civilian personnel's invaluable contribution to the work of the world organisation and to honour more than 3,900 peacekeepers who have lost their lives serving under the UN flag since 1948. India is the 5th largest contributor of uniformed personnel to UN Peacekeeping. It currently contributes more than 5,400 military and police personnel to the UN peacekeeping operations in Abyei, Cyprus, Congo, Lebanon, the Middle East, Sudan, South Sudan, Western Sahara as well as one expert to the UN Assistance Mission in Somalia. Bringing honour to India with her service, Major Suman Gawani of the Indian Army, a Military Observer, formerly deployed with the UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) won the prestigious United Nations Military Gender Advocate of the Year Award in 2019, the first year the prestigious award has gone to a peacekeeper from India. Gawani, along with Commander Carla Monteiro de Castro Araujo, a Brazilian Naval officer working in the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic, were named joint winners of the United Nations Military Gender Advocate of the Year 2019 Award. The award recognises the dedication and effort of an individual military peacekeeper in promoting the principles of UN Security Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security in a peace operation context, as nominated by Heads and Force Commanders of peace operations. Gawani and Araujo will receive the award during an online ceremony presided over by Guterres on May 29. Gawani has expressed her gratitude for recognising her work as UN Military Observer. "Whatever our function, position or rank, it is our duty as peacekeepers to integrate an all genders perspective into our daily work and own it in our interactions with colleagues as well as with communities," she said in a statement issued here. Guterres commended Araujo and Gawani, describing them as "powerful role models". "Through their work, they have brought new perspectives and have helped to build trust and confidence among the communities we serve. Through their commitment and innovative approaches, they embrace a standard of excellence that is an inspiration to all blue helmets everywhere. As we confront today's challenges, their work has never been more important or relevant," he said. The General Assembly had designated May 29 as the commemoration day because it was the date in 1948 when the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), the world body's first peacekeeping mission, began its operations in Palestine. The Dag Hammarskjold Medal was established in December 2000 and is awarded posthumously to members of peacekeeping operations who lost their lives during service with a peacekeeping operation under the operational control and authority of the United Nations. The medal is named after the second UN Secretary General, who had died in a mysterious 1961 plane crash. He was posthumously awarded a Nobel Peace Prize the year he died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-indian-peacekeepers-to-be-honoured-posthumously-with-un-medal-for-sacrifice-in-line-of-duty-842291.html
27-05-2020||National||Pangolin rescued from Odisha quarantine centre to undergo COVID-19 test||A pangolin rescued by the forest department from a quarantine centre in Odisha's Cuttack district will undergo COVID-19 test, an official said. The swab samples of the pangolin have been collected for the coronavirus test, the official said on Tuesday. The pangolin was rescued by the personnel of Athagarh forest division in Cuttack from a quarantine centre at a school at Mahulia following a tip-off from a village head. Athagarh divisional forest officer Sasmita Lenka said the female pangolin which is aged around five years was rescued from a quarantine centre and it has been decided to send its swab sample for Covid-19 testing before releasing it into the wild, Lenka said. The Centre for Wildlife Health in Bhubaneswar was contacted to facilitate the process, she said adding that efforts are on to ascertain how the pangolin found its way into the quarantine centre.  The swab samples of the animal will be sent to a designated laboratory where tests for COVID-19 are being conducted, an official said. The test on the scaly anteater is significant as studies claim that the coronavirus which causes Covid-19 could be a recombination of viruses found in pangolins and bats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pangolin-rescued-from-odisha-quarantine-centre-to-undergo-covid-19-test-842293.html
27-05-2020||National||Rupee slips 8 paise to 75.74 against US dollar in early trade||The rupee depreciated 8 paise to 75.74 against the US dollar in opening trade on Wednesday as market participants were concerned about rising tensions between Washington and Beijing in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Forex traders said rupee was trading in a narrow range as rising optimism about a potential coronavirus vaccine and a revival in business activity was offset by the escalation of US-China tension. Moreover, strengthening of the American currency overseas and muted opening of domestic equities also weighed on the local unit. The rupee opened weak at 75.72 at the interbank forex market and then fell further to 75.74, down 8 paise over its last close. It had settled at 75.66 against the US dollar on Tuesday. "Asian currencies were weak this Wednesday morning amid escalation of tension between the US and China. Offshore yuan was weak by 0.3 per cent and Korean won also weak by 0.3 per cent," Reliance Securities said in a research note. China on Friday introduced the draft of a controversial national security law in Hong Kong in its parliament to tighten Beijing's control over Hong Kong. The US, over the last few days, has expressed concerns over the new Chinese law on Hong Kong and has given indication of taking steps against it. "He (US President Donald Trump) is displeased with China's efforts and that it's hard to see how Hong Kong can remain a financial hub if China takes over," White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters at a news conference on Tuesday. Meanwhile, in India, the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,337 and the number of cases climbed to over 1.51 lakh in the country, according to the Health Ministry. The number of cases around the world linked to the disease has crossed over 55.91 lakh and the death toll has topped 3.50 lakh. The 30-share benchmark index, Sensex was quoting 10.07 points higher at 30,619.37 and broader Nifty rose 28.55 points to 9,057.60. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market, as they bought equity shares worth Rs 4,716.13 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, fell 0.22 per cent to USD 36.09 per barrel. The dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, rose by 0.25 per cent to 99.15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rupee-slips-8-paise-to-7574-against-us-dollar-in-early-trade-842299.html
27-05-2020||National||Migrant who died in Chhattisgarh tests positive en route West Bengal||Samples of a 36-year-old migrant labourer, who died in Chhattisgarh's Durg district on May 24 during transit to his home state West Bengal from Maharashtra, tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, officials said. This is the first death due to COVID-19 reported from Chhattisgarh but the deceased did not belong to the state, they said. "On May 24, the man was on way to South 24 Parganas in West Bengal from Mumbai in a bus along with other migrants. The bus broke down at Charauda town where he complained of chest pain," Durg Collector Ankit Anand said. He was given water to drink following which he died, he said. Later, four relatives who were with him were alighted from the bus and the vehicle, proceeded to its destination with the rest of the passengers after repairing, he said. "The sample of the deceased was sent for testing to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur on Monday which returned positive this evening," the collector said. The rapid testing for coronavirus of the four relatives of the deceased came out negative. However, they have been kept in a quarantine centre and their samples were sent for RTPCR testing to AIIMS Raipur, he said. Chhattisgarh on Tuesday reported 68 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total case count to 361.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-who-died-in-chhattisgarh-tests-positive-en-route-west-bengal-842306.html
27-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Inspiring children’s fitness solutions||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation and the news around it. In this episode, DH journalist Sandeep Menon talks to two young minds who have started a COVID fit club.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-inspiring-children-s-fitness-solutions-842325.html
27-05-2020||National||Severe lockdown will ruin India's economy: Swedish expert tells Rahul Gandhi||India will ruin its economy very quickly if it continues a severe lockdown to combat COVID-19, Swedish epidemiologist Johan Giesecke said in an interaction with Rahul Gandhi. Besides Giesecke, Rahul also interacted with Ashish Jha, Dean of the US-based Brown University School of Public Health, who told him that global pandemics are here to stay, given the change in eating habits of humans and climate change. “You may even create more deaths by a severe lockdown than the disease will do,” Giesecke, Professor Emeritus, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, said adding none of the countries that announced a lockdown had planned for an exit strategy. “Every single country had said that we'll do this lockdown, we'll close this school, we'll close this border, we'll close the restaurants. I don't think at that point they thought about how to get out of it. Now everyone is asking the same question, how do we get out of this,” Giesecke, who is also an advisor to the WHO, said For India, he suggested a graded re-emergence from the lockdown after assessing the impact of the relaxations from the stiff restrictions to arrest the spread of the disease. Jha said the lockdown had helped slow down the spread of the virus in India, but that could not be a goal unto itself and the time should be used to create infrastructure for testing and convince people of how life is going to be different. Jha said the world is entering into an “age of pandemics” and the COVID-19 outbreak is not the last global pandemic to be seen in the next 20 years. He attributed globalisation, environmental changes, economic growth, deforestation, encroachment into areas where there are more animals as the reasons for emergence of new diseases. “I think climate change is going to make many of these things all the more worse and then of course, the other things that has happened with economic growth is that people are eating lot more meat and so that also means more interactions between humans and animals,” Jha said. “Put all of it together. If you look at the last 100 years you’ll see increasing frequency of these kinds of outbreaks and this one of course is the worst in a 100 years but I am confident that we are going to have more global pandemics in the upcoming years and decades,” Jha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/severe-lockdown-will-ruin-indias-economy-swedish-expert-tells-rahul-gandhi-842326.html
27-05-2020||National||Fake tweet portrays Rahul Gandhi suggesting odd-even method to reopen schools||A screenshot of a tweet supposedly put out by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi is doing the rounds on social media. “Schools and colleges should reopen from 1st June on odd/even basis. Odd days teachers will come and even days, students will come,” reads the tweet. It suggests that Gandhi proposed the odd-even method to reopen schools while jokingly suggesting that teachers and students should come to school on different days.     Fact-check However, the most important point which highlights that the tweet is fake is the misalignment of the text and profile picture. In the comparison posted below, a screenshot of a recent tweet by Gandhi (top) has been juxtaposed with a screenshot of the morphed tweet (bottom).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-tweet-portrays-rahul-gandhi-suggesting-odd-even-method-to-reopen-schools-842327.html
27-05-2020||National||76 new COVID-19 cases in Odisha, total rises to 1,593||As many as 76 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Odisha, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,593, a Health department official said on Wednesday. Of the 76 cases, 74 people had returned to Odisha from other states and were staying in different quarantine centres, while the remaining two had come in contact with the earlier detected patients, he said. The fresh cases have been reported from Khurda district (13), Cuttack (11), Ganjam (10), Mayurbhanj (1), Balasore (2), Bolangir (16), Nuapada (13), Jagatsinghpur (6), Nayagarh (2), Sundergarh (2), the official said. Of the 30 districts of Odisha, COVID-19 cases have so far been reported from 29 districts barring Rayagada district in the southern part of the state.  With the fresh cases, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state has increased to 1,593, of which 853 are active cases, while 733 people have so far recovered from the disease and seven have died. Ganjam district remains on top of the list of COVID-hit districts in the state with 368 patients followed by 242 in Jajpur district, 139 in Balasore districts, 106 in Bhadrak district, 99 in Khurda district, 86 in Cuttack, 85 in Puri district, 61 in Kendrapara and 54 in Bolangir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/76-new-covid-19-cases-in-odisha-total-rises-to-1593-842329.html
27-05-2020||National||Akhilesh slams UP govt for transferring IPS officers||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday attacked the Yogi Adityanath government for transferring IPS officers, terming it as an attempt to lower the morale of the force. The Uttar Pradesh government had on Tuesday transferred 10 senior IPS officers, including ADG, Law and order. "In this corona period, administrative stability is needed more than in common days. Transfer of 10 ADG and IG level officers is work of lowering morale of force," the SP chief said in a tweet in Hindi. "Government is putting blame of poor law and order due to its policy failure and lack of coordination between centre and state on officers," the former UP chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhilesh-slams-up-govt-for-transferring-ips-officers-842337.html
27-05-2020||National||Doctor in SC questions Centre's new SOP ending 14-day mandatory quarantine of health workers||A doctor has questioned in the Supreme Court the Centre's new Standard Operating Procedure for front line COVID-19 healthcare workers by which it has ended the 14-day mandatory quarantine for them. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, SK Kaul and MR Shah took the affidavit filed by doctor Arushi Jain in her pending petition on record and gave time to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, to file the reply by next week. "Application for permission to file additional documents is allowed. As requested by learned Solicitor General, list the matter in the next week to enable him to file a report," the bench said in its order. The affidavit, filed through advocate Mithu Jain and Arjun Syal, said that on May 15 the Directorate General of Health Services, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, has issued an “advisory for managing healthcare workers working in COVID and Non-COVID areas of the hospital” providing guidance on preventive measures, isolation and quarantine of health care functionaries. The affidavit said: “According to the advisory, a SOP has been advised for health work force deployment during COVID-19. It is to be noted that the said advisory has ended the 14-day mandatory quarantine for all health workers. "The advisory prescribes SOP including quarantine and accommodation facility to be provided to health care workers only in case of high exposure to COVID-19 and in cases of health care workers showing symptoms of COVID-19.” As per the advisory, quarantine of healthcare workers, other than the two categories -- in case of high exposure to COVID-19 and in cases of health care workers showing symptoms of COVID-19 -- is not warranted, it said.  “Therefore, the obligation of hospitals/concerned Governments to provide quarantine facility/ accommodation to other healthcare personnel has been dispensed with. The healthcare workers have been now deprived of the same quarantine facilities given to others on the basis of some irrational mechanism, who are equally fighting a tireless war to save the spread of virus,” the affidavit said. It said the Karnataka government on May 16 had issued a circular while referring to the Centre’s advisory and stated that healthcare workers are always using the full complement of PPE and those who are asymptomatic need not be intuitionally quarantined. “They were advised to merely monitor/report their temperature and absence of symptoms each day before starting their duties in the hospital,” it said. The affidavit said that several doctors associations have written to the Centre and opposed the advisory issued by DGHS. On May 15, the top court had asked the Centre to apprise it about steps taken for quarantining doctors and medical staff engaged in a fight against coronavirus in accommodations near the hospitals itself. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for doctor-petitioner Arushi Jain, had said that resident doctors in government hospitals, after completing 7/14 days on duty, are supposed to be quarantined. These doctors are quarantined in places where they have to share rooms, bathrooms but it should be done in places, where social distancing can be maintained, he had informed the court. He also said that he was not seeking any adversarial order but only asking for suitable accommodation with necessary facilities near the hospital for the doctors and medical staffs, who are in forefront of dealing with COVID-19 pandemic. Mehta had said that necessary steps are already being taken but if there are any aberrations in any particular instance, it can be brought to the notice of the government and it would be resolved. He had said that government is taking every steps to protect the warriors and directions have been issued and it is now a criminal non-bailable offence to attack doctors or asking them to leave the house or housing society. Mehta had said that some advisories are under considerations of the government and this would be one of them. On April 8, the top court had observed that the doctors and medical staff are the "first line of defence of the country" in the battle against COVID-19 pandemic, and directed the Centre to ensure that appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) are made available to them for treating coronavirus patients. While passing a slew of interim directions to ensure safety of doctors and healthcare professionals, the apex court had expressed concern over the recent incidents of attack on them and directed the Centre, all states and Union Territories to provide necessary police security to the medical staff in hospitals and places where patients, who are either quarantined, suspected or diagnosed with COVID-19, are housed. The top court had directed that "states shall also take necessary action against those persons who obstruct and commit any offence in respect to performance of duties by doctors, medical staff and other government officials deputed to contain COVID-19". The court had passed the order on three petitions, including that of Arushi Jain, seeking protective kits, other requisite equipment and safety measure for doctors and healthcare workers amid the coronavirus pandemic. It had directed that police security be extended to doctors and other medical staff, who visit places to conduct screening of people to find out symptoms of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctor-in-sc-questions-centres-new-sop-ending-14-day-mandatory-quarantine-of-health-workers-842338.html
27-05-2020||National||Congress to launch 'SpeakUp' campaign to raise voice of poor, migrants, small businesses||The Congress will launch a 'SpeakUp' campaign on May 28 to help raise the voice of the poor, migrants, small businesses and the middle-class people before the central government. Congress spokesperson Ajay Maken said the party leaders, workers and sympathisers will run the online campaign from 11 am to 2 pm on Thursday. "We demand that transport be made available to all migrants to ensure that they reach home safely, increase their employment days to 200 under MGNREGA and provide Rs 10,000 as immediate financial help to the poor besides a financial package for small industries," he told reporters. Congress social media department head Rohan Gupta said all party leaders and workers would put out messages through their Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Youtube account to help the voice of the poor, migrants and small businessmen and traders reach the government. The party also launched a small video on the campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-launch-speakup-campaign-to-raise-voice-of-poor-migrants-small-businesses-842344.html
27-05-2020||National||Coronavirus deaths could top 18,000 in India, says public health expert||COVID-19 cases are expected to peak in early July in India, where deaths from the pandemic could top 18,000, an Epidemiologist and a public health expert said. The country is still in the ascending limb of the epidemic, said Prof D Prabhakaran, Director, Centre for Control of Chronic Conditions (CCCC). Prabhakaran, also Professor at the Department of Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the UK, said there can be no single number when asked about his assessment on eventual COVID-19 deaths in India. We should peak around early July. This is based on a study of various published models and observing how the epidemic has risen and fallen in other countries, he told PTI on Wednesday. Given that we are expecting around four to six lakh cases and with an average of three per cent mortality, it (COVID-19 deaths in India) would be around 12,000-18,000, added the Adjunct Professor, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University in the US. On low mortality rate in India and possible reasons for it, he said we will know if the mortality is actually low when the epidemic ends. However, with limited data it appears that mortality is low. To me I think it is the age structure as compared to Italy or the US which is much younger in India, the Vice President - Research & Policy, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), where he is also Professor, Epidemiology, said.  Age is an important risk factor and the older you are the chances of having these problems are higher. Other reasons including universal BCG vaccination, Malaria endemicity, exposure to repeated infections, unsanitary conditions increasing our immunity, hot weather have been implicated but we don't have any clear proof of their role, he added. Director of Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad, Prof G V S Murthy said the lowest mortality in the South Asia region has been reported from Sri Lanka (0.4 per million) while India, Singapore, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Malaysia have similarly low rates per million population. It is difficult to say why the mortality is lower in these countries, Profesor Murthy said. All these countries initiated a community lockdown early in the course of the pandemic and therefore this may have reduced the contact with active cases of COVID-19 unlike in Europe and the US where such steps were delayed. The evidence available globally and in India shows that the risk of mortality is highest among those aged 60 years or older, he said.  In India, 50 per cent of all COVID-19 deaths have been among those older than 60 years. The proportion of population aged 60-plus in India is 9.9 per cent compared to 22.4 per cent in the US, 24.1 per cent in the UK and 29.4 per cent in Italy. Because of the early lockdown, exposure of this high-risk population in India along with those with co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension was reduced significantly. This could be the main cause of low mortality, Professor Murthy told PTI. He added that in a fortnight, dengue, malaria and diarrhoea will start creating havoc. Lessons learnt from COVID-19 on importance of personal hygiene and self-care are the mantras for curtailing the adverse effects of infectious diseases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-deaths-could-top-18000-in-india-says-public-health-expert-842346.html
27-05-2020||National||India wilts under heatwave as temperature hits 50 degrees Celsius||India is wilting under a heatwave, with the temperature in places reaching 50 degrees Celsius (122 degrees Fahrenheit) and the capital enduring its hottest May day in nearly two decades. The hot spell is projected to scorch northern India for several more days, the Meteorological Department said late Tuesday, "with severe heat wave conditions in isolated pockets". As global temperatures rise, heatwaves are a regular menace in the country -- particularly in May and June. Last year dozens of people died. Met officials said Churu in the northern state of Rajasthan was the hottest place on record on Tuesday, at 50 Celsius, while parts of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh sweltered in the high 40s. Parts of the capital, New Delhi, recorded the hottest May day in 18 years with the mercury hitting 47.6 Celsius. No deaths have been reported so far this year, but last year the government said the heat had killed 3,500 people since 2015. There have been fewer fatalities in recent years. The country of 1.3 billion people suffers from severe water shortages with tens of millions lacking running water -- to say nothing of air conditioning. Parts of Delhi and elsewhere regularly see scuffles when tankers arrive to deliver water. Last year Chennai made international headlines when the southern city ran out of water entirely. The heatwave adds to problems the country already has dealing with the spread of coronavirus. India now has the 10th highest number of coronavirus cases globally, climbing above 150,000 on Wednesday with almost 4,500 deaths. Last week cyclone Amphan killed more than 100 people as it ravaged in eastern India and Bangladesh, flattening villages, destroying farms and leaving millions without power. Huge swarms of desert locusts, meanwhile, have destroyed nearly 50,000 hectares (125,000 acres) of crops across western and central India, and may enter Delhi in coming days. The north-eastern states of Assam and Meghalaya are also currently experiencing floods, with more heavy rainfall forecast in the coming days.Tempp||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wilts-under-heatwave-as-temperature-hits-50-degrees-celsius-842350.html
27-05-2020||National||IAF chief Bhadauria flies Tejas single-seater aircraft at Sulur airbase||Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria flew a Tejas single-seater light combat aircraft at the Sulur air force station on Wednesday. Officials said Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria, who worked with the team that developed the Tejas jet, flew the aircraft which is part of the IAF's 45 Squadron. The Chief of Air Staff was in Sulur to operationalise the IAF's 18 Squadron, which is codenamed as 'Flying Bullets'. It will be the second squadron in the Indian Air Force to fly the Tejas aircraft. The Tejas has been developed by the Aeronautical Development Agency and the HAL. The lifespan of the jet would be a minimum of 30 years just like any other frontline combat aircraft. The combat jets are classified under various generations depending on their avionics, capability and weapons systems. The current fleet of fighter jets with the IAF range from three-and-half generation to the fourth generation. The Indian Air Force has already placed an order for 40 Tejas and is likely to seal a contract "very soon" with HAL for another 83 aircraft at a cost of around Rs 38,000 crore. A naval version of the Tejas light combat aircraft is in the development stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chief-bhadauria-flies-tejas-single-seater-aircraft-at-sulur-airbase-842359.html
27-05-2020||National||SC asks Centre, PCI to respond to plea alleging "fake" news on Markaz incident||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre and the Press Council of India to respond to a plea alleging "fake" news run by some TV channels over the Nizamuddin Markaz incident related to the Tablighi Jamaat. "Don't let people instigate law and order issues. These are the things that later become law and order issues," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The court asked the Centre and the Press Council of India to reply within two weeks as to what actions they have taken on alleged violation of the Cable Television (Regulation) Act by the news channels. It also allowed to include National Broadcasters Association as party to the matter and put the matter for consideration on June 15. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind contended there was a fake news galore on Markaz issue, which damaged the secular fabric of the nation. Why is the government silent, he asked. He maintained some broadcasts clearly made out offences under the law. He sought strong action against media organisations. In its PIL, the organisation of Muslim scholars has questioned the use of terms like  'Corona Jihad' 'Corona Terrorism' 'Corona Bombs' and 'Islamic Insurrection' to demonise the entire Muslim community.  Over thousands of members, including foreigners, participated in the Tablighi Jamaat event  in Nizamuddin in Delhi in March. Hundreds of them were subsequently found to be infected with the coronavirus.  After the incident, several news reports were shown with "communal headlines and bigoted statements" by presenting the information in a "twisted and incendiary manner". The petitioner alleged that certain sections of media have excerbated tension in society by showing "virulent and vitriolic statements" inciting hatred against the entire Muslim community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-pci-to-respond-to-plea-alleging-fake-news-on-markaz-incident-842366.html
27-05-2020||National||China says situation at India border 'overall stable and controllable'||Beijing on Wednesday struck a conciliatory note, apparently signaling progress in its talks with New Delhi to de-escalate tension and end the build-ups by Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the disputed boundary between the two neighbouring nations in eastern Ladakh.  Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said in Beijing that the situation along the disputed border between the two nations was “overall stable and controllable”. Without directly referring to the military build-ups by both sides along the disputed boundary, Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi, Sun Weidong, too sounded conciliatory when he stated that China and India did not pose any threat to each other.  “We should adhere to the basic judgment that China and India are each other's opportunities and pose no threat to each other,” Sun said during a webinar with youths in India. “We need to see each other's development in a correct way and enhance strategic mutual trust. We should correctly view our differences and never let the differences shadow the overall situation of bilateral cooperation.”  “We have been following the important consensus reached by the two leaders and strictly observing the agreements between the two countries,” Zhao said in Beijing. He was apparently referring to the consensus reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping during the two informal summits in April 2018 and October 2019 on maintaining peace and tranquility in the border areas till the dispute over boundary is settled through negotiations.  Beijing struck the conciliatory note after sources in New Delhi told journalists that situation along the Line of Actual Control – the de facto boundary between the two nations – on the north bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh was “sensitive, but not dangerous”.  China has been objecting to construction of a road and a bridge by India along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The situation escalated on May 5 when the Chinese PLA personnel attacked Indian Army soldiers with sticks and stones in an area perceived in New Delhi to be well within the LAC’s Indian side. They also demolished some makeshift structures built by Indian Army soldiers on May 6. The Chinese PLA followed up by building a bunker in order to restrict the access to an area where Indian Army soldiers regularly patrolled.  The PLA deployed nearly 5000 soldiers in a large camp set up recently at Galwan Valley within the territory claimed by China – obviously to support the smaller number of troops, who had transgressed the LAC in several locations and entered into the areas claimed by India. The Indian Army also rushed soldiers “in adequate numbers” as a countermeasure to the deployment by the Chinese PLA.  Though the initial engagements between the senior military officials on both sides could not end the eyeball-to-eyeball situation, some headway was apparently made during talks between senior diplomats of the two sides – both in New Delhi and Beijing.  Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla, India’s ambassador to China, Vikram Misri, and Joint Secretary (East Asia) at the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi, Naveen Srivastava, are in touch with their counterparts in Beijing. China’s envoy to India, Sun Weidong, along with Wu Jianghao and Hong Liang, Director Generals of the Department of Asian Affairs and Department of Boundary and Ocean Affairs, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, are leading the negotiation from the side of communist country’s government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-says-situation-at-india-border-overall-stable-and-controllable-842383.html
27-05-2020||National||BMS announces five point action plan to counter changes in labour laws||Stepping up its protest against suspension of labour laws and attempts to privatise public sector units, the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has chalked out a five-point action plan, including lobbying with Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs to put pressure on the central and state governments to recall anti-labour measures. The decision was taken at a series of virtual meetings with national office bearers, state General Secretaries and Federation General Secretaries of BMS on Sunday and Monday. The meetings led by BMS National President C K Saji Narayanan and General Secretary Virjesh Upadhyay decided to take forward its opposition to the move, days after it held a nationwide protest against the state governments' move to suspend labour laws and allow employers to increase working hours from eight hours to 12 hours. During the next one month, the BMS protests will focus on the "pathetic" condition of migrant workers, "huge" job loss, refusal to pay wages, "unilateral" suspension of labour laws and increase in working time to 12 hours and "unbridled" privatisation. The BMS has voiced its opposition to the government's financial package, which allowed privatisation of vital sectors, including defence production and coal. While states like Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan decided to withdraw orders to increase working hours, BMS leaders said they would continue to fight. The meetings expressed its "anguish on the three state governments for not withdrawing the anti-worker ordinances suspending labour laws as well as the 15 state governments for increasing working time, Upadhyay said. From June 16 to 30, according to the BMS action plan, its leaders would contact MPs on issues confronting workers due to COVID-19 and to pressurise the governments to change its "perceptions and policies". It will also form help desks at district level to assist workers in resolving their immediate issues. Several district units have already started this and the remaining would also set up help desks. "The help desks will give specific attention to migrant workers both at the sending states and receiving states.We will also start help desks to assist contract workers particularly in big industrial areas, PSUs and government sectors. Unorganised sector help desks will also be started to assist agricultural workers, daily wagers, self-employed workers, etc. throughout the country," Upadhyay said. On May 30 and 31, union level leadership meetings will be organised all over India to discuss issues and trends labour filed. From June 1 to 5, a mass contact programme will be organised to educate workers on the changes that are brought in different fields related to organised and unorganised workers. Pamphlets and poster campaigns will be undertaken. Seminars will be held on June 13 and 14 on respective industries/sectors related issues like corporatisation of defence production units, PSU in strategic sectors and providing livelihood to lakhs of migrant workers. Keeping COVID-19 situation in mind, the BMS has asked its units to organise localities which have substantial relaxations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bms-announces-five-point-action-plan-to-counter-changes-in-labour-laws-842393.html
27-05-2020||National||Passenger on Alliance Air's Delhi-Ludhiana flight tests positive for coronavirus||Air India on Wednesday said a passenger who was on board an Alliance Air flight from the national capital to Ludhiana has tested positive for coronavirus and a total of 41 people, including five crew members, have been quarantined. The flight was operated on May 25, when domestic flight services resumed after remaining grounded for two months due to the nationwide lockdown to prevent spreading of coronavirus infections. Alliance Air, which operates regional flights, is part of Air India. "A passenger travelling on AI9I837 Delhi-Ludhiana flight of May 25 was found COVID positive on May 26. All the pax (passengers) of this flight are now under quarantine," an Air India spokesperson said. He also said the airline is following all the norms laid down by the civil aviation ministry and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). According to the spokesperson, there were 36 passengers and five crew members in the flight. On Tuesday, IndiGo said that a passenger who travelled on 6E 381 from Chennai to Coimbatore on May 25 evening tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/passenger-on-alliance-airs-delhi-ludhiana-flight-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-842396.html
27-05-2020||National||Home delivery of essential medicines can be organised in COVID-19 containment zones: Health ministry||In its 'Guidance note on Provision of Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child, Adolescent Health Plus Nutrition (RMNCAH+N) services during and post COVID-19 pandemic' released on Wednesday, the ministry stressed that critical services for women, children, and adolescent should be provided irrespective of their COVID-19 status.    "Under no circumstances should there be a denial of essential services," it highlighted. "Home deliveries of essential medicines like IFA, Calcium, ORS, Zinc, contraceptives etc. can be organized in containment zones," it said. Campaign mode services like mass vitamin A prophylaxis, campaigns for Intensified Diarrhea Control Fortnight (IDCF), National Deworming Day (NDD) and Test treat and Talk (T3) camps for Anemia, can be organised on an alternative mechanism like through home delivery of essential services and commodities etc. based on local situation, it said. In case the number of beneficiaries is more, then additional sessions/clinics could be organized. Community based activities should have limited participation (5-10) at a time.The procedure site and all equipment should be sanitized properly before and after the clinics/sessions, it said. All COVID-19 suspects and positive cases should preferably be provided services at dedicated COVID facility. "COVID-19 testing is not mandatory for RMNCAH+N service. ICMR testing guidelines need to be followed," it said, while underlining that tele-consultation services should be promoted at all levels to prevent overcrowding and reduce cross infection. As far as immunisation services are concerned, birth dose vaccination should be continued at all health facilities as the beneficiaries are already in the facility. In other cases, providing vaccination doses will only be allowed outside the containment and buffer zones, and in green zones. An area enlisted as a ''containment or buffer zone'' should stop health facility-based sessions and outreach sessions, but if a beneficiary walks-into a health facility to get their child vaccinated, he/she should not be turned away.  "The COVID-19 pandemic has demanded additional attention of our healthcare system and it is vital that during this period the essential RMNCAH+N services are not affected," Union health secretary Preeti Sudan said in a letter to chief secretaries and health secretaries of states and UTs recently. "Each state/UT needs to ensure access to these services in order to avert the increased risk of morbidities, unwanted pregnancies and mortalities thereby ensuring the health and well-being of mothers and children," she said. The guidance note issued on Wednesday elaborates that services such as antenatal and newborn care, immunization, family planning and adolescent health among others are to be provided at different levels in accordance with the zonal categorization of containment zones, buffer zones and beyond these zones. "India also has the largest adolescent and youth population. Therefore, in addition to the current priority for COVID-19 for health facilities and health workers, it is also vital that essential health services for vulnerable population like this segment are continued during the pandemic," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-delivery-of-essential-medicines-can-be-organised-in-covid-19-containment-zones-health-ministry-842407.html
27-05-2020||National||Centre approves Rs 111.70 cr assistance to Rajasthan, Manipur, Meghalaya for kharif crop damage||The Centre on Wednesday said it has approved a financial assistance of Rs 111.70 crore for Rajasthan, Manipur and Meghalaya for crop damage due to locust attack, drought and flood during the 2019-20 kharif season. A decision in this regard was taken in the May 15 meeting of the High Level Committee (HLC), chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, an official statement said. HLC has approved a proposal to grant a central assistance of Rs 111.70 to three states -- Rajasthan, Manipur and Meghalaya -- for incurring kharif (summer) crop damage due to natural calamities, it said. While Rs 68.65 crore has been approved for Rajasthan, where the summer crop was affected due to desert locust pest attack, Rs 26.53 crore is for Manipur which faced crop damage because of drought. The remaining assistance of Rs 16.52 crore has been approved for Meghalaya, where the crop was affected due to flood and landslide, the statement said. HLC has approved the central assistance from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) as per the existing norms, subject to the adjustment of 50 per cent of balances available in the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) account as on April 1 of 2019-20 financial year. The Home Ministry has asked its finance counterpart to release the approved amount to the respective state governments, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-rs-11170-cr-assistance-to-rajasthan-manipur-meghalaya-for-kharif-crop-damage-842410.html
27-05-2020||National||Nobody can stare down Modi's India: BJP on border standoff with China||Amid the standoff between Indian and Chinese troops at the Ladakh border, the ruling BJP on Wednesday asserted that no country can stare down India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Narendra Modi ke Bharat ko koi aankh nahi dikha sakta (No country can stare down PM Modi's India)," BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in Hindi during a press conference. He was asked about India's standoff with China and also differences with Nepal. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had asked the Modi government on Tuesday to be transparent about the border situation with China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nobody-can-stare-down-modis-india-bjp-on-border-standoff-with-china-842411.html
27-05-2020||National||Why can't private hospitals treat COVID-19 patients for free? SC asks Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre as to why the private hospitals, given land free of cost, couldn't treat COVID-19 patients for free. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy gave the central government one week's time to file a reply to a PIL by Sachin Jain. The court asked the Centre to identify those hospitals which should treat COVID-19 patients for free or at a very nominal cost. "They have been given land either free of cost or at a very nominal cost. These charitable hospitals should treat the patients for free," the bench said. A PIL by Sachin Jain wanted directions to the Centre to regulate the cost of COVID-19 treatment at private and corporate hospitals, which were exploiting the situation by charging Rs 10 to 12 lakh from one patient in the national calamity. He submitted that the private hospitals running on public land or the land allotted at a concessional rate must treat COVID-19 patients pro bono or on no-profit basis. Meanwhile, in a related development, the court allowed the Tamil Nadu government to use fourth to eighth floor of Billroth Hospital in Chennai for the purpose of COVID-19 pandemic. These floors were ordered to be demolished for having been constructed without sanction but the top court had earlier stayed the decision. On Wednesday, the court allowed use of floors but clarified that it would not create any right in favour of hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-cant-private-hospitals-treat-covid-19-patients-for-free-sc-asks-centre-842412.html
27-05-2020||National||445 domestic flights carrying 62,641 passengers operated on May 26: Aviation Minister||A total of 445 domestic flights carrying 62,641 passengers operated on Tuesday, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday, asserting the airports functioned smoothly on the second day of the recommencement of domestic services in India. On Monday, a total of 428 flights had operated in the country. India resumed its domestic services on Monday after a gap of two months. All scheduled domestic services were suspended in India from March 25 to May 24 due to the coronavirus pandemic. "Our skies & airports are busy again. On 26th May, the 2nd day of the recommencement of domestic passenger flights in India, our airports handled 62,641 flyers on 445 departures & 447 arrivals.  All airport functioning was smooth. Only 6 departures were rescheduled," Puri said on Twitter on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/445-domestic-flights-carrying-62641-passengers-operated-on-may-26-aviation-minister-842415.html
27-05-2020||National||IAF resurrects No.18 squadron, equips it with LCA Tejas aircraft||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Wednesday (May 27) operationalised its legendary No. 18 squadron, 'Flying Bullets' equipping it with the fourth-generation LCA Tejas aircraft at the Sulur Air Force station near Coimbatore. This will be the second IAF squadron to fly LCA Tejas in the country and IAF chief Air Marshal RKS Bhadauria flew the fighter aircraft himself before operationalising the squadron. The low-key ceremony, the first major event of the IAF after the COVID-19 outbreak, began with an inter-faith prayer and ended with the induction of the new fighter aircraft. The LCA Tejas aircraft was built at the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited in Bengaluru. The first squadron is known as the Number-45 Flying Daggers which is also headquartered at the same base.   The Squadron was flying MiG 27 aircraft before it got number plated on 15 April 2016, while it was resurrected on April 1 this year at Sulur. Officials said the aircraft is equipped with a fly-by-wire flight control system, integrated digital avionics, multimode radar, and its structure is made out of composite material. The squadron, which actively participated in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, was formed on April 15, 1965 with the motto ‘Teevra aur Nirbhaya’ meaning ‘Swift and Fearless’. The LCA Tejas is the lightest and smallest in its group of fourth-generation supersonic combat aircraft, they said. The Squadron actively participated in the 1971 War with Pakistan and was decorated with the highest gallantry award ‘Param Vir Chakra’ awarded to Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon posthumously. The squadron had also earned the sobriquet of ‘Defenders of Kashmir Valley’ by being the first to land and operate from Srinagar, while it was presented with President’s Standard in November 2015. HAL Chairman R Madhavan said the PSU was proud to deliver a much lethal aircraft than the Initial Operational Clearance (IOC) block. “Apart from all the capabilities of IOC aircraft, the FOC variant additionally comes with air-to-air refueling capability, close combat gun, additional drop tanks, Beyond Visual Range (BVR) missile capability, updated avionics, and flight control software suite,” he said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-resurrects-no18-squadron-equips-it-with-lca-tejas-aircraft-842420.html
27-05-2020||National||Arrest JD(U) MLA whose kin killed RJD leader’s parents: Tejashwi Yadav||Former Deputy Chief Minister and leader of the Opposition, Tejashwi Yadav, has issued an ultimatum to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to arrest the JD (U) MLA whose kin allegedly shot dead an RJD leader’s parents and brother at Gopalganj. “If the MLA is not arrested within 48 hours, I will launch a protest march from Patna to Gopalganj,” said Tejashwi. The youngest son of Lalu Prasad Yadav was speaking to media after meeting an injured RJD leader JP Yadav, who has been recuperating at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) after he received gunshot wounds at his residence in Gopalganj. In the indiscriminate firing, JP Yadav’s parents were shot dead, while his brother, who received injuries, later succumbed while being rushed to the hospital. In his statement before the police, the injured RJD leader has blamed JD (U) MLA Amarendra Pandey and his kin behind the attack on his family. Pandey has, however, refuted RJD leader’s charge. After an FIR was registered, the police have arrested one person. However, it has avoided taken any action against the ruling party legislator. “Nitish Ji, you often say that you don’t compromise on the issue of law and order. Those who were killed in Gopalganj have given their dying statement before the police that your party MLA was behind this attack. If he is not arrested within 48 hours, I will launch an agitation holding march from Patna to Gopalganj,” Tejashwi told Nitish. Meanwhile, unknown assailants gunned down Munna Tiwary, the brother of JD (U) MLA Amarendra Pandey on Tuesday. Munna used to manage the affairs of the MLA’s petrol pump at Gopalganj. The killings this week are a grim reminder of gang war of the 90s in Bihar on the eve of every election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrest-jdu-mla-whose-kin-killed-rjd-leader-s-parents-tejashwi-yadav-842421.html
27-05-2020||National||States must come forward with Rs 20 lakh cr to battle COVID-19 disruptions: Nitin Gadkari||More liquidity is needed to boost economic activity following the coronavirus pandemic and states should come forward with Rs 20 lakh crore, while another Rs 10 lakh crore can be harnessed from public-private investment to fight the COVID-19 disruptions, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday. Gadkari said the economy is facing serious problems, businesses are being closed and unemployment is growing. All sections of the society, whether migrants, media, business persons or employees, are facing problems, but ultimately "we will win the economic war" and the "corona war", he said. "More liquidity needs to be pumped in the market to boost the coronavirus-hit economy and states should come forward with Rs 20 lakh crore, while another Rs 10 lakh crore can be harnessed from public-private investment," Road Transport, Highways and MSME Minister Gadkari told PTI. He further noted that "these funds together with the Rs 20 lakh crore package already announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi would result in Rs 50 lakh crore liquidity in the market to battle the adverse impact of the novel coronavirus pandemic on the economy". The Centre had announced Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package, including Rs 8.01 lakh crore of liquidity measures announced by the Reserve Bank since March. The five-part stimulus package comprised Rs 5.94 lakh crore in the first tranche that provided credit line to small businesses, and support to shadow banks and electricity distribution companies, while, the second tranche included free foodgrain to the stranded migrant workers for two months and credit to farmers, totalling Rs 3.10 lakh crore. Spending on agriculture infrastructure and other measures for agriculture and allied sectors in the third tranche totalled to Rs 1.5 lakh crore, while the fourth and fifth tranches dealt mostly with structural reforms and totalled to Rs 48,100 crore. He further noted that work on national highways has been started on war-footing and the government plans to build highways worth Rs 15 lakh crore in the next two years. He said work has been resumed on almost 80 per cent of the projects. Meanwhile, in order to keep the national highways entrusted to NHAI in patchless and traffic-worthy condition, National Highway Authority of India has directed its Regional Officers and Project Directors to undertake maintenance of the National Highways on top priority-basis considering ensuing monsoon season. The aim is to facilitate timely action and keep the highway stretches traffic-worthy ahead of the monsoon season, latest by June 30, 2020, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-must-come-forward-with-rs-20-lakh-cr-to-battle-covid-19-disruptions-nitin-gadkari-842422.html
27-05-2020||National||Central, state govts should apologise to nation for migrant workers' conditions: SP leader||Leader of Opposition in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly and senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Ramgovind Chaudhary asked the central and state governments on Wednesday to study the apex court order on the condition of migrant labourers and apologise to the nation for pushing them to such a sorry state of affairs. "The heads of the central and state governments should come out of their air-conditioned rooms for a few moments to study Tuesday's Supreme Court order. They should apologise to the country for pushing the labourers to such a bad condition," he said in a statement. The observations of the apex court would bring tears to the eyes of even the most ruthless people, but the heads of the central and state governments and their officials are continuously ignoring them, Chaudhary said. The judges said migrant labourers were sitting on roads, railway stations and state borders to reach their homes. There is no adequate transport arrangement for them nor are there provisions for their food and lodging, the SP leader pointed out. The judges stressed that effective steps were necessary to deal with the situation, he said. Chaudhary alleged that the labourers in the country are in such a sorry state affairs because of the abrupt and unplanned decisions of the Centre and state governments and lack of coordination between them. Such is the state of affairs that labourers are dying out of hunger even on Shramik special trains, he said, alleging that the government is lodging cases against those who have came out to provide food and water to the workers for the sake of humanity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-state-govts-should-apologise-to-nation-for-migrant-workers-conditions-sp-leader-842423.html
27-05-2020||National||Yogi reverses decision on permission for hiring migrant workers||Under attack from his political rivals for his remarks that henceforth, the states wanting to hire labourers from UP would need to obtain the permission of the state government, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday made a u-turn and dropped the requirement. An official spokesman here said that the government had decided not to incorporate the clause from the yet to be constituted 'migrant commission', that would have made ''prior permission'' of the UP government essential before hiring of the migrant workers by other states. Although the spokesman said that the chief minister's remarks had reflected his concern for the alleged ''ill treatment'' of the migrant workers by other states amid the coronavirus pandemic as a 'guardian', sources said that the decision was reversed after widespread criticism by the opposition parties and apprehensions that it might not stand judicial scrutiny. ''Many states from where the migrant workers returned did not treat them well...they were not provided adequate facilities by the state governments,'' the spokesman said. Adityanath had on Sunday said that the migrant workers could not now be hired by other states without permission. Former Congress president and party MP Rahul Gandhi had slammed the chief minister over his remarks and said that the migrant workers are not his (Adityanath) ''personal property''. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav had said that the remark was nothing more than a ''political gimmick'' aimed at hiding the failure of the state government in handling the migrant workers' crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-reverses-decision-on-permission-for-hiring-migrant-workers-842442.html
27-05-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for framing of rules for timely disposal of mercy petitions||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Union government to file a reply to a PIL seeking a specific procedure and guidelines to dispose of mercy petitions in a time-bound manner to avoid any discrimination and arbitrariness and possibility of unrest in the general public. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the Ministry of Home Affairs on a plea by advocate Shiv Kumar Tripathi, alleging violation of rights of the victims due to delay in deciding mercy petitions. The petitioner, represented by advocate Kamal Mohan Gupta, contended that since there was no specified written procedure and guidelines for disposing of the mercy petitions filed under Article 72 of the Constitution within a time-bound manner, it has resulted in arbitrariness and undue delay, giving rise to unrest, doubts, and suspicion in the mind of the public at large.  He submitted that the power to grant pardon under Article 72 by the President was practically being exercised by the Ministry of Home Affairs.  "It is the Ministry that plays a great role in deciding the mercy petition. It is this ministry, which is responsible for the delay. It is the fault of the Ministry that no rules have been framed for the exercise of the power. Moreover, no statutory guidelines have been framed and the internal guidelines are not binding," the plea contended. The petitioner sought a direction to the Centre for the framing of the specific procedure, rules, and guidelines for disposing of the mercy petitions within a time-bound period. He pointed out in quite a few cases there was a prolonged delay in disposal of the mercy petitions, resulting in converting death sentences into imprisonment for life, making the victims and their families feel cheated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-framing-of-rules-for-timely-disposal-of-mercy-petitions-842448.html
27-05-2020||National||RT-PCR kits jointly developed by iGenetic, Biogenomics get ICMR, NIV nod||RT-PCR testing kits jointly developed by specialty diagnostic firm iGenetic Diagnostics and biopharmaceutical firm Biogenomics have received approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology, the companies said on Wednesday. The kits are expected to be available in the market within a few weeks, iGenetic Diagnostics and Biogenomics said in a joint statement. "We partnered with Biogenomics due to their extensive experience and expertise in manufacturing and marketing of biotechnology products. We have already received overwhelming interest and are exploring areas for ramping up," iGenetic Diagnostics founder and CEO Arunima Patel said.  Having a dependable kit developed in the country is crucial in these days of restricted movement, when global kits may not be easily available to cater to the increasing demand, she added. "We are proud to be able to join forces with iGenetic in this fight against a raging pandemic," BioGenomics founder-director Archana Krishnan said. The production of the kits is going on with full steam ahead and these will be available for use in the next few weeks, she added.  Real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is a nuclear-derived method for detecting the presence of specific genetic material from any pathogen, including a virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rt-pcr-kits-jointly-developed-by-igenetic-biogenomics-get-icmr-niv-nod-842450.html
27-05-2020||National||Govt must address people's concerns on border standoff with China: Cong||The Congress on Wednesday said the standoff between the armies of India and China is a matter of serious national concern and urged the government to take the country into confidence and address the concerns of people. Senior spokesperson of the party Anand Sharma said the situation in Ladakh following the incursion by Chinese forces in the Langong Tso lake and Galwan valley regions and the standoff between the armies of India and China are matters of "serious national concern". In a statement, he said the differing accounts in the national and international media of escalation of tension and a continuing stalemate have caused anxiety among people. "The Congress party urges the Government of India to take the nation into confidence to address the concerns of the people," the former Union minister said. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had on Tuesday urged the government to be more transparent on the China border issue and come clear on what is happening at the border in Ladakh. There has been a standoff between Indian and Chinese troops at the border in eastern Ladakh, amid build-up of troops on both sides since early May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-must-address-peoples-concerns-on-border-standoff-with-china-cong-842451.html
27-05-2020||National||Students can give board exams in states they are stuck amid lockdown: Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'||Students appearing for the pending CBSE Class 10 & 12 examinations can do so from their current place of residence, instead of traveling back to their boarding schools several hundreds of kilometers away, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said here on Wednesday. Nishank took to Twitter to address concerns voiced by many students who had vacated their hostels in boarding schools and traveled to their home states during the lockdown. “Now, CBSE has decided that a student can inform his school that he is present in a particular district and wishes to appear for the examination there,” the minister said. He said students would be informed about their examination centres by the first week of June and the CBSE would make the best efforts to accommodate their requests. The examination for the pending papers for CBSE Class 10 and 12 are scheduled to be held between July 1 and 15. The date sheet of the examination was announced by the CBSE on May 18. For Class 12, examination would be held for 12 subjects in the entire country and 11 subjects in north-east Delhi. Among the subjects for which exams for Class 12 are set to be conducted across India are Business Studies, Geography, Computer Science (old and new), Hindi (elective and core), Home Science, Sociology Information Practice (old and new), Information Technology and Biotechnology. In north-east Delhi, Class 12 examinations will be held for English Elective (N&C), English Core, Mathematics, Economics, Biology, Political Science, History, Physics, Accountancy, and Chemistry. Class 10 students in north-east Delhi will appear for six subjects – Hindi Course (A&B) English Comms, English Language and Literature, Science, Social Science.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-can-give-board-exams-in-states-they-are-stuck-amid-lockdown-ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank-842452.html
27-05-2020||National||With two more deaths, Jammu & Kashmir COVID-19 toll reaches 26||Two more COVID-19 deaths were reported from Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, taking the toll of deaths due to the deadly virus to 26 in the Union Territory. A quinquagenarian man from Srinagar, who was tested positive for COVID-19 a few days back, died due to cardiac arrest at a hospital on Wednesday. Dr Salim Khan, nodal officer for COVID-19 at Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar said that a 55-year-old man from Fateh Kadal area of old city Srinagar was shifted to Chest Diseases hospital from SMHS hospital on May 1. On Wednesday at 4 pm, the patient developed sudden cardiac arrest and was immediately intubated, coupled to a ventilator and resuscitated, he said, adding that the patient developed another cardiac arrest and died instantly. Another victim includes a 70-year-old man from south Kashmir’s Anantnag who died on Tuesday and his report came out COVID-19 positive on Wednesday. Principal GMC Anantnag, Dr Showkat Gelaani, said that the septuagenarian man with underlying ailments like pneumonia was admitted to the hospital on May 25. “He died yesterday (Tuesday) and his sample was taken while in hospital which came out to be positive today,” he said and added the body was kept at mortuary and would be handed over to his family as per the COVID-19 protocol. With these two deaths, the toll of COVID-19 positive patients in J&K has reached 26 including 23 from Kashmir division and three from Jammu. In the past 11 days, the death toll due to COVID-19 has more than doubled in J&K. While the toll stood at 12 on May 16, it reached 26 on May 27. Most of the patients whose deaths have been attributed to the viral infection have been suffering from some co-morbid condition. However, the virus has also killed some ‘otherwise healthy’ individuals. Till Monday evening J&K had reported 1769 COVID-19 positive cases out of which 833 have recovered and 912 are active positives. South Kashmir’s Kulgam district has the highest number of active positive cases – 207, followed by neighboring Anantnag district with 161 cases. Capital city Srinagar has 57 active cases while Jammu city has 73 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-two-more-deaths-jammu-kashmir-covid-19-toll-reaches-26-842453.html
27-05-2020||National||Nizamuddin Markaz: Delhi police chargesheets 376 foreigners from 34 countries||The Delhi police has filed before a court here 35 different chargesheets against 376 foreign nationals from 34 countries attending Markaz at Nizamuddin in national capital by violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally and violating government guidelines, issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak in the country. The police had filed 20 chargesheets against 82 foreigners from 20 countries on Tuesday and 15 on Wednesday against 294 from 14 countries in the case. According to the chargesheets, all the foreign nationals have been booked for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and regulations regarding Epidemic diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure. They have also been for the offences under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act.  The Centre has cancelled their Visa and blacklisted them. The foreign nationals have not been arrested yet. The 294 foreigners belonged to countries, including Malaysia, Thailand, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and several African nations. Out of the 82 foreigners charge sheeted Tuesday, four of the accused were from Afghanistan, seven each from Brazil and China, five from US, two from Australia, Kajahstan, Morocco, UK, one each from Ukraine, Egypt, Russia, Jordan, France, Tunisia, Belgium, eight from Algeria, 10 from Saudi Arabia, 14 from Fiji and six each from Sudan and Philippines. The charge sheets filed Tuesday will come for consideration on June 12 and those filed Wednesday will come for consideration on June 17 before Metropolitan Magistrate Saema Jamil. In April, COVID-19 cases across the country spiked after hundreds of many Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz event, tested positive. At least 9,000 people, including the foreign nationals participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country. According to police, these foreign nationals had entered India on tourist visa and had participated in the gathering at Markaz illegally. Besides, violating the provisions of visa, these foreign nationals also led to a situation where a highly infectious disease Covid-19 infection spread and threatened the lives of the inmates and the general public at large, they said.  The police also said that more than 900 foreign nationals who are accused in the case belong to 34 different countries and charge sheets are being prepared country-wise, under sections of  Foreigners Act, The Epidemic Diseases Act,  Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of IPC.  The punishment for various offences under penal provisions ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment. A FIR was registered against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and six others on March 31 on a complaint of the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act (2005), Foreigners Act and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to Covid-19, police said. After being exposed to a large gathering in March amid the COVID-19 or coronavirus lockdown many members of Tablighi Jamaat from Markaz Hazrat Nizamuddin were taken out by the authorities and lodged in different quarantine centres in Delhi. Some of them were sent to the centres a few days later after being detained from various mosques. The other members were directly taken to quarantine centres to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nizamuddin-markaz-delhi-police-chargesheets-376-foreigners-from-34-countries-842455.html
27-05-2020||National||Special KLM flight brings home 276 Indians from Netherlands||As many as 276 Indians stranded in the Netherland due to the coronavirus-induced global travel restrictions have returned home on board a special KLM flight as part of the 'Vande Bharat Mission', an official said on Wednesday. Of the total passengers, who reached Mumbai on Tuesday, 107 of them were flown to the Netherlands from other countries such as 52 from Mexico, 47 from Peru and eight from Portugal, the official said in a statement. Around 276 Indian nationals stranded in the Netherlands were successfully evacuated on Tuesday by a special KLM flight, the Indian Embassy here said in a statement. India’s Ambassador to the Netherlands Venu Rajamony personally saw off the passengers as they boarded the aircraft at Amsterdam Schiphol airport. KLM Royal Dutch Airlines is the flag carrier of the Netherlands. “There were tears of joy and heartfelt gratitude as the individuals profusely thanked the Indian Embassy for coming to their aid in their time of distress,” the Indian mission said in the statement. Earlier in March, the embassy played a major role in the evacuation of 117 Indian nationals stranded at Schiphol airport when the travel ban on international commercial passenger flights came into force. “Since then the embassy has assisted the remaining stranded Indians by providing accommodation and meals during the course of the extended travel ban and has also guided those with a medical condition to healthcare support,” the statement said. There are around 1,000 Indians who are to be repatriated in the ensuing weeks. On June 8, another batch of stranded Indians will be sent home by a special Air India flight from Amsterdam to New Delhi as part of the second leg of the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’, it said. The Netherlands has the second largest population of people of Indian-origin in Europe after the UK. It is home to about 2,40,000 members of the Indian diaspora including approximately two lakh members of and Hindustani-Surinami community wholly integrated into the Dutch society. “Although their forebears left India nearly 150 years ago, the Hindustani-Surinami community has deep cultural links with India and is active in promoting cultural cooperation through well-established institutions,” the statement said. The Indian community has played a significant role in contributing to the cultural traditions of both the countries in a mutually harmonious and beneficial manner while also helping in expanding and creating a favourable climate for further improvement of bilateral business relations. “The Indian community is the fastest growing group of expatriates in metropolitan Amsterdam and has in its own way contributed to the enrichment of cultural ethos as well as the commercial success of the city,” it added. The Indian government launched the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ on May 7 to bring back Indians stranded in various countries due to coronavirus-related restrictions. Under Phase I of the mission, the government evacuated a total of 6,527 Indians from the Gulf region and from countries like the US, the UK, the Philippines, Bangladesh, Malaysia and the Maldives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-klm-flight-brings-home-276-indians-from-netherlands-842462.html
27-05-2020||National||Not diversion, but 'rationalisation' of routes, says Indian Railways as it explains unusual routes of trains||Even as complaints of lack of food and water and inordinate delays in Shramik Special trains pour in on social media, the railways on Tuesday said no trains are being diverted now and all trains which originated during the last three days are running on their "pre-scheduled rationalised routes". Officials explained that while there are several routes that a train can take to reach a particular destination and while the rationalised route may not be the "normal route", once it is notified it is not a diversion. The railways has said that network congestion is the main reason why the trains have taken "unusual" routes, but they maintained that it is not something unheard of even during normal times. "No diversions now. All trains originated during last three days are running on their pre-scheduled rationalised routes," a railway spokesperson said. A Shramik Special train which started its journey from Mumbai for Gorakhpur on May 21 was to take the Kalyan-Jalgoan-Bhusaval-Khandwa-Itarsi-Jabalpur-Manikpur route but instead it was diverted to Gorakhpur via Bilaspur (SECR), Jharsuguda, Rourkela, Adra, Asansol (ER) due to heavy traffic congestion on existing routes. Passengers took to social media to allege that they were not informed about the change in timings and thus were stranded without food and water. The passengers also alleged that the railways did not inform them about the change in the route and the duration of their travel. "We boarded the Shramik Special train on May 21 to go back to Gorakhpur. However, despite 23 hours of journey we are still in Maharashtra. We don't have anything to eat and there is no water in the train. And why the train is going towards Nagpur from Bhusawal," a passenger tweeted.  These "unusual" routes, the officers said, were due to the fact that 80 per cent of the Shramik Special trains were running towards two states -- Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. While in a press statement on Tuesday the railways said that so far it has distributed over a crore water bottles and 74 lakh free meals, many passengers tweeted that they were starving on board due to longer than anticipated run time of the trains. To deal with this issue, the railways in an order on May 22 also empowered the general managers of each zone to spend upto Rs 1 lakh on each Shramik Special train to arrange meals for the workers. The officials on the field, however, said that it has been a difficult task to meet the meal demands of these trains which are unscheduled and not running on timetable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-diversion-but-rationalisation-of-routes-says-indian-railways-as-it-explains-unusual-routes-of-trains-842463.html
27-05-2020||National||NHAI to take maintenance, repair work on priority before monsoon||To take up maintenance and repair work of national highways on a priority basis before monsoon, NHAI has issued policy guidelines to fast-track such work, the government said on Wednesday. All regional officers of NHAI have been delegated sufficient financial powers to take quick decisions regarding maintenance activities. "In order to keep the national highways in patchless and traffic worthy condition, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has directed its Regional Officers (ROs) and Project Directors (PDs) to undertake maintenance of the National Highways on top priority-basis considering ensuing monsoon season," Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. The aim is to facilitate timely action and keep the highway stretches traffic-worthy ahead of the monsoon season i.e. latest by June 30, 2020, it added. "NHAI has issued new policy guidelines to help its ROs/PDs plan and prioritize better; and then expedite the process of highway maintenance in the desired manner. The target is to ensure thorough planning of the requisite activities and the implementation of the same in a time bound manner," the statement said. It said ROs of NHAI have been delegated sufficient financial powers to take quick decisions regarding maintenance activities, while PDs have been advised to make assessment of the condition of highways supported by technology driven tools through car mounted camera/ drone/ Network Survey Vehicle (NSV) etc for identification of various highway distress (like depression, rutting, cracking etc.) and plan rectification measures. All field officers have been directed to adhere to the timelines, regularly monitor the progress of maintenance work and keep reporting the same to the authority at regular intervals. The government said the NHAI headquarters will be monitoring the progress closely through its project management software – Data Lake where pictures of before and after repair works would be uploaded, apart from other repair related information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-to-take-maintenance-repair-work-on-priority-before-monsoon-842464.html
27-05-2020||National||Jhansi on alert against locusts, fire brigade ready to spray insecticide||Fire brigade vehicles loaded with insecticide were on standby in this district on Wednesday after an alert that a swarm of locusts could cross over from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. According to Kamal Katiyar, deputy director in UP’s Agriculture Department, a swarm spread over a square kilometre, has been spotted in Madhya Pradesh’s Datia district. It could enter the adjacent Jhansi district through Moth or Samthar, he said. The current wind direction increases the chances of this happening. Swarms of locusts entered Rajasthan from Pakistan last month and then spread to other western states. Several districts in Rajasthan were affected and recently a swarm was spotted in a residential area in Jaipur. A swarm had earlier attacked some parts of Jhansi district ion May 22 and 24 but an already alert administration, with the help of local people, eliminated over a half of it. As part of preparations for another wave, two fire brigade vehicles with insecticide have been deployed in all four tehsils of the UP district. In addition, six more vehicles are ready at the district headquarter, Katiyar said. Ten municipal employees with two insecticide spraying machines have been posted in every block, Katiyar said. He said the movement of locusts will depend on the wind direction. Going by the present direction, the locusts could enter Jhansi district from Moth and Samthar and then move towards Jalaun and Hamirpur districts in Bundelkhand region. Locusts don’t target animals or humans but can devastate crop fields. On Tuesday, the district administration had asked people to alert it they spot a swarm. "This is an emergency, and we need to remain vigilant. This swarm has come travelling through Iran, Pakistan, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh,” Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi had said. The DM said the administration had arranged sound systems to deter locusts. Farmers too have been advised to play loud music. The DM said a seven-member team from the Centre is touring Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to deal with the locusts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jhansi-on-alert-against-locusts-fire-brigade-ready-to-spray-insecticide-842467.html
27-05-2020||National||Punjab put on alert after locusts attack crops in R'than, MP||Punjab has been put on alert after swarms of locusts attacked crops in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, officials said on Wednesday. Farmers have been asked to keep an eye out for any locust activity, they said. The locusts initially entered Rajasthan from Pakistan. From Rajasthan, they also entered Madhya Pradesh over the past few days. "An alert has been issued in whole Punjab (in the wake of locust attack in other states)," Punjab Director Agriculture Sawtantar Kumar Airi said. Control rooms have been set up in each district and farmers have been asked to report any activity of locusts, he said. Locusts, popularly known as 'tiddi dal', are known to devour vegetation wherever they settle. In the past, farmers in different parts of the country have faced huge losses due to crop damage caused by swarms of locusts. District agriculture officers have been asked to purchase chemicals as per their requirements to contain any locust attack, according to the officials. The state government has sanctioned a sum of Rs 1 crore for containing locust attacks, they said. A detailed action plan to check the invasion of locust swarms has been prepared by the state agriculture department, the officials said. As part of the plan, agriculture officers have been asked to maintain strict vigil in their respective areas. Surveys will be conducted, especially in areas bordering Pakistan and Rajasthan. Spray pumps will also be made available by the agriculture department to villagers to effectively contain any locust attack. Head of entomology department, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), P K Chhuneja said there has been a massive population build-up of locusts and there is an imminent threat to agriculture and vegetation, particularly in states bordering Pakistan. The agriculture department and the PAU have been keeping a strict vigil and are carrying out surveillance and checking incursions through suitable means, with information support from the Locust Warning Organisation, he said. Notably, locusts were spotted in some villages of Punjab's Fazilka and Muktsar districts in January this year but they were effectively contained. Locusts are short-horned grasshoppers with highly migratory habits and voracious feeding behaviour. India has not witnessed any full-blown locust cycles after 1962. However, during 1978 and 1993, large-scale upsurges were observed. Localised locust breeding was controlled in 1998, 2002, 2005, 2007 and 2010.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-put-on-alert-after-locusts-attack-crops-in-rthan-mp-842468.html
27-05-2020||National||Authorities mull to ease COVID-19 restrictions in Kashmir after May 31||With COVID-19 lockdown likely to be extended further after May 31 to contain the spread of coronavirus, authorities in Kashmir are mulling to ease restrictions and possibly allow public transport and reopening of restaurants subject to certain conditions. Auto-rickshaws and cabs, with up to two passengers, may be allowed to operate in green and orange zones as domestic flights have already started arriving at Srinagar airport from May 25. The administration in Srinagar has already ordered for removing barricades in all green and orange zones of the district. Confirming the developments, Deputy Commissioner Srinagar Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said that people must now learn to live with COVID-19. “We have ordered for the removal of barricades in all green and orange zones for the smooth movement of people and emergency cases,” he said. However, the DC was quick to add that deliberations are on with stakeholders on revival of the economy and survival of livelihood. “The final decision will be taken on May 31 when lockdown guidelines will be reviewed at the Centre, State and UT levels,” Choudhary said.    “We are taking a call after assessing when was the last case reported and accordingly, barricades are being removed in green and orange zones,” he said and added that his message to people of Srinagar is to get ready to live with the pandemic as there is no treatment to it so far. However, officials said, the new guidelines will require to undertake strict measures in containment zones and ensure early contact tracing. “In green zones, though, there will be flexibility to reopen economic activities while banning spitting in public and promoting use of masks and frequent hand-washing,” they said. Till now due to the absence of public transport, the movement of people has been hindered and only those with special passes issued by the district magistrate offices are being allowed to move. “However, in all likelihood public transport may be allowed to operate in green and orange zones with certain conditions,” they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/authorities-mull-to-ease-covid-19-restrictions-in-kashmir-after-may-31-842474.html
27-05-2020||National||Official document on Hindi once again draws flak in non-Hindi speaking states||An official document published annually for the "promotion and progressive use" of Hindi in central government offices and public sector banks and undertakings has once again triggered heat in non-Hindi speaking states. The document -- Annual Programme for Transacting the Official Work of the Union in Hindi 2020-21 -- by the Department of Official Language in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said substantial business is "still being done in English" though progress has been made in the "progressive use of Hindi" but "targets are still to be achieved". Among other things, it says civil servants are given a compulsory course in Hindi during their training but most of them do not use it in official work resulting in their subordinates "not getting the right message". It laments that Hindi is not used in official work to the "extent required". "It is the Constitutional obligation on senior officers...to make progressive use of Hindi in their official work. This in turn will motivate the officials/employees working under them, thereby giving impetus to the compliance of the Official Language Policy," it says. States are divided into three categories -- states where Hindi is mother tongue in A category, states where Hindi is used widely but not mother tongue like Maharashtra and Gujarat in B and the rest in C category. As per the classification, 65% of the communication from offices in A category states to C category states and 55% of them from C to A should be in should be in Hindi, according to the target set over the years. It also stipulates that all should reply in Hindi if the letter they receive was in Hindi. It also said the scheme to teach officials Hindi, which has been extended in 2008 for 17 years, will be ending in 2025 and the government now wants that the training on Hindi typing and stenography should be expedited. It has said that all should be trained within stipulated time period so that the targets are achieved within the prescribed time frame. The document says that the usage of Hindi needs to be encouraged in scientific, information technology and technical subjects to the maximum in central ministries, departments and undertakings. It says for maximum usage of Hindi in scientific and technical subjects, it should be written in easy and simple manner so that common man can gain sufficient knowledge about scientific and technical subjects too. However, this has not gone down well with many. Former Assam Director General of Police and Sahitya Akademi awardee Harekrishna Deka told DH that the Centre's tone has an "implied threat of punishment" if the officials did not learn it compulsorily. "This sounds like applying coercion and not persuasion. The attitude of the government seems insensitive to the sensitivity of the state officials, the bulk of whom will be speaking a mother tongue, and Hindi will seem hegemonistic on the state official languages," he said. West Bengal Minister and Trinamool Congress Secretary General Partha Chatterjee said he was not aware of any such steps taken by the Centre. "We have a system of several languages. Our mother tongue ( Bengali), Hindi and English will continue as usual," he said. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), the party which captured power in 1967 overthrowing the Congress regime riding on the anti-Hindi wave in Tamil Nadu, said it strongly opposes any move to impose Hindi on states where the language is not spoken. Party spokesperson and Madurai (Central) MLA P T R Thiagarajan told DH that the three-language formula is a “logical fallacy” and is “invariably discriminatory” in a democratic setup. “From the days of C N Annadurai, we have said very clearly that we are for a two-language policy as we see English as our link language to the world. If the entire country applied the two language policy in a non-discriminatory way, then we will not find any need for another link language (like Hindi),” he said. Thiagarajan also saw the attempts to “impose” Hindi as a “new version of colonialism” in a free India, while contending that native languages have disappeared in several states which have accepted Hindi as the ‘lingua franca’ of the government. “Several scientific studies have proved mother tongue is crucial, and we need a link language to communicate with the rest of the world, which is English. Why should someone learn Hindi? Is this a new version of colonialism where we are being forced to learn the colonized language? This effects discrimination where non-Hindi speakers learn three languages, while Hindi speakers choose to learn only one,” Thiagarajan added. VCK leader D Ravikumar, MP from Villupuram constituency in Tamil Nadu, said the BJP government has been giving importance only to Hindi in all its official communication and even in Parliament. “The government has been trying to normalize the use of Hindi everywhere, be it in government offices, in official communication or even in Parliament. We got a few communication in Hindi and only when we protested, we received them in English. We need to raise our voice every time to get things done,” he said. He also complained that even the ministers, who speak English, make it a point to deliver their speeches in Hindi in Parliament so as to normalize the use of the language. Former MP and Janata Dal leader from Kerala Neelalohithadasan Nadar, who holds a doctorate in Hindi, said it is good that there is a common link language for the entire country and in that regard the steps towards promoting Hindi could be appreciated. "However, since the BJP got an agenda of one nation, one language, the present moves to promote Hindi obviously raises suspicions," said Nadar, whose Hindi speeches in the Lok Sabha were much noticed. Former Kerala chief secretary and first Vice Chancellor of Malayalam University in Kerala K Jayakumar said that there was no harm in making Hindi a common language for communication among central government organisations. "But compelling states to follow Hindi is not at all acceptable as all languages are important and sacred. I don't think the Centre would make any such further moves in view of the violent reactions that states like Tamil Nadu witnessed towards one nation one language suggestions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/official-document-on-hindi-once-again-draws-flak-in-non-hindi-speaking-states-842480.html
27-05-2020||National||SC issues notices to Centre, Assam on plea against delimitation process based on 2001 census||The Supreme Court Wednesday sought responses from the Centre and the Assam government on a plea seeking that delimitation of assembly and parliamentary constituencies in the state be deferred until the completion of Census 2021. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde agreed to hear the plea seeking quashing of this year's February 28 order which "rescinded" an earlier notification of February 8, 2008 that had deferred the process of delimitation for Assam. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, issued notices to the Centre, Assam government and the delimitation commission and asked them to file their responses on the plea which has challenged the delimitation process based on 2001 Census. The petition, filed through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi, has sought a direction to the authorities to defer the process of delimitation until the completion of Census 2021 "so that the most recent population figures are available for this exercise". "The decision to conduct the pending process of delimitation of assembly and parliamentary constituencies, is not only an arbitrary and hasty decision but stands contrary to the very idea behind conducting delimitation, having proposed to be conducted not on the basis of the population figures obtained from the most recent census but rather on the basis of stale figures of 2001 census," the plea said. The petition, filed by two Assam residents, has claimed that present delimitation exercise is sought to be conducted on the basis of census 2001 despite the fact that census 2011 has already been conducted. It alleged that the February 28 this year order is liable to be quashed as it is violative of Constitutional provisions related to equality before law and the right to life and freedom of speech and expression. It said that the process of delimitation was earlier deferred in the state in light of the aggravated law and order situation in Assam. The plea said that due to opposition over Citizenship (Amendment) Act and apprehensions related to publication of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam, the situation had so aggravated that the entire state was declared as a "disturbed area" for a period of six months with effect from August 28, 2019. The plea said "the very purpose of conducting delimitation is to ascertain an equal number of division of the electorates in the various assembly and parliamentary constituencies and the same has been historically based on the population figures as obtained from the most recent census." It said that one of the reasons for earlier deferring delimitation process in Assam was the preparation of NRC. "While the results of NRC had been published by the State Co-ordinator, NRC, Assam on August 31, 2019, the process with regard to more than 19 lakh persons, excluded therefrom, is underway," it said, adding that it would be more practical to defer the present delimitation process until the finalisation of NRC as well as 2021 census. \||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-notices-to-centre-assam-on-plea-against-delimitation-process-based-on-2001-census-842486.html
27-05-2020||National||'I was determined', says girl who cycled injured dad across India||A 15-year-old girl who won praise for carrying her injured father hundreds of miles across India by bike said on Wednesday she never thought of giving up after promising her mother she would get him home safely. Jyoti Kumari's gruelling journey from the outskirts of New Delhi to their village 1,200 km (745 miles) away with her jobless father made headlines around the world and threw a spotlight on the plight of India's unemployed migrant workers. The teenager said she had promised her mother she would deliver him home when they ran out of food and money to pay rent after India locked down to curb the spread of the coronavirus. "I was determined to reach home with my father safely. My mother had given me this responsibility," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone from Sirhulli village in the poor eastern state of Bihar. "We even hitched a ride on a truck for about 50 kms, but giving up was nowhere on my mind," she said after cycling for more than a week. Tens of thousands of migrant workers were forced to make their own way home when India announced one of the world's strictest lockdowns and their work disappeared overnight. Scores fell ill or died along the way as they walked hundreds of miles in intense heat after most public transport was halted. Kumari had travelled from Bihar to visit her father, a rickshaw driver, in March after an accident left him unable to cycle, and stayed on to cook and clean for him. Her story of grit and determination captured the imagination of people across the country, with images of her on a pink bicycle with her father going viral on social media. India's cycling federation invited her for trials and U.S. presidential adviser Ivanka Trump drew criticism for praising her, with opposition figures saying the pair's desperate journey was not something to celebrate. Health experts say India's vast lockdown has helped limit the spread of COVID-19, but it has pushed millions who live on daily wages to the brink of poverty. After weeks of mounting criticism and tales of hardship, the government is now running trains and buses to help the migrants get home. Carrying just a small bag of flattened rice and a few clothes, the two mainly survived on biscuits and food given to them by people when they took rest breaks at roadsides and fuel stations. When they arrived, she said, all she wanted to do was "sleep and eat dal-bhaat (rice and lentils)". Since then, local politicians and journalists have made a beeline to meet Kumari - to her bemusement. She has said she did not regularly attend school in the past because the family was poor and she had chores at home, but now intends to resume her studies. Bihar is one of India's most under-developed and conservative states, where child marriage is rife and girls are routinely denied education. "I never thought I would be famous," said the shy teenager, who frequently asked her father to speak for her during the interview. "I think people are fascinated because I am a girl."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-was-determined-says-girl-who-cycled-injured-dad-across-india-842490.html
27-05-2020||National||Delhi High Court awards Rs 30L damages to software giants Microsoft, Adobe, Quest for software piracy||The Delhi High Court has awarded Rs 30 lakh damages to Microsoft Corporation, Adobe Systems  and Quest Software while restraining a company based in the national capital from using or distributing their pirated and unlicensed software. Justice V Kameswar Rao said in the absence of any defence of the Nehru Place's firm and the magnitude of the violation carried out by the defendants, the three companies are entitled for damages and Rs 30 lakh be equally shared by them. The high court's order came on a suit filed by Microsoft Corporation, Adobe Systems and Quest Software against a firm named 'Chetu' which provided IT services and solutions to its clients, and related parties, after they came to know that the company was using their unlicensed/pirated software programs on its computers. The high court restrained “the defendants, their principal officers, directors, agents, franchisees, servants, and all others acting for and on their behalf are restrained from directly or indirectly using for any kind of computer related activities or otherwise, pirated/counterfeit/unlicensed softwares of the Plaintiffs.” The lawsuit said to determine the sphere of activities of the defendants, they hired an independent investigator to carry out an investigation into their activities. During the investigation, it was found that there are around 300 computer systems at Chetu, which are operating upon software programs such as Microsoft Office and there was no installation of Open Office on any of the computer systems. It was further revealed that 40 to 50 employees at the firm were working on software programs such as Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Flash, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe CS3 and Adobe Reader. The defendant firm claimed in the court that it was a fully licensed Microsoft certified old partner since 2003 and its use of Microsoft products is governed by the terms of the Microsoft Partner Network Agreement. However, when the plaintiffs (Microsoft, Adobe and Quest) conducted a license check within their database,  it revealed that there were no substantial licenses purchased in the name of the defendant or its related parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-awards-rs-30l-damages-to-software-giants-microsoft-adobe-quest-for-software-piracy-842500.html
27-05-2020||National||PPE goggles conforming to BIS specification can be reused: Health Ministry advisory||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday issued an advisory stating that goggles, which are a crucial component of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, confirming to prescribed Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) specifications can be reused after proper disinfection. "After use of PPE kit all its components are discarded as bio-medical waste. However, the goggles confirming to prescribed EN/BIS specifications can be reused after proper disinfection," the ministry said.  The purpose of the "advisory on re-processing and re-use of eye-protection goggles" is to enable individuals to reuse goggles, thus allowing an extended use without the risk of contracting infection, it said. According to the standard operating procedures for reuse detailed in the advisory, the kitting of the PPEs with goggles will be done away with and all goggles that conform to prescribed EN/BIS specifications will be re-used after disinfection.  Reprocessing and reuse of goggles must be done only when it is dedicated to each individual (write name over the band) and reprocessing must be done after every use before using it again. Manufacturer's instructions for cleaning and disinfection of goggles should be adhered to. If such instruction are not available, goggles can be cleaned and disinfected while wearing gloves.   "Clean goggles with soap/detergent and water and then immerse in 1 per cent freshly prepared sodium hypochlorite for 10 minutes. Wash/wipe the inside and outside of goggles with clean water to remove residue. Air dry completely on a clean flat surface or by hanging in clean place or use clean tissue papers/gauge to dry it," the SOPs stated. They should be stored in a paper bag/in a clean area to avoid recontamination. Eye protection must be discarded if damaged/rendered optically non-clear on repeated usage.    Goggles may be issued to each healthcare worker who will decontaminate them after every use and they should be disinfected by users and re-used at least five times each, whereby one pair of goggles will suffice for six days.  "They may use them rationally till their transparency decreases or they get damaged. The ratio of issue of goggles to coverall is recommended at 1:6," the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ppe-goggles-conforming-to-bis-specification-can-be-reused-health-ministry-advisory-842508.html
27-05-2020||National||SC refuses to modify order asking HC to decide circular of filling up all seats in plane||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to modify its order allowing Air India to operate for now flight with occupancy of middle seats to bring back Indians stranded abroad. It also clarified that the Bombay High Court would take a final call on it. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Air India, submitted that a committee was examining the matter. He also maintained that the health of citizens was paramount. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy said it trusts the committee will take into account all relevant consideration. "We don't want to add to the confusion after having passed an interim order. We asked them to bring back stranded Indians and they are doing it now," the bench said. "Whatever they have done, howsoever bad it might be, let that interim arrangement continue for 10 days," the bench said, adding the matter should now finally be decided by the High Court.  A pilot, Deven Yogesh Kanani and others have moved the High Court saying the circular issued on March 23 for keeping the middle seat vacant was not being adhered to by Air India in flights operated under the Vande Bharat Mission. The government, for its part, said another circular, issued on May 22, allowed use of middle seat while keeping all precautions. As the HC questioned the decision, the Centre and Air India moved the top court, which had May 2 allowed operation of non-scheduled flights with the middle seats booking up to June 6, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-modify-order-asking-hc-to-decide-circular-of-filling-up-all-seats-in-plane-842517.html
27-05-2020||National||Congress to hold online agitation on May 28 for monetary aid to poor||The Congress will on Thursday hold an agitation through social media demanding monetary aid from the Centre for people from the unorganised sector in line with the 'Nyay' scheme proposed by the party leader Rahul Gandhi, Maharashtra minister Balasaheb Thorat has said. Thorat, who heads the Maharashtra Congress unit, said workers of the party will take part in the agitation through social media platforms like YouTube, Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. The agitation, with hashtag 'SpeakUpIndia', will be held online from 11 am to 2 pm on Thursday, he added.  Pilot, who is also the Rajasthan Congress chief, said though the Centre announced an economic package, the financial relief could not reach the poor due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. "Every poor should get Rs 10,000 in his bank account. We will demand that the Centre credits the amount to the (bank accounts of the) poor as part of the digital campaign," Pilot said. He said putting money into the pockets of the poor is necessary to accelerate demand in the market. To press for its demand, he added, the Congress will launch the pan-India campaign across social media platforms on Thursday. Targeting the Centre, Pilot said lakhs of people walked home barefoot and hungry during the lockdown but the central government had no concrete policy to provide help and assistance to them. At a time when it should provide relief to people, BJP government and leaders are planning virtual rallies to celebrate the completion of the party's six years in power, he said. "This is not the time to speak of achievements but to wipe people's tears. The central government has to provide relief and help to people during the pandemic," he said. Ahead of the Lok Sabha elections held last year, Rahul Gandhi had advocated implementation of the 'Nyay' scheme proposing that a certain amount of money will be paid to the poor per month to enable them to make purchases.  The increased purchasing power of the poor will in turn help remonetise the economy, Congress leader Thorat had said. "We cannot go outside, on the streets now (due to the lockdown). Hence, we will be staging this agitation online tomorrow for those who are hit the worst by the lockdown. "You have to take part in the agitation via YouTube, Twitter, Instagram, Facebook," Thorat said during an online interaction. He said the Centre's Rs 20 lakh crore special economic package is "more of offering loans than spending money to help the people hit by lockdown". "The economy will pick momentum only when the poor have money in hand to spend. So, the Centre should offer money in line with the Nyay scheme. This will in turn boost the economy," he added. Thorat said 50 lakh workers of the Congress are expected to take part in the agitation across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-hold-online-agitation-on-may-28-for-monetary-aid-to-poor-842519.html
27-05-2020||National||Financial resources to combat climate change may not reach developing nations amid coronavirus crisis, says Suresh Prabhu||With COVID-19 wreaking havoc on the world economy, financial resources to combat climate change may not reach developing countries like India from the developed nations responsible for high emissions, former Union minister Suresh Prabhu said on Wednesday.  Speaking at a webinar with World Wide Fund (WWF) India CEO Ravi Singh on the topic 'Can COVID-19 lead us to re-imagine a climate resilient and sustainable future', Prabhu said climate change is a bigger phenomenon which can destroy everything if no timely action is taken.  "Climate change is a far bigger phenomenon. It can destroy everything if not taken care of. It is dangerous and we need financial resources to act upon it. But due to the economical catastrophe now, no country would be willing to contribute or reach out to developing countries.  "Financial resources may not come to us at all. I feel today there is an opportunity to act but monetary resources may not be available," he said. Last year, Union Environment minister Prakash Javadekar had held the developed world responsible for much of the effects of climate change, asserting that India will not bow down to any international pressure on the issue and safeguard its own interest first. Javadekar had blamed the developed countries for not keeping up to their commitment of providing USD 100 billion and technology transfer collectively to developing countries like India for dealing with climate change. Prabhu, who was also the environment minister in Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, said human action have led to climate change which has been proved during the lockdown but India was not the cause but victim of climate change. "According to science, climate change is a human action. GreenHouse Gas emissions (GHG) are human made. The pandemic and the lockdown proved it as all human actions stopped and emissions went down." he said. He said India has done a lot and is doing a lot to combat climate change and is not the cause of the phenomenon. "India has done a lot and is doing a lot for combating climate change but we are not the cause of climate change but the victims of it. High emissions have been done by developed countries who are responsible for climate change. Such countries have to pay compensation for it and provide financial assistance to developing countries. It has been decided by the United Nations. "India is doing its bit already but global efforts are the need of the hour. Local action alone cannot help," he said. Speaking about the locust outbreak in the country and its impact on crops, Prabhu said agriculture has to be adaptive and prepared for climate change. "Climate change is a certainty, adaptation is a necessity. Adaptation is important especially for agricultural activities. Locust or no locust, crops like wheat cannot stand temperature above two degree celsius. Agriculture needs to adapt to climate change and may bring a variety of crops adaptive to climate change.  "Due to climate change, water will be a challenge. We need to store water naturally in ponds, lakes, rivers. According to scientists, there may be times when at one stretch there is a lot of water, and for another, no water at all. We need to restore water bodies," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/financial-resources-to-combat-climate-change-may-not-reach-developing-nations-amid-coronavirus-crisis-says-suresh-prabhu-842521.html
27-05-2020||National||Parliamentary panel to meet in June to discuss govt's action on lockdown||For the first time after COVID-19 lockdown was imposed two months ago, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs will meet next Wednesday to discuss the government's response to the pandemic that has infected over 1.51 lakh and claimed 4,337 lives so far. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla will brief the multi-party panel headed by former Union Commerce Minister and senior Congress MP Anand Sharma on June 3 on the situation arising out of COVID-19 lockdown and its handling by the Ministry of Home Affairs.  This will be the first meeting of a Parliamentary Standing committee since the lockdown was imposed in the country on March 25, which was subsequently extended to May 31.  A senior MP, who is part of the panel, said he is yet to receive the official note on the panel meeting but expressed concern over the logistics. The MP said different states have different set of rules and he needed clarity on whether he would have to undergo quarantine in case of his return to the state. "There are still some ambiguities. We need clarity," he said. There has been demands from panel chairpersons like Sharma, Bhartruhari Mahtab (Labour) and Shashi Tharoor (Information and Technology) for convening meeting through video conference but it could not go forward as there were no rules in place to conduct it electronically. Earlier this month, both Naidu and Birla had asked Secretaries General of both the Lower and Upper Houses to submit a report on the possibilities of virtual meetings and time needed to enable secure technology platforms. During a joint meeting, 22 "like-minded" Opposition parties had also demanded restoration of Parliamentary functioning and oversight with immediate effect by Parliamentary institutions like Standing Committees.  Last Saturday, sources indicated that Parliament was gearing up to hold Standing Committee meetings with air and train travel resuming in COVID-19 lockdown 4.0. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had reviewed preparedness for regular deliberations in times of social distancing. Nine rooms in the Parliament House and annexe have been identified for holding regular meetings of the 24 Department Related Standing Committees and another six rooms for other Committees of both the Houses.   Sources said only the Main Committee Room in the annexe enables meetings of the Committees with adherence to social distancing norm following which Naidu and Birla instructed officials to arrange for extra seating to maintain social distancing in other rooms. The Department Related Standing Committees have 31 MPs -- 21 from Lok Sabha and 10 from Rajya Sabha -- while other panels of both the Houses have much less number of MPs. Both the Rajya Sabha Chairman and the Lok Sabha Speaker also said that participation of officials from both the secretariats and the ministries appearing before the committees would be kept to bear minimum to comply with social distancing norm. Sharma, Tharoor and Mahtab had sought meetings of committees through video conference but both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha Secretariats have rejected their demand. In a letter, Mahtab told the Lok Sabha Speaker that at least Parliaments in 23 countries have been conducting virtual meetings despite being under COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-to-meet-in-june-to-discuss-govts-action-on-lockdown-842537.html
27-05-2020||National||62% believe Modi govt either met or exceeded their expectations: Survey||As Narendra Modi government is completing one year in the second term, a survey has claimed that 62 per cent of those surveyed believe that the NDA dispensation has "either met or exceeded" their expectations. However, in the survey conducted by LocalCircles between April 30 and May 14 said, 56 per cent of those surveyed were of the feeling that it has not been able to address unemployment situation in the country. The survey sample is around 65,000 people from across 280 districts of the country, it said. "Around 26 per cent citizens said the Government has exceeded their expectations while 36 per cent citizens said that the Government met their expectations. This could be due to a variety of factors like government’s tough stance against terrorism, efforts to improve relations with foreign countries and India’s growing global influence, passage of important and pending bills in Parliament and promptness in taking tough steps early to control the COVID-19 pandemic," it claimed. According to the survey, 59 per cent of those surveyed feel that the government has "very effectively" handled the COVID-19 pandemic while 7 per cent believed that it has "not effectively" dealt with the situation.  Only 36 per cent citizens in the LocalCircles poll said that prices of essential commodities and cost of living has reduced in the last 1 year. "When asked if they feel doing business has been easier in the last one year, 43 per cent said yes and 33 per cent said no. 24 per cent were unsure...When it came to tax harassment, 52 per cent said they believe harassment by tax officials has reduced in the last one year," the survey claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/62-believe-modi-govt-either-met-or-exceeded-their-expectations-survey-842546.html
27-05-2020||National||Number of PPE body coveralls manufactured in India tops 1-cr mark: Govt||The total number of PPE body coveralls produced in India crossed the 1-crore mark on Wednesday, according to the textiles ministry.  "Under the able leadership of Hon'ble Prime Minister @narendramodi Ji total number of PPE Coveralls produced in India has crossed 1 crore today. A significant landmark towards the vision of #AatmaNirbharBharat," the Ministry of Textiles tweeted.  India has become the world's second largest manufacturer of personal protective equipment (PPE) body coveralls within a short time span of two months, the government had said last week.  China is the world's leading producer of PPE body coveralls, crucial to safeguard against COVID-19 infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-ppe-body-coveralls-manufactured-in-india-tops-1-cr-mark-govt-842550.html
27-05-2020||National||Five people die on Shramik Special trains in Uttar Pradeah||Five people have died while travelling on special Shramik trains passing through Uttar Pradesh, officials said on Wednesday. Two of the bodies were brought out from a train in Varanasi on Wednesday morning. The three other were taken out of trains in Kanpur and Ballia on Tuesday. One worker who travelled on a special train died in a Ballia hospital on Wednesday. North Eastern Railway spokesperson Ashok Kumar said a train had arrived from Mumbai's Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at the Varanasi’s Manduadih station at 8.21 am on Wednesday morning. Two people travelling on it were found dead by the Government Railway Police, he said. He said during a medical examination, it was found that both had serious health issues. One of them, identified as Dashrath Prajapati (30), was a resident of UP's Jaunpur. He was differently abled and getting treatment for a kidney-related problem in Mumbai. The other victim was identified as Ram Ratan (63), a resident of Azamgarh district. A relative of Dashrath, who was travelling with him, said he had complained of some health problem when they reached Allahabad and then slept. He did not wake up when they reached Varanasi. Manduadih GRP post incharge BS Yadav said both bodies were handed over to relatives after autopsy. Police said 58-year-old Bhushan Singh, a resident of Bihar's Saran district, was found dead on the Surat-Hajipur Shramik special train in Ballia on Tuesday evening. The body has been sent for a post-mortem, police said. Another man who travelled on a Madgaon-Darbangha special train died at a Ballia hospital. Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav on Wednesday said, "A special train from Madgaon to Darbangha reached Ballia on Tuesday evening. In the train, Shobran Kumar (28), a resident of Janakpur, Nepal, was travelling. His medical check-up was done, and he was admitted to the district hospital. On Wednesday, he died." In Kanpur, two middle-aged men on board Jhansi-Goraphpur Shramik trains were found dead on Tuesday night. Officials said one of them was identified as Ram Awadh Chauhan (45) while the identity of the other hasn't been established so far. Giving details about the deceased, GRP's Station House Officer (Kanpur Central), Ram Mohan Rai said Chauhan, a resident of Makraunda, Jahanaganj in Azamgarh, was going to Azamgarh from Mumbai. Chauhan had reached Jhansi from Mumbai on a Shramik train. He boarded another train for Gorakhpur from Jhansi and died on the way. "He was suffering from diabetes," Rai said, adding that he had complained of difficulty in breathing, terrifying other passengers. The SHO said details of the other passenger could not be retrieved. "Both bodies were sent for a post-mortem examination," he said, adding that sample have been taken for coronavirus testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-people-die-on-shramik-special-trains-in-uttar-pradeah-842552.html
27-05-2020||National||India's COVID-19 cases cross 1.5 lakh-mark, toll 4,337||India has crossed the grim 1.5 lakh-mark of COVID-19 patients as states reported 6,387 new infections on Wednesday, taking the total confirmed cases to 151,767. While Maharashtra continued to report maximum increase in the number of cases at 2,091, the COVID-19 infection surged in Tamil Nadu, which reported 646 new cases as on Wednesday morning. The death toll from the virus also spiked by 170 taking the total fatalities in the country to 4,337. A separate DH COVID-19 tracker pegged the total number of cases at 1,52,971 and the death toll at 4,362 at 7:30 pm on Wednesday. An official statement said that of the 1,51,767 cases, 64,426 patients had recovered and been discharged from hospitals, pegging the recovery rate at 42.4%. “The fatality rate is 2.86% whereas the world average is 6.36%,” it added.     According to the DH COVID-19 tracker, there were 83,802 active COVID-19 patients in India. During the two months of the lockdown, India has set up 930 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,58,747 isolation beds, 20,355 ICU beds and 69,076 oxygen-supported beds are available. 2,362 dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,32,593 isolation beds; 10,903 ICU beds and 45,562 oxygen-supported beds have been operationalised. 10,341 quarantine centres and 7,195 COVID Care Centres with 6,52,830 beds are now available to combat COVID-19 in the country The testing capacity has increased in the country through 435 government laboratories and 189 private laboratories, the official statement said. It added that cumulatively, 32,42,160 samples have been tested so far for COVID-19, while 1,16,041 samples were tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-cases-cross-15-lakh-mark-toll-4337-842553.html
27-05-2020||National||Flashpoint of Sino-Indian forces stand-off has unique Kashmir connection||Galwan river area, a flashpoint for the 1962 war and epicenter of prevailing standoff between Sino-India forces in the newly carved out Union Territory of Ladakh, has a unique connection with Kashmir. Right now the Chinese troops are reportedly said to have moved in the Galwan valley which was also a flashpoint in the 1962 Sino-India war. According to a report, China has changed its claims over the valley thrice. It started with a small territory. Now, Beijing says that the entire Galwan valley belongs to China which the Global Times editorial also repeats. According to historians, the area is named after Ghulam Rasool Galwan, whose ancestors ran away from Kashmir and settled in Ladakh. Galwan was the first person to explore the area in 1899 when he was part of an expedition team that was exploring the areas to the north of the Chang Chenmo Valley. He died in 1925. In his autobiography “Servants of Sahibs”, Galwan traces his roots to Kashmir. In the book written in broken English, he writes that his great grandfather “Kala Galwan (Black Robber)” was a clever robber. “He climbed high walls like a cat. He never lived in a house,” he writes. Comparing his great grandfather with Robinhood, Galwan claimed that his great grandfather robbed the rich and gave money to the poor and even then Maharaja of Kashmir was afraid of him. As per the book, Galwan says the Maharaja hatched a conspiracy with one of trusted friends of his great grandfather to catch him.  Sir Francis Younghusband, a British Army officer and explorer, writes that Galwan behaved as a gentleman in every situation. “He came from the very poorest. He started as a simple village lad. But in every situation he behaved like a gentleman,” he writes. In his book—“Into the Untravelled Himalaya: Travels, Treks, and Climbs” Harish Kapadia writes that Galwan was among the pony-men taken on by Lord Dunmore to the Pamirs in 1890.  In 1914, he states that Galwan was appointed as the caravan leader (a very prestigious post) of the big Italian scientific expedition of Filippo de Filippi, which explored the Rimo glacier systems and spent several months in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flashpoint-of-sino-indian-forces-stand-off-has-unique-kashmir-connection-842562.html
27-05-2020||National||Jammu & Kashmir reports biggest single-day spike in coronavirus cases, count crosses 1900-mark||The previous highest spike in fresh cases - 108 - was recorded on May 16. This is the first time in J&K that over 150 COVID-19 cases have been reported in a day.  Health officials said the death count from coronavirus infection has risen to 26, and the total number of cases mounted to 1921. According to the daily Media Bulletin out of 1921 positive cases, 1041 are active positive, 854 have recovered and 26 have died. Providing district-wise breakup, the Bulletin said that Anantnag has 282 positive cases, Kulgam 255, Srinagar 209, Kupwara 192, Baramulla 153, Bandipora 145, Shopian 141, Budgam 78, Ganderbal 31 and Pulwama 49. Similarly, Jammu has 113 positive cases, Ramban 75, Kathua 56, Udhampur 50, Samba 32, Poonch 23, Rajouri 15, Reasi 12 Kishtwar eight and Doda two. From 500 cases on 28 April to 1000 cases on 15 May, it took J&K 17 days to double its COVID19 cases. However, in the last 11 days the cases have almost doubled. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest COVID-19 case density areas in the country which is over 160 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is 114. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. No need to panic due to COVID-19 cases spike in J&K: Jitendra Singh There is no need to panic due to the spike in the novel coronavirus infections in Jammu and Kashmir, Union minister Jitendra Singh told health workers on Monday, adding that the cases were not only being traced, but treated effectively in quarantine facilities. Singh said the increase in the cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) was expected due to the large number of people returning to the state. The minister of state for personnel was reviewing the status of the COVID-19 pandemic in the Union territory. Appreciating the efforts of the administration, Singh advised the health workers that there was "no need to panic" due to the spike in cases of the pathogen. He said the people must be advised to follow all the precautions, and carry on with their lives and inculcate the same in lifestyle to successfully fight the COVID-19. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-kashmir-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-count-crosses-1900-mark-842565.html
27-05-2020||National||COVID-19 test not mandatory for RMNCAH+N service||The health ministry on Wednesday said that essential health services related to reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescents (RMNCAH+N) should be continued in a restricted manner in areas defined as containment and buffer zones. In a guidance note, the ministry said that COVID-19 testing is not mandatory in RMNCAH+N services. “Critical services for women, children and adolescents should be provided irrespective of their Covid status,” the guidance note on provision of RMNCAH+N services said. “Under no circumstances should there be a denial of essential services,” it said. It said that all COVID-19 suspect and positive patients should preferably provide service at the dedicated Covid facilities. The guidance document said home delivery of folic acid, calcium and zinc tablets, oral rehydration solution sachets and contraceptives can also be arranged in the containment zones. Areas where multiple coronavirus cases are reported have been classified as containment zones and its surrounding areas are called buffer zones. “In India, with the second-largest global population, the growing epidemic of coronavirus requires that special efforts have to be made to continue the essential routine RMNCAH+N services,” the ministry said. The guidance note stated that it was important to ensure that essential health services for vulnerable populations are continued during the pandemic. The ministry said that a mother and her newborn should be nursed together as far as possible and breastfeeding must be initiated within one hour of delivery, irrespective of the coronavirus status. However, the mother must wear a face mask and practice hand hygiene before feeding the child, it added. In a separate advisory, the ministry for reuse of goggles in a personal protection equipment kit at least five days after proper disinfection. “All goggles that conform to the prescribed EN/BIS specifications will be re-used after disinfection,” the advisory said adding that the PPE kits will not come with goggles anymore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-test-not-mandatory-for-rmncahn-service-842579.html
27-05-2020||National||Army commanders review situation in Ladakh and areas along LAC in Sikkim, U'khand||Top commanders of the Indian Army on Wednesday carried out a comprehensive review of the situation in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a tense standoff for over three weeks in what is seen as the biggest military confrontation after the Doklam episode in 2017. The commanders deliberated on the fast evolving situation in eastern Ladakh as well as in strategically key areas along the de-facto Sino-India border in Uttarakhand and Sikkim on the opening day of a three-day conference here. Military sources said Indian Army will continue to maintain its aggressive posturing in all disputed areas like Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh besides certain areas in Uttarakhand and North Sikkim. In the deliberations, it was emphasised that Indian troops will not wilt under any Chinese pressure and would be ready for a long-haul to ensure status quo of the nearly 3,500-km-long Line of Actual Control, the de-facto border between the two countries. The Army will continue to deal with the situation with firmness, a top military official told PTI on condition of anonymity. The commanders' conference was originally scheduled to be held from April 13-18, but it was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. The biannual army commanders conference is held in April and October every year. The second phase of the conference will take place in the last week of June. The commanders are also expected to delve into the overall situation in Jammu and Kashmir. However, the main focus will remain on the situation in eastern Ladakh, the sources said. Both India and China have significantly increased their presence in all sensitive areas in the region, in an indication that neither side is ready to back off. The Chinese army is learnt to have deployed around 2,500 troops in Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley besides gradually enhancing temporary infrastructure and weaponry. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to "disengage" following a meeting at the level of local commanders. Over 100 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in the violence. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. On the face-off in eastern Ladakh, India last week said that it has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management but the Chinese military was hindering normal patrolling by its troops. It is learnt that both India and China are looking at a solution to the issue through talks. On May 5, the Indian and the Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-commanders-review-situation-in-ladakh-and-areas-along-lac-in-sikkim-ukhand-842589.html
27-05-2020||National||Govt steps up locust control operations; drones to be deployed soon||The government has stepped up efforts to control spread of swarms of locust, a crop damaging migratory pests, in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, and plans to soon deploy drones for spraying pesticides, the Union Agriculture Ministry said on Wednesday. About 21 districts in Rajasthan, 18 districts in Madhya Pradesh, 2 districts in Gujarat and 1 district in Punjab have undertaken locust control measures till now, the ministry said in a statement. It has been controlled in 47,308 hectare areas so far in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, it said. The government has placed an order for buying 60 spraying machines from UK-based company Micron, and two firms have been finalised for supply of drones for aerial spraying of insecticides for effective control over tall trees and inaccessible areas, it added. "Usually, the locust swarms enter the scheduled desert area of India through Pakistan for summer breeding in the month of June/July with the advent of monsoon. "This year, however, incursions of locust hoppers and pink swarms have been reported much earlier because of presence of residual population of locust in Pakistan which they couldn't control last season," the statement said. Incursions of locust hoppers have been reported since April 11 and that of pink immature adults since April 30 in bordering districts of Rajasthan and Punjab, which are being controlled, it said. Pink immature adults fly high and cover long distances during day hours along with the westerly winds coming from the Pakistan side. Most of these pink immature adults settle on trees during night, and mostly fly during the day, it explained. Stating that control operations are in full swing currently, the Ministry said so far locusts have been controlled in 47,308 hectare area in total 303 places in Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh by Locust Control Officers in coordination with district administration and state agriculture department. However, there are active swarms of "immature locust" in 8 districts in Rajasthan (Barmer, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Bikaner, Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Sikar and Jaipur) and 7 districts in Madhya Pradesh (Satna, Gwalior, Seedhi, Rajgarh, Baitul, Devas, Agar Malwa), it said. "The immature locust is very active and their mobility makes it difficult to control the swarm at one location and it takes 4 to 5 days of control at different locations to control a particular locust swarm," it said, adding that control operations are being undertaken in morning hours on a daily basis. At present, 89 fire brigades for pesticide spray, 120 survey vehicles, 47 control vehicles with spray equipment and 810 tractor mounted sprayers have been deployed for effective locust control, as per requirement on different days. For effective control of locusts beyond scheduled desert areas, temporary control camps have been established in Ajmer, Chittorgarh, Dausa in Rajasthan; Mandsaur, Ujjain, Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh and Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh, the ministry added. The ministry said it has received permission from Civil Aviation Ministry for use of drones for locust control. "Two firms have been finalized through tender for use of drones for spray of pesticides for locust control," it added. Currently, the Locust Control Offices have 21 Micronair and 26 Ulvamast spray machines which are being utilized for locust control. Meanwhile, supply order for procurement of additional 55 vehicles has been placed to strengthen the control potential. Adequate stock pesticide Malathion has been maintained at Locust Control Organizations. Advisories have been issued to Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab regarding the locust attack and necessary measures to be taken for effective control and pesticides that are to be used for effective locust control in cropped areas. Sharing the Food and Agriculture Organization's (FAO) update on locust swarms issued on May 21, the ministry said the UN body has said that the current situation remains extremely alarming in East Africa where it is an unprecedented threat to food security and livelihoods. New swarms will migrate to the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border as well as to Sudan and West Africa. As vegetation dries out, more groups and swarms will form and move from these areas to the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border, FAO had said. Good rains are predicted during the first half of June along the Indo-Pakistan border that would allow egg-laying to occur, it added. During 2019-20, India witnessed a massive locust attack which was successfully controlled. Starting from May 21, 2019 till February 17, 2020, a total of 4,03,488 hectare area was treated and locust swarms were controlled, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-steps-up-locust-control-operations-drones-to-be-deployed-soon-842593.html
27-05-2020||National||Scathing letter by senior advocates stir up SC to take up migrants' crisis||A scathing letter written by a group of senior advocates has stirred the Supreme Court to take up Suo Motu cognizance of 'problems and miseries of migrant workers', who were forced to walk hundreds of kilometres to reach their native places, following the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to contain COVID-19 pandemic. They reminded the top court that "institutional deference to statements made on behalf of the government and the court’s apparent indifference to this enormous humanitarian crisis, would if not rectified immediately, amount to the court having abdicated its constitutional role and duty to these teeming millions of poor, hungry migrants." In response to a PIL, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta made a statement on March 31 that no migrant person was walking on the roads in an attempt to reach his or her home towns villages.  This has led the court to express satisfaction with the steps taken by the government to combat Covid-19. It had proceeded to observe that “the migration of labourers working in the cities was triggered by panic created by fake news that the lock down would continue for more than three months". The letter said the government’s statement has been clearly shown to be contrary to the facts. Several reports suggested that more than 90% of migrant workers did not receive government rations in many States and were suffering from dire food shortage.  The signatories to the letter included P Chidambaram, Indira Jaising, Anand Grover, Kapil Sibal, Sidharth Luthra, Mohan Katarki, Santosh Paul, Chander Uday Singh, Vikas Singh and Prashant Bhushan.  A number of senior advocates from the Bombay High Court also signed the letter, namely Iqbal Chagla, Aspi Chinoy, Mihir Desai, Janak Dwarkadas, Rajani Iyer, Yusuf Muchhala, Rajiv Patil, Navroz Seervai, Gayatri Singh and Sanjay Singhvi. They said, "the current migrant crisis is symptomatic of how the constitutional promises of equality, life, freedom and dignity have been totally ignored by the government while imposing arbitrary executive measures." The Supreme Court’s "unwillingness to hold the government to account and to provide succor to these poor millions, will severely erode its constitutional role and status as the guardian of the fundamental rights of the people", they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scathing-letter-by-senior-advocates-stir-up-sc-to-take-up-migrants-crisis-842599.html
27-05-2020||National||Limited Lockdown 5.0 on cards; malls, metro may be back||Lockdown 5.0 for two weeks with stringent curbs in 11 cities that account for 70% of COVID-19 positive cases and a massive focus on ramping up testing in rural areas is on the anvil. This will be accompanied by a substantial easing of restrictions in most parts of the country and further opening up of transport services like metro and buses, according to government sources. Shopping malls, which have remained closed, could be opened in green zones but the government is still weighing the rise in the number of cases.  In the Lockdown 5.0, the focus will be on active and aggressive containment in 11 cities with high spread -- Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Pune, Thane, Jaipur, Surat and Indore. In Lockdown 5.0 the perimeter of restricted areas in containment zones could be reduced. The thrust of Lockdown 5.0 is containing the pandemic spread in villages after reverse migration from metros. During his last interaction with CMs, Modi had said the effort should be to stop the spread of the virus to rural areas.  Religious institutions are likely to be opened with strict implementation of social distancing norms and with a strict bar on mass gatherings and religious festivals. Karnataka’s BJP government has already written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the reopening of all religious places from June 1. Opening of gyms could be a major relief of health buffs in Lockdown 5.0.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will deliver the 65th episode of his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat on May 31, could announce the broad contours of the fifth lockdown kicking in from June 1 in which he is likely to emphasise on making it a people’s movement on the lines of Swachh Bharat Mission as the counter pandemic strategy is now shifting from being government centric to people centric. The suggestions given by the people will form a key part of Lockdown 5.0. The Centre, which had delegated most of the decision making to states in Lockdown 4.0, is likely to further empower states on the containment strategy the next lockdown, those in the know on Covid 19 strategy of the government say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/limited-lockdown-50-on-cards-malls-metro-may-be-back-842603.html
27-05-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Coronavirus: Union Minster D V Sadananda Gowda skips quarantine process||DV Sadananda Gowda arrives from Delhi, skips quarantine, says he’s exempted Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers D V Sadananda Gowda, who flew into Bengaluru from the ‘high-risk’ Delhi, was not subjected to the mandatory institutional quarantine on Monday. Both Gowda and the state government claimed he was exempted under the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-coronavirus-union-minster-d-v-sadananda-gowda-skips-quarantine-process-842252.html
27-05-2020||National Politics||Cong leader seeks SC's order for immediate food, medicine, employment for migrant workers||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday (May 27) approached the Supreme Court for a direction to the Centre to formulate a nation-wide action plan to address the issues, including adequate food, medicine, shelter and gainful employment, for stranded migrants. In an application filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes, he sought to intervene into the Suo Motu matter registered as "problems and miseries of migrant workers", coming up for consideration on Thursday (May 28). He said due to the nation-wide lockdown, Parliament has not been able to conduct any session since March of 2020, and hence he and the Congress party have been unable to raise the issues of migrant labourers before the House.  He contended that the Union Government had failed to formulate any joint committee with the opposition political parties for addressing issues of stranded migrant labourers. It has been unable to consider the measures suggested by him and the opposition party or any member of Parliament not belonging to the ruling dispensation.  Among his suggestions, he said the government must identify the total number of migrant labourers who continue to be stranded, by carrying out an exercise at the district and village level. His application suggested that the Union government may immediately set up reception centres and facilitation centres at district and village level for receiving labourers and facilitating further their travel to their native places. He further said the financial reliefs, announced by the Union government should be implemented on an urgent and immediate basis and a public announcement and campaign detailing the timelines and step-wise procedure should be shared with the public and migrants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-leader-seeks-scs-order-for-immediate-food-medicine-employment-for-migrant-workers-842360.html
27-05-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi trying to 'weaken' country's resolve against coronavirus: BJP||Accusing Rahul Gandhi of trying to "weaken" the country's resolve to fight COVID-19, the BJP said on Wednesday that the Congress leader has been acting in a "most irresponsible" manner and is trying to mislead the country with "falsehoods and misrepresentation of facts". Senior BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also sought to know from Gandhi if even Congress chief ministers listen to him as even they "do not" follow his suggestions on lockdown or on giving cash package to the poor. Prasad cited comments made by Gandhi since the threat of coronavirus emerged in the country to allege that all Gandhi has done is to demoralise people and indulge in politics while seeking publicity. The BJP also released a booklet, titled "Who is trying to weaken India’s fight against Covid?", to attack Gandhi.  The booklet is a compilation of Gandhi's comments and also positive reports about the Modi government's efforts to combat the coronavirus Prasad told reporters that India, with a population of 137 crore, accounted for 4,345 deaths till May 26, while 15 other most coronavirus-affected countries outside China had suffered 3,43,562 fatalities. The minister said he is not including China because many "questions" are being raised about it. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shown courage in the fight against coronavirus and has done so by uniting the country, he asserted. The former Congress president had claimed on Tuesday that the four-phase lockdown has "failed" in its purpose, while taking a swipe at Modi. Gandhi first criticised Modi's call to people to clap or bang utensils to show their gratitude to emergency workers engaged in combating coronavirus, he spoke in a similar vein after the prime minister asked them to light lamps, he levelled "false" allegations about labourers being charged for travelling in 'Shramik' trains and then against ICMR, Prasad said. The BJP leader claimed that Gandhi's allegations have been proved wrong.  "Since the nation started fighting coronavirus, he (Gandhi) has been trying to weaken the nation's resolve. He is acting in most irresponsible manner and is trying to mislead people by resorting to falsehoods and misrepresentation of facts," Prasad charged. Gandhi's campaign is based on "spreading negativity", acting "against" the nation during the crisis and claiming false credit, he charged. The Modi government, Prasad said, has spent Rs 52,000 crore in transferring direct cash and had announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package as soon as the lockdown started. To a question, he said the BJP is not trying to topple the coalition government in Maharashtra which is afflicted by growing "internal differences" of its allies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-trying-to-weaken-countrys-resolve-against-coronavirus-bjp-842381.html
27-05-2020||National Politics||AAP MP Sanjay Singh asks Piyush Goyal to lodge FIRs against those responsible for train diversions||AAP Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh has written to Railway minister Piyush Goyal, saying FIRs should be lodged against those responsible for diversion of Shramik Special trains ferrying migrants stranded in different parts of the country amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Singh asked Goyal to make proper arrangements of food and water for the migrants and said officials, who are responsible for delay in the trains, must be strictly punished. "There were around 40 trains that lost their way. How can such carelessness take place. Who is responsible for these undue delays of trains that has even led to tragedies, including deaths," Singh said in the letter. Singh said FIR must be lodged against those responsible for diversion of trains. "If you can make arrangements for people stranded abroad to return home safely then you can also ensure that arrangement is made for poor people stuck in different parts of the country to return to their hometowns safely," he said. Amid complaints of lack of food and delays of these special trains on the social media, the railways on Tuesday said no trains are being diverted now and all trains which originated during the last three days are running on their "pre-scheduled rationalised routes". The Indian Railways started Shramik Special trains to ferry back migrants stranded in different parts of the country. It ferried over 44 lakh migrant workers on board 3,276 'Shramik Special' trains since May 1, according to official data. The 'Shramik Special' trains are being operated primarily on the request of states, which want to send migrant workers stranded due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown to their native places. The coronavirus-triggered lockdown has had a devastating impact on the economy as well as on the livelihoods of lakhs of migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-mp-sanjay-singh-asks-piyush-goyal-to-lodge-firs-against-those-responsible-for-train-diversions-842435.html
27-05-2020||National Politics||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari thanks party workers for not celebrating his birthday||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday thanked his party workers and supporters for not celebrating his birthday in view of the coronavirus situation. The BJP veteran, who turned 63 on Wednesday, had earlier appealed to the party workers not to celebrate his birthday by holding any public event or by visiting him at his residence here.  The Minister of Road Transport and Highways had said that it was not proper to hold celebrations amid the outbreak of COVID-19, which has affected the society. In a statement, Gadkari thanked his well-wishers for respecting his appeal and wishing him on phone and social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-minister-nitin-gadkari-thanks-party-workers-for-not-celebrating-his-birthday-842445.html
27-05-2020||National Politics||Where is Rs 28,000 crore? Show us: MVA govt to BJP||Amid BJP's claims that the Centre has sent Rs 28,000 crore to Maharashtra to fight COVID-19,  the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Wednesday asked the opposition party to show the details and break-up.  The MVA also alleged that the GST dues of the state is pending and the Narendra Modi government has not released yet.  Top MVA leaders including state NCP President and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil,  state Congress President and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat and senior Shiv Sena leader and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab met at Thackeray's residence - and categorically said that their government is safe and sound.  On Tuesday, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis claimed that the MVA government will collapse because of internal contradictions among the three partners even as some leaders demanded that President' rule be imposed in the state.    "The claim that Rs 28,000 (by BJP) does not stand," Parab said,  however, he added that nearly Rs 6,600 crore has come under various regular schemes. Parab, a close aide of Thackeray said the Centre is yet to clear the state’s GST dues of over Rs.18,000 crore for 2019-2020. "Where is this Rs 28,000 crore...where is the money? From where it came and which account it has gone?”  Parab wanted to know. “Instead of cooperating, he’s busy vilifying all the good work of the MVA government, the state BJP thought it fit to give money to the PM Care Fund but not the CM Relief Fund, he has no faith in the skills of the youth of our state and made misleading statements,” Patil said. Thorat targeted Fadnavis saying rather than working with the government or using his good offices to get a good financial package from the Centre, they want to see the government out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/where-is-rs-28000-crore-show-us-mva-govt-to-bjp-842482.html
27-05-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi trying to 'weaken' country's resolve against coronavirus: BJP||Accusing Rahul Gandhi of trying to "weaken" the country's resolve to fight COVID-19, the BJP on Wednesday said that the Congress leader has been acting in a "most irresponsible" manner and is trying to mislead the country with "falsehoods and misrepresentation of facts". Senior BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also sought to know from Gandhi if even Congress chief ministers listen to him as even they "do not" follow his suggestions on lockdown or on giving cash package to the poor. Prasad cited comments made by Gandhi since the threat of coronavirus emerged in the country to allege that all the Congress leader has done is to demoralise people and indulge in politics while seeking publicity. The BJP also released a booklet, titled "Who is trying to weaken India's fight against Covid?", to attack Gandhi. The booklet is a compilation of Gandhi's comments and also positive reports about the Modi government's efforts to combat the coronavirus. Prasad told reporters that India, with a population of 137 crore, accounted for 4,345 deaths till May 26, while 15 other most coronavirus-affected countries outside China had suffered 3,43,562 fatalities. The minister said he is not including China because many "questions" are being raised about it. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shown courage in the fight against coronavirus and has done so by uniting the country, he asserted. Modi has always played on the front foot when it comes to the country's interests and will continue to do so, he added. The former Congress president had claimed on Tuesday that the four-phase lockdown has "failed" in its purpose and taken a swipe at Modi, saying the prime minister is no longer playing on the front foot after lockdown "failed". Gandhi first criticised Modi's call to people to clap or bang utensils to show their gratitude to emergency workers engaged in combating coronavirus, he spoke in a similar vein after the prime minister asked them to light lamps, he levelled "false" allegations about labourers being charged for travelling in 'Shramik' trains and then against ICMR, Prasad said. The BJP leader claimed that Gandhi's allegations have been proved wrong. "Since the nation started fighting coronavirus, he (Gandhi) has been trying to weaken the nation's resolve. He is acting in most irresponsible manner and is trying to mislead people by resorting to falsehoods and misrepresentation of facts," Prasad charged. Gandhi's campaign is based on "spreading negativity", acting "against" the nation during the crisis and claiming false credit, he charged. The Modi government, Prasad said, has spent Rs 52,000 crore in transferring direct cash and had announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package as soon as the lockdown started. To a question, he said the BJP is not trying to topple the coalition government in Maharashtra which is afflicted by growing "internal differences" of its allies. Taking a swipe at Gandhi, he said the Congress leader has "disowned" the state government even though his party is part of the government. The Congress leader is running away from the failures of the Maharashtra government, he said. The coronavirus situation is "worrisome" in Mumbai, which has emerged as a global "hotspot", Prasad said. Even states where the Congress is in power don't take Gandhi seriously , he said, noting that many of them hiked oil prices while the Congress leader was asking the Centre to pass on the benefits of fall in international crude prices to consumers. Asked about the migrants' crisis, he said everyone should come together to help them. He declined to comment on some adverse observations of the Supreme Court on the way the Centre and states have handled the issue, saying as the Union law minister it will not be appropriate for him to do so. He said the Centre will file its reply on the matter and added that the central and state governments are doing their best in these challenging times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-trying-to-weaken-countrys-resolve-against-coronavirus-bjp-842485.html
27-05-2020||National Politics||Let SC remind govt of its 'raj dharma': Congress spokesperson Surjewala on migrants issue||The Congress on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to remind the government of its 'raj dharma' by ensuring safe return of migrants to their homes and livelihood to them as it welcomed the court's decision to take up the issue of migrants' woes on its own. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Modi government cannot shirk its constitutional responsibility of ensuring the safe return of migrants to their homes and providing livelihood to them. "We welcome the decision of the Supreme Court to take suo motu notice of this and to question the government on its accountability," he said.  "Let the Supreme Court remind the government of its constitutional responsibility and of its raj dharma," he also said. Surjewala said he has moved an intervenor's application on Thursday to ensure that a national plan is framed and implemented for migrant workers and labourers for their return home, for healing their wounds and for protecting their livelihood. The Congress leader said the Modi government cannot shirk its constitutional responsibility of ensuring that wounds of crores of labourers, migrant workers are healed and that their safe return without any cost is ensured and their livelihood is protected. Surjewala earlier moved the Supreme Court seeking to intervene in the matter in which the apex court on its own has taken cognisance of the "unfortunate and miserable" plight of migrant labourers stranded across the country due to the COVID-19 lockdown. In his plea he sought that the government set up facilitation centres and facilities at district and village levels based on the information about hardships faced by the migrant labourers. A three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan had Tuesday taken suo motu (on its own) cognisance of the plight of migrant labourers stranded across the country and had said that they need "succour and help by the concerned governments" with regard to free food and shelter. The top court had issued notices to the Centre, all states and Union Territories and sought their replies on the issue by May 28, when the matter is scheduled to be heard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/let-sc-remind-govt-of-its-raj-dharma-congress-spokesperson-surjewala-on-migrants-issue-842495.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi: Coronavirus cases climb to 14,465; LG Baijal directs ramping up of health infra||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday directed the health department to ramp up medical infrastructure and ensure beds and oxygenation facilities are available at hospitals, as the number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 14,465 and the death toll rose to 288 in the city. According to a health bulletin, the national capital recorded 412 fresh cases. Three senior officials of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) were among them. The Commissioner (Sports), who sits at Vikas Sadan, the DDA headquarters; and Additional Commissioner (Planning) and Deputy Director (Planning), who sit at Vikas Minar building at ITO area, have been diagnosed with COVID-19 infection, sources said. The number of containment zones has again risen to around 90.  In northwest Delhi's Narela, six lanes were declared as containment zones on Tuesday after half a dozen cases of COVID-19 were detected in Swantantra Nagar.   Parts of Kotla Mubarakpur in southeast Delhi were declared as containment zones in order to prevent the further spread of COVID19, an official said. On a positive note, a staff member and 10 inmates of the Rohini jail here, who had tested positive for COVID-19, have recovered from the infection, officials said. In a video conference with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev and top officers of the health and other departments, Baijal directed ramping up of health infrastructure. According to an official statement, the lieutenant governor asked the officials to monitor containment zones on a dynamic basis for focused action. During the meeting, it was decided that real-time information will be provided in the public domain about availability of COVID beds in hospitals, it stated. On Monday, the chief minister had announced that his government is working to create an online system through which a COVID-19 patient will be able to find available beds in hospitals. Kejriwal on Monday had asserted that the coronavirus situation in the national capital is under control.     "The LG (Lt Governor) directed the health department to closely review the capacity building of medical infrastructure and remove bottlenecks immediately. He advised that the trend of last 10-15 days should be analysed for future management," the statement said. In the virtual meeting, Baijal was informed that case fatality rate in Delhi is at 1.96 per cent in comparison to the national average of 2.57 per cent. The health department had ordered 30,000 PPE kits (50,000 PPE in stock), 3.5 lakh N95 masks, 28 ventilators and 435 oxygen concentrator, the statement added. Delhi has been under lockdown since March 23. As the fourth phase of the lockdown nears completion, the Delhi Metro is all geared up to resume services in compliance with the safety norms once the order comes from authorities. Sources said the ground staff and others were briefed by their respective team leaders on preparedness and precautions to be taken by them whenever the services are resumed. The Delhi Metro has been closed since March 22 when the Janata Curfew was imposed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and subsequently the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) senior staff have already been coming to office since the lockdown norms were eased a week back. Also, metro staff, from train operators to sanitation workers, have been sensitised about the safety norms. From thermal scanners to test temperature of commuters to stickers on social distancing norms pasted on seats and platform floors, the Delhi Metro has been preparing to handle commuters as per the safety guidelines, anticipating resumption in services. The preparations have to be done in advance as once the government order comes the system has to be ready, the officials said. On Monday, the the total number of cases stood at 14,053, including 276 deaths. In the bulletin issued on Tuesday, the Delhi Health Department said the death toll from coronavirus has risen to 288, and the total number of cases mounted to 14,465. It said the cumulative death figures refers to fatalities where primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals. Meanwhile, in an online briefing, Deputy Chief Minister Sisodia said the Delhi government has so far sent around 2.71 lakh people back to their home states in 214 trains as another batch of 30,000 migrant workers left for their home towns and villages on Tuesday. Sisodia said nearly 1.25 lakh people were sent to Bihar, 96,610 to Uttar Pradesh, 3,000 to Jharkhand, 2,500 to West Bengal and 2,100 to Madhya Pradesh till Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-coronavirus-cases-climb-to-14465-lg-baijal-directs-ramping-up-of-health-infra-842233.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Ram temple trust chief offers prayers at shrine, his `first visit' in 28 years||Ram temple trust chairman Mahant Nritya Gopal Das has offered prayers at the Ram Lalla shrine here on what is said to be his first visit to the makeshift temple in nearly three decades. His visit Monday comes days after workers began levelling the site where a Ram temple will be constructed, following the Supreme Court verdict last year. In a brief interaction later with the media, he said construction of the temple has “begun”. In March, the Ram Lalla deity was ceremoniously moved to a new spot, clearing the way for the construction of the temple to start. On May 11, earth-moving machinery was deployed for levelling the site. The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust head is an accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. The 16th-century Babri mosque that stood on the disputed site in Ayodhya was demolished in 1992 by kar sevaks claiming that originally there was a Ram temple at the same spot. Ram Janambhoomi temple chief priest Acharya Satyendra Das confirmed that Mahant Nritya Das has not visited the shrine since then. He visited Monday to see the levelling work being carried out, the priest said. In a historic verdict last November on the Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute, the Supreme Court had ruled in favour of construction of a temple at the site. It also ordered that an alternative five-acre plot must be found within Ayodhya for a mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-trust-chief-offers-prayers-at-shrine-his-first-visit-in-28-years-842237.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Newborn dies in UP as father runs from one hospital to another||A newborn child died allegedly due to lack of medical support in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar as his father kept running between hospitals in Greater Noida and Noida, prompting the district administration to launch a probe on Tuesday. Rekha and Rajkumar, from Sector-36 in Greater Noida, are the parents of the baby who was born at a private hospital Monday night. "The woman was admitted to Shri Krishna Lifeline Hospital in Greater Noida on Monday. She delivered a baby around 9.30 pm. The baby's condition was not fine and was, hence, taken to another facility, Green City Hospital, at 10 pm," Chief Medical Officer Deepak Ohri said. "The baby was kept at the Green City hospital for two hours on ventilator support and thereafter referred elsewhere," he said. The CMO said the Shri Krishna Lifeline Hospital "made error" on three counts. "The hospital did not provide an ambulance for the ventilated patient. There was no healthcare worker to attend to the ventilated patient. It did not give a referral slip for the patient," the senior doctor said in a statement. He said the baby's father had to then arrange for an ambulance using the 108 service. "Due to the lack of a proper referral slip, the newborn was first taken to a community health care centre in Dadri and since no child specialist was available there, the baby was then taken to the Child PGI in Sector 30, Noida," he said. "The baby died before he could reach the Child PGI," the CMO said. A notice has also been issued to the Green City hospital and strong action is being taken, Ohri said. The health department has also constituted a team of doctors including Sanjeev Malik and Sunil Dohare to investigate the matter and present a report so that action could be taken against the guilty, according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/newborn-dies-in-up-as-father-runs-from-one-hospital-to-another-842245.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Body of COVID-19 victim cremated in open in Himachal Pradesh's Mandi amid protest by locals||The body of a woman who died due to COVID-19 was cremated in the open on the banks of ­­­Suketi Khud in Mandi district, amidst protest by local residents who objected to it over fear of catching the infection, officials said. The woman had died at SLBS Medical College, Mandi, at Ner Chowk on Monday. She belonged to the Ratti area of Ner Chowk, but the district administration decided to cremate her body on Tuesday at Dadour on the banks of Suketi Khud instead of at Ratti crematorium. Residents of Dadour, Kansha Chowk and other adjoining areas opposed the decision to cremate her at Dadour instead of near her home. The locals, led by members of Kansha and Dadour wards of Nagar Parishad Ner Chowk, lodged a strong protest with the district administration. Some of them also tried to block the path of the team carrying the body. They alleged that the district administration did not cremate the body at Ratti crematorium at the behest of influential, high-income group people and top businessmen. The administration chose Dadour near an area inhabited by poor villagers, they alleged. Ultimately, the body was cremated as per Hindu rituals in the open on the banks of Suketi Khud in the presence of police force, despite the protest.  The deceased's husband, their two sons, Balh sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ashish Sharma, DSP Anil Patiyal, Ner Chowk Medical College's Senior Medical Superintendent Dr Devinder Sharma were also present. Balh SDM Aashish Sharma said the site was the most-suited as Ratti was thickly populated. If the public suggests some other site, the proposal may be sent to higher authorities for consideration, he added. The local residents said that the district administration earlier too on May 16 cremated there the body of a COVID-19 positive Hamirpur youth who died at Medical College Ner Chowk. At that time too, the locals opposed the move, but later agreed on humanitarian grounds as the deceased was from another district which was far away. But in the present case, the deceased was from the adjoining Ratti district. They questioned why the administration did not decide to cremate her at Ratti crematorium and why she was cremated in the open. Suman Chaudhary, a ward member from Kansha and Alam Ram, Ward Member Dadour, said the administration did not take the elected members of the area in confidence and selected the site at its own. They said any such decision by the administration would be opposed in future too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-covid-19-victim-cremated-in-open-in-himachal-pradeshs-mandi-amid-protest-by-locals-842262.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Haryana CM Manohar Khattar defends 'Mera Pani Meri Virasat' scheme as opposition criticises it||Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar Tuesday defended the recently-launched 'Mera Pani Meri Virasat' crop diversification scheme, saying every drop of water is precious and his government is making policies to save it for future generations. Suggestions and feedback are being sought from farmers to improve these policies and bring good water conservation results, he said. Opposition Congress has opposed the scheme, with party's chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala saying that there was a conspiracy to eventually stop the procurement of paddy at Minimum Support Price (MSP) by discouraging a large number of farmers from cultivating it. Some farmers had also staged a tractor march in Fatehabad district against the scheme and demanded that peasants should have the choice to decide what they have to sow. Interacting with farmers during his visit to Kurukshetra, Khattar said that at present, the groundwater level has reached below 40 meters in many blocks in the state, which is a matter of concern. The government has formulated 'Mera Pani Meri Virasat Yojana' under crop diversification to conserve water, he told the farmers. Under this scheme, Pipli, Shahabad, Babain and Ismailabad blocks of Kurukshetra district have been included, as the groundwater level in these blocks has gone below by more than 40 meters, he said. Along with this, Ratia block of Fatehabad district, Siwan and Guhla of Kaithal district and Sirsa block of Sirsa district are also included in this scheme. "The situation of groundwater level in these blocks is very worrisome, farmers are being motivated to save water and for this farmers would have to move towards crop diversification,” he added.  Each grain of these crops sown under crop diversification would be procured on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) by the state government and an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre would also be given for switching over from the water-guzzling paddy. Apart from this, many other facilities would be given to the farmers, he added. The Chief Minister said that to save water, the government had launched 'Jal Hi Jeevan Yojana' last year, but this year, while improving this scheme further, 'Mera Pani Meri Virasat Yojana' has been implemented. "Before formulating 'Mera Pani Meri Virasat Yojana' a lot of brainstorming was done with farmers, scientists, MLAs and other people associated with the government. This scheme would be very beneficial for the coming generations as it would help conserve water," he added. He also said that under this scheme, small farmers having one to two acres of land would also get some added incentives. "The goal of everyone is to save water, extract less groundwater and improve the groundwater level. Everyone needs to think and brainstorm on this serious subject,” the Chief Minister said. He said that the state government would implement the viable suggestions and would try to save every drop of water. Surjewala had earlier slammed the crop diversification scheme, saying “under the new autocratic order and scheme brought out by Khattar government, they now want farmers in 19 blocks in total to not cultivate paddy at all and punish the peasants by denying them MSP for paddy in case they still choose to grow this crop”. "They also want to deny farmers in 26 other blocks the right to grow paddy on Panchayati land. This is despite the fact that the state government's another (crop diversification scheme) ''Jal hi Jeevan Hai'' scheme, launched last year, was surreptitiously closed and put under the table,” the Congress leader had claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-cm-manohar-khattar-defends-mera-pani-meri-virasat-scheme-as-opposition-criticises-it-842263.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||'Central relief for Madhya Pradesh farmers under price support scheme'||Providing major relief to farmers producing chana, masoor and mustard under Price Support Scheme (PSS) during ongoing rabi marketing season in Madhya Pradesh, the Centre has removed the limit of procuring 25 quintals per day per farmer in the state under the scheme. "The decision will immensely benefit farmers of Madhya Pradesh as it will enable them to sell their entire crop, even if it is more than 25 quintal in one go and help them a lot in saving crucial fuel and labour cost," state Farmers Welfare and Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel told PTI. He said otherwise farmers would have to make number of rounds to sell their crops and in the process they could have ended up selling the same to the middlemen at lesser cost than the support price. "This will also protect them during the coronavirus pandemic as they don't have to go out and expose themselves again and again, the minister pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-relief-for-madhya-pradesh-farmers-under-price-support-scheme-842307.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||3 more COVID-19 deaths, 280 cases in Rajasthan||The novel coronavirus toll in Rajasthan rose to 173 on Wednesday with three more fatalities, while 280 new cases took the tally to 7,816, the Health Department said. The three more deaths were in Jaipur, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. Of the 280 new COVID-19 cases, 68 were from Jhalawar, followed by 42 in Jaipur and 33 in Jodhpur districts. Twenty-one more people were afflicted with COVID-19 in Pali, 18 in Kota, 13 in Sikar, 12 in Nagaur and 10 in Bharatpur districts, the official said. There are 3,081 active cases of the pathogen and 3,913 people have been discharged. Jaipur has recorded maximum 84 deaths and 1,902 cases in the state, followed by 17 deaths and 1,311 cases in Jodhpur. Of the total cases, 2,114 are migrants who had returned to Rajasthan from other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-more-covid-19-deaths-280-cases-in-rajasthan-842324.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Video clip claims no arrangements on ground for COVID-19 patients: HC seeks Centre, Delhi government's stand||Taking note of a video clipping on social media of a man who had to run from pillar to post to get his mother hospitalised after testing positive for COVID-19, the Delhi High Court has directed the Centre and the AAP government to place before it arrangements made to deal with such patients. Observing that the video "raises serious issues of public concern in the present day context", a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar issued several directions, including making effective the helplines for reporting coronavirus cases, assessing their adequacy to deal with the increasing call traffic and providing ambulance facility to pick up patients. It directed the two governments to place before it the status of functional and responsive helpline numbers being operated by them. It also appointed an amicus curiae to look into the grievances raised in the video clipping. "The amicus curiae shall also call the helpline numbers and report with regard to their effectiveness in providing help to the callers," the bench said.    The court, which took suo motu cognisance of the clipping, also directed the Delhi government and the Centre to respond to the grievances narrated by the man -- Dharmendra Bhardwaj -- who has alleged in the video that "tall claims" of both the governments regarding arrangements for COVID-19 patients "are far from true on the ground". He said his mother was admitted in a private hospital on May 19 and she tested positive for COVID-19 on May 21. Thereafter, the private hospital asked him to arrange for a ventilator and bed in some other hospital, he has claimed and added that he went to several hospitals, but to no avail. Even the helpline numbers publicised by the Delhi government and the Centre were non-responsive, Bhardwaj has alleged in the video which has been taken on record by the high court.  Taking note of his grievances, the bench observed that a person, who or whose family or friend is found COVID-19 positive, should be able to call the helplines to not only report such occurrence, but to also seek guidance and assistance with regard to the hospitals to which such patient may be taken – if hospitalisation is necessary keeping in view of the condition of the patient.  "The helplines should render meaningful and effective help to the callers. If the experience of Dharmendra Bhardwaj is anything to go by, it appears, that this aspect has not been adequately addressed by the respondents (Centre and Delhi government)," the court said. It directed them to "assess the adequacy of the helpline capacity and state whether the same is sufficient to deal with the present call traffic and the traffic expected in the foreseeable future, keeping in view the continuous rise in the number of cases being reported each day".  The bench was also of the view, "the helpline numbers of the GNCTD should also provide guidance and information to the caller as to which hospital has beds available for treatment of serious COVID-19 patients – both in Government and Private Hospitals, particularly in the proximity of the caller patient's location.  "The capacity created to deal with calls made on the helpline numbers; the nature of assistance rendered, and the log maintained for the same, if any, should also be placed before the Court," it said. The bench further directed the Delhi government to consider providing ambulance facility for pickup of COVID-19 serious patients for hospitalisation, once a caller reports a serious case which appears to require hospitalisation looking to the condition reported.  During the hearing, Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra told the bench that there were around 10 helpline numbers and admitted that they were "found not to be functioning efficiently and instructions have been issued to set the system in order".  He told the court that the same would be done within the next couple of days. Mehra also informed the bench that a mobile application is under development to give live updates of the hospital beds available in Delhi government hospitals and private hospitals, and other related information. He told the court that the mobile application would be launched in the next couple of days. "We direct the Central Government, as well as the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, to file their status reports on all the aspects mentioned in the said video recording and those taken note of by us, before the next date of hearing," the court said. It directed the registry to place the matter on June 3 before the bench headed by the Chief Justice as it deals with PILs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-clip-claims-no-arrangements-on-ground-for-covid-19-patients-hc-seeks-centre-delhi-governments-stand-842334.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Doubling rate of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh at 21 days: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said the doubling rate of COVID-19 cases in the state was at 21 days, which is better than the national average, a state official said on Wednesday. Speaking at a review meeting on Tuesday, Chouhan had said that the state's COVID-19 recovery rate has gone up to 53 per cent, while the national average was 41.8 per cent, the official said. Similarly, the doubling rate of COVID-19 cases was at 21 days in Madhya Pradesh, while the average in the country was 15.4 days, the Chief Minister said in the meeting. Reviewing the scenario of Indore, which is the worst- hit district in the state, officials informed that the mortality rate in the region had come down significantly due to early detection of cases through intensive surveys and tests.  The COVID-19 mortality rate in Indore stands at 3.6 per cent, while it was 4.1 per cent in the whole of Madhya Pradesh and 2.6 per cent in the country, the official said. The district had reportedly recorded a death rate of 1.08 per cent last week, he said, adding that the doubling rate of cases in Indore has now improved to 30 days. During the review meeting, the authorities also informed that the construction of a 500-bed super specialty hospital in Indore was underway and it will be operational by June 15, he added. Madhya Pradesh has recorded 7,024 COVID-19 cases so far, of which 305 patients have died of the infection and 3,689 have recovered from it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doubling-rate-of-coronavirus-cases-in-madhya-pradesh-at-21-days-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-842343.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi sees sharpest spike in COVID-19 cases with 792 new infections||On Tuesday, the national capital has reported 412 cases after reporting 635 cases on Monday. With this, Delhi now has 15,257 cases out of which 11,738 (76.93%) were reported in May alone.  Since May 18 when Lockdown 4.0 came into effect with more relaxations, there were 5,502 cases or 47% of the cases reported in this month alone. Delhi also added 15 more deaths, taking the total to 303. The latest medical bulletin said 7,690 people are still under treatment, including 3,878 in home isolation, while a total of 7,264 have recovered so far. In the past 24 hours, 310 people have recovered. Delhi has so far conducted tests on 1.84 lakh samples, including 5,783 fresh samples. While on May 24, 508 cases were reported, May 22 reported 660 cases, the biggest spike in a single day. Since May 19, Delhi has been reporting more than 500 cases and it has been rising since then. On May 18, there were 299 cases while May 19 had reported 500 cases, May 20 with 534 cases and May 21 with 571 cases. On May 23, the numbers rose to 591.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-sharpest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-with-792-new-infections-842364.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi's power demand surges to season's highest so far on May 26 night||Power demand of the national capital surged to the season's highest so far to 5464 MW on Tuesday night, amid an intense heatwave gripping the city, discom officials said. Pushed by the sweltering heat and resumption of commercial and industrial activities, Delhi's peak power demand has also increased by over 32 per cent since easing of lockdown restrictions on May 18, they said on Wednesday. As per Delhi's State Load Dispatch Centre figures, the peak power demand of the city was recorded at 5464 MW at 11.20 pm on Tuesday. "This is the third consecutive day when Delhi's peak power demand pipped last year's peak on corresponding days," the officials said. Delhi's peak power demand clocked 5464 MW on Tuesday night, the season's highest. It is marginally more than the peak power demand (5236 MW) recorded on May 26, 2019. On May 24 and 25, at 5286 MW, and 5385 MW, respectively, Delhi's peak power demand was higher than last year's peak power demand of 5094 MW and 5107 MW on corresponding days. The BSES discoms BRPL and BYPL successfully met the peak power demand of 2542 MW and 1174 MW respectively with overall demand peaking at 5464 MW on Tuesday night, said a BSES spokesperson. The other discom Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL) too met successfully met peak demand 1556 MW in its distribution areas, said a spokesperson of the discom. Delhi recorded the hottest day in May in the last 18 years on Tuesday, with the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung Observatory rising to 46 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature is expected to again hover around 46 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. "Soaring temperature and heat wave are the main reasons behind the spurt in demand. The peak demand in TPDDL areas is expected to touch 1930 MW in the coming days," said the TPDDL spokesperson. The discom has made adequate arrangements of up to 2500 MW of power to manage the growing demand, he added.   Delhi's peak power demand, which went down by around 49 per cent in past two months of COVID-19 lockdown, was gradually picking up due to the summer heat and resumption of commercial and industrial activities. It is expected to touch 7500 MW level in July, surpassing last year's peak demand 7409 MW.   Arrangements have been firmed up by BSES discoms to source adequate electricity to meet the power demand of over 44 lakh consumers. These arrangements include long term PPAs and banking arrangements with other states, said the BSES spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-power-demand-surges-to-seasons-highest-so-far-on-may-26-night-842372.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi Police to file 15 more charge sheets against 294 foreigners for attending Nizamuddin event||The Delhi Police will file 15 fresh charge sheets against 294 foreigners for attending a religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz here in violation of visa conditions and indulging in missionary activities amidst the COVID-19 outbreak in the country, officials said on Wednesday. The charge sheets will be filed in Saket court against the 294 foreigners belonging to 14 countries, including Malaysia, Thailand, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and several African nations, police said. Earlier on Tuesday, the city police had filed 20 charge sheets against 82 foreigners. A large congregation organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in the Nizamuddin area of the national capital in March had emerged as a major hotspot of coronavirus in the country. Some of the participants, who were later tested positive for coronavirus, had travelled to their home states across the length and breadth of the country. More than 25,500 Tablighi members and their contacts have been quarantined in the country after the Centre and the state governments conducted a "mega operation" to identify them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-police-to-file-15-more-charge-sheets-against-294-foreigners-for-attending-nizamuddin-event-842391.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan agriculture department deploys drone to control locust attack in Jaipur district||The Rajasthan agriculture department on Wednesday deployed a drone to spray pesticides on swarms of locust in Jaipur district. The drone was used in Samod area near Chomu in Jaipur district on Wednesday. "We have started using one rental drone from today and more drones are likely to be used in next days as per the requirement," Om Prakash, the commissioner of agriculture department, told PTI. He said that drones are useful for the spray on height or rough terrain like hills where sprayers mounted tractors and other vehicles cannot go. The drone is sprinkling pesticide on nearly 2.5 acre of area in a flight of 15 minute. Apart from the drone, nearly 800 sprayers mounted tractors, 54 vehicles of the locust warning organisation- Jodhpur, and fire brigades are being used in locust control in the state. Over half of the districts in the desert state have been covered by the swarms of locust which entered into India from Pakistan on April 11. These are rapidly travelling to far flung areas and reached Jaipur, Dausa, Karauli in search of food because there is no standing crops in fields. The Centre's locust warning organisation- Jodhpur and the state agriculture department are working in coordination to handle the locust attack issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-agriculture-department-deploys-drone-to-control-locust-attack-in-jaipur-district-842399.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Power producers seek minister's intervention as Madhya Pradesh denies payment to IPPs||The Association of Power Producers (APP) has urged Union Minister R K Singh to advise Madhya Pradesh government to reconsider its decision of denying payment of fixed or capacity charges to independent power producers. The association has written a letter to the power minister in this regard. "On behalf of independent power producers (IPPs), we request your intervention to advise the Government of Madhya Pradesh to reconsider this decision of denying the rightful dues of capacity charges to the IPPs, which you will appreciate is highly unjust, illegal and arbitrary," the letter said. According to the letter, several IPPs which supply power to the state through Madhya Pradesh Power Management Company Ltd (MPPMCL) have been facing "arbitrary and discrimination action with regard to payment of capacity charges by MPPMCL". The IPPs supplying power to Madhya Pradesh include Jaiprakash Power Ventures, Torrent Power, Lanco Amarkantak, BLA Power, MB Power, Jhabua Power, among others. Non-payment of capacity charges to IPPs would not only jeopardize their debt service obligations leading to creation of a fresh set of NPAs within the banking system, but may also lead to non-payment of salaries and wages and the possibility of retrenchment, as none of them have adequate reserves to tide over the COVID-19 crisis, it added. There are at least 10,000 people employed by IPPs in the state, APP claimed. APP said MPPMCL issued Force Majeure (FM) notices on March 30, 2020, taking cognizance of NDMA ( National Disaster Management Act) Order on March 24, 2020, the day lockdown was announced. The said notices were responded to by IPPs stating that State Electricity Corporations like MPPMCL and Electricity Generating Companies came under essential services and therefor Force Majeure could not be invoked, APP pointed out. Thereafter, it said MPPMCL on April 8, 2020 issued another FM notice dated March 31, 2020 in which it said either they will not schedule the power and declared capacity will not be accepted from these IPPs or they will accept declared capacity only to the extent power is scheduled from the plants. Further, it stated that no capacity charges would be payable by them for power not scheduled by MPPMCL irrespective of Declared Capacity of IPPs till further notice, APP said in the letter. This notice was issued in back date despite Ministry of Power having clarified vide circular on April 6, 2020 that “Obligation to pay for capacity charges as per the PPA (power purchase agreement) shall continue, as does the obligation to pay for transmission charges”, it said. The RLDC / SLDC ( regional and State load dispatch centres) , as applicable, have accepted the declared capacity as given by these IPPs, entitling them to claim capacity charges, it added. Despite this, MPPMCL has refused to process the bills of these IPPs and is denying them their rightful claim over the capacity charges, APP said. Further, the body stated that MPPMCL has decided to pay the capacity charges to the State and PSU generators, including NTPC, while denying the same to IPPs, under the cover of Force Majeure. "As you are well aware, the country is going through difficult times due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Further, the fragile financial health of the IPPs have forced many of them to undergo financial restructuring while others are at the verge of becoming NPAs. "The same has been acknowledged by the central government, which has declared a relief package to address hardship faced by IPPs. Unfortunately, during this critical and challenging time, MPPMCL is attempting to deny legitimate & contractual payments," it said. "While we have already been representing at various forums, the discrimination by the coal companies, Railways and other authorities in dealing with IPPs, this action of MPPMCL has taken brazen discrimination to another level and may be the last straw that breaks the IPPs back," APP said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-producers-seek-ministers-intervention-as-madhya-pradesh-denies-payment-to-ipps-842402.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||India's migrant crisis revealed in disturbing video of child trying to wake dead mother at Bihar railway station||A toddler's vain attempt to wake up his dead mother from eternal sleep on a railway platform in Bihar's Muzaffarpur on Wednesday presented the most poignant picture of the massive migrant tragedy unfolding across several states. A video tweeted by Sanjay Yadav, an aide to RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, shows the child walking unsteadily up to his mother's body, tugging at the blanket placed over her, and when failing to wake her up, covering his own head with it. As the mother still lay still, he wobbles away from her, announcements continuing in the background about the arrival and departure of trains that would bring in tens of thousands of people in a rush to get away from hunger and hardship they face in large cities that could sustain them no more. "This small child doesn't know that the bedsheet with which he is playing is the shroud of his mother who has gone into eternal sleep. This mother died of hunger and thirst after being on a train for four days. Who is responsible for these deaths on trains? Shouldn't the opposition ask uncomfortable questions?" tweeted Yadav. However, police had a different story to tell. Ramakant Upadhyay, the Dy SP of the Government Railway Police in Muzaffarpur, said the incident occurred on May 25 when the migrant woman was on way to Muzaffarpur from Ahmedabad by a Shramik Special train. He told reporters the woman, who was accompanied by her sister and brother-in-law, had died on the Madhubani bound train. "My sister-in-law died suddenly on the train. We did not face any problem getting food or water," the officer said, quoting the deceased's brother-in-law who he did not name. He said on getting information, poice brought down the body and sent it for postmortem. Citing the brother-in-law of the deceased, Upadhyay said she was aged 35 years and was undergoing treatment for "some disease" for the last one year in Ahmedabad. "She was also mentally unstable," he said. When persistently queried about the cause of death, he said,"Only doctors can tell". A massive exodus of migrant workers is on in several parts of the country, unprecedented in magnitude since Partition. The humanitarian crisis still unfolding on highways and railway platforms has shone light on disturbing tales of entire families walking hundreds of kilometres with little children on foot in a seemingly endless march to escape hunger. People have been found travelling on trucks and in the hollow of concrete mixing plants, and in many cases, dying from hunger and exhaustion before reaching their destinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-migrant-crisis-revealed-in-disturbing-video-of-child-trying-to-wake-dead-mother-at-bihar-railway-station-842413.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Over 16,000 virus tests conducted daily, will ramp up capacity: Ashok Gehlot||The Rajasthan authorities are conducting over 16,000 coronavirus tests daily and the capacity will be ramped up with the establishment of more laboratories in the state, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Wednesday. Inaugurating a COVID-19 molecular laboratory at the Jaipur National University hospital through a video conference, Gehlot claimed that the state government has made concerted efforts to prevent the infection spread. “In the districts of the state where coronavirus testing facilities are not available, laboratories will be set up soon. This will increase the capacity of coronavirus testing. At present, 16,250 tests are being conducted daily in the state,” he said, claiming that the ‘achievement’ has been made in a 'very short time'. The chief minister said the new laboratory will make results available early while claiming that the state government is strengthening the health infrastructure. Chairperson of Jaipur National University, Dr Sandeep Bakshi, said 384 samples can be tested in the lab at one time. The chief minister was accompanied by Medical and Health Minister Dr Raghu Sharma, Minister of State for Medicine and Health Dr Subhash Garg and other officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-16000-virus-tests-conducted-daily-will-ramp-up-capacity-ashok-gehlot-842456.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Delhi-Ghaziabad border witnesses traffic congestion||The Delhi-Ghaziabad border witnessed traffic congestion on Wednesday as authorities maintained a strict vigil allowing movement of only those vehicles possessing e-passes and engaged in essential services after the Uttar Pradesh district sealed its border. Due to checking of commuters' passes, the traffic moved at a slow pace, said Deputy Superintendent of Ghaziabad Police Rakesh Mishra. "Those trying to cross the border without valid passes have not been allowed to enter Delhi," he said.  The Ghaziabad administration sealed the borders again from Monday night to check the rising graph of COVID-19 cases in the district. On the Delhi side, the police said people engaged in essential services are being allowed to move with authentic passes. Doctors, police personnel, paramedical staff and media persons are also being allowed to move across the borders with their ID cards. "We are issuing challans to the commuters who do not have valid movement pass and are sending them back to their homes. Challans have also been issued to those persons who have movement passes but not putting masks on their faces," Traffic Inspector-2 Ghaziabad B P Gupta said.  Apart from these, two persons are not allowed on a motorcycle. If someone violates this, then challan will be issued to him. The fine for first-time offenders is Rs 200, and for the second violation, it will be increased to Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 for the third time, police said. "The traffic is smooth and we are not facing any difficulty as most of the people, who are not obeying the rules, are accepting their mistakes and cooperating with police," Gupta said. Abhi, a resident of Trilokpur, was riding his motorcycle without mask, said, "I know I have committed a mistake. I had my mask but I forget it in my car and the car is in a service centre. I will not do it again." Police issued him a challan and also gave him a mask.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-delhi-ghaziabad-border-witnesses-traffic-congestion-842457.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Prepare plan for screening of passengers when normal train services resume: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath to officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday directed officials to prepare a work plan beforehand for screening of passengers when normal train services are restored in the country. He underlined the need for screening all those returning to the state and sending them to quarantine centres or home quarantine, an official spokesperson said here. To ensure the success of home quarantine, the chief minister asked monitoring committees to be active and give feedback of surveillance work done by them to the chief minister's helpline, he added. At a meeting held to review the lockdown situation in the state, Adityanath pointed out that 1,337 trains carrying migrant labourers and workers have come to the state so far and 104 more are on the way, he said. Adityanath also informed that 208 'Shramik Special' trains have arrived in Gorakhpur so far, the highest for any station in the country, the official said. The chief minister reiterated that while skill mapping of the workers and labourers, details like their mobile numbers, bank account numbers and other information should be collected as these would help in providing employment to them. He directing the medical education and the health ministers to undertake surprise inspections of hospitals and medical colleges in the state, the official spokesperson said. The chief minister visited the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow on Wednesday, he added. The chief minister directed that in case the bank accounts of the migrant workers or labourers have become inactive because of any reason, the officials should get in touch with the banks concerned to get it fixed. Adityanath apprised the officials that the CM helpline has held a dialogue with 44,000 gram pradhans, the spokesperson said. He also directed that preparations should be made for the next phase of the foodgrain distribution campaign set to start from June 1, the official added. On the threat of locust attack, the chief minister asked for taking all measures necessary and creating awareness among the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prepare-plan-for-screening-of-passengers-when-normal-train-services-resume-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-officials-842459.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Hefty fine likely for spitting in Delhi Metro premises||As the Delhi Metro is gearing up to resume its operations, spitting in Metro premises may invite Rs 1,000 fine against Rs 200 earlier, said an official in the company. With the National Distaster Act making Rs 1,000 fine for spitting and Rs 200 for not wearing mask, the Delhi Metro Railway Corporation (DMRC) is waiting the Centre's nod to implement the same in its premises also. Moreover, existing Delhi Metro Railway (Operation and Maintenance ) Act 2002 did not have provision to deal with COVID-19. For instance,  fine for not wearing mask is not there in the  existing law. The Delhi Metro officials is waiting for the government's instructions to make suitable changes in their act to include new provisions. The DMRC is also waiting for the government's approval for adopting new Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to be followed by metro commuters including wearing mask, downloading Aarogya Setu app, maintaining social distance and mandatory use of smart card by commuters.   Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gehlot on Tuesday said the Delhi Government wants metro services to start at the earliest and waiting for the Centre's direction. He also said two days time notice required to resume operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hefty-fine-likely-for-spitting-in-delhi-metro-premises-842461.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Not wearing masks, spitting in public places to invite Rs 500 fine in Haryana, says Home Minister Anil Vij||Not wearing masks or spitting in public places will invite a fine of Rs 500, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday. Block development and panchayat officers in rural areas and executive officers, secretaries and other authorised officials of local bodies in urban areas will have the power to impose the fine on violators. “People who are found not wearing masks, spitting in public places will be fined Rs 500,” Vij said. Police station house officers and medical officers have also been given powers to impose the fine. Vij, who is also the health minister, a week ago, had said the Haryana government is mulling imposing fine on those not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms. However, it was felt that as people are being asked to maintain social distancing in public places, to implement the orders for the purpose of collecting fine may not be practically possible. Haryana had earlier made wearing of masks mandatory for people when they are outside their homes. Vij said that he had recently written to the state home secretary to work out modalities to impose fine on violators. He reiterated that “If people want that (lockdown) relaxations should be there and these should continue, then rules will have to be made strict. When it seems that we may have to live with the novel coronavirus, tough rules and laws are needed”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-not-wearing-masks-spitting-in-public-places-to-invite-rs-500-fine-in-haryana-says-home-minister-anil-vij-842469.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Patanjali's plea for Ayurvedic medicine trials on COVID-19 patients raises eyebrows||A proposal by Baba Ramdev's Patanjali Research Foundation Trust to begin trials of its Ayurvedic medicines on COVID-19 patients has prompted Congress leaders to seek a probe into the district administration's response. Former chief minister Digvijaya Singh said he was surprised after reading reports which claimed that Indore District Collector Manish Singh gave the nod to Patanjali without the approval of the country's Drug Controller. Manish Singh rubbished claims that he had approved Patanjali's proposal. "Confusion is being spread in this regard," the bureaucrat said. "I am sure Collector Indore was blissfully unaware of these guidelines. I would request him and GOMP not to treat citizens of Indore as Guinea Pigs to oblige some one close to The Powers That Be. The orders should immediately be withdrawn," Digvijaya Singh tweeted on May 23. "There are Guidelines for approval of new drug, and this guideline is based on regulatory requirement for drug approval in India as prescribed under Drugs and Cosmetic Act and Rules made there under and its various amendments," he added. The Congress veteran also said there is a certain legal protocol under the Drug Controller General of India only after which a drug can be tested on humans. "Has Patanjali taken approval for its products from DCGI? If not then have they not violated the Law? Shouldnt they be held responsible and be prosecuted? "When I checked with senior officials of GOMP I was told that GOMP has not given any permission to Patanjali to give Drugs for trials to Corona patients in Indore. I spoke to Collector Indore and he promised to look into it," he tweeted. State Congress spokesperson Neelabh Shukla sought a high-level probe into the matter. "The district administration has no authority to either sanction or scrap any proposal for clinical trials on COVID-19 patients," Shukla said. An official said the May 19 proposal by the Haridwar- based organisation was to test the "effect on resistance, boosting immunity and curative ability" of the drug. Some activists and local Congress leaders claimed the district administration gave its nod to the Patanjali proposal in a hush-hush manner, but withdrew it after reports about it appeared in a section of media. A day after Patanjali submitted the proposal, Ramdev told Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that Ayurvedic medicines gave "good results" on virus patients. Anurag Varshney, vice president of the Patanjali Research Institute, had sought permission from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College Dean Jyoti Bindal to conduct the controlled clinical trials. Bindal said she forwarded Patanjalis proposal to principal secretary of the state medical education department for clearance. It has not been cleared so far, she added. An NGO, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan Madhya Pradesh, wrote to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Drug Controller General of India, Indian Council of Medical Research and AYUSH Ministry demanding to look into the alleged administrative sanction to Patanjali's proposal. "Media reports said the district Collector approved the proposal for clinical trial of some Ayurvedic medicines of the Patanjali group on COVID-19 patients but later quashed it," the NGO's co-convenor Amulya Nidhi said. Patanjali Ayurved's Managing Director Acharya Balkrishna told PTI that there is a need to understand the company does not want to undertake any new experiment or trial of Ayurvedic treatment regime on COVID-19 patients in Indore. "Our proposed treatment regime for this pandemic is based on traditional Ayurvedic medicines already being used by millions of people. We want to prove this treatment methodology globally through scientific evidence," he said. "We are going by the book for documentation of this scientific process. Multinational companies and other vested interests are behind raking up a controversy unnecessarily. They don't want to see Ayurvedic advancements," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/patanjalis-plea-for-ayurvedic-medicine-trials-on-covid-19-patients-raises-eyebrows-842489.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||BJP leader demands special crimes tribunal for 'atrocities' against minority KPs in Kashmir||A BJP leader on Wednesday urged Lt Governor G C Murmu to establish a "special crimes tribunal" to investigate the "crimes against humanity" allegedly committed against minorities, including Hindus and Sikhs, over the last 35 years in Kashmir. Ashwani Kumar Chrungoo also called for issuance of an ordinance for the implementation of the "Kashmir Hindu Temples and Shrines Bill" ahead of the proposed settlement of migrant pandits in the Valley. Chrungoo put forth the demands in a memorandum submitted to the Lt governor during a meeting with him at Raj Bhavan. "This (setting up of special crimes tribunal) will go a long way to bring justice to the wailing, weeping and crying victims of genocide in J&K who did not get justice despite the existence of the Constitution, judicial structure and the responsible and responsive governments at the Centre and in the Union Territory," he said. Welcoming the issuance of the new domicile rules after abrogation of the special status to Jammu and Kashmir in August last year, the BJP leader said it was gratifying to note that the "whole exercise came out to be all inclusive ultimately which we desired it to be ab initio". "The next step would be to institutionalise the process regarding domicile certificate through online application and an advanced system of digital format. It will bring extreme relief to the general public and would also cater to our current needs in context of COVID-19 pandemic guidelines to keep away from crowded places," he said. Chrungoo said the time has also come to take a "bold and right step" regarding issuing an ordinance in connection with the "Kashmir Hindu Temples and Shrines Bill". "In order to protect, preserve and promote the 10,000 years old civilisational legacy of Kashmir, an appropriate ordinance covering the objectives of the bill may be now promulgated and a board accordingly constituted to manage the affairs of the new mechanism," he said. Meanwhile, senior leader of Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) and former MLC Syed Asgar Ali on Wednesday sought personal intervention of the Lt governor for smooth migration of nomads towards upper reaches. "The seasonal migration of nomads including Gujjars and Bakarwals to the winter areas with the onset of summers is important because hot weather conditions pose threat to the lives of their life-stocks and cattle," Ali said. He said hurdles are being created in their smooth movement despite granting of permissions which needs to be addressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-demands-special-crimes-tribunal-for-atrocities-against-minority-kps-in-kashmir-842492.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: J&K horse becomes first animal to be put under quarantine||Authorities in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district had to put a horse under quarantine after it travelled through a COVID-19 red zone. The horse and its rider became the talk of the town when they reached Thanamandi in Rajouri district after passing through a red zone area. Officials said the caretakers of the horse have been directed to use all protective gears while dealing with the animal. “A police team late Tuesday evening intercepted a man returning from Kashmir via Mughal road who was also carrying his horse with him,” official sources said, adding that the man was taken into a medical screening center while the authorities were in a fix to decide about the horse. They said the concerned Tehsildar roped in the veterinary experts to get their views on the horse. “Majority of the veterinary experts claimed the horse doesn’t pose any threat as it is not a potential carrier of coronavirus, but authorities decided to send the animal to home quarantine as a precautionary measure,” sources added.     Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Rajouri, Sher Singh said after taking into account the expert opinions, the horse was medically screened for body temperature following which it was handed over to other members of the family of the owner. On April 8, J&K Wildlife department had decided to implement a tightened lockdown in the peripheries of wildlife zones and zoos in the Valley to prevent any transmission of the novel coronavirus from humans to animals. The move came after the report of a tiger housed in Bronx Zoo, New York, contracting the deadly virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-jk-horse-becomes-first-animal-to-be-put-under-quarantine-842499.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Man rapes teenager for a year, shares videos on WhatsApp; Two held||A man was arrested in UP's Noida on Wednesday for allegedly raping a teenager for a year and then circulating her objectionable videos on WhatsApp that were recorded by his friend, who too has been nabbed, police said. The key accused, 26, had spiked the girl's soft drink last year and then raped her at her rented accommodation while his friend, 21, recorded the video of the episode, they said. "The key accused used the video to blackmail the 17-and-half-year-old girl and pressured her into having sex with him for the past one year," a police spokesperson said. The girl left for her native village at the onset of the coronavirus lockdown after which the accused men shared her objectionable videos on WhatsApp groups, he said. "The accused also threatened the girl that he would kill her and her family members if she approached police to report the matter," the spokesperson said. Police were alerted about the matter on Tuesday and an FIR was registered at the Sector 49 police station. The accused duo was tracked down and arrested on Wednesday, he said. The FIR has been filed under Indian Penal Code sections 376 (rape), 328 (causing hurt using poison), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 506 (criminal intimidation), police said. Charges have also been pressed against them under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and the Information Technology (IT) Act, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-rapes-teenager-for-a-year-shares-videos-on-whatsapp-two-held-842503.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Punjab govt to take call on further extension of lockdown on May 30||The final decision on further extending the coronavirus-induced lockdown will be taken by the Punjab government on May 30. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will chair a review meeting with the departments concerned on the overall COVID-19 situation in the state on May 30. After the meeting, he will announce the government's decision on lifting or further extension of the lockdown.  An official spokesperson on Wednesday said the Cabinet has decided that the final call should be taken after on-ground assessment of the situation a couple of days before the current lockdown is due to end. Any decision on extension, with or without relaxations, will be taken after the review meeting. While lauding the "smooth procurement operations in this difficult phase", the chief minister said it was satisfying that the entire department of Food and Civil Supplies and the Punjab Mandi Board worked day and night to ensure elaborate arrangements in a record time of just one and half months.  To avoid crowding and congestion in the mandis, the Punjab Mandi Board had issued 17.34 lakh passes to the farmers through Aarthiyas (commission agents) to bring their produce in a staggered manner. As of May 26, a total of 126.80 LMT wheat had been procured by various agencies, of which 123.64 LMT had been lifted and payment to the tune of Rs 21004.68 crore was made to the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-punjab-govt-to-take-call-on-further-extension-of-lockdown-on-may-30-842505.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Fireman injured while battling flames in West Delhi||A fireman was injured while trying to douse a blaze that broke out in an office in West Delhi's Vikaspuri, an official of the Delhi Fire Service said on Wednesday. The fire broke out on Tuesday night and two fire tenders were rushed to the spot. LPG cylinders kept in the office exploded during the fire-fighting operation and one of the firemen got trapped and suffered injuries, said Atul Garg, Director of the Delhi Fire Service. The fireman, identified as Murarilal, was first taken to a nearby hospital from where he was referred to the Safdarjung hospital. The fire was later doused. In other incident, the DFS rescued 20 people safely after a fire broke out in a building in north Delhi's Gujatawala Town part-2. On Wednesday, the fire department received information regarding a blaze in an electric meter board at the ground floor of a building in Gujatawala Town part-2. Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Around 20 people were rescued from the first and third floor of the three-story building, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fireman-injured-while-battling-flames-in-west-delhi-842507.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 'Safdarjung Hospital sends reports to death audit committee on 52 fatalities in last 2 months'||The Safdarjung Hospital has submitted reports to the Delhi government's death audit committee on 52 fatalities that took place at the facility in the last two months, official sources said on Wednesday. The sources said the death audit committee will go through the reports received from the hospital on Tuesday evening, which contain the death summaries of the deceased, to ascertain if these fatalities were due to COVID-19 or not. "On Tuesday evening, the Safdarjung Hospital submitted reports on 52 fatalities that have taken place at the facility in the last two months. The reports have been submitted to the Delhi death audit committee. "Until now, the hospital had sent reports on four deaths caused by COVID-19" an official source told PTI. Dr Balvinder Singh, the medical superintendent of Safdarjung Hospital, told PTI that officials of the Delhi government are constantly changing their COVID-19 death data collection teams because of which there has been a "miscommunication" among its own staffers. Singh said the hospital has been reporting deaths on a daily basis and the accumulative data of COVID-19 deaths from February 1 to May 16 was misconstrued as a single day death which is very erroneous. From February 1 to May 16, 53 COVID19-related deaths were reported to the Delhi government, he said, adding that 16 fatalities were recorded between May 16 and 26, taking the coronavirus death toll in the hospital to 69 so far. "We have constituted a mortality review committee that meticulously compiles the data related to COVID-19 deaths and transmits it to the Union health ministry and also to the Delhi government as and when desired by them," Singh added. According to sources, the Union Health Ministry had also sought a clarification from the hospital administration over the sudden spike in numbers of COVID-19 deaths being reported and it was informed about the same accordingly. Earlier this month, Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev had issued an order, along with the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), under which all COVID-19 hospitals and other facilities would email a "death report" to the district and state surveillance units everyday by 5 pm. In the order, Dev said it has come to the notice of the government that public and private hospitals (both COVID-19 dedicated and non-COVID-19 hospitals) are not reporting deaths caused by the virus in a timely and regular manner. Officials of the 10 hospitals treating COVID-19 patients had said that the number of people dead due to the virus was higher than what the Delhi government's bulletin reflected. "It has also been observed that despite repeated reminders, the death summaries of the deceased are not being provided to the death audit committee leading to submission of "incorrect or delayed reports," the order had said. The official death toll from coronavirus in Delhi has climbed to 303, while 792 fresh cases of COVID-19 infection reported on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike here, took the total in the city to over 15,000, authorities said. The previous highest spike in fresh cases -- 660 -- was recorded on May 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-safdarjung-hospital-sends-reports-to-death-audit-committee-on-52-fatalities-in-last-2-months-842509.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Forced to return home in heat amidst coronavirus lockdown, child dies at railway station as migrant father hunts for milk||The four-and-a-half- year-old son of Bihari migrants based in Delhi died at the railway station in Bihar on arrival by a 'Shramik Special' train, while his father desperately hunted for some milk he believed will save his child. Accompanied by wife Zeba and son Ishaq, Alam had started the journey with some excitement, trying to forget the travails of the past and hoping to reach his native place in West Champaran district on Monday, the day Eid would be celebrated.  The child had fallen ill, apparently because of oppressive heat. By the time our train reached Muzaffarpur junction his condition had deteriorated considerably. I ran pillar to post searching for some milk for my son. The administration took too long to respond and the child lost the battle for life, alleged Alam. We saw the prospect of reaching home on Eid as a good omen. Who knew that God had something else in store for us, said the grief-stricken father, his wife still in a state of shock and unable to speak.  Deputy Superintendent of Police, Railway, Ramakant Upadhyay, however, claimed the boy was ailing for some time and had died before the train reached Muzaffarpur station. The family boarded a Danapur-bound train and the boy, who was apparently in poor health for some time, fell seriously ill on board. From Danapur they took one of the intra-state trains, headed for Sitamarhi, which was to make a stopover at Muzaffarpur junction. "The child had died before the train pulled up at the platform here and we rushed as soon as we got information, Upadhyay said. He said arrangements were made for the family's journey to West Champaran by the administration, which also made an ex-gratia payment. Incidentally, on the very same day and around the same time, a train pulled up on a different platform carrying hordes of migrants. Among whom was a woman who breathed her last shortly before Ishaq's death. Arvina Khatun (35), a widowed mother of two and said to be mentally disturbed, lived in Gujarat with her sister and brother-in-law. She fell ill on the Shramik Special they had boarded for reaching their native district of Katihar. She died a few minutes before the train reached Muzaffarur junction around noon on Monday and her body was brought down by her relatives with the help of co-passengers. Upadhyay said the body was taken into custody for postmortem and sent to Katihar after completing the legal formalities. According to some estimates, more than 15 lakh migrant workers have returned to Bihar from across the country while five lakh more are likely to arrive over the next few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/forced-to-return-home-in-heat-amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-child-dies-at-railway-station-as-migrant-father-hunts-for-milk-842513.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Jammu sizzles at 42.6 C; heat wave continues across region||Jammu recorded the hottest day of the season on Wednesday with the mercury touching 42.6 degrees Celsius as sizzling heat gripped the region, the meteorological department said. However, it predicted relief from the scorching heat as isolated to widespread rains will hit the region over the next five days. At 42.6 degrees Celsius, an official of the MeT department said, the maximum temperature in Jammu was 3.5 notches above season's average, making it the hottest recorded place in the union territory on Wednesday. The city had recorded a low of 26.4 degrees Celsius, which was also 1.5 degrees above normal during this part of the season, he said. Jammu had recorded a high of 42.4 degrees Celsius and a low of 27.1 on the weekend but a subsequent spell of rain kept the temperature hovering close to near normal. Srinagar, which had recorded the season's high of 31.7 degrees Celsius the previous day, recorded a dip in the mercury which settled at 30.3 degrees Celsius -- still 4.2 notches above normal. Katra, the base camp for the pilgrims visiting Vaishno Devi Shrine in Reasi district, recorded a maximum of 37.5 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 23.7 degrees Celsius, the official said. The weatherman predicted isolated light rain or thunder in most parts of Jammu and Kashmir during the next 24 hours. But there will be increase in precipitation in the subsequent two days. "Scattered or isolated rainfall is expected on May 28, followed by fairly widespread rain in Kashmir and scattered rain in Jammu the next day. Widespread rain is likely across Jammu and Kashmir on May 30 and 31 besides scattered rainfall on June 1," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-sizzles-at-426-c-heat-wave-continues-across-region-842515.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM to expand his cabinet soon||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday said he would expand his five-member cabinet "shortly". The BJP leader was sworn-in as chief minister on March 23 and he expanded his cabinet nearly a month later, on April 21, by inducting five ministers, including Congress rebels Tulsi Silawat and Govind Rajput, considered close to ex-Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, who is now in the saffron outfit. The cabinet would be expanded shortly," Chouhan told reporters while replying to a query here. He, however, did not provide details. According to party sources, Chouhan held parleys here with Madhya Pradesh BJP chief V D Sharma and state unit organisation secretary Suhas Bhagat over cabinet expansion in the last two days and forwarded a list of probables to the central leadership. The central leadership would take the final call, a BJP source said. According to the sources, 22 to 24 new members may find a place in the Chouhan ministry. Around 10 Congress rebels out of 22, including four former ministers Prabhuram Choudhary, Imarti Devi, Mahendra Singh Sisodia and Pradyumna Singh Tomar, may be accommodated in the Council of Ministers, they said. Resignations of these rebel Congress MLAs, considered close to Scindia, who joined the BJP in March, had led to the collapse of the Kamal Nath government three months ago. All these rebels had later joined the saffron party following into the footsteps of Scindia. Other Congress rebels like Bisahulal Singh, Aidal Singh Kansana, Hardeep Singh Dangh, Rajyavardhan Singh and Ranveer Jatav are also being seen as strong contenders for ministerial berths, the sources said. Former ministers and senior BJP MLAs Gopal Bhargava, Bhupendra Singh and Yasodharaje Scindia, among others, are also expected to find their way into the cabinet, they said. After 22 Congress rebel MLAs resigned from the assembly membership, the 15-month-old party-led government was reduced to a minority. The development forced Kamal Nath to resign as chief minister on March 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cm-to-expand-his-cabinet-soon-842518.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||3,604 Shramik Special trains ferried more than 48 lakh migrants since May 1||The Indian Railways has ferried over 48 lakh migrant workers on board 3,604 'Shramik Special' trains since May 1, according to official data. Of the total trains, 3,157 have terminated, while 386 are in transit. The top five states from where maximum trains originated are Gujarat (946), Maharashtra (677), Punjab ( 377), Uttar Pradesh (243) and Bihar (215). On May 1, the Indian Railways started the migrant special trains to facilitate the movement of such workers back to their home states. These ‘Shramik Special’ trains were terminated in various states across the country. The top five states where maximum trains terminated are Uttar Pradesh (1,392), Bihar (1,123), Jharkhand (156), Madhya Pradesh (119) and Odisha (123). The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has distributed over 78 lakh free meals and more than 1.10 crore water bottles to travelling migrants. The 'Shramik Special' trains are being operated primarily on the request of states, which want to send migrant workers stranded due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, to their native places. While the Indian Railways is bearing 85 per cent of the total cost of running each train, the rest is being borne by states in the form of fares. The coronavirus-triggered lockdown has had a devastating impact on the economy as well as on the livelihoods of lakhs of migrant workers. The plight of migrant workers who were walking from several urban centres to their villages hundreds of kilometres away had grabbed headlines for almost two months. There have been incidents of many of them being killed in road accidents. A number of migrant labourers were killed by a speeding train after they fell asleep on the tracks. The Indian Railways also said that nearly 80 per cent of ‘Shramik Special’ trains are destined for various destinations in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. “Most of the destinations in Uttar Pradesh are around Lucknow and Gorakhpur, and in Bihar around Patna. Convergence of trains to these destinations caused some congestion in a particular section of the network,” the railways said. It also said that trains originating from Maharashtra and Gujarat and going to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are mainly taking following routes -- Khandwa-Itarsi-Jabalpur-Manikpur- Prayagraj, Ratlam-Mathura-Palwal-Ghaziabad- Moradabad-Lucknow, Ratlam-Kota-Bayana-Agra-Kanpur route and Ratlam-Nagda-Bhopal-Jhansi-Kanpur route.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3604-shramik-special-trains-ferried-more-than-48-lakh-migrants-since-may-1-842523.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab govt clears Rs 5,655-crore rural transformation strategy||The Punjab government on Wednesday decided to converge funds under its various flagship programmes to pursue its 2020-2022 strategy for rural transformation to alleviate the sufferings of the people in rural areas and to secure their lives and livelihood in the light of the coronavirus pandemic. At a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, the state cabinet okayed the rural transformation strategy at a cost of Rs 5,655 crore, an official release said here. The strategy is to ensure adequate availability of funds for development of rural infrastructure and individual beneficiaries through convergence of funds under its various schemes and programmes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), Smart Village Campaign (SVC) and PMAY-G. The strategy, launched by the state government in financial year 2019-20 to enable the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats to maximise availability of funds, will boost employment and push development in villages in the post-COVID environment through active involvement of village, block and zila panchayats, the release said. A total amount of Rs 2,476 crore has been arranged from the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, the latest installment of which is expected by June 2020 after the submission of utilization certificate (UC) of 14th Finance Commission. The FC guidelines provide for delivery of basic services such as water supply, sanitation, sewerage and solid waste management, storm water drainage, maintenance of community assets, maintenance of roads, footpaths and street lighting, and burial and cremation grounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-clears-rs-5655-crore-rural-transformation-strategy-842555.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi LG Office employee tests COVID-19 positive||"A junior assistant has tested positive for COVID-19. He was posted at the grievance cell located at a bungalow being used as part of the LG Secretariat in Civil Lines area," sources told PTI. "It's close to bungalows of Health Minister Satyendar Jain and Environment Minister Gopal Rai." The LG Secretariat spreads to two parts, which includes the bungalow where around 40 officials works. Around 40 employees of the secretariat underwent the COVID-19 test. The bungalow where staff members sit is being disinfected by authorities, sources said. The coronavirus death toll in Delhi climbed to 303, while 792 new cases, the highest single-day spike, took the number of cases to over 15,000 on Wednesday, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lg-office-employee-tests-covid-19-positive-842590.html
27-05-2020||North and Central||Mercury nears 50-degree mark in Delhi, R'than; IMD says no immediate respite in sight||Parts of northern and western India reeled under scorching heat on Wednesday, with temperatures hovering near the 50 degree-mark in Delhi and Rajasthan, while the IMD said no immediate respite is likely from the ongoing heatwave conditions. In the national capital, the mercury settled six notches above normal in most areas. Palam remained the hottest with a maximum temperature of 47.2 degrees Celsius, marginally less than Tuesday's 47.6 degrees Celsius. In large areas, a heatwave is declared when the maximum temperature is 45 degrees Celsius for two consecutive days and a severe heatwave is when the mercury touches 47 degrees Celsius for two days on the trot. In small areas, like the national capital, a heatwave is declared if the temperature soars to 45 degrees Celsius even for a day, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for Delhi, recorded a maximum temperature of 45.9 degrees Celsius. The last time the mercury touched the 46-degree mark at the Safdarjung weather station was on May 19, 2002, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The all-time record for Safdarjung in May is 47.2 degrees Celsius. It was recorded on May 29, 1944. The IMD said the weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ayanagar recorded maximum temperatures of 45.1 degrees Celsius and 46.7 degrees Celsius, respectively. Severe heatwave conditions prevailed in Rajasthan. Churu was the hottest place in the state with a maximum temperature of 49.6 degrees Celsius, according to the meteorological (MeT) department. On Tuesday, Churu had recorded a high of 50 degrees Celsius -- the district's second-highest maximum temperature in the month of May in the last 10 years. Ganganagar, Bikaner and Kota recorded maximum temperatures of 48.9 degrees Celsius, 48 degrees Celsius and 47.2 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Wednesday. Jaisalmer recorded a high of 46.1 degrees Celsius, Barmer 45.9 degrees Celsius, Jaipur 44.8 degrees Celsius and Ajmer 44 degrees Celsius. The weather department said heatwave conditions will continue in the state for the next 24 hours. Neighbouring Haryana, too, reeled under blistering heat, with Narnaul recording the highest maximum temperature at 47.2 degrees Celsius, the weather department said. Hisar recorded a maximum temperature of 46.3 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. Among other places in the state, Ambala sizzled at 43.8 degrees Celsius, while the mercury settled at 42.8 degrees Celsius in Karnal. Sweltering heat also swept Punjab, where Patiala recorded a high of 44.2 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. Amritsar and Ludhiana also recorded above-normal temperatures of 43.5 degrees Celsius and 44.2 degrees Celsius, respectively. Chandigarh, the common capital of Haryana and Punjab, also experienced a hot day at 42.9 degrees Celsius -- four degrees above normal. Jammu recorded the hottest day of the season as the mercury settled at 42.6 degrees Celsius, 3.5 notches above the season's average, the MeT department said. The city recorded a low of 26.4 degrees Celsius, which was also 1.5 degrees above normal, it said. Srinagar recorded a maximum temperature of 30.3 degrees Celsius -- 4.2 notches above normal. It is a marginal drop from Tuesday's 31.7 degrees Celsius. Katra, the base camp for pilgrims visiting Vaishno Devi shrine in Reasi district, recorded a maximum temperature of 37.5 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 23.7 degrees Celsius. The weather department predicted isolated light rain or thunder in most parts of Jammu and Kashmir during the next 24 hours. But there will be an increase in precipitation over the subsequent two days. The IMD said the ongoing heatwave conditions in several parts of north and central India are very likely to continue on Thursday. It said some respite can be expected only towards the end of the week. "Due to the prevailing dry north-westerly winds over plains of northwest India, central India and the adjoining interior parts of eastern India, the present heatwave conditions are very likely to continue during next 24 hours," it said. Heatwave conditions at many places with severe heatwave in isolated pockets are very likely over Vidarbha, west Rajasthan, it added. Heatwave conditions are also likely in some pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan, and in isolated pockets over Punjab, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Saurashtra and Kutch, central Maharashtra and Marathwada, Telangana and north interior Karnataka during the next 24 hours, according to the IMD. A western disturbance is likely to give some relief on May 29 and 30. During this period, parts of north India are likely to witness dust storms and thunderstorms, it said. Western disturbance is a cyclonic circulation which originates in the Mediterranean Sea. Traversing central Asia, it brings rains to the hills and plains when it comes in contact with the Himalayas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mercury-nears-50-degree-mark-in-delhi-rthan-imd-says-no-immediate-respite-in-sight-842597.html
27-05-2020||Opinion||The Chinese Communist Party puts on a brave face||The third session of the 13th NPC began on May 21, 2020, and the discussions carried on for just one week, less than the usual schedule. The successful completion of the meetings will be seen as one of the major symbols of going back to normalcy within Chinese domestic politics. It will also be regarded as a show of strength and belief by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and leadership and position of Xi Jinping.  The NPC has been a platform which the CCP uses to express its future plans as well as an opportunity to discuss the achievements of the past year. This year, NPC can be regarded as pretty interesting from this point of view.  The Chinese handling of COVID-19 outbreak has been continuously criticised globally. The Chinese government has used the pandemic to increase domestic monitoring and surveillance. Even though the CCP will be projecting an image of success, there are debates regarding the outbreak of a second wave of COVID-19. In addition to this, the slowdown of the economy will further restrict the CCP’s space for future projections of growth and development. China-US ties in the backdrop The NPC was also held in the backdrop of the ongoing China-US trade war, which is further intensified because of the COVID-19 outbreak. The constant push by the United States to term the virus as the ‘Wuhan virus’ and the resistance from Beijing has harmed the already fragile relationship.  The pandemic has also aggravated anti-China and anti-Chinese sentiments within the United States. Wang Yi, the Chinese foreign minister, speaking during the NPC about China-US relations said: “The US has made up so many lies and brewed so many plots about China that they can be compiled into a collection”. He further asserted that Washington was pushing for a ‘new Cold War’ which will not be beneficial for anyone.  Such accusations and mistrust will only harm their relationship and will adversely affect the existing global economic structure. If the Chinese government wants to achieve its goal of increasing domestic growth figures there will be an urgent need to restore broken trade links. With the global economy suffering, the impact of the Chinese economy on this is going to be further harming. Even though Beijing has been showing its intent to accept some demands of changes put forth by the United States, it may not be enough in the post-COVID-19 environment. Focus on Chinese economy In his speech, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang acknowledged that domestic consumption within China was on a decline and there was also rising unemployment. He further accepted that the challenges before China and the current leadership are unprecedented. Such challenges call for faith in the system and leadership. The speech focussed on some major areas which need the government’s attention in the coming year: Increasing domestic demand, maintaining social stability, reducing poverty, stabilising the domestic economy, fulfilling the promise of a moderately prosperous economy. However, no growth rate and figure were identified for the coming year.  Another important point would be Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). BRI has been Xi’s pet project and the Chinese government has made huge investments with partner nations, totalling up to $100 billion at the end of 2019. No doubt that this will be a cause of concern keeping in view the slowing growth rates.  In his speech, Li Keqiang mentioned: “The joint efforts to pursue the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) yielded fresh results. Regulations for the implementation of the Foreign Investment Law were adopted, and the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone Lin'gang New Area was established”. However, countries which were heavily integrated within the BRI have faced a major brunt of the pandemic. The economies of these countries will not be stable anytime soon and Beijing may find it difficult to earn returns on investments already made. All this aside, the major focus of NPC was to project the government’s stance on domestic disease and control. China has been faced with a number of such issues in the last two decades. Thus no surprise that Xi Jinping in his speech at the NPC asserted the need for the establishment of a proper mechanism. As per the China Daily, Xi said: “...the system of surveillance for unknown diseases and abnormal health incidents should be reformed and risks should be analysed at an early stage. He also instructed authorities to strengthen capacity building in the response to outbreaks”. Hong Kong remains a headache Another major point which gained attention is the situation in Hong Kong. There have been major domestic protests within Hong Kong since June 2019. There is a growing unease among the citizens of Hong Kong towards the CCP and the intention of Beijing to reduce the already limited democratic space within Hong Kong. The victory of the pro-democracy supporters in the September 2019 local council elections has further upset Beijing.  During the NPC, the Chinese government implemented the National Security Law in Hong Kong. While discussing this, Wang Yi had asserted that this law will not affect the general population of Hong Kong. He added that, however, it “aims to punish the small minority of people who jeopardise the national security…it will not influence the high autonomy of the SAR, the rights and freedom of Hong Kong residents as well as the legitimate rights and interests of the foreign investors”.  The situation on the ground contradicts such claims as the Chinese government is monitoring people’s Twitter accounts and other social media debates. Recent reports suggest that there has been an increase in the demand for VPNs in Hong Kong as people fear that the CCP will start to censor social media. The third session of the 13th NPC has raised more questions than it has managed to answer. The Chinese government has made a number of promises but has not provided any proper roadmap to achieve these. It appears that the major achievement of this year’s NPC is that the CCP was able to organise the meetings. It wanted to send a message of resilience to both the domestic and international audiences. The promises of better health care and the government’s commitment to resolve poverty and unemployment will appeal to the masses. However, add this with its approach towards Hong Kong and the United States and there is also a hint of rallying domestic nationalistic feelings behind the CCP at a time of a major legitimacy crisis. (Dr Gunjan Singh is an assistant professor at the Jindal Global Law School. She has 10 years of experience in research pertaining to China Studies) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-chinese-communist-party-puts-on-a-brave-face-842341.html
27-05-2020||Panorama||There’s a problem with the economy: Modi’s thinking||In the spate of interviews she gave to newspapers and television news channels after her five press conferences announcing the Rs 20 lakh crore package for the COVID-19-hit economy, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had revealed, in bits and pieces, the thinking, or the economic philosophy if you will, of the Modi government. The key phrase she used to characterise the package was that it is about empowerment and not entitlement. And she used a homely proverb, saying that if you give fish to someone it will last only a day, but if you teach someone to fish, then you would have made a person self-reliant. This was a round-about way of saying that the government does not intend to put money in the accounts of poor people as suggested by economist and Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee in his interaction with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. The Finance Minister said that all ideas were taken on board, but the government chose the ideas that it believed in. She refused to be drawn into a debate about the merits and demerits of the ideas chosen and those rejected. She also let it out in one of her interviews that this government has learnt from what was done between 2008 and 2013, which is an indirect reference to the UPA-2 government and to the stimulus package that then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee had rolled out in response to the 2008 financial meltdown and recession, and critics felt that it was this package that pushed the Indian economy to the edge. She made it clear that the Modi government did not want to go down that path. Many economists are of the view that the COVID-19-triggered economic crisis needs a liberal fiscal stimulus and that Sitharaman’s package has failed in that because she has only facilitated credit lines, which is an indirect way of nudging private enterprises to get the economy started after the 50-day nationwide lockdown. She has not loosened the government’s purse-strings in any way though she has increased the outlay for the MNREGS. Sitharaman is standing her ground and saying that she is not inclined to indulge in a spending spree that could revive the economy. A generous interpretation of the FM’s stance -- and it need not be overemphasised that this is the thinking of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and that the finance minister is only restating her leader’s position -- is that she is erring on the side of fiscal prudence. The only argument in her favour would be that we may only be at the beginning of the end of the COVID-19 crisis, and that there is a long road ahead to economic recovery and that she would not want to throw open the resources all at once and all at one go. She is giving herself the room and time for future crisis intervention. She has herself said that one does not know how long the pandemic will last and that there is uncertainty ahead. The other interpretation is that this is a right-wing government and that it believes in the right-wing economic principle of letting people fend for themselves and that the government should play a minimal role. This is a position that exposes itself to the onslaught of liberal economic sentiment and socialist principles, where the government would be shown as callous and heartless in the face of the economic misery of millions of poor people. But Modi is likely to counter this righteous indignation of his critics by pointing to the free ration he was giving out to ration-card holders for the last three months, which could be extended for a few more months, and the free cylinders he had provided to rural households for three months, apart from the dole through cash transfers to the old, to the disabled and to construction workers. The finance minister would readily admit that this is inadequate, but she would not think of increasing the amount of cash transfers or even extending it to more people among the poor. She is hopeful that the crunch time would not last long and that the economy would struggle to its feet again. Modi and Sitharaman are fully aware that they are going against the current of received economic wisdom that governments must spend to pull the economy out of a recession. But this common-sensical economic conservatism can turn out to be an unimaginative, rigid, and even stupid, stance when faced with an extraordinary situation that requires an unorthodox response. Modi runs the risk of a sub-optimal economic growth rate in the next two to three years if it refuses to increase public expenditure and investment as it had done in the last five years, and hopes to stimulate private expenditure and investment, instead. Between 2014 and 2019, it was public expenditure and private consumption that held up the falling growth rate, even as private capital formation and private investment remained mulish and muted. The government faces an economic policy challenge that goes beyond the COVID-19 pandemic and the resultant economic disruption. There is a deeper problem of the mindset. The Modi government wants to control the economy even as it dismantles public sector enterprises. Meanwhile, private sector entrepreneurs are wary of the State hovering over their business ventures. Modi’s dream of creating an overweening State which will control the lives of individuals as well as of entrepreneurs is turning out to be a hurdle that is impeding growth. It is unlikely that Modi will revise his right-wing political thinking. The people will have to decide whether they will put up with politics where they are not important, and an abstraction called the nation-state is made a fetish of. Where lives are withering and livelihoods are crumbling, the rhetoric of national pride turns into a cruel joke.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/there-s-a-problem-with-the-economy-modi-s-thinking-842575.html
27-05-2020||Panorama||Living with the virus||While we gear up to live with COVID-19, it is of utmost importance to protect the vulnerable. Protecting the vulnerable essentially means ensuring that deaths don’t sweep through the concentration of high-risk people, especially in confined spaces. To that extent, epidemiologically, we should be as much guided by dispersion index as by Ro. Therefore, preventing the next wave of deaths should be guided by how well we can prevent large gatherings. Preventing high-risk groups to cluster together is a luxury that India cannot afford easily. Take slums, for example, we cannot do anything to change the infrastructure. In urban slums, the actions should be guided by practically implementable solutions such as those practices in Dharavi, Mumbai. However, the potential surge in cases in India will have to be examined in the backdrop of clusters were induced by the ones such as Delhi’s Nizamuddin area and Tamil Nadu’s crowded Koyambedu market. As much we need to develop and implement the guidelines on how to limit large congregations, it is the jathres (melas) or weddings which can be turned into micro clusters due to recent imports to Karnataka. In the recent Nanded cluster, it turned out that the 306 pilgrims screened for the virus, 32 were tested positive. In the short term, one of the potential ways to prevent in the immediate future is to simply stop the congregations, gathered for any purpose. For example, people who have travelled from other states have queued up near the palace grounds in Bengaluru. Holding groups of people in one area might be administratively convenient. However, from the perspective of containment, this is a potential disaster. This can result in an accelerated spread of disease. Stranded next to each other in the ques for a longer time will increase the propensity of the uninfected to get infected from the travellers harbouring the virus. With long travel and poor immunity, the overcrowded finite area is a perfect setting for the virus to find perfect hosts and spread. Conducting serological surveys in these high-risk settlements should guide the kind of response that we should take at different levels. From an action point of view, the best thing is to decongest in whatever way possible and feasible without resulting in undue hardships. Easy things first, one, there should be a mandatory ban on large events for the next three months that requires a large number of high-risk people in confined spaces for a longer time. Two, the children are known to have lower rates of infection and fatality. However, one in three children are undernourished, and nearly half of all deaths in children under 5 are due to undernutrition. Undernourished children are at greater risk of infection due to lower immunity. Therefore, it may not be best advised to open schools too soon and too widely. Three, actionable plans for decongesting places having high-risk persons should be developed. These include old age homes, orphanages, prisons and institutional quarantine. Extraordinary measures should be taken to protect the high-risk vulnerable people in slums and temporary settlements with migrants. The least we can do it is to map all these places and ensure the infection doesn’t affect them adversely. This can be coupled with mandatory use of masks and other physical distancing measures. There is only a limit to which the governments can develop and implement policies regulating human behaviour. Government can provide the knowledge, but converting this into behaviours lie with the people. It is, therefore, very important for each person in the community to do their bit in responsible conduct. The educated also have the additional responsibility of informing and empowering the less privileged. Towards this, we should be starting off with actions that emanate from our behaviours. It might amount different things for different people. For example, it might mean calling off a party that folks have planned after lockdown 4, postponing conferences, halting running in groups or marathons for some time and putting off any plans for reunions. There are several hardships that will result from such decisions. However, these hardships are relative inconveniences compared to the deaths that are induced in the vulnerable due to our behaviour. (The writer is Professor and Head-Lifecourse Epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public health, PHFI, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/living-with-the-virus-842576.html
27-05-2020||Right in the Middle||The silver lining||Undeniably we are grappling with the most turbulent times in view of the anxiety-inducing spread of COVID-19. A virus that has thrown our lives out of gear. The first few days at home brought me a sort of respite from my gruelling work but panic had gripped the mind due to the swelling number of positive cases. As days rolled by, this social segregation began to hang heavy on me and initial uneasiness had spiralled into anxiety. Though I have an extended family, much to my dismay what I observed at the domestic front was a tad unsettling. Kids would remain glued to their digital gadgets with not much exchange of ideas. Undoubtedly, I have not been a cynic in my life but this time I had umpteen reasons to cast aspersions on our modern-day technological advancements. Staying at home all day long, I became witness to subtle changes in behaviour in modern-day kids. My little daughter had grown self-centred ad nauseam. Realising the gravity of the matter, I resolved to avail myself of this devil sent opportunity of lockdown and enter into her closely guarded territory. But trespassers were viewed with great scorn. The idea of playing conventional indoors games was downrightly repudiated by the child. Thus far I was in a sheer denial mode shifting the onus on the little child. However, partly the fault was on me-- during my hectic workdays, I hardly bothered to forge a close bond with the little one. Her working mother too was sailing in the same boat. Due to parental neglect, the child had withdrawn to her own ivory tower. Therefore, any advance from my end appeared to her an act of blatant infiltration. Cognisant of my blunder I made all ditch efforts to melt the ice of that unspoken resentment simmering in the tender heart of the baby. Soon I was no more an intruder and she began to reciprocate my loving gestures. In the subsequent days, my daughter kept the cluster of her digital toys aside as I had become her evening time playmate and bedtime storyteller. COVID-19 induced lockdown has inarguably wreaked havoc on the economic condition of the world but every cloud has a silver lining. These vacant months taught me the art of real parenting and other key lessons. The moral of my story is loud and clear. Our children do not need a vast number of fancy toys. They need time with their parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-silver-lining-842574.html
27-05-2020||Second Edit||Tour of Duty, an ill-conceived idea||The proposal, now under consideration of the army and the government, to offer a short tenure of three years in the service, called Tour of Duty (ToD), for young people on a voluntary basis is not a well-conceived idea, and will not meet the objectives claimed for it. The details of the proposal are still not clear, and only a broad outline of the scheme is available now. The Chief of Defence Staff and the army chief have mentioned it in positive terms. It envisages induction of 100 officers and 1,000 personnel of other ranks every year into the service for three years and to give them training and internship during the term. They will be paid fairly well but will not be entitled to pension and other retirement benefits. However, they will be given preference for employment in the public and private sectors. It is claimed that the scheme will be useful for the army, which has faced a severe shortage of officers and even of other personnel and will help to reduce its rising salary and pension expenditure.  The merits of the scheme and the claimed benefits are questionable. Recruits for all positions have to undergo long and rigorous training in the army before they become fully functional and disciplined members of the organisation. The ToD recruits will only have a short training stint, they will take time to get used to the environment and will only have a short duration of effective service. It is unlikely that they will develop a sense of belonging to the service during their short tenure there. What contribution can these inadequately trained and ill-equipped youngsters make to the army which needs and deserves the best from its officers and soldiers? Many would only treat the scheme as a three-year course that leads to a job in the future. It may affect the operational efficiency of the army at a time when there should be no compromise on national security. It will also offer no solution to the problem of unemployment in the country.  The scheme seems to be part of a politics built around ultra-nationalism and glorification of military service. It is unfortunate that the army is pursuing an idea which has its origin in politics and suits a particular brand of politics, though it does not serve its needs and interests and may actually hurt it. It should consider better ways of attracting young people to it as well as to save its shrinking budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/tour-of-duty-an-ill-conceived-idea-842571.html
27-05-2020||South||Kerala risks sliding into community transmission: CM||After the biggest single day spike in coronavirus cases, Kerala Chief Minister Pinaryi Vijayan on Tuesday warned that the state risks sliding into community transmission and losing all its gains if people under observation fail to follow health guidelines. Sixty seven people tested positive on Tuesday, the biggest single spike on a single day in the state. The total tally touched 963 and those under observation crossed the one lakh. Speaking to reporters here, the Chief Minister warned that the state was on the verge of a community spread if those under observation failed to adhere to the health department's instructions. He said those coming from red zones can be potential carriers. "As of now, we have not reported community spread. But if we don't follow the precautions properly, we will soon have it here in Kerala. We are on verge of community spread. Those coming from red zones can be potential carriers and they should themselves ensure to be under room quarantine," Vijayan said. He said that those coming from abroad would henceforth have to pay for seven day government quarantine facilties. "Paid quarantine is for those who come from abroad. Lakhs of people wantto come to Kerala. The state may not be able to handle all of them," Vijayan said. However there was no need to worry as there would be affordable quarantine facilities for everyone, he said. Of the total positive cases on Tuesday, 27 came from abroad and 33 from other states, including Maharashtra 15, Tamil Nadu nine and Gujarat five and 415 people are presently undergoing treatment, Vijayan said. At least 1,04,336 people are under observation, while 1,03,528 in homes/institutional quarantine and 808 people are in hospitals,inclduing186 admitted on Tuesday. The number of virus cases have been increasing in the state since the return of Non Resident Keralites from abroad and other states. Of 133 people who came from abroad and tested positive, 75 are from the UAE and 25 from Kuwait, while 72 returnees are from Maharashtra, the worst affected by the pandemic in the country, the Chief Minister said.     Seventy one people from Tamil Nadu and 35 from Karnataka have also been infected. Seven people contracted the virus through contact, Vijayan said. While Kannur had eight cases, Kottayam six, Malappuram and Ernakulam five each, Thrissur and Kollam had four each and Kasaragod and Alappuzha recorded three cases each, he said. The Chief Minister also held a video conference with MPs and MLAs from the state on Tuesday and all of them supported the government's efforts in tackling the pandemic. Many of the participants also requested the government to increase testing. Among those who participated were Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, Opposition leader in the assembly Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy. "At one point of time we had only 16 Covid patients under treatment, but now we have 415. Those coming to Kerala from red zones or containment areas must be careful and striclty follow the directions on home quarantine in order to contain the spread of the virus," Vijayan said, expressing concern at the increasing cases. He also said the state would face immense difficulty if all Keralites in foreign countries and other states returned at the same time, as lakhs of Keralites are settled in various parts of the country and abroad. The Chief Minister said around 3.80 lakh people have registered to come to Kerala from other states and of these, 2.16 lakh passes have been issued and 1,01,779 people have already reached the state.  Vijayan also referred to the government warning that only 50 people should participate in weddings and 20 for funerals and said people have misintepreted the direction and were attending functions in batches in larger numbers, which cannot be allowed. Stringent action would be taken against those who arrive in Kerala without registering in the web portal and a heavy fine would be imposed on them, besides a 28 day institutional quarantine,Vijayan said. So far 56,704 samples have been sent for testing, of which 54,836 have returned negative. As of date, Kannur has 85 patients, the highest in the state, followed by Palakkad with 81. Malappuram has 51, Kasaragod 35, Thiruvananthapuram has 29 and Kozhikode has 26 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-risks-sliding-into-community-transmission-cm-842232.html
27-05-2020||South||One coronavirus death in Andhra Pradesh, 134 fresh cases reported||One person died of the deadly coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh taking the toll to 58, while 134 more tested positive for the disease, pushing the tally in the state to 3,117, a government bulletin said on Wednesday. The lone death was reported in East Godavari District. Of the fresh cases reported in the past 24 hours ending 9 AM on Wednesday, nine were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, the bulletin said. Samples of 9,664 people were tested and 48 including those from other states have been discharged from various hospitals after treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1913. The number of active patients are now at 816. Cumulative positive cases from other states stood at 219 with 75 active cases, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-coronavirus-death-in-andhra-pradesh-134-fresh-cases-reported-842339.html
27-05-2020||South||Five new COVID-19 cases reported in Puducherry, tally reaches 139||Puducherry reported five new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday pushing up the total tally to 39. All these patients hail from the peripheral pockets of the town. Expressing fear over the constant rise in cases over the last 10 days in the Union Territory, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters that the trend gives him a jolt and already opinions were coming forth that in the country as a whole there would be a big spike in cases of the pandemic. "If Puducherry keeps reporting a high number of cases the administration would have to get ready one more hospital for accommodating the patients," he said. Presently, the Indira Gandhi Government Medical college hospital designated as a coronavirus hospital by the ICMR has 700 beds, he noted. Rao further said four new cases hailing from neighbouring Tamil Nadu had been admitted to JIPMER and these patients are enlisted under TN category. All the new cases now admitted to the hospital in Puducherry and to JIPMER were found to have contracted the disease through contact with the patients,who were their kith and kin and are already under treatment.  A detailed meeting was held with officials of the Health Department on Tuesday during which they were directed to tighten vigil as the present trend "is a cause of serious concern." Health care personnel did not have any chance to remain relaxed unlike the staff from other departments. "It is our responsibility to prevent spread of the infection," the minister said.  The Minister also said that most of those who had obtained e-passes to come to Puducherry were not also present at the addresses they had given. "The District collector had been asked to zero in on such persons through intensive checking," he added. Secretary to Health Prashanth Kumar Panda, also present at the press briefing, said, "the local people should act as community vigilance units and pass on information to the health authorities whenever they saw their neighbours had arrived from neighbouring districts or from abroad.Unless people played a proactive role it would be difficult to battle the spread of the infection." He also reiterated that downloading of Aarogya Sethu app should pickup as present number of patrons of the facility was very poor and not encouraging. Director of Health Services S Mohan Kumar said the people here were by and large very slack and non-serious about the prevalence of the infection. "There should be no misconception that the infection would not hit the young children. If one goes through the records of patients admitted so far there were children in the age groups of five, seven and nine years. On arrangements made for return of migrant workers from Bihar, Kumar said a batch of 1,500 workers would leave for their native places in the northern state by a special train on Thursday. "All these workers would be screened before they bid farewell to Puducherry," he said. He said so far 4,090 people were issued e-passes and most of them were playing truant as they could not be found in the addresses they had provided to get the passes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-puducherry-tally-reaches-139-842376.html
27-05-2020||South||Reconsider decision to convert Jayalalithaa's residence into memorial, Madra HC tells Tamil Nadu govt||The Madras High Court on Wednesday asked the Tamil Nadu government to reconsider its decision to convert late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa's residence here into a memorial and declared her niece and nephew as the legal heirs of her property worth several crores. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose also suggested that 'Veda Nilayam,' located in the upmarket Poes Garden, be converted into the official residence of the chief minister of the state, while a portion of the property can be a memorial if needed. The court order came days after Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit promulgated an ordinance to allow the state government take temporary possession of 'Veda Nilayam' and set up a foundation under chief minister K Palaniswami for the purpose of converting it into a memorial. Allowing the petition by Jayalalithaa's nephew and niece -- Deepak and Deepa, respectively, seeking letters of administration to administer her properties, the bench said, "Deepak and Deepa are second class legal heirs of the late CM, being the son and daughter of her late brother Jayakumar." It also made it clear that the duo was entitled for administration in respect of the estate held individually by the late Jayalalithaa or in the names of firms or companies and the credits of the former AIADMK supremo. Deepak and Deepa shall allot a few properties according to their discretion and create a registered public trust in the name of their late aunt for the purpose of doing social service within a period of eight weeks from the date of receipt of the order copy. The court then posted the matter for reporting compliance with regard to creation of a trust after eight weeks. The bench dismissed another plea moved by AIADMK cadre K Pugalenthi seeking to appoint him as administrator of the properties of the late chief minister. In August last, the court, while reserving the orders had sought to know why a portion of Jayalalithaa's properties should not be allotted for welfare of the public, as she was the leader who always said she was made by the people and worked for the people. The petitioners submitted they had no objection in doing so, since it was their aunt's wish. "But as the only legal heirs of Jayalalithaa, we are entitled to all her properties. We have plans to establish a trust in her name and do charity to the people through it," they stated in the petition. According to the petitioners, they had approached the jurisdictional tahsildar on August 16, 2017, urging issue of legal heir certificates in their favour to inherit properties of Jayalalithaa, who died on December 5, 2016. But through a reply dated September 22, 2017, the official refused to issue the certificates and directed them to obtain it by approaching the appropriate civil court. On May 22, the Govenor had promulgated an ordinance to temporarily take possession of 'Veda Nilayam.' It said the ordinance was also meant to establish Puratchi Thalaivi Dr J Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation for making long-term arrangements to convert Veda Nilayam into a memorial. The government had said the ordinance was promulgated since "the building of Veda Nilayam, including the movable items such as furniture, books, jewels, etc. are in a state of disuse for more than three years." So the government decided to transfer all the immovable and movable properties to the government for its upkeep until the acquisition process is complete," it had said. The government, while formally commencing the process of acquiring the sprawling three-storeyed residence early this month, had said that the legal heir for the building was yet to be ascertained. Fondly addressed as 'Amma', meaning mother in Tamil, by her supporters, Jayalalithaa died in December 2016 after undergoing treatment at the Apollo Hospitals for 75 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/reconsider-decision-to-convert-jayalalithaas-residence-into-memorial-madra-hc-tells-tamil-nadu-govt-842377.html
27-05-2020||South||SC asks Tamil Nadu govt to use 4 floors of private hospital for COVID-19 patients||The Supreme Court Wednesday allowed the Tamil Nadu government to use top four floors of a Chennai-based private hospital for treating COVID-19 patients. The top court asked the Tamil Nadu government to have arrangements with the private hospital regarding doctors, nursing staff and other facilities for treating COVID-19 patients. On June 3 last year, the top court had stayed the Madras High Court judgement ordering demolition of top five floors of the eight-storey block of Billroth Hospitals Ltd for alleged violation of the approved building plan. It had however directed the hospital not to use these top five floors for any activity. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bolana and Hrishikesh Roy, in a hearing held Wednesday through video conferencing, permitted the state government to use top four floors of the hospital for its own use. Senior advocate N K Kaul, appearing for the hospital, had sought permission to use these floors for COVID-19 patients saying that at least 150 beds will be allotted for such patients. The hospital had told the apex court that it had applied under the 2017 building regularisation scheme of Tamil Nadu for regularisation of the floors. The hospital, having 250 beds, had said that it was operational since 2005-2006 and the authorities can decide on its application for regularisation within a month. "For the time being we will grant stay but you will not use these floors (fourth to eighth). You had build it till eighth floor in 2009 with impunity. You used it without any sanctioned building plan", the apex court had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-asks-tamil-nadu-govt-to-use-4-floors-of-private-hospital-for-covid-19-patients-842378.html
27-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu govt's free ration to family cardholders to continue for June||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Wednesday announced that free ration for family cardholders will continue for the month of June and that tokens for obtaining essential commodities will be distributed at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries. The chief minister, who had announced free essential commodities to all the family cardholders in the state during the COVID-19 lockdown in April and May, said the relief measures would be continued for June too. In a statement here, Palaniswami said cardholders are entitled to get a kg of tur dal and sugar besides a litre of edible oil through fair price shops and that these will be distributed from June 1 onwards. Accordingly, tokens will be distributed at doorsteps of the cardholders between May 29 and 31. The state government has announced to double the rice entitlement of all rice-drawing ration cardholders in Tamil Nadu for the next three months, to mitigate the hardships due to the ongoing lockdown, in alignment with the government's policy of universal public distribution system (UPDS). The government has set aside around Rs 219 crore towards the provision of tur dal, edible oil and sugar, free of cost, to all ration card holders in June. There are a total of about 2.01 crore rice-drawing cards, of which priority household (PHH) cards are 1.15 crore and non-priority household (NPHH) cards, around 86 lakh. "The members of the public are requested to wear masks and also maintain social distancing whole obtaining the essential commodities," Palaniswami appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govts-free-ration-to-family-cardholders-to-continue-for-june-842400.html
27-05-2020||South||MHC declares Jayalalithaa’s nephew and niece as her Class-II heirs||Declaring J Jayalalithaa’s nephew and niece as legal heirs of her properties worth several crores, the Madras High Court on Wednesday asked the Tamil Nadu government to reconsider its decision to convert the late Chief Minister’s palatial bungalow here into a memorial for her. However, the court suggested that instead of converting the bungalow into a memorial alone that could result in huge expenses for the government, the mansion could be used as the official residence of the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu as it possesses all facilities and infrastructure to serve as one, while a portion of the property can be converted into a memorial if needed. The ruling is a setback to the AIADMK government which took temporary possession of the sprawling mansion in upscale Poes Garden here last week through an ordinance promulgated by Governor Banwarilal Purohit for establishing a memorial for Jayalalithaa. “The petitioner Mr J Deepak and the respondent Ms J Deepa are the class-II legal heirs of late Chief Minister Dr J Jayalalithaa, being the son and the daughter of the late Chief Minister Dr J Jayalalithaa's brother Late J Jayakumar,” a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose said. Deepak along with Jayalalithaa’s long-time aide V K Sasikala had performed the last rites of the former chief minister, who was buried on the Marina Beach here. The bungalow, whose value is over Rs 100 crore as on date, was purchased by Jayalalithaa’s mother Sandhya in the late 1960s and the former chief minister lived there till September 22, 2016, before she was wheeled into the Apollo Hospitals, where she breathed her last 75 days later on December 5. After Jayalalithaa’s death, the bungalow was occupied by Sasikala till she went to Parapana Agrahara prison in February 2017, to serve her 4-year jail term in disproportionate assets (DA) case. The announcement that the bungalow will be converted into a memorial for Jayalalithaa was first made by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on August 17, 2017, as it was an integral part of the compromise arrived between him and his deputy O Panneerselvam for the merger of his faction with the AIADMK. Though Deepak and Deepa were estranged with Jayalalithaa till her death, they knocked at the doors of the High Court laying claim on properties belonging to their aunt, who had no legal heir when she died in 2016. The bench also said Deepak and Deepa are entitled to the Letters of Administration in respect of the estate held individually by or in the names of the firms or companies and the credits. The verdict effectively means that the government should issue a notice to Deepak and Deepa during the acquisition proceedings and have to pay the compensation for acquiring the Poes Garden residence. Contending that public money cannot be wasted for the purpose of constructing memorials, the division bench observed that the real tribute to any leader should be paid by following his/her principles and working for the benefit of the people and development of the society. “If the Government intends to make the residence of the Late Chief Minister's as a memorial, there will not be any end for such proposals. Every Government would like to make the residence of their leaders who were chief ministers as memorials and unnecessarily, the public money would be utilized for setting up memorials alone,” the bench noted. The Poes Garden served as Chief Minister's Residence-cum-Office for over 15 years and it is also common knowledge that the bungalow is a vast property with all facilities and infrastructures required for using as Official Residence-cum-Office of the Chief Minister of the State, the bench observed. “In view of the above, this Court would suggest to the State Government to consider making the above property as “Official Residence-cum-Office of the Chief Minister of the State” instead of converting the property as a “memorial” as desired by the Government,” it said. The bench also asked the duo to allot a few properties, according to their discretion and create a registered Public Trust in the name of their late aunt for the purpose of public and social service within a period of eight weeks from the date of receipt of the court order. The bench also made it clear that the duo was "entitled for administration" in respect of the estate held individually by the late Jayalalithaa or in the names of firms or companies and the credits of the former AIADMK supremo. “Deepak and Deepa shall allot a few properties according to their discretion and create a registered public trust in the name of their late aunt for the purpose of doing social service within a period of eight weeks from the date of receipt of the order copy,” it added. The bench also directed the state government to provide security to Deepak and Deepa at their own cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mhc-declares-jayalalithaa-s-nephew-and-niece-as-her-class-ii-heirs-842429.html
27-05-2020||South||40 fresh cases in Kerala, COVID-19 tally breaches 1,000 mark||The COVID-19 tally in Kerala crossed the one thousand mark on Wednesday, with 40 people, including 37 returnees from abroad and other states, testing positive for the coronavirus. The aggregate of cases now has touched 1003, while presently445 people are undergoing treatment in various hospitals and over 1.7 lakh under observation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters. Totally 552 people have been cured and there has been six fatalities. Kasaragod reported the highest number of cases today-- 10, Palakkad eight, Alappuzha seven, Kollam four, Pathanamthitta three, Wayanad three, Kozhikode two, Ernakulam two and Kannur one, Vijayan said. While nine of those who tested positive have come from abroad, 28 of the positive cases were people who had come from other states-- 16 from Maharashtra, five from Tamil Nadu, three from Delhi, one each from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Three people had been infected through contact. Ten people have been cured and discharged from hospital. An all-party meeting was held on Wednesday in which opposition leaders raised the issue of paid quarantine for expatriates coming from abroad. Vijayan said "there was no need for any anxiety on the matter. The poor will not face any difficulty and the quarantine fee will be charged from only those who can afford it." Some people from abroad are planning to charter flights to bring stranded expatriates, he said. "We don't have any problem with that.But we need to be informed to make arrangements for them," Vijayan added. The Chief Minister described as "baseless" reports that due to the government denying permission, chartered flights were not being operated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/40-fresh-cases-in-kerala-covid-19-tally-breaches-1000-mark-842475.html
27-05-2020||South||Kerala set to resume liquor sale from Thursday||Putting an end to the two-month long wait of tipplers in Kerala, the state government will resume sale of liquor from Thursday using an online token system. Only sale of liquor in bottles will be allowed and consumption at bars would not be allowed. A mobile app, BevQ, is being launched by the Kerala State Beverages Corporation, using which, customers can select the time slot for purchase and get e-token. A SMS based facility for getting e-token is also being introduced. Sales will be carried out through 301 government run sales outlets, 576 bars and 291 beer and wine parlours. Sales will be from 9 am to 5 p.m. and e-token could be taken between 6 am and 10 pm. Kerala excise minister T P Ramakrishnan said that so far no decision on home delivery of liquor has been taken. Liquor sales was stopped in the state following the nationwide lockdown in March. This caused severe revenue fall for the government. The state witnessed a spike in withdrawal syndrome cases also. Around 2,000 persons even approached government's COVID-19 related counselling centre with de-addiction issues. Considering these, the government explored options of resuming liquor sale by maintaining social distancing norms. Hence, the e-token system is being introduced and bars and beer/wine parlours are permitted to sell liquor in bottles. The decision to resume liquor sale also triggered protests from several activists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-set-to-resume-liquor-sale-from-thursday-842487.html
27-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu sees biggest single day spike of 817 COVID-19 cases||In the biggest single day spike, Tamil Nadu reported 817 fresh COVID-19 cases, which included 138 returnees from Maharashtra, on Wednesday pushing the infection count to 18,545 while six more deaths were recorded. With three men and an equal number of women succumbing to the virus, the fatalities touched 133. Of the people who tested positive today, 508 were men and 309 women while the active cases stood at 8,500, the health department said in a bulletin. The positive cases also included a person from neighbouring Kerala. Today alone 11,231 samples were tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-of-817-covid-19-cases-842506.html
27-05-2020||South||Row over quarantine fee for NRIs in Kerala||A decision of Kerala government to impose a fee for institutional quarantine for expatriates returning to the state has triggered a row as the opposition Congress and BJP raised strong objection. With the centre insisting on seven day institutional quarantine for all NRIs returning, the Kerala government decided to impose fee for institutional quarantine of NRIs. The state had been promoting home quarantine than institutional quarantine. Of the over one lakh persons from other states and abroad quarantined so far, around 80,000 were home quarantined.  Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that most expats could afford the institutional quarantine and hence, such a decision was taken. However, those who could not really afford it would be given relaxations. A detailed order would be issued in this regard. Vijayan said that the state is still trying to convince the centre that home quarantine is being implemented effectively in Kerala. The Congress and BJP alleged that the government is trying to exploit the NRIs. The Congress also offred to set up institutional quarantine facilities. Meanwhile, 40 more persons, including 28 from other states and nine from abroad, tested COVID-19 positive on Wednesday taking the total persons infected so far to 1003. The number of active cases now is 445.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-quarantine-fee-for-nris-in-kerala-842514.html
27-05-2020||South||Sreelekha to be Kerala's first woman DGP, to head Fire & Rescue Services Department||R Sreelekha will be the first woman Director General of Police in Kerala after the state government on Wednesday appointed her as Fire and Rescue Services DGP as part of a major reshuffle. The state cabinet, which met here on Wednesday, appointed Vishwas Mehta as the new Chief Secretary to replace incumbent Tom Jose, who will retire on May 31. Mehta, a 1986 batch IAS officer from Dungarpur in Rajasthan, was the Home Secretary. "ADGP R Sreelekha has been promoted and appointed as the Fire and Rescue Services DGP in the state," a release issued by the state government said. Sreelekha is presently the Transport Commissioner. T K Jose, who is currently the Additional Chief Secretary to the Public Works Department, will replace Mehta as Home Secretary. Meanwhile, Revenue Secretary V Venu has been made the State Planning Board Secretary, whileADGP M R Ajith Kumar has been appointed as the Transport Commissioner. Kerala Medical Services Corporation Limited Managing Director Navjot Khosa has been appointed as the Thiruvananthapuram District Collector in place of K Gopalakrishnan, who has been shifted to Malappuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sreelekha-to-be-keralas-first-woman-dgp-to-head-fire-rescue-services-department-842560.html
27-05-2020||South||3-year-old boy falls into borewell in Telangana; rescue operations on||A three-year-old boy slipped into a borewell of over 120 feet in Medak district of Telangana on Wednesday evening. The incident occurred in an agricultural field in Podchanpalli village, where Sai Vardhan fell into the borewell and left open since it yielded no water in the parched region. The farm belonged to one Mangali Bikshapati. Local reports stated the boy is the son of Bikshapati. Rescue operations are on at the site with excavation machines put to dig earth parallel to the bore, to recover the boy. According to the district collector Dharma Reddy, the boy is estimated to be stuck at about 30 feet. Officials have sent oxygen tubes inside the hole. NDRF teams are reaching the spot. Ambulance is kept ready. Child rights activists are blaming the government officials for such incidents since “they fail in ensuring such bores are encased.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3-year-old-boy-falls-into-borewell-in-telangana-rescue-operations-on-842591.html
27-05-2020||South||Telangana govt workers to suffer salary cuts in May too||Telangana government employees will have to suffer a salary cut for third consecutive month following the revenue loss resulting out of the COVID-19 lockdown. The K Chandrashekar Rao government had started slashing salaries from March to deal with the impact. After a review meeting on the state’s economic situation at the Pragati Bhavan on Wednesday, CM Rao decided that the deduction of 60 per cent pay of the All India Service officers, 50 per cent of the government employees’ salaries, 25 per cent of the pensions will continue in the May payments too.  However, in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, CM Jaganmohan Reddy last week directed officials to pay full salaries to government employees for the month of May. A part of March and April salaries was deferred for Andhra employees too. In an order issued earlier for the purpose, the Telangana government mentioned the cut as a deferment i.e. to be paid later. While the cut is 75 per cent in case of the public representatives like MLAs, for outsourcing and contract workers, it is 10 per cent. While Aasara pensions for the old, widows, physically challenged etc. beneficiaries would be paid as usual and the poor would get 12 kgs rice in May too, the CM said that the Rs 1500 cash will not be given to the jobless laborers for May “since lockdown relaxations provide them work.” According to the CMO, Rao discussed with officials the strategy to face the steep fall in the state’s income.  “Telangana state accrues Rs 12,000 crore income every month, which fell flat due to the lockdown. In May, the state received Rs 3,100 crore, including the share in the central taxes of Rs 982 crore. Though relaxations were made to the lockdown, income has not increased substantially. Income from transport, registration and other departments is not much,” the CM said. According to Rao, the state has debt installments to the tune of Rs 37,400 crore per year - to be paid every month without fail. “Though the state requested the Centre to reschedule the loans, the Centre did not take any action in this regard. So, the state has no option but to pay the installments.” “If employee salaries and pensions are paid (in full), that expenditure would be more than Rs 3000 crore and the treasury will be empty and no (other) payment can be made nor any work undertaken. So, we have to adapt a proper strategy, “the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-workers-to-suffer-salary-cuts-in-may-too-842607.html
27-05-2020||State||Savadi: RTCs ready to start night service on passengers' demand||Transport and Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has clarified that the state government has decided against any hike in bus fares in spite of ‘compulsion’. Speaking to media persons after chairing a meeting of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) officials at its headquarters office, he said the four state-owned transport corporations have sustained an accumulative loss of Rs 1,700 crore during the lockdown period. The spread of coronavirus will decide the extent of revenue loss for the transport corporations in the coming days, as maintaining social distancing would mean that buses cannot run to full capacity. “The government doesn't want to rub salt on the injuries by hiking the bus fare," he said. Savadi said clear instructions have been given to corporations not to run buses which result in more losses. “At present, more trips means more losses,” he said. Currently, all four regional transport corporations (RTCs) are running buses between 7 am to 7 pm. However, few of the long-route buses are running extra hours also, he said.  He said depending upon the passengers' demand the transport corporations are ready to start the night journey. The government is waiting for the new guidelines from the Union government which are expected by June 1 for improving better connectivity, he added.  'No job cut' The deputy chief minister also clarified that none of the permanent staffed of the transport corporations will be sacked. Only those contract employees in BMTC and KSRTC (Bengaluru division) may face the axe, he said and added that all the 1.30 lakh employees of the four transport corporations have received April month’s full salary (Rs 326 crore). However, the government has released 50% of May salary and said he would speak to the chief minister to increase its share to ensure that staff gets their dues. He said managements of all the four corporations will be asked to prepare a blueprint for three months on how to review the public transportation and increase its revenue. One of the proposals being put forward is by minimising the ‘overtime’ of staff and preventing pilferage of resources. “Corruption runs from top to bottom in Transportation department and efforts will be made to end that,” he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/savadi-rtcs-ready-to-start-night-service-on-passengers-demand-842525.html
27-05-2020||State||'Rs 62 cr crop loan to farmers in Kolar, Chikkaballapur'||The District Cooperative Central (DCC) Bank had lent Rs 62 crore crop loans to farmers in Kolar and Chikkaballapur district, said DCC Bank president M Govinda Gowda. He chaired a meeting to review the economic status of the bank and measures to be taken for the distribution of crop loans. “The bank is capable enough to lend more loans than what has been fixed. Farmers should not borrow loans from private persons for higher interest. Top priority of the bank is to identify eligible farmers and lend them the loans,” he said. Gowda added, ”An amount of Rs 11 crore to Gauribidanur branch and Rs 6 crore to Bagepalli branch have been given. There is no dearth of funds to lend crop loans.” As per the directions of the NABARD, the beneficiaries should withdraw funds of crop loans strictly using RuPay card in ATM kiosks to prevent corruption, he said. “Branch managers and supervisor will be held responsible for any errors in documents pertaining to loans distributed among Stree Shakthi groups. Health insurance facility up to Rs 3 lakh has been introduced for the benefits of staff and their family members. The management is committed to protect the interests of the bank staff,” he said. Gowda directed the bank staff not to harass members of women self-help groups. The staff should visit houses of members of groups and persuade them about the economic status of the bank for loan repayment. Those who were capable would surely repay. “The investigation teams should inspect transactions of societies properly. Instructions should be given to fire chief executive officers and those aged above 60 years who fail to maintain documents properly. The process to digitalise transactions should be completed at the earliest facilitating online business,” he said. Bank directors Sonnegowda, Mohan Reddy and Nagi Reddy expressed displeasure that the branch managers did not respond to directors properly. Gowda directed the branch managers to respond to the directors’ call or face action. “Kochimul deposits funds of transactions of 454 milk producers’ unions with the bank. Accounts of farmers of unions should be opened in the bank. ATM cards.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rs-62-cr-crop-loan-to-farmers-in-kolar-chikkaballapur-842527.html
27-05-2020||State||TV actor, model Mebina Michael dies in road mishap||TV actor-cum-model Mebina Michael died in a car-tractor collision on NH 75 near Belluru Cross in the taluk late Tuesday night. She was aged 23.  The winner of the fourth edition of TV reality show ‘Pyate Hudugir Halli Life’, Mebina was going to her grandparents house at Somwarpet in Kodagu. The car in which Mebina was travelling rammed into a tractor head-on near Devihalli Cross. Mebina suffered grievous injuries in the mishap and was admitted to Adichunchanagiri Hospital. She was then shifted to a private hospital in Bengaluru, where she died late on Tuesday night. Car driver Vinod and Mebina’s friend Raju, who sustained serious injuries in the mishap, were admitted to GB Hospital in Bengaluru. The Belluru police have registered a case. Mebina was laid to rest at her native Aiguru on Wednesday. Mebina of Pyate Hudugir Halli Life fame was busy with modelling and acting in cinemas. She’d landed a lead role in under-production Tamil cinema.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tv-actor-model-mebina-michael-dies-in-road-mishap-842528.html
27-05-2020||State||Mango sale at Srinivaspur market from May 30||The sale of mangoes at the Srinivaspur mango market will start from May 30. District in-charge minister H Nagesh chaired a meeting with legislators of the district and heads of various departments in this regard here. He said that the government had taken a decision to permit activities at Srinivaspur mango market despite Covid-19 crisis considering farmers’ welfare.  “Due to less yield this year, about 2.36 tonnes of fruits are expected to arrive in the market. About 1.36 tonnes of fruits will be sent to mango processing units. The remaining fruits will be sold on a daily basis. Quantities of fruits to be sold daily will be fixed,” he said. Nagesh said that the sales of mangoes would last for six weeks. There was no permission for trucks from outside states. Measures would be tightened at checkpoints in the district border. “About 160 trucks will enter the market and 10-acre land has been identified for parking of the trucks. Cleaners and drivers should be at the parking lots. Food and water will be arranged for them at the parking lots. There will be a toilet as well,” he said. Announcements would be made through loudspeakers about specific trucks and their entries inside the market, he said. Nagesh added,” There is no permission for mangoes from outside states to be brought to Srinivaspur. Priority will be given for the mangoes grown in the district. Trucks will be disinfected and then permitted inside the market.” The Minister clarified that the sales would be halted for two days if any Covid-19 cases were reported. Sales would be resumed after the disinfection process for two days. “Teachers and revenue department staff have been appointed to educate farmers and their turns to bring the fruits to the market,” MP S Muniswamy said. The MP said that the sales would take place between 7 am and 11 am daily. The district administration would take the required measures to ensure safety and security. Deputy commissioner C Satyabhama said, “Passes will be given to the truck drivers and cleaner.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mango-sale-at-srinivaspur-market-from-may-30-842534.html
27-05-2020||State||DKS to take over as KPCC president on June 7||District Congress president Keshav Reddy said that D K Shivakumar would take over as KPCC President of June 7. The event would be streamed live on social media platforms at all gram panchayat centres. He was speaking at a meeting of office-bearers of the party here. “Shivakumar has prepared a plan to strengthen the party at the booth-level. He had planned to unite the party workers across the state and then take over. However, the plan was put off due to Covid-19 crisis. A decision has been taken for the live streaming of the event to encourage the party workers,” he said. Reddy said that the local leaders should encourage the party workers to forget their differences and watch the programme. He said that Shivakumar would give necessary instructions to strengthen the party at the booth-level. Local leaders Srinivas, Konappali Kodanda, Abdul Khadar, Veerappa Reddy and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dks-to-take-over-as-kpcc-president-on-june-7-842545.html
27-05-2020||State||MGNREGS aids in desilting water bodies||The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) has come to the rescue of youths who are in distress following the nationwide lockdown. Kaduru gram panchayat near Brahmavar has generated employment using the MGNREGS by taking up the work on removing silt from lakes and Madagas. The work has helped in conserving sources of water and also in improving the groundwater table. The local youths have joined hands with the gram panchayat in the initiative. The youths, who had returned to their native place, following the lockdown were divided into four teams to take up desilting work on the lake in the village. Over 50 youths have been engaged in removing silt from the lake.  “The wages for work under MGNREGS has increased to Rs 275 per day. Additional funds have also been provided to take up the work under MGNREGS,” PDO Mahesh said.  At a time when people have shifted their preference from farming, many traditional water sources have started getting filled with silt.  Similarly using MGNREGS,  a team of 45 members has taken up an initiative to remove silt from the minor canal that connects Giliyaru Sooladpuhole, Sannhole and Bacchaluthodu, the prime source of water in Moodugiliyaru village near Kota. The silt-filled in these water bodies were resulting in artificial flood and thus inundating the farmland and destroying the crops during every monsoon.  The minor canal was filled with weeds and silt and is situated adjacent to 70-acre farmland. The work on removing silt is in progress as a preparation for the monsoon. Kota gram Panchayat is using the MGNREGS for removing silt from a lake situated at Chithari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mgnregs-aids-in-desilting-water-bodies-842556.html
27-05-2020||State||Demand and supply low for Kodagu orange||Kodagu Orange, which is a brand in itself, has seen a low in terms of production over the years. Even though orange was grown as an alternative crop in coffee plantations of Kodagu, there was a great demand for Kodagu orange, known for its unique taste. But, owing to the infestation of diseases and loss of demand, the planters have been drifting away from orange cultivation. As a result, the orange trees in the plantations are left without care. Adding to the problems, the Covid-19 lockdown has left a drastic impact on orange cultivation. There has been a plunge in the demand for the fruit and the vendors too are not opting to sell the local fruit. The street vendors used to sell a lot of Kodagu oranges. Due to the lockdown, oranges are not being supplied to Kerala. The local sale of Kodagu orange is less compared to the sale of the fruit in other districts. To give a boost to orange cultivation, the department of horticulture is distributing its samplings to the growers. Orange was cultivated on 8,000 to 10,000 hectares in Kodagu earlier. Now it has come down to several hundred hectares.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/demand-and-supply-low-for-kodagu-orange-842558.html
27-05-2020||State||Online seva begins at Kollur temple||The Kollur Mookambika Temple management has facilitated online puja amid the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. Those who wish to offer any seva to the deity, can pay online to Kollur Syndicate Bank (Canara) SB account - 01752200000014 (IFSC code;SYNB 0000175) or Vijaya Bank (Bank of Baroda) SB account – 142801011000001 (IFSC code-VIJB 0001428). For more details, devotees can visit: kollurmookambika.org. A release from the temple stated that normally, March and May are peak season for temples in the state as these three months form the holiday season. Unfortunately, due to lockdown restrictions, the temples did not earn any income. The Kollur Mookambika Temple had earned Rs 13 crore in March, April and May in 2019. However, there was a decline in income by Rs 14 crore during the past three months due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/online-seva-begins-at-kollur-temple-842559.html
27-05-2020||State||Karnataka govt prepares for locust attack as crop-eaters march to Maharashtra||Fearing the invasion of a massive locust swarm that has reached parts of Maharashtra, authorities are desperately hoping for a change in wind direction — currently flowing in North-South direction — to prevent the flying insects from approaching the northern parts of Karnataka.  The current wind flow pattern has offered a chance for the swarm — locusts use wind currents to move — to land in the northern districts of the state. On Wednesday, Development Commissioner Vandita Sharma held a meeting with officials from Agriculture, Revenue and other departments to discuss the standard operating procedure to handle the worst-case scenario.  Locusts are known to destroy standing crops, affecting the livelihoods of people in the agricultural supply chain. Agriculture director B Y Srinivas told DH there was a 50:50 chance that the locusts will reach Karnataka. “The meeting discussed measures to tackle the swarm of insects as there are reports that they have reached Nagpur and surrounding areas in Maharashtra,” he said. Another meeting with Agriculture Minister B C Patil is scheduled on Thursday.  According to sources, officials deliberated on the use of insecticides against the swarm with the help of Fire & Emergency Services. The availability, supply of insecticides and the number of fire trucks in the regions most prone to swarming were discussed. Insecticides may be of little help, according to retired entomology professor N E Thyagaraj. “Using blow torches to burn the insects seems to be the only way to control.” There are oral reports of locusts swarm entering Karnataka way back in 1962, but there is no documentary evidence, said Thippaiah M, who heads entomology at the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru. “Though the chances of locusts entering the state are slim, it will be based purely on the direction of the wind flow,” he said, adding Bidar and other dry northern districts will be most prone to swarm if they enter Karnataka. When contacted, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre director G S Srinivasa Reddy said, “The wind flow is currently in the north-south direction and is expected to last for the next two-days. Wind will flow towards Gujarat due to the development of a low pressure region in Arabian sea.” Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy asked the government to take precautions. “The government should immediately contact Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh to find out what steps they took and avert this,” he said, adding that four crore locusts can swarm a one-sqkm area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-prepares-for-locust-attack-as-crop-eaters-march-to-maharashtra-842605.html
27-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mosques, churches likely to open along with temples from June 1: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said along with temples, mosques and churches too are likely to be opened for devotees from June 1, and his government was awaiting permission from the Centre in this connection. The Chief Minister also said he has written to the Prime Minister regarding reopening of hotels. "Temples will open from June 1, for hotels and others we want permission from Delhi, from the Prime Minister, I have written a letter, the expectation is that mostly we will get permission," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "once we say temples can open, churches and mosques should also open, there will be no restrictions on them. In our country law is same for every one.... but for all this central government's permission is required, we are waiting for it, our efforts are on in this direction. We have to start living with COVID-19 and steps need to be taken towards it, he added. Yediyurappa's statement was in response to questions raised by some sections about opening temples and no mention about mosques and churches. Hindu religious institutions and charitable endowments (Muzrai) Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary on Tuesday a after meeting with the CM and senior officials had said, temples in the state that were closed for devotees for over two months due to COVID-19 induced lockdown will be opened from June 1.  The standard operating procedure (SOP) is likely to be put in place, that needs to be followed at temples once opened for public. However, official sources had said, the decision of opening temples will be subject to Centre's guidelines on the next course of lockdown. The national lockdown enforced by the Centre to stem the spread of Coronavirus since March 25, and in its fourth leg now, is slated till May 31.  On the lack of food and accommodation facilities for people coming from outside and distant places, without hotels, Yediyurappa said, he has written a letter to the Prime Minister, once permission is received, they will be allowed to open. Responding to a question regarding the opening of malls and cinemas, he said, "all those will depend on the centre's permission, I cannot take a decision." Responding to a question about financial package announced by his government not reaching those in distress yet, Yediyurappa he merely said. "... we have done what needed for all sections beyond our limits. Our work will please even the gods." There has been some criticism of the government about the package announced, not reaching beneficiaries yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mosques-churches-likely-to-open-along-with-temples-from-june-1-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-842351.html
27-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to soon have health register of all citizens||The Karnataka government on Wednesday said it would soon launch a project to maintain the health database of all its citizens by having a "State Health Register." A first of its kind initiative, the State Health Register will be a robust and standardized health repository of all the citizens, an official release said. This project will be implemented first in Chikkaballapur district on an experimental basis. "The COVID-19 experience has demonstrated the necessity of having a robust, real-time public health data and therefore, there is a need to maintain a repository of health data of each and every citizen," Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar was quoted as saying in the release.  The government would undertake a survey of all 6.5 crore people in the state using a team of Primary Health Centre officials, revenue officials, education department staff and ASHA (Accredited Social Heath Activist) karyakartas, he said. They will visit each household and collect health data of all members of the family, he said, adding that this would not only help the government provide better health care, but also help efficient resource allocation, management and better implementation of various citizen-centric schemes in the state.  Stating that the government's vision is to provide world class health care to all citizens, for which accurate data is needed, Sudhakar said the health register is a futuristic project which has been taken up in the interest of the people. The project will include 50 per cent partnership of private hospitals. "The data collected will help us to prioritise healthcare based on geography, demography and other targeted measures," he said. Sudhakar said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has extended support for the project and added that detailed discussions would be held in this regard in the coming cabinet meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-soon-have-health-register-of-all-citizens-842529.html
27-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kukke temple retains top position in income||Kukke Subrahmanya Temple in Dakshina Kannada has retained the top position in earning income during 2019-20. The temple has earned an annual income of Rs 98.92 crore for 2019-20 (April 2019 to March 2020). A big chunk of the temple’s revenue comes from various ‘sevas’. With Rs 42.5 crore, earnings were from sevas including ‘sarpasamskara’ and ‘sarpadosha’ and others. Other sources of income are Rs 22,38,03,033 as interest earned from banks and Rs 18.2 crore as hundi (donation box) collection, Rs 1.60 crore from contracts, Rs 9.33 lakh from crops cultivated in the garden of the temple, Rs 60.13 lakh from rents, Rs 3.45 cr from kanike, Rs 82.48 lakh as interest on SB and other accounts, Rs 4.69 crore from mass feeding contributions and Rs 4.8 crore as rent from complexes hallsand others. Dakshina Kannada district has 36 ‘A’ category temples, 44 ‘B’ category temples, and 416 ‘C’ category temples. A large number of devotees visit these temples from March to May owing to the holidays for schools and colleges. However, this year, owing to lockdown restrictions and ban on opening of the temples, the earnings of the temples have been hit hard during the period. Further, priests and others employed in the temples are also jobless following the lockdown. They are unable to carry out priesthood work outside the templesas well. Facebook live Several temples in the district are offering Facebook live of the daily puja rituals to the devotees. The Facebook page of Mangaladevi Temple goes live during the afternoon puja, for the devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kukke-temple-retains-top-position-in-income-842584.html
27-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to seize, auction properties of scam-tainted co-op bank officials||Cooperative bank officials found guilty of misappropriating public money will have their personal assets seized and auctioned. Cooperation Minister ST Somashekhar has directed the department to appoint an officer expressly for this purpose. It has also been decided to commission a comprehensive audit of all district cooperative banks either by the National Bank for Rural Development (NABARD) or by a private agency. The decision came in the wake of large-scale irregularities in district co-operative central (DCC) banks, many of which were allegedly perpetrated by administrative committee members of the banks. During a review meeting held recently, irregularities at Shivamogga and Gulbarga DCCs were blamed on members of administrative committees. In the case of Gulbarga DCC, loans worth Rs 92 crore were allegedly sanctioned illegally to friends and relatives of the administrative committee members. In the case of Shivamogga, Rs 62.72 crore was misappropriated between 2004 and 2013 and the interest of the misappropriated amount itself had surged to Rs 59 crore. Speaking to DH, Somashekhar said that the government would appoint an officer ranked joint registrar or above to seize and auction properties of those members found guilty of embezzlement from DCCs. “This will be in addition to the district-level officers deputed to assess the financial condition of the cooperatives,” he said. A government order appointing the officer will be issued shortly. Of the four banks reviewed by the minister recently, irregularities were found in half of them. Rest will be assessed in the coming days, he said. Commenting on rating DCCs, he said that the banks would be graded based on loans sanctioned, recovery and other parameters. “The department is yet to finalise whether it will be NABARD or an independent agency that will do the grading,” he said. The department will also form a vigilance squad to monitor co-operative banks. The squad will ensure regular auditing of the DCC finances and will ensure transparency in the bank’s affairs, Somashekar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-seize-auction-properties-of-scam-tainted-co-op-bank-officials-842585.html
27-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka could be next stop for ravaging locusts: experts||The farmers in Bidar, Kalaburagi and Vijayapura stare at massive crop losses as swarms of locusts are expected to arrive in the state from Maharashtra in the next three to four days. The state government has instructed Bidar district administration to take precautionary measures to mitigatedamages. Swarms of locusts (a few lakhs in numbers) from Pakistan have wreaked havoc on crops in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The short-horned grasshoppers, which can travel up to 150 km a day, have now entered Maharashtra in swarms.  Dr Sunilkumar N M, chief, Krishi Vignana Kendra, told DH, “Locusts breed rapidly after a few spells of thundershowers in summer. With Bidar, Kalaburagi and Vijayapura districts experiencing temperatures of 40 degrees Celsius and sporadic spells of thundershowers, the weather is just tailor-made for locust breeding.” The size of locust swarms has increased during their sojourn in Maharashtra’s Vidharba districts. This will lead to more damage in border districts in Karnataka, agriculture experts fear. According to Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), a locust swarm of a size of up to 1 sq km, containing millions of insects, can consume the food of over 35,000 people in a day. Locusts can eat crops weighing their own weight. They can wipe out crops on thousands of acres in no time thereby wreaking havoc on the lives of the hundreds of farmers. LWO directions The locust warning organisation (LWO), set up by the Centre, has initiated measures on war-footing to control the locust infestation andmitigate the damage. The LWO has directed the Agriculture officers to take up aerial spraying of Malathion 96, an organophosphate insecticide and a potentially toxic chemical, in uninhabited areas, and chlorpyrifos solution in cropped areas. Following the direction by Agriculture department commissioner to take necessary measures to combat the pest attack, Bidar Deputy Commissioner H R Mahadev on Wednesday held a meeting with the officials of Agriculture, Horticulture, Forest, Revenue departments and Krishi Vignana Kendra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-could-be-next-stop-for-ravaging-locusts-experts-842587.html
27-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC staff urge govt to end uncertainty over salary||The employees of the four state-owned transport corporations have urged the state government to put an end to the uncertainty over their salary by formally taking over their payment expenditures till normalcy returns. The KSRTC Staff and Workers' Federation have written a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressing concern over their plight. As the revenue flow to KSRTC, BMTC, NEKRTC and NWKRT stopped completely after the lockdown, the state government released Rs 325 crore grant to the Transport Department for payment of salaries two weeks ago. Welcoming the move, the Federation, however, stated that the corporations are unable to generate sufficient revenue to pay salary for May and staring at facing financial constraints.  "May and June are peak months for the transport corporations. However, the fear of contracting Covid-19 has hit the movement of people. A similar situation is expected to continue in the coming months. The state government should continue releasing grants till normalcy returns," the Federation said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-staff-urge-govt-to-end-uncertainty-over-salary-842592.html
27-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Villagers’ row across Kapila on K’taka-Kerala border for liquor||As wine stores remain closed in Kerala, people residing in villages on Karnataka-Kerala border cross over through River Kapila to buyliquor. The people use coracles to cross the river which originates in Wayanad in Kerala and enters Karnataka in HD Kote taluk ofMysuru district. According to the villagers, a few people cross the border through the river using coracles and reach the banks by walk. “As the water flow is less, it is not risky to cross the river,” said avillager.  A forest department official said, “There are chances of crossing the border via the river. The routine patrol will be intensified near the area. The river flows amid a dense forest in Karnataka border and the movement of wildlife is high. River Kapila is the major source of water for wildlife.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/villagers-row-across-kapila-on-k-taka-kerala-border-for-liquor-842595.html
27-05-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Four persons test positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi||For the first time, those having travel history to Delhi and Kerala tested positive for novel coronavirus in the district. Two female and two male have tested positive.  Patient 2383, a 2-year-old girl has a travel history to Kerala, P-2384, a 32-year-old male has a travel history to Maharashtra, P2385, a 28-year-old male has a travel history to Delhi and P2386, a 37-year-old female has a travel history to Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/four-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-belagavi-842380.html
27-05-2020||West||14 SRPF jawans test positive for coronavirus in Pune||Fourteen State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) jawans based in Pune have tested positive for coronavirus, a senior official said on Tuesday. Two companies from Pune's Group II of the SRPF were posted in Mumbai and they recently returned to the headquarters here, he said. "Swab samples of jawans from the two companies were taken. On Tuesday, the reports of 14 jawans came out positive," he said. With this, number of positive cases in SRPF's Pune unit has reached 70, 40 of whom have recovered, said the officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/14-srpf-jawans-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-pune-842242.html
27-05-2020||West||Lockdown removal to be very gradual: Maharashtra chief secretary||The lockdown removal will happen in a "very very gradual" and calibrated manner, Maharashtra Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta said on Tuesday even as he cautioned of a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases and that steps will be taken up accordingly. He said whenever relaxations will be given, people will be duly informed two days or so in advance so that there will be no panic in moving out. The ongoing lockdown will be in force in Maharashtra till May 31. "If you see, the lockdown removal is going to be very very gradual and calibrated. Lockdown cannot be reversed in one go. It doesn't happen suddenly," Mehta told reporters during a briefing held online. He was accompanied by principal health secretary Pradeep Vyas and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner IS Chahal during the press conference. Noting that the lockdown removal is a "huge" policy initiative that has to be thought out well through, Mehta said the government has a team of senior officials led by additional chief secretary (finance) which is strategising on how to ease the lockdown. The top bureaucrat said the first thing that weighs on the government's mind before easing the lockdown is the extent and acceleration of infection in a particular area. "The second thing that weighs on our mind is, once you remove the lockdown, there definitely, definitely I repeat, there will be a surge in cases. "Let's not remain in any fool's paradise that the cases will not surge. The minute you remove the lockdown or relax the lockdown, there will be a surge in cases of course," he added. The chief secretary noted that Maharashtra has managed to keep the death rate low in the state and has access to best medical advice. "Now, if we have to maintain the low death rate and take it down further, the issue is do you have enough health infrastructure to manage the surge? So, whenever you remove lockdown these things are kept in mind," he added. Mehta said at least 95 per cent COVID-19 cases in the states are concentrated in 25 municipal corporation areas. He said the government will be mindful which corporation areas have the healthcare facilities available which can take care of possible surge in case there. "We have still kept one precaution in place that there will be no inter-district movement because the danger is that the cross infection can be very heavy.  "In case you want to move, we said there has to be a quarantine facility in place. However, within the district you are permitted to move,"" he added. He said that the lockdown period has given time for authorities to increase the number of beds of COVID-19 patients. Mehta said the government is looking at opening things which are needed/necessities. "However, I can assure you one thing that as we ease the lockdown, which will happen in a calibrated manner, we will be informing in advance that two days down the line this will open, then further two days down the line that will open. "So that people get the time to prepare, there is no panic moving out," he added. When asked about the World Health Organisation deciding to temporarily drop hydroxychloroquine from its global study into experimental COVID-19 treatments, Pradeep Vyas said the Maharashtra government will go ahead with the Indian Council of Medical Researchs (ICMR) guidelines on its dosage. "The (hydroxychloroquine) doses which were suggested by ICMR are different from what WHO was suggesting. So, we are going ahead with the ICMR suggested doses and guidelines. And we have no adverse reaction," he added. He said the cases of serious side effects of consumption of hydroxychloroquine in India has been "only three" in the country. "So, the advantage outweighs the potential risk and in a monitored view it can be given," he added. Civic chief Chahal said the BMC had prepared a standard operating procedure to pack and dispose of bodies of COVID-19 victims. "We have appointed class 4 staffers at (civic-run) Nair, Sion and KEM hospitals the staffers have been asked to do only the job of packing the bodies on 30 minutes and disposing them of in the next 30 minutesthe (bodies) congestion issue at hospitals will be dealt with," Chahal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-removal-to-be-very-gradual-maharashtra-chief-secretary-842246.html
27-05-2020||West||'Maharashtra's coronavirus doubling rate now 14 days, death rate falls'||The number of COVID-19 patients in Maharashtra are now doubling over a period of 14 days unlike every three days earlier and the death rate has been brought down to 3.25 per cent from 7.6 per cent in April, Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta said on Tuesday. "Success has been achieved in increasing the period over which the number of COVID-19 patients doubled in the state to 14 days from earlier 3 days," Mehta told reporters during a press conference held online. On Tuesday, the death toll due to COVID-19 in the state rose to 1,792 while the tally of coronavirus cases reached 54,758. He was accompanied by principal secretary of health department Pradeep Vyas and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner IS Chahal during the briefing. Mehta said that 75,000 beds have been kept ready in Mumbai, which has emerged as the hotspot of the disease, and "Chase The Virus" mission is being implemented for contact tracing in the country's financial capital. The number of tests in Maharashtra is going up, Mehta said and added 27 new laboratories will be operational in the state. At present, 72 laboratories are operational in Maharashtra. He said that there are 16,000 surveillance squads in the state and 66 lakh people have been surveyed till now. He also claimed that the government laid stress on contact tracing to break the chain of coronavirus transmission. Meanwhile, Vyas said 2.70 lakh isolation beds are available for patients. He said that 20 per cent of the patients in the state need oxygen and 10 per cent need the intensive care units. "There are three thousand ventilators available in the state and 8,400 beds in the ICU. 95 per cent of the patients in the state are in municipal corporation areas and of these, 70 per cent are from MMR," he added. Chahal said that the BMC is taking steps to bring down the death rate due to the COVID-19 in the city to 3 per cent from 3.2 per cent. He said under "Chase The Virus" initiative, 15 persons who come in close contact of a person who has tested positive will be strictly put in institutional quarantine. Chahal said a dashboard is being prepared where the availability of beds in Mumbai will be uploaded after every half an hour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-coronavirus-doubling-rate-now-14-days-death-rate-falls-842255.html
27-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Mumbai doctor donates 50 ventilators||Even as he remains on call 24x7, a Mumbai-based doctor has donated 50 ventilators plus PPE kits to Grant Medical College and JJ Hospital. Dr Dilip Pawar, Global Medical Head, Unichem Laboratories Ltd and Honorary Consultant at Seven Hills Hospital, says it was just to supplement the efforts being made. The donation was made to Mumbai City's Guardian Minister Aslam Sheikh, in the presence of Dr R Mankeshwar, Dean, JJ Group of Hospitals. “We greatly appreciate how Dr Dilip Pawar has stepped forward to support India’s citizens in the face of this pandemic,” said Dr Mankeshwar. “Since COVID-19 cases have increased, there is an acute shortage of ventilators in the city. Finally, after a lot of efforts, the American Indian Foundation and Adobe came forward and supported this cause. It's really a proud and happy moment that we will be able to save many lives during this pandemic situation,'' said Dr Pawar. Dr Pawar had been working to combat Covid-19 for the last two months. Earlier, he was involved with BMC Shatabdi Hospital, Kandivali for treating Corona patients. He has also worked at the Corona Care Centre and now he is associated with Seven Hills Hospital for the same. After realising that there is shortage of ventilators in various hospitals across India, he came out with the small initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-mumbai-doctor-donates-50-ventilators-842281.html
27-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Maharashtra's SunCity becomes temporary hub of migrant workers||Braving the scorching sun, extreme humidity and hunger, hundreds of migrant workers are camping along the SunCity Road in Vasai, hoping to get a train to go back home. The SunCity Road is just two km away from the Vasai Road junction, from where the Western Railway is running Shramik Specials to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal.The salt-pans and mud-flats along the SunCity Road in Vasai tehsil in Palghar district are crowded during the monsoon when bird lovers from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) converge to look at birds including flamingos. But now, the scene is totally different. This DH correspondent visited the SunCity area of Vasai-West, on Tuesday and Wednesday when people narrated their woes. From SunCity, the migrants are taken in buses to Vasai Road as per the train timings. "We want to go to UP and we registered twice. We came here from Virar only to know that there are trains to West Bengal only on Wednesday," said Haridhani Singh, a carpenter, who had come from Virar.  From Saturday to Tuesday, trains have left for UP and Bihar, those who had gathered said. A police officer at the SunCity police station said that people have to register themselves after which the local authorities will call them. But people from the MMR, including Mumbai, Palghar, Thane and even Raigad, are coming here. In fact, Vasai Tehsildar's office, Vasai Virar City Municipal Corporation, Vasai Police and Western Railway are all finding it difficult to manage things. "I have submitted the forms several times and came here twice, only to be sent back twice," says Alimuddin Shaikh,  who stays in Nalasopara and works as a labourer.   "Please send us home, we will survive," he says. Some people tied chaddars and shawls to branches of trees along the roads to make tents. On Tuesday, a 58-year-old woman, Vidotyma Shukla, died when she collapsed while waiting for her ticket. On Tuesday, more than 7,000 to 8,000 people and on Wednesday, around 3,000 to 4,000 people had gathered here. Reaching here from far-flung areas during lockdown is not an easy task. "We took an auto from Mira Road and the driver charged us Rs 1,000," said Satish Kumar, who wants to go to Jharkhand. The Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA), the local political outfit, has been organising food for the migrants.  "There should be some mechanism for advance announcements. People are coming here with hopes, children are wailing, women are hungry... we are tired," said Mujib, a WB native in a choking voice.  "There is hardly any place to relieve ourselves," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtras-suncity-becomes-temporary-hub-of-migrant-workers-842305.html
27-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Man offers vegetables for free to poor during coronavirus lockdown||Amid the lockdown, a board put up on a vegetable hand cart saying 'buy if possible, take for free if not' has been attracting passerby in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city. Some look at it with curious eyes, while others appreciate the gesture of the vendor - a graduate who works with a private firm - to offer vegetables for free at a time when many people are facing financial difficulties due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. After his company stopped paying him salary during the lockdown, Rahul Labde decided to sell vegetables on a hand cart along with his father to have some earning to sustain his livelihood. Initially, he was selling veggies at market rates just like other vendors, but decided to offer them for free to the poor and needy after an elderly woman having just Rs 5 with her came to him four days back. "The old woman came to me and asked for vegetables for just Rs 5 as she didnt have more money," Labde, who has put up his hand cart at Ambedkar Chowk in Bhavsingpura area of the city, told PTI. "I wondered what should I give her for Rs 5. I then gave her for free the vegetables she wanted, and decided to help other people also by offering them veggies free of cost if they are not in a position to pay," he said. Labde claimed to have helped nearly 100 people with his gesture in the last three days. "I have given vegetables worth around Rs 2,000 for free. I am going to continue this work as long as I can afford. My wish is no one should go hungry to bed at the end of the day," he said. He says at times people, who are running short of money, feel shy to ask him to give vegetables for free. "But, hunger forces them to ask me in a low voice...I think by helping them I can contribute to the society at such a crucial time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-offers-vegetables-for-free-to-poor-during-coronavirus-lockdown-842314.html
27-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Man held for molesting woman at coronavirus quarantine centre||The incident took place on Sunday, when the victim, who was quarantined at a zilla parishad school at Nanhori village, was allegedly molested by a villager, an official said. The victim had returned to the village from Pune on May 15 and was placed under institutional quarantine, where the accused allegedly entered the premises and molested her, the official said. A case was registered against the arrested accused under section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-held-for-molesting-woman-at-coronavirus-quarantine-centre-842336.html
27-05-2020||West||Shiv Sena asks Maharashtra Guv to 'scold' those trying to destabilise govt||Expressing confidence that the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi has numbers in its favour, the Shiv Sena on Wednesday said Governor B S Koshyari should scold those who want to destabilise the state government. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said the opposition (BJP) has a strength of 105 MLAs. "It is our wish that it remains intact. But, the government has 170, and they (opposition) should not blame the government if it becomes 200, it said. Describing Koshyari as a straight forward person, the Sena, however, also claimed he wants rights to make administrative appointments in the state, and asked the governor to rebuke those who want to destabilise the government using the powers he possesses currently.  The Shiv Sena also noted that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) -- comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress -- is completing six months of its formation even as the opposition had claimed it would not survive for even 11 days. Had the COVID-19 threat not been prevailing and the situation would have been normal, shrikhand-puri would have been fed to the opposition to mark completion of six months of the government, which is now focused only on combating the coronavirus, it said. Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray had taken oath on November 28 last year. The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress came together to form a government last year, after the Thackeray-led party and the BJP fell out over sharing the chief ministerial post. Describing Koshyari as a sant-mahatma (saint-great soul) who has spent his life so far following the ideology of the RSS, the Sena said it cannot be believed that any sant- mahatma would engage in political conspiracies. Koshyari treated well the guests who visited Raj Bhavan recently, in line with Maharashtra's culture, it said. The opposition leaders (of BJP) met the governor and also NCP chief Sharad Pawar, party leader Praful Patel and Shiv Senas Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut, it noted. Apparently referring to Pawar, Patel and Raut meeting the governor, the Shiv Sena said holding discussions on the current situation in Maharashtra does not mean "something is on" at the Raj Bhavan. The Thackeray government is stable...yet some people are spreading rumours that something is cooking up (about the governments stability) at the Raj Bhavan, raising questions about the governors role, the Shiv Sena said. The opposition party has a strength of 105 (MLAs). It is our wish that it remains intact. But, the government has 170 and they (opposition) should not blame the government if it becomes 200, the Shiv Sena said. It also downplayed Pawar's meeting with Chief Minister Thackeray at the latter's residence Matoshree here after calling on the governor. The Shiv Sena said it was not the first time that the veteran leader (Pawar) turned up at the home of Thackerays. The view held by the opposition is not in the interest of Maharashtra and the governor should rebuke them, it said. Maharashtra governor is straight forward in this case. He wants rights to make administrative appointments in the state. Those can be gained amending the Constitution," the Marathi daily said. But he should summon those in the opposition who want to destabilise the government by using the rights he has at present and scold them, it said. It has now become a routine affair to seek Presidents rule in Maharashtra, the Sena said, and asked BJP leaders in the state to make such a demand for Gujarat instead. BJP MP Rane on Monday met Koshyari and demanded imposition of President's rule in Maharashtra in view of the state government's "failure" in tackling the pandemic. On the other hand, MVA has been pointing at the situation triggered by the disease in the BJP-led Gujarat to target the NDA constituent. There is no need (of Presidents rule) in Maharashtra, the Shiv Sena said. Recalling that two British era cannons were found at the Raj Bhavan over a-year-and-a-half ago, the Shiv Sena cryptically said none should conspire to "bugle through them" (the cannons) the fall of the Maharashtra government. "At last, the old rusty cannons are nothing but mere pipes through which air-water can pass. We are sure the air and water at Raj Bhavan will not contaminate, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-asks-maharashtra-guv-to-scold-those-trying-to-destabilise-govt-842373.html
27-05-2020||West||Maharashtra home minister dismisses Army deployment rumour in Mumbai||A rumour about the deployment of the Army in coronavirus hotspots of Mumbai and Pune is being "deliberately" spread on social media, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday and added that strict action was being taken against rumour-mongers. Mumbai and Pune account for over 39,000 of the total 54,758 COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra. "Rumour is deliberately being spread through WhatsApp and other social media that the Army will be deployed in Mumbai and Pune and that the Army will ban movement there. "This is completely false. @MahaCyber1 has initiated action against those spreading such rumours," Deshmukh tweeted. He also stressed that the state government has zero-tolerance for rumours.  Earlier this month, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray too had dismissed speculation that the Indian Army might be called in in Mumbai as the COVID-19 situation worsened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-dismisses-army-deployment-rumour-in-mumbai-842375.html
27-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: 'Chase the Virus' initiative launched in Mumbai||Mumbai has close to 33,000 COVID-19 positive cases and 1,065 deaths. The mission has been launched after a series of consultation between officials of Maharashtra government and BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation after the final go-ahead was given by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said that against every COVID-19 positive, 15 persons would be quarantined.  "When the Central team visited Mumbai, it was 1:3... it was scaled to 1:4, then 1:5 and it is now around 1:6, but we will now forcibly government quarantine 15 persons or close contacts against every patient," he said, adding that the focus would be on slums and containment zones. "We want to break the chain....and go on top of the virus," Chahal said. The civic chief had held detailed meetings with ward officers of the 24 wards.  "Police are being deployed, buses are being made ready," he said, adding that a war room is operational in every ward. Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta, Principal Secretary (Health) Dr Pradeep Vyas and Chahal briefed Thackeray on this initiative. It may be recalled Thackeray was the first to use the term 'War Against Virus' when the COVID-19 cases were detected in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-chase-the-virus-initiative-launched-in-mumbai-842392.html
27-05-2020||West||30,000 weddings cancelled in Guj amid COVID-19 pandemic||The COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown has severely hit the wedding industry in Gujarat, which has witnessed approximately 30,000 cancellations and postponements in the last two months. At least 30,000 weddings planned across the state have been called off or postponed in the last two months in light of the ongoing health crisis, said spokesperson of Hotel and Restaurant Association (Gujarat) Abhijit Deshmukh. March and April are considered the peak season, when maximum number of weddings take place in the state, he said. Giving the idea of a big fat Indian wedding a miss, some couples have chosen to tie a knot in the presence of eight to 10 close relatives, wedding planner Devang Shah said. Although some relaxations in the lockdown were announced from May 18, hotels, restaurants, party venues and temples are directed to remain shut, making it difficult for people to organise weddings and related functions, he said. "People have been cancelling their bookings and are waiting for the next auspicious season in December and January. Those don't want to wait are getting married at home in the presence of select few family members. Two of my former clients did the same," Shah said. While people have the option of organising a small ceremony with only 50 guests, very few were interested, said decorator and caterer Amal Gandhi. "Who would want a wedding album with photographs of people wearing masks? Moreover, it is also not feasible to arrange food for just 50 guests. Which is why people are calling off their weddings and waiting for things to get back to normal, " Gandhi said. Some couples even opted for court marriages and planned to organise a proper wedding ceremony afterwards, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/30000-weddings-cancelled-in-guj-amid-covid-19-pandemic-842419.html
27-05-2020||West||Most COVID-19 related grievances on helpline cleared: Rajasthan govt official||Since March 24, the helpline has received over 20 lakh calls with an average of 33,000 calls per day and a total of 2,40,496 grievances were registered so far. “Of the total grievances registered, 2,33,253 have been disposed by Tuesday,” said Abhay Kumar, Principal Secretary, Information Technology and Communication department. He said the 97 per cent disposal rate was achieved with constant monitoring and effective management by the team. “The helpline, backed by more than 450 employees has been providing citizens with necessary guidance and relief sought amid the lockdown situation. Despite the huge incoming call flow, each dropped call is being responded back, even if they are only a small fraction of the call log,” he added. Grievances have come in from all districts of the state and varied in terms of the nature of the requests, the senior official pointed out. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had directed officials to set up a state-level "COVID war" room with the beginning of the lockdown in March. The 181 helpline for registering grievances posed by the public related to COVID-19 was made operational with the war room. The principal secretary said that despite the large inflow of calls, most grievances were attended to within six hours. In district war rooms, additional district collectors were appointed as in-charge to deal with the problems. The grievances which the helpline received were related to ration supply, scarcity of food, requirement of medicines in some cases, lockdown passes, etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/most-covid-19-related-grievances-on-helpline-cleared-rajasthan-govt-official-842428.html
27-05-2020||West||Uddhav Thackeray holds meeting with key Maha Vikas Aghadi leaders||Against the backdrop of the recent political activities in Maharashtra and with just a few remaining for the fourth phase of the lockdown to end, state Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday held a meeting of key leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA). Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, Transport Minister Anil Parab and others attended the meeting. The political scene in the state hot up after a BJP delegation led by former chief minster Devendra Fadnavis recently met state Governor B S Koshyari and complained to him about the "failure" of the government in tackling the COVID-19 crisis. On Monday, BJP MP Narayan Rane met the governor at the Raj Bhavan and demanded imposition of the President's Rule for the MVA dispensation's "failure" in handling the coronavirus situation. The ruling MVA on Tuesday accused the opposition party of trying to destablise the state government and maintained that the numbers are in its favour. It also said that the government was "strong and stable". Fadnavis had later said that the BJP was not interested in forming the government in the state and wanted effective handling of COVID-19 crisis. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of COVID- 19 cases in the country. The current lockdown, imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19, is set to end on May 31. Speaking to media persons on Tuesday, state Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta had said that the government will ease down the lockdown "very very gradually and in a calibrated manner". The NCP, a key constituent of the MVA, has also been pitching for resuming business activities in a phased manner to bring back on track the state's economy which has been hit by the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-holds-meeting-with-key-maha-vikas-aghadi-leaders-842432.html
27-05-2020||West||Rupee slips by 5 paise on strong dollar amid US-China tensions||The rupee depreciated by 5 paise to settle at 75.71 against the US dollar on Wednesday due to concerns over rising tensions between the US and China amid coronavirus pandemic. Forex traders said the rupee traded in a narrow range as positive domestic equities, rising optimism about a potential coronavirus vaccine and a revival of business activities were offset by a flare-up in the US-China tensions. Moreover, strengthening of the American currency overseas also weighed on the domestic unit. At the interbank forex market, the rupee opened strong at 75.72 and gained marginal ground to finally end at 75.71, down 5 paise over its last close. It had settled at 75.66 against the US dollar on Tuesday. During the session, the local unit witnessed an intra-day high of 75.57 and a low of 75.74. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, rose by 0.17 per cent to 99.08. "Rupee is trading in a very tight range, and not breaking the psychological level of 76. There is some optimism in the forex market over coronavirus vaccine and foreign inflows pertaining to Bharti Airtel Telecom stake sale, Kotak Mahindra Bank QIP or Reliance Jio but it its getting offset by the escalating US-China trade tensions. "US President Donald Trump has already said that he is preparing against China over his efforts to impose national security on Hong Kong. The global growth is already in doldrums due to COVID-19, worsening relations between these two nations will further hobble growth," said Rahul Gupta, Head of Research- Currency, Emkay Global Financial Services. Positive domestic equities and improving risk appetite supported the local unit, traders said. "A shift in sentiments is quite visible in the markets which is likely to bode well for the Indian rupee in near term. Risk appetite has returned to the markets and there is lot of optimism as businesses reopen across major economies," said Sugandha Sachdeva, VP-Metals, Energy & Currency Research, Religare Broking. China on Friday introduced the draft of a controversial national security law in Hong Kong in its parliament to tighten Beijing's control over Hong Kong. The US, over the last few days, has expressed concerns over the new Chinese law on Hong Kong and has given indication of taking steps against it. "He (US President Donald Trump) is displeased with China's efforts and that it's hard to see how Hong Kong can remain a financial hub if China takes over," White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters at a news conference on Tuesday. Commenting on the rupee, Jateen Trivedi, Senior Research Analyst at LKP Securities said, "Although foreign fund inflows, particularly from Bharti Airtel parent’s stake sale, have put some pressure on the USDINR pair, but mounting tensions between the US and China, and an uncertain global growth outlook, should keep the pair well bid. We remain bullish on the pair, till it falls below the crucial level of 75.50." Meanwhile, in India, the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,337 and the number of cases climbed to over 1.51 lakh, according to the Health Ministry. The number of cases around the world linked to the disease has crossed over 56.06 lakh and the death toll has topped 3.50 lakh. On the domestic equity market front, the 30-share index settled 995.92 points or 3.25 per cent higher at 31,605.22. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 285.90 points or 3.17 per cent to 9,314.95. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market, as they bought equity shares worth Rs 4,716.13 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Brent crude futures fell 1.30 per cent to USD 35.70 per barrel. The Financial Benchmark India Private Ltd (FBIL) set the reference rate for the rupee/dollar at 75.6404 and for rupee/euro at 82.6417. The reference rate for rupee/British pound was fixed at 92.6020 and for rupee/100 Japanese yen at 70.11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rupee-slips-by-5-paise-on-strong-dollar-amid-us-china-tensions-842440.html
27-05-2020||West||Fadnavis' claims on Central aid to Maha hollow: Minister||At 56,948 COVID-19 cases and 1,897 deaths, Maharashtra remains worst affected by the coronavirus pandemic in the country. Shiv Sena leader and Transport Minister Anil Parab also hit back at Railway Minister Piyush Goyal over operating of trains for migrants, saying he had sent them in one go instead of the demand made by the state government to operate them in a staggered manner. He also dismissed as "false and misleading" senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis' claim that the Centre had given more than Rs 28,000 crore to the state government. "The state government was supposed to get Rs 42,000 crores from the Union government, but has received no funds so far," he told a press conference which he addressed along with his cabinet colleagues Jayant Patil (NCP) and Balasaheb Thorat (Congress).  However, Fadnavis, a former CM, hit back immediately saying the Centre had not only given 10 lakh PPE kits and 16 lakh N-95 masks but also given Rs 468 crore to the Maharashtra government for purchasing them. "The Railways started giving out information very late about the trains, which is causing a huge chaos among migrant workers but it is trying to put the blame on the Maharashtra government. "When we had the letter from West Bengal secretary not to send trains because of the 'Amphan' cyclone, Goyal sent some 40 trains in just one day. It was our requirement till May 31, but he sent all the trains in just one day, without any prior intimation," Parab claimed. Commenting on a huge crowd of migrant workers gathered in Mumbai on Tuesday, Parab said, "Migrant workers had received phone calls from Railways just one hour before the scheduled departure of a train hence everybody rushed towards suburban Matunga station.  "Once they reached there railway officials told them that the train would leave from CSMT. How can you blame the state government for it?" he wondered. Parab further said that Fadnavis' claim of Rs 122 crore fund given for the welfare of migrant workers is also wrong. "The entire expenses for migrant workers are borne by the Maharashtra government," he added. "Fadnavis said that Rs 116 crore was given for helping the physically challenged people. However, he conveniently did not inform that Rs 116 crore is the Centre's share in the scheme while the rest Rs 1,210 crore comes from the state. The government has utilised the funds, but Fadnavis chose not to talk about it," Parab alleged. Responding to Parab's claim that the state government was still awaiting the receipt of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues from the Centre, Fadnavis said that funds under devolution of tax were received till November nd the rest will be released soon. On Parab's claim that Rs 1,611 crore received by the state under the disaster management aid was not a new amount, Fadnavis said Parab had given completely incorrect information. "The Centre had not only given 10 lakh PPE kits and 16 lakh N-95 masks, but also given Rs 468 crore to Maharashtra for its purchase," he said. The Opposition leader also accused the state government of not conducting enough coronavirus tests. "Of the total patients in the country, 33 per cent are in Maharashtra while 40 per cent deaths occured in the state. ow can the state pat its own back in such situation?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-claims-on-central-aid-to-maha-hollow-minister-842497.html
27-05-2020||West||Maharashtra reports 105 coronavirus deaths on Wednesday||In an evidence of a big spike happening in Maharashtra, as many as 105 COVID-19 patients died on Wednesday.  This is for the first time the single-day toll has crossed 100 in the state.  Of these deaths,  32 were reported from Mumbai but the deaths in the larger Mumbai metropolitan region is compounding. On Tuesday, 97 people had died. The progressive death toll in Maharashtra now stands at 1,897. In the last 24 hours,  2,190 new cases were reported pushing the tally to 53,948.So far, 17,918 persons have been discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-105-coronavirus-deaths-on-wednesday-842531.html
27-05-2020||West||Money laundering case: DHFL promoters Wadhawans sent to jail||A special court here on Wednesday remanded DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, arrested by the ED in connection with money laundering probe against Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor and others, to 14-day judicial custody. They were arrested earlier this month under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The Wadhawans brothers were produced before the special court at the end of their Enforcement Directorate (ED) remand. The court sent them to jail after no further remand was sought by the central investigating agency. The duo, also being probed by the ED in another money laundering probe linked to late gangster Iqbal Mirchi, were summoned by the agency multiple times in the Yes Bank case but they had cited the ongoing COVID-19 travel restrictions to skip appearance. In April, the Wadhawan brothers and their family members had travelled to Mahabaleshwar, a hill station in Satara district of Maharashtra, in violation of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Five vehicles used by the family were seized by the ED. As many as 44 companies belonging to 10 large business entities, including Anil Ambani Group, Essel Group, IL&FS, Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd, Cox & Kings and Bharat Infra, among others, reportedly accounted for bad loans worth Rs 34,000 crore of Yes Bank. The ED has accused Kapoor, his family members and others of laundering "proceeds of crime" worth Rs 4,300 crore by receiving alleged kickbacks in lieu of extending big loans through the bank that later allegedly turned non-performing assets (NPAs). Kapoor is currently in the ED's custody. The Wadhawans are also being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the same case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/money-laundering-case-dhfl-promoters-wadhawans-sent-to-jail-842564.html
27-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Gujarat journalist booked under sedition for writing speculative story gets bail||A sessions court on Wednesday granted bail to a 32-year-old journalist booked under sedition for writing a speculative story suggesting "change of guard" in the state in view of the coronavirus pandemic and state government's failure in dealing with it. The court held that there is no "prima facie" evidence against the journalist suggesting a seditious act. The sessions judge Prerana C Chauhan pronounced the order giving relief to Patel with certain conditions including submitting his passports, among others. Patel runs a Gujarati news portal named “Face of Nation.” On May 7, he ran a news story on this portal titled “Mansukh Mandaviya called by high command, chances of change of guard in Gujarat.” Mandaviya is a Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat and a Union Minister of State for shipping, chemicals and fertilisers. The news report had also alleged that Vijay Rupani-led state government had failed in containing the virus. Following this report, the Detection of Crime Branch (DCB) booked Patel for sedition and he was arrested on May 13. After spending a day in police custody, he was sent to Sabarmati Central Jail in judicial custody. The judge has observed in the order that for an offence of sedition, "seditious intention" is basic requirement. "An intention to bring into hatred or contempt or to excite dissatisfaction is necessary. The gist of the offence u/s.124A (of Indian Penal Code) lies in the intention of the writer to bring into hatred and contempt the Government and is not to be gathered from isolated or stray passages here and there but from a fair and generous reading of article as a whole," the order states.     It notes further that "It is true that it is not sedition to criticise administrative machinery or the officers of Government but where the speaker exceeds the limits of fair criticism and his object in attacking the existing Govt. is to create disaffection, the speech amounts to sedition. Now the question of intention is always an important factor in such cases and intention is proved also by evidences. So intention is a matter of evidence." The court has held that "after reading of FIR with all police papers and different statements, no such prima facie serious offence is looked out."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-gujarat-journalist-booked-under-sedition-for-writing-speculative-story-gets-bail-842566.html
27-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Mumbai airport operates 50 flights, caters to about 5k passengers||AAI-GVK group-run Mumbai airport said it operated 50 flights on Wednesday, with 25 departures and arrivals each, and catered to about 5,000 passengers.  This is the first time the country's second-largest airport has operated its revised schedule of 50 flights per day since the resumption of domestic passenger services on May 25.  Last Sunday, Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL)  had announced resumption of domestic passenger services from May 25 in a gradual manner, as per the central government's directives, saying it will be operating a total of 50 flights to begin with -- 25 departures and equal number of arrivals.  "The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) saw on Wednesday a total of 50 flights being operated, which include 25 departures and 25 arrivals, catering to a total of 4,993 passengers," MIAL said in a statement.  Of these 4,993 passengers, 3,592 flew out of the city while 1,401 arrived on different flights from various destinations, the airport operator added.  The highest passenger load capacity was seen on the Delhi route departing out of Mumbai airport, MIAL added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-mumbai-airport-operates-50-flights-caters-to-about-5k-passengers-842581.html
27-05-2020||West||COVID-19 patient found dead at Gujarat bus stand died of lung collapse, says IAS officer's probe||Ganpat Makwana, a 67-year-old coronavirus patient, who was found dead at a bus stand last week, is said to have died due to lung collapse, a report prepared by an IAS officer on the instruction of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has revealed. The report, which is yet to be made public, has also given "clean chit" to the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital which had discharged the patient since he didn't have symptoms. Following reports, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani ordered an inquiry to be conducted by IAS officer and former health secretary J P Gupta who submitted the report last week. When contacted, Gupta confirmed to DH that the report has been submitted but refused to divulge his findings. This incident had evoked outrage after pictures of the patient lying dead unattended went viral of social media platforms. "He (Makwana) was dropped at around 7 pm on May 14 near his house and was seen at the bus stand, where he was found dead, at around 11:30 pm. The report says that Makwana's whereabouts for four hours is still a mystery. It is for sure that he didn't go home. The report suggests that he died of lung collapse," said an IAS officer in the know of the report but requested anonymity. He also added, "The civil hospital was not at fault." Meanwhile, the family members of the deceased remain in the dark about the facts surrounding the circumstances leading to his death. They are still struggling to get postmortem report from VS Hospital where the autopsy was performed. "We didn't receive any call from the government or the civil hospital informing us about how my father died. We are still clueless about how my father reached the bus stand and eventually died," said Makwana's son Kriti.   On May 17, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani had ordered probe into the incident two days after Makwana's dead body was found lying at the bus stand close to his house in Danilimda. The local police sent his body to VS Hospital where the staff informed his relatives about his death. Later, it was revealed that Makwana had tested positive for coronavirus on May 13 and was admitted to the civil hospital. On 14th May, he was discharged since he had no symptoms and was dropped near his house in a special COVID-19 bus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patient-found-dead-at-gujarat-bus-stand-died-of-lung-collapse-says-ias-officers-probe-842598.html
