28-05-2020||In Perspective||Technology is helping COVID-19 warriors in myriad ways||The highly infectious COVID-19 pandemic is rapidly spreading across the world, causing untold misery. Lives and livelihoods have been lost and the global economy stands shattered. The world, affected by the pandemic, is experiencing a crisis such as one never witnessed in our lifetimes. While no specific medicine or vaccine is still available, desperate attempts are being made by healthcare givers to leverage technology to help them in their fight against the pandemic. Their challenges are many; they have to adopt a healthcare system that efficiently uses the limited resources they have at their command, quickly find the medicines to save millions of patients, and find a vaccine so that they can prevent the spread of the disease, and, at the same time, protect themselves from getting infected. Technology is emerging as their main ally in this struggle. Patient and hospital-centric healthcare system is resource-intensive, both in terms of human resources and infrastructure facilities. In a COVID-19-like situation, it is necessary to adopt a system which efficiently uses all the resources. This is all the more relevant with regard to the Indian healthcare delivery system which, even otherwise, is awfully inadequate and often unaffordable to the vast majority. Technology offers viable and affordable alternatives. The global medical fraternity is veering round to using remotely managed healthcare delivery systems, especially in cases involving patients with mild illness and no risk factors. Last month, the World Health Organisation issued an interim guidance  “Home care for patients with COVID-19 presenting with mild symptoms and management of their contacts” that says, patients “with mild illness and no risk factors may need to be isolated in non-traditional facilities, such as repurposed hotels…or managed at home.” Others, such as the Centre for Medicare & Medicaid Services of the US Department of Health and Human Services and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, India, have also issued similar guidelines. In their article, which is based on their experiences, Dr Mirco Nacoti and his colleagues of Papa Giovanni XXIII Hospital in the province of Bergamo, the epicentre of the COVID-19 outbreak in Italy, have also recommended home care approach and outreach services for COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms. Remote Patient Monitoring (RPM) systems are helping clinicians gather patients’ physiological information remotely so as to treat them. Outreach healthcare services also ward off the possibility of hospitals facilitating virus transmission to other uninfected patients as their ambulances and personnel rapidly become carriers of the virus. Many, including domestic companies such as Bharat Electronics and Electronics Corporation of India Limited, have started making RPMs that are based on Internet of Things (IoT) technology. Some of them even offer smartphone connectivity. Healthcare providers are using RPMs. Technology is thus leveraged not only to make efficient use of human and other resources, but also for ensuring the safety of patients and clinicians as they limit the possibility of the spread of the infection. Artificial Intelligence is helping in drug discovery, better understanding of the disease itself and how it spreads, to effectively screen large populations and identify sick people, and in such other tasks. Massive efforts are underway to quickly discover a drug or a combination of drugs to save lives from COVID-19. The process involves massive amounts of data relating to numerous molecules to be analysed. Academic researchers and pharmaceutical companies are using artificial intelligence and other associated technologies, such as machine learning and simulation, to rapidly hone in on the most promising molecules for further experimental testing that is required to move from a promising target to a cure. It is almost impossible to conceive of finding a cure within the next 12-18 months without the use of artificial intelligence and related technologies. A Chinese technology company has built AI-based solutions to effectively screen large populations and detect a change in their body temperature so as to identify sick people and quarantine them before they infect others. Autonomous vehicles are being used in moving patients to and from healthcare facilities without risking the lives of healthy people. The humble infrared thermometer-guns are extensively used at checkpoints in public places, such as airports, hotels, hospitals, train stations, shops, etc., to measure the body temperature from a distance so as to identify individuals who might need further investigation. Many countries have introduced contact tracing mobile applications (India’s Aarogya Setu, for instance). These applications are expected to help health authorities and workers to quickly contact people who may have been exposed to COVID-19 or create an alert when an infected individual leaves an isolation facility. Robots are being used to take health data and send the same to medical teams outside isolation areas so as to prevent the virus from spreading to the caregivers.  A Mumbai-based healthcare firm has deployed its diagnostic software that automates the interpretation of COVID-19 proliferation from chest X-rays, helping healthcare professionals to monitor the extent and rate of viral infection progression. Technology is playing an important role in managing the COVID-19 pandemic, and in the midst of all the gloom and doom, it is giving us hope and offers solutions to lessen the pandemic’s impact. Its role in drug and vaccine discovery, X-ray and ECG interpretation, patient health data monitoring, patient tracking, containment of the spread of the disease, decision-making support and such others are bound to increase as the pandemic spreads.  (Arcot is an industry analyst and automation consultant; Brig (retd) Kasthuri is a consultant physician and teacher)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/technology-is-helping-covid-19-warriors-in-myriad-ways-842954.html
28-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bridge connecting Alamba, Kukkuje Cross in Belthangady collapses||A bridge connecting Alamba in Kudremukh National Park and Kukkuje Cross in Kuthloor in Belthangady taluk collapsed on Wednesday. The bridge was built 45 years ago and one of the piers of the bridge had collapsed one year ago. As a temporary measure, Naravi Gram Panchayat had built a temporary road in the rivulet for the vehicles to pass through after the collapse of the pier of the bridge. Now, the bridge only collapsed and has inconvenienced the residents residing on either side of the bridge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bridge-connecting-alamba-kukkuje-cross-in-belthangady-collapses-842708.html
28-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: 75 new cases in Karnataka, total infections rise to 2,493||Seventy-five new cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 2,493, the health department said on Thursday. With 47 deaths and 809 discharges, there are 1,635 active corona cases in the state, the department said in its mid-day bulletin. Twenty-eight patients have been discharged so far on Thursday. A total of 46 out of 75 cases are returnees from neighboring Maharashtra, six from Tamil Nadu, two from Telangana, one each from Kerala, Delhi. One person is with international travel history from UAE. Remaining cases include, seven- who are contacts of patients already tested positive, one with the history of SARI while 10 patients' contact history is still under tracing. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Udupi accounting for 27, followed by Hassan 13, seven each from Bengaluru urban and Yadgir, six each from Chitradurga and Dakahina Kannada, three each from Kalaburagi and Chikkamagaluru, Vijayapura 2, and one from Raichur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-75-new-cases-in-karnataka-total-infections-rise-to-2493-842789.html
28-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||29 Covid patients discharged in Hassan||The first batch of 29 patients, who recovered from Covid-19, were given a send off, by presenting flowers and masks, amid clapping by hospital staff, in Hassan on Thursday. The 29 discharged patients include 11 women, 19 men and six children. They expressed happiness over the treatment and thanked the hospital staff for their speedy recovery. Deputy Commissioner R Girish, ZP CEO B A Paramesh, District Health and Family Welfare officer Dr Sathish, Additional DC Kavitha Rajaram and District Surgeon Dr Krishnamurthy were present. Speaking to reporters, the DC said that the district has reported 140 Covid cases so far. “Those who are asymptomatic would be released, if they test negative after seven days. The 29 people have been discharged after treatment at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. They have been sealed for quarantine and it is mandatory for each person to complete 14 days home quarantine,” he said. Hassan district reported 13 positive cases on Thursday. With this, the total positive cases increased to 140. There are 111 active cases. Out of 13 new cases, nine are male and four are female patients. One patient (P) 2443 has a contact history with P-2440. Two patients have travel history of Maharashtra. Ten patients’ contact is being traced. While three patients are treated at the designated hospital in Udupi, the rest are admitted in Hassan. Mandya reported zero cases on Thursday. While the total positive cases are 255, 28 people have been discharged. The number of active cases is 227.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/29-covid-patients-discharged-in-hassan-842940.html
28-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Misuse of funds: FIR against seven employees||Shantigrama Police registered a First Information Report (FIR) against seven employees, including a Commandant of Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP), on charges of misappropriation of funds amounting to Rs 1.25 crore in Hassan on Thursday. Based on the complaint lodged by J R Suma, administrator, office of Additional Director General of Police (KSRP), the funds meant for salary and incentives was misused, the rural police have registered a case and initiated a probe. The complaint stated that seven people, including Grade II assistants, computer operator, supervisor and Commandant Krishnappa had misused the funds of 11th KSRP batallion, and had not remitted the money to the accounts of the employees from the year 2015-2016. They had tampered the documents and had also created fake documents to cheat the government. However, Krishnappa claimed that it was he who had written a letter to the higher officials to conduct an audit as the funds were allegedly being misused. "It is surprising to find my name in the FIR. There is only nine months left for my retirement. Somebody has intentionally fixed me," he alleged. "I will write a letter to the IG & DGP Praveen Sood, seeking a comprehensive probe into the issue. There are possibilities of hacking the system and looting the money. The system administrator resigned as soon as the issue came to light," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/misuse-of-funds-fir-against-seven-employees-842942.html
28-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Farmers’ body urges govt to withdraw amendment to APMC Act ||Akhil Bharat Raitha Sangharsha Samanvaya Samiti members staged a protest here on Thursday in front of deputy commissioner’s office seeking the State government to withdraw amendment to Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. The government has adopted anti-farmer policy by trying to protect interests of capitalists and corporate companies. The government has amended the APMC Act to exploit farmers. The farmers will be in the hands of corporate companies henceforth, the protesters charged. “Farmers are in distress due to lockdown, decline in prices of produces and drought. The ordinance to the Act has created more problems for farmers. The farming community has been victimised due to unscientific policy of the state and the central governments,” alleged the Samithi district unit general secretary T M Venkatesh. He said that lockdown has resulted in hunger and unemployment, besides affecting the economy badly. The government has handed over the market to private persons. On the pretext of competitive price, the government has implemented the policy benefitting the corporate companies. As per the norm, one APMC should be setup for every 5 kilometer and there should be 42,000 APMCs in the country. However, there are only 7,000 APMCs in the country. The government is weakening the APMC Act instead of strengthening it, alleged Raitha Sangha state general secretary Shivappa. He said that the corporate companies would increase the prices and achieve monopoly in the APMCs affecting food security. The protesters urged the State government to withdraw the ordinance immediately and protect the interests of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/farmers-body-urges-govt-to-withdraw-amendment-to-apmc-act-842902.html
28-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||CRS funds will be used to develop lakes in Kolar, says MP||Corporate Social Responsibility (CRS) funds would be used to develop lakes in every taluk, said MP S Muniswamy. He was speaking after inaugurating a project to revive Kodikannur lake here. “The CRS funds have not been utilised properly in the district. Hence, a meeting will be conducted with the representatives of the industries to use the funds for the development of lakes in the district,” he said. Muniswamy said that the government funds were not used for the revival of the Kodikannur lake. The MP and the district in-charge minister H Nagesh had jointly taken up the project. The lake was is spread over 195 acre land. Deputy commissioner, assistant commissioner and deputy director of the land records department had been instructed to clear the encroachment and identify boundaries of the lake. “A survey would be conducted to clear the encroachments. Minor irrigation department has been directed to increase the height of the bund. The KC Valley Project water would be flowed to Kolaramma lake from Ammerahalli lake. A tender has been called for walking path and other development works on Kolaramma lake bund at a cost of Rs 8 crore,” he said. H Nagesh said that the district was receiving 260 MLD water as part of KC Valley project water. About 100 MLD water was flowed to Malur. Once Jannaghatta and Muduwadi lakes were filled, then the water would be flowed to Holali and other lakes in Bangarpet constituency. He added,” About 400 MLD water is likely to be flowed by September. Water is available to fill up 200 lakes.” “Situation will not improve if we expect forest department and gram panchayats to revive the lakes. Hence, we have decided to take up the revival project. Filling up of Kolaramma and Kodikannur lake will boost ground water and tourism,” he said. Assistant commissioner Somashekhar, Minor Irrigation department executive engineer Suresh Babu, CMC members Rakesh, Manjunath, Ambarish and CMC commissioner Srikanth were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/crs-funds-will-be-used-to-develop-lakes-in-kolar-says-mp-842907.html
28-05-2020||Main Article||Let’s act to regain their trust||About Rs 8,000 crore sits with our state government as cess monies collected from developers/ contractors over the years for the purpose of their labourers’ welfare. Can it be used for the relief of people who gather at Palace Grounds and at every police station, despite the heat, desperate to go home? More than 1.6 lakh labourers have left for their hometowns, thousands more are rearing to go. At this time, when the economy is about to open up again, it may seem counter-intuitive to those of us sitting comfortably in our homes, but the reality of those willing to undergo the long, harsh wait for hours, without certainty of the train ticket, yet willing to come back day after day to wait again, is very different. We have spoken to thousands of them, and it’s the exact same narrative from every one of them. For the last two months, I have not had any income because of the lockdown. Somehow, I subsist, waiting on handouts and not knowing what I will do after my money and food run out. The Corona infection has killed so many people even in other countries. Daily, I see on TV, more and more are falling sick. My family is desperate for me to come home. They are willing to forgo the income and live in poverty. Not having any income, I have not paid my rent, so the owner is harassing me. I am so fearful that I might be evicted anytime. Enough is enough. I don’t want to live like this any longer. I came here originally thinking that I could work hard and earn money to send back home, so that their life could be better. At this point, I am neither earning, nor sending  money home. Instead, there is a real threat that I will die here alone, without the comfort of my family. I just want to be with my family at home. I would rather risk my life and reach home. The desperation is exemplified by a group who, having been unable to get train tickets on successive days, paid Rs 1.36 lakh to a truck driver to take them from Bengaluru to Bihar. These unfortunate people got cheated and came back all the way from the Karnataka-Andhra border to Whitefield. Our volunteers found them at the Hope Farm Junction, utterly exhausted and dejected. We helped them with food, the police helped with shelter and the train tickets to Bihar the next day. But for each such group, who knows how many more groups continue to be in desperation? It need not have been this way. No doubt, the coronavirus is everything it is said to be – highly infectious, and there is no vaccine or assured treatment for it. And therefore, the lockdown. But the lockdown meant the immediate loss of livelihood to lakhs of people. The government was clearly aware that lakhs of people would want to go back (else, why was the Seva Sindhu system built?), but it did not provide cash, generous rations and an assurance that they would be taken care of. However, enough has been said about what should have been done. That ship has sailed, what can we do now? This is the time to use the cess money – Rs 8,000 crore -- collected for the welfare of the labourers. But as you read this, this money sits idle, unused, even as lakhs struggle as they slip from self-respecting, hard-working enterprising workers doing work we cannot or will not do, to poverty-stricken, handout-dependent “migrant worker” lot. The ‘migrant’ term is revealing. Us and them. We belong here. They are migrants, not people of Karnataka. They belong elsewhere. They do not vote here. They should not be given a share of scarce resources. What else could explain the lack of action on their plight on our part? If they were born of this soil, what might we have done? We have made them feel that India is not one nation and a person from Bihar, UP, Jharkhand, Orissa, West Bengal, Manipur or anywhere else is not welcome here. Our inaction on the ground has spoken louder than any pronouncements on paper. Let us not forget that these same workers who are running away desperately are the ones that we need to build our metro system, roads, schools and multi-storeyed buildings. It behoves us to treat them as people with families, feelings, anxieties and the same human needs as all of us. Even from a self-interest perspective, if their human needs are not attended to on a war-footing, it will come back to bite every one of us in this city. Can we do anything to change the reality of the milling crowds at Palace Grounds and police stations? Here are our suggestions:  Speed up the cash transfers, and publish the amounts disbursed in an open and transparent manner to generate confidence. Increase the rations to temporarily include items of grocery other than just rice and wheat. Have health personnel go to every camp daily to take temperature and pulse-oxygen saturation, to identify early on any Covid-19 infection. Make the institutional quarantine facilities comfortable and clean. Have a check of those facilities daily and publicise it. This will give comfort that even if you do fall sick, you will be kept comfortable, and in two weeks you are likely to get ok and be home. Run a campaign that doesn’t create panic, but instead encourages healthy habits of hand-washing and wearing masks. Emphasise that the mortality rate in India is half of the world-wide mortality rate. Emphasise that daily health checks will ensure early detection, and high recovery rates.   Give an assurance that if work does not resume after a month, they will get another tranche of rations and money. If they want to go home, ensure adequate trains are arranged and the reservation system works as well as the IRCTC process. This is not rocket science. All of this is easily doable. The question is, do we want to do this? The actions and inactions of the government in the forthcoming days will determine whether Karnataka will be able to gain back the “vishwas” that has been squandered. (Whitefield Rising is a platform for residents of the area to engage and contribute for its betterment)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/let-s-act-to-regain-their-trust-842951.html
28-05-2020||National||9 deaths reported onboard migrant trains since May 25||As extreme heat, hunger and dehydration add to the woes of returning migrant workers, nine passengers have been found dead in ‘Shramik Special’ trains since Monday and they included a woman whose toddler son was seen trying to wake her up in a heart wrenching scene at a railway platform in Bihar. While a few deaths on board the non-air conditioned trains were also reported earlier after they were launched on May 1 to ferry migrant labourers to their home states, the Railways on Wednesday said most of the deceased had pre-existing health conditions. The nine deaths on different trains heading to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar occurred since Monday but were reported by the Railways and civil authorities in the two states on Wednesday. A video about the toddler son tweeted by Sanjay Yadav, an aide to RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, and which has gone viral, shows the child walking unsteadily up to his mother's body, tugging at the blanket placed over her, and when failing to wake her up, covering his own head with it. As the mother, who was identified as Uresh Khatoon(35), still lay motionless, he wobbles away from her, announcements continuing in the background about the arrival and departure of trains at Muzaffarpur that would bring in tens of thousands of jobless migrant workers hit by coronavirus lockdown to Bihar. "This small child doesn't know that the bedsheet with which he is playing is the shroud of his mother who has gone into eternal sleep. This mother died of hunger and thirst after being on a train for four days. Who is responsible for these deaths on trains? Shouldn't the opposition ask uncomfortable questions?" tweeted Yadav. However, police had a different version. Ramakant Upadhyay, the Dy SP of the Government Railway Police(GRP) in Muzaffarpur, said the incident occurred on May 25 when the migrant woman was on her way to Muzaffarpur from Ahmedabad by a Shramik Special train. He told reporters the woman, who was accompanied by her sister and brother-in-law, had died on the Madhubani-bound train. "My sister-in-law died suddenly on the train. We did not face any problem getting food or water," the officer said, quoting the deceased's brother-in-law who he did not name. The Railways attributed her death to a pre-existing heart condition for which she underwent a recent surgery, also reportedly corroborated by her son. Another death reported from Muzaffarpur was that of a four-and-a-half-year-old son of a migrant from Bihar based in Delhi. The boy died at the railway station at Muzaffarpur while his father desperately hunted for some milk he believed would have saved his child.  While his father Maqsood Alam alias Mohd Pintu said his son died of heat, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Railways, Ramakant Upadhyay, claimed the boy was ailing for some time and had died before the train that originated from Delhi reached the station. In Bihar’s Danapur, the body of 70-year-old Basisth Mahato, a heart patient, was taken out of the Mumbai-Darbhanga train. Mahato was returning with his family after treatment in Mumbai and died between Maihar and Satna, the Railways said. Two migrants were found dead in a train at a Varanasi railway station on Wednesday morning. North Eastern Railway spokesperson Ashok Kumar said the train had arrived at the Manduadih station of Varanasi from Mumbai's Lokmanya Tilak Terminus at 8.21 am. They were found dead by GRP personnel, he added. He said during a medical examination, it was found that both suffered from serious health issues. One of them, identified as Dashrath Prajapati (30), was a resident of UP's Jaunpur.     He was differently abled and was getting treatment for a kidney-related problem in Mumbai. The other victim was identified as Ram Ratan (63), a resident of Azamgarh district in UP. A relative of Dashrath, who was travelling with him, said he had complained of some health problem when they reached Allahabad and then slept. Dashrath did not wake up when they reached Varanasi, the relative said. A 58-year-old migrant was found dead in the Surat-Hajipur train on Tuesday evening in Ballia in Uttar Pradesh, Superintendent of Police, Devendra Nath, said. He has been identified as Bhushan Singh of Saran district in Bihar. In Kanpur, two middle-aged migrants on a Jhansi-Gorakhpur train were found dead, while they were on their way to their home districts, officials said. One was identified as Ram Awadh Chauhan (45), while the identity of the other victim hasn't been established so far. GRP's Station House Officer (Kanpur Central), Ram Mohan Rai, said that Chauhan, a resident of Makraunda in Jahanaganj in Azamgarh, was going from Mumbai to his home town. Chauhan had reached Jhansi from Mumbai by a Shramik train. He boarded another train going to Gorakhpur from Jhansi and he died on the way. "He was suffering from diabetes," Rai said, adding, he complained having difficulty in breathing and vomited in the train that terrified co-passengers. A middle aged migrant was also found dead in another train, he said. However, details about him were not immediately available. The body of Sheikh Salim, 45, a resident of Bahraich (UP), was found on the Vapi-Deen Dayal Upadhayay Junction train when it reached Sagar station in Madhya Pradesh. "Few deaths have been reported in Shramik Special trains. In most of these cases, it is found that those who died are old, sick people and patients with chronic diseases, who had actually gone to big cities for medical treatment and could come back only after the Railways started these trains," said a Railways spokesperson in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9-deaths-reported-onboard-migrant-trains-since-may-25-842636.html
28-05-2020||National||2 passengers on SpiceJet flights from Ahmedabad to Guwahati test positive for COVID||Two SpiceJet passengers who travelled from Ahmedabad to Guwahati via Delhi on Monday have tested positive for COVID-19, the airline said on Wednesday. After a two-month gap, India resumed its domestic passenger flights from Monday. International commercial passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country. "Two passengers who had travelled with SpiceJet from Ahmedabad to Guwahati on May 25 have tested positive for COVID-19. The passengers had travelled on SG-8194 (Ahmedabad-Delhi) and SG-8152 (Delhi-Guwahati)," an airline spokesperson said. "COVID tests were conducted at Guwahati after landing and the passengers were quarantined. The test reports came on May 27. The operating crew has been quarantined and SpiceJet is coordinating with government agencies in notifying other passengers who had travelled with them," the airline said. All scheduled commercial flights were suspended in India from March 25 to May 24 to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.  On Tuesday, IndiGo had said that a passenger who travelled on 6E 381 from Chennai to Coimbatore on May 25 evening tested positive for COVID-19.   Air India on Wednesday said a passenger who was onboard an Alliance Air flight from the national capital to Ludhiana has tested positive for coronavirus and a total of 41 people, including five crew members, have been quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-passengers-on-spicejet-flights-from-ahmedabad-to-guwahati-test-positive-for-covid-842638.html
28-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 28, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-28-2020-edition-842654.html
28-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 28||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,64,904 as of May 27.     States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 4,677 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 67692 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-28-842655.html
28-05-2020||National||32 people test positive for COVID-19 in Jharkhand, total now 458||Jharkhand has reported 32 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total to 458, according to a bulletin issued by the state government on Wednesday. There are 258 active cases in the state at present, while 175 people have been discharged after recovering from the disease, it said. Four persons have so far died due to COVID-19 in the state, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 279 were detected among migrant workers who returned from outside the state. The recovery rate in the state is 41.70 per cent, while the mortality rate is 0.87 per cent, the bulletin said. Total 5,343 travellers are under surveillance and asymptomatic, while 3,901 people have completed observation of 28 days, it said. Total 97,450 people are in various quarantine centres across the state and 2,52,168 are undergoing home isolation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/32-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jharkhand-total-now-458-842661.html
28-05-2020||National||13 teachers of St Stephen's college write to principal over 'unlawful' construction on campus||Thirteen teachers of the Delhi University's St Stephen's College have written to the principal alleging that unlawful construction is being carried out on the campus. They claimed that various "arbitrary and illegal actions" are being carried out without the approval of the college governing body. "It is deeply disturbing that without informing the residents of the affected premises houses and taking their consent, a large number of construction workers have entered the residential premises of teachers in violation of mandatory norms of social distancing during the fourth national lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic," the letter said. "Your actions are putting the life of teachers and their families, including young children, at grave risk," it said. The teachers also claimed that serious irreparable damage has been caused to various old trees on college campus in violation of environmental laws, including forest and tree protection laws. "A large portion of the Children’s Park on the campus has been encroached upon, earth and soil has been dug up ostensibly for a parking lot, and one large tree has been damaged with its roots cut and exposed, and the hedges uprooted. The area meant for Children’s Park is now being arbitrarily reduced and encroached upon for creating a parking lot," they alleged. There was no reaction from college authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-teachers-of-st-stephens-college-write-to-principal-over-unlawful-construction-on-campus-842664.html
28-05-2020||National||Mumbai hotel blaze under control; 25 doctors rescued||Twenty five doctors and two others staying in a south Mumbai hotel were rescued after a major fire broke out in the five-storey building, officials said on Thursday. The fire broke out at Hotel Fortune near Metro Cinema late Wednesday night and was brought under control early Thursday, fire brigade officials said. "The fire spread from the first to the third floor of the hotel, a fire brigade official told PTI. It was a level-2 fire and eight fire engines were rushed to the spot, he added. The fire was confined to the electric wiring and cables in the electrical duct, false ceiling in the lobby and the common passages on the first, second and third floors of the hotel, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-hotel-blaze-under-control-25-doctors-rescued-842686.html
28-05-2020||National||Minister Jitendra Awhad blames 'reckless behaviour' for him contracting COVID-19||Maharashtra Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad has blamed his "reckless behaviour" for getting infected with the novel coronavirus. Awhad, who has now recovered from the infection after spending some days in hospital earlier this month, said he had to be kept on ventilator support for over two days. "It was recklessness in my behaviour that was the cause of COVID, probably I did not take peoples advice seriously. Thats why I was caught in a trap, the NCP leader said on Wednesday while addressing an online seminar organised by BDA, a developers lobby. Notably, in the early days of COVID-19 outbreak in the state, Awhad, who is the guardian minister of Thane district, was seen moving around for relief work. The minister said it was his will power that helped him overcome the tough phase, and added that he has recovered fast in the last two weeks. Awhad said he considers himself lucky to have recovered so fast, when compared with the travails of others like an IAS officer of Maharashtra cadre having to import medicines or undergo plasma therapy. The minister said his hemoglobin level, which had dropped, has gone up and he is currently following a strict diet at specified timings. Another state Cabinet minister, who is a senior Congress leader, also tested positive for coronavirus recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minister-jitendra-awhad-blames-reckless-behaviour-for-him-contracting-covid-19-842695.html
28-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi reviews power sector, says state-specific solutions needed||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has emphasised on the need to enhance consumer satisfaction while increasing operational efficiency and improving financial sustainability of the power sector. Reviewing the work of Power, and New and Renewable Energy ministries on Wednesday evening, Modi pointed out that the problems in the power sector, especially of electricity distribution segment, vary across regions and states. "Instead of looking for a one-size-fits-all solution, the ministry should put in place state-specific solutions to incentivise each state to improve its performance," an official statement issued on Thursday said. During the review, policy initiatives including revised tariff policy and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 to redress the problems afflicting the power sector were also discussed. The prime minister emphasised on the need to enhance consumer satisfaction, while increasing operational efficiency and improving financial sustainability of the power sector, the statement said. Modi advised the Power Ministry to ensure that the DISCOMs (distribution companies) publish their performance parameters periodically so that the people know how their provider fares in comparison to the peers. He also emphasised that equipment used in power sector be made in India. Regarding New and Renewable Energy, the prime minister emphasised on the need for a holistic approach for entire supply chain of the agriculture sector, ranging from solar water pumps to decentralised solar cold storages. He also pitched for innovative model for rooftop solar energy. He said every state should have at least one city (either the capital city or any renowned tourist destination) which is fully solar powerd using rooftop solar power generation. Emphasis was also made on ecosystem development for manufacturing of ingots, wafers, cells and modules in India, which would also help generate employment in addition to various other advantages. Modi also felt that the plan for carbon neutral Ladakh should be expedited. The prime minister also batted for drinking water supply in coastal areas by harnessing solar and wind energy, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-reviews-power-sector-says-state-specific-solutions-needed-842698.html
28-05-2020||National||Heat, water woes and coronavirus: India's poor battle against multiple storms||Bollywood stars and political leaders have urged Indians to wash their hands to protect against coronavirus but that's a pipe dream for slum-dwellers like Bala Devi, now sweltering through a summer heatwave. The 44-year-old widow and her family of eight are among tens of millions of people facing months of torrid weather while stuck at home, in lockdown, without regular access to clean water to keep cool and wash. "It is so hot the children keep asking for water to drink. How can I give them water for washing their hands when we don't have even enough water to drink?" Devi said at her cramped home in New Delhi. "Every drop of water is a luxury for us. We can't afford to spend it on bathing," she told AFP, pinching her nose at the waft of clogged drains as unwashed children milled around her. Outside it is around 45 degrees Celsius (113 degrees Fahrenheit) but her one-bedroom tenement house has just an improvised ceiling fan to keep its occupants cool. There is a piped water connection but the supply is extremely erratic and a pump connected to the groundwater mostly spews air. Her family uses a common public toilet and their "bathroom" is a bucket behind a curtain. "If we can't wash and clean and there is filth everywhere, obviously the virus will attack us, but what can we do?" asked Devi's neighbour Anita Bisht. "Already our children are falling sick," she added, her half-naked toddler hanging from her arms. Even before the coronavirus pandemic, water was in short supply for the 100 million people living in India's urban slums. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has listed water infrastructure as a key priority, promising to reach 145 million rural households by 2024. But currently roughly a third of the country's 1.3 billion people cut back on washing and bathing during summer as taps run dry. Trucks deliver water to areas suffering shortfalls during the summer months but fights regularly break out in long queues to the tap. Last year Chennai ran out of water entirely. Heatwaves are increasing in frequency, and this week the mercury hit 50 Celsius in Rajasthan. Parts of Delhi recorded their hottest May temperatures in almost 20 years. Heat stress has killed around 3,500 people around the country since 2015, according to government figures, while farmers have killed themselves because of droughts ravaging their crops. Only around seven percent of Indian households have air conditioning, despite rising incomes making the luxury more affordable for some. Tarun Gopalakrishnan from the Centre for Science and Environment think-tank said India must brace for frequent periods of extreme heat in the future. "When we look at the seasonal averages we sometimes miss the picture that the extremes are increasing, causing massive social disruptions," he told AFP. India's coronavirus lockdown is slowly being eased but the restrictions have compounded the miseries of the current heatwave. In Delhi, a sprawling city teeming with 20 million people, demand for water outstrips supply by an estimated 200 million gallons (760 million litres) per day. The daily wait for water trucks in the capital has become even worse since the pandemic hit the city. Lining up for hours with plastic buckets and bottles, slum dwellers are now meant to stand a suitable distance apart -- if the government truck ever comes. Lakhpat, a resident of the Sanjay Niwas slum settlement, recently waited in vain for over two hours with dozens of others for the scheduled water tanker to arrive. "Because of the water problem we can't follow social distancing rules. People stick together closely in the mad rush to get their buckets filled first," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heat-water-woes-and-coronavirus-indias-poor-battle-against-multiple-storms-842703.html
28-05-2020||National||Cabinet secretary calls meeting with municipal commissioners, DMs of 13 COVID-19 hit cities||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Thursday will hold a meeting with municipal commissioners and district magistrates of 13 COVID-19 hit cities in the country that include Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai, officials said. Chief secretaries and principal secretaries (health) of the states concerned will also attend the meeting to be held through video conference. Municipal commissioners of Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi/New Delhi, Ahmadabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata/Howrah, Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Jaipur, Jodhpur, Chengalpattu (Tamil Nadu) and Thiruvallur (Tamil Nadu) will attend the meeting, a Home Ministry official said. District magistrates or collectors of the districts concerned will also join the meeting, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-secretary-calls-meeting-with-municipal-commissioners-dms-of-13-covid-19-hit-cities-842704.html
28-05-2020||National||Patanjali joins the race for COVID-19 cure: Report||Patanjali Ayurved, one of the fastest-growing FMCG companies in India, said it has launched clinical trials on humans to find a cure for COVID-19 after receiving regulatory approvals.  "We are not talking about an immunity booster. We are talking about a cure," Acharya Balkrishna, managing director of Patanjali, is quoted as saying in the report.  According to the reports, Patanjali started clinical trials in Indore and in Jaipur after it secured permission last week. Patanjali's entry into the race is unusual as only big Pharma companies were leading the hunt for a cure for the deadly novel coronavirus pandemic so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/patanjali-joins-the-race-for-covid-19-cure-report-842706.html
28-05-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 rises to 4,531, number of cases climb to 1.58 lakh||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,531 and the number of cases climbed to 1,58,333 in the country, registering an increase of 194 deaths and 6,566 cases in the last 24 hours till 8 am, the Union Health Ministry said. The number of active COVID-19 cases stand at 86,110 while 67,691 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. "Thus, around 42.75 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior Health Ministry official said. The total confirmed cases includes foreigners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-rises-to-4531-number-of-cases-climb-to-158-lakh-842709.html
28-05-2020||National||Police urge people to wear mask with 'Kuch Kuch Hota Hai' meme||In a bid to emphasise the importance of wearing a mask while stepping out of home in times of COVID-19 crisis, Nagpur Police in Maharashtra has taken a humorous route by posting a meme using a still from the Shah Rukh Khan-starrer 1998 film 'Kuch Kuch Hota Hai'. In the meme posted on Twitter on Wednesday, the police used a scene from the film where Khan hugged Kajol and, at the same time, held Rani Mukherji's hand. The police labelled Khan as 'YOU', Kajol as 'GOING OUT' and Mukherji as 'MASK' in the meme, to send across a message that one must not forget to wear a mask while going out. "Don't let this bond break...Kyunki, Bohot Kuch Hota Hai," the Nagpur Police wrote in the meme's caption on the micro-blogging site. The Nagpur Police last month made wearing masks compulsory for people while moving out of home, to prevent the spread of COVID-19. They have been trying to strictly implement the order and sending back home those who are found venturing out without wearing a mask.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-urge-people-to-wear-masks-with-kuch-kuch-hota-hai-meme-842725.html
28-05-2020||National||Two migrants commit suicide after returning home in UP||Two migrant workers who returned a few days ago to the district committed suicide, police said on Thursday. People close to the two deceased said that both were facing financial problems. Suresh (22) committed suicide by hanging from a tree in his Lohara village under Mutondh police station area on Wednesday, SHO Mutondh Ramendra Tiwari said. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination and investigations are on, the SHO said. According to the family, Suresh was working in Delhi and had returned home 5 days ago. He had no money and was under immense stress, they said. In a similar incident in Sindhan Kala village under Pailani police station area, Manoj (20) who had returned from Mumbai 10 days ago committed suicide by hanging in his room. His neighbour said that Manoj was working in a private company as a security guard which closed down because of the lockdown. His parents had died long ago and he was living alone and had no money to buy ration.  SI in charge of Pailani, Baljeet Singh, said the body was handed over to the villagers after postmortem examination. The villages are saying that the deceased committed suicide because of financial problems and an investigation has been started, Baljeet Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-migrants-commit-suicide-after-returning-home-in-up-842726.html
28-05-2020||National||Vistara's first 787-9 aircraft operates its maiden commercial flight on Delhi-Kolkata route||Vistara said its first 787-9 Dreamliner aircraft, which was delivered to it by Boeing in February this year, operated its maiden commercial flight from Delhi to Kolkata on Thursday morning.  While domestic passenger flights resumed across India from Monday, they restarted in Andhra Pradesh from Tuesday and in West Bengal from Thursday. In a press release, Vistara's Chief Commercial Officer Vinod Kannan said, "We are seeing a reasonable demand on some of the routes and are happy to add more flights to fly people home and help them reunite with their loved ones. This also enabled us to deploy India's first Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner on the Delhi-Kolkata route on 28 and 29 May 2020." The airports at Kolkata and Bagdogra have been permitted to handle 20 daily flights each from Thursday onwards. The airline said its flight UK705, operated using Dreamliner plane, departed from Delhi at 7.05 am on Thursday and arrived at Kolkata at 8.55 am. There are 30 seats, 21 seats and 248 seats in business class, premium economy class and economy class of this wide-body aircraft. India had imposed a lockdown on March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus. All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended since then. While domestic passenger flights resumed from Monday, international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vistaras-first-787-9-aircraft-operates-its-maiden-commercial-flight-on-delhi-kolkata-route-842728.html
28-05-2020||National||Nursing staff at Jodhpur AIIMS protest denial of treatment to wife of colleague||The nursing staff of the AIIMS Jodhpur has been sporting black arm bands to protest alleged denial of treatment to the pregnant wife of a senior nursing officer at the hospital as they hailed from a coronavirus hotspot zone in the city. The nursing staff of the institution had last week submitted a memorandum to the director of AIIMS demanding an inquiry into the matter and stern action against the doctor, who allegedly refused treatment. “It has been a week since we had submitted a memorandum to the administration for action, but no action has yet been taken. All of us have been working with black straps around our arms”, said the Secretary of Nursing Officers' Welfare Association of AIIMS, Gulab Choudhary. Superintendent of AIIMS, Arvind Sinha, said that they have received the complaint and have been looking into it. "We have received their complaint and have been looking into it. It was nothing but a matter of miscommunication”, said Sinha. Senior Nursing officer of AIIMS, Naresh Kumar Swami, had taken his 11 weeks pregnant wife to the emergency department of AIIMS on May 17. “My wife had been profusely bleeding. So being an employee of AIIMS, I rushed my wife to the emergency. But the doctor from the gynaecology department refused to take her for treatment after learning that we live in the corona hotspot zone of the city”, he alleged. Swami said that he pleaded with the doctor to attend to his wife, but citing COVID-19 policy of the hospital, the doctor advised him to take his wife to a private facility. “I kept rushing from one centre to other for the entire day but all in vain. Entire day and night, my wife kept suffering. Next day I managed treatment at a private hospital and took her there”, said Swami. But it was too late by then and the doctor at the hospital had to terminate the pregnancy. Accusing the AIIMS of dereliction of duty in the name of COVID Policy, Swami said that "had his wife been provided timely treatment, the child could have been saved". “If this is the treatment of the institution with its own staff, what seriousness could be expected from them for a common outside patient”, he said. In their memorandum, the association has demanded an explicit policy so that such incidents do not take place. “This is not for the first time. Many such incidents have happened earlier also but no action has been taken by the hospital administration”, alleged Choudhary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nursing-staff-at-jodhpur-aiims-protest-denial-of-treatment-to-wife-of-colleague-842731.html
28-05-2020||National||Delhi Police to file chargesheets against 536 Tablighi Jamaat members from three nations||The Crime Branch of the Delhi Police will file 12 chargesheets against 536 Tablighi Jamaat members from three countries, officials said on Thursday. Till now, the police has already filed chargesheets against 374 foreigners from 32 countries. The officials said the charges against the Tablighi Jamaat members pertain to violation of visa rules, government guidelines regarding the Epidemic Disease Act and acting negligently in a way that was likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life. The Tablighi Jamaat, a religious organisation in Nizamuddin in South Delhi, had allegedly organised a congregation in March in violation of mass gatherings. The Tablighi Jamaat's Nizamuddin Markaz (centre) had become a coroavirus hotspot in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-to-file-chargesheets-against-536-tablighi-jamaat-members-from-three-nations-842736.html
28-05-2020||National||Centre deploys drones, tractors mounted with pesticides to repulse locust attack||The Centre has deployed drones, tractors and fire brigade vehicles to spray pesticides to repulse the worst-ever locust attack in three decades that has spread across 43 districts of four states devouring leaves, flowers and vegetable farms. “We have deployed drones to spray pesticides in Chomu in Rajasthan and plan to use them in parts of Madhya Pradesh as well,” K L Gurjar, deputy director, Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage (PPQS), Agriculture Ministry told DH. He said eight to 10 swarms of immature locusts were active over Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh prompting the Locust Warning Organisation under the PPQS to alert states such as Gujarat, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh about possible incursions. “We have carried out locust control operations on 47,000 hectares. There are 1,000 live hectares remaining which will be covered in the next few days,” Gurjar said adding that swarms of such a scale were previously witnessed in 1993. Earlier this week, swarms of locusts descended in Jaipur and the direction of the wind flow had taken them as far as Amravati in Maharashtra. Depending on the wind speed, locusts can cover a distance of 150 km per day and settle down on trees or farms in the evening. According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the UN, a single square kilometre of the swarm can contain up to 80 million adults with the capacity to consume the same amount of food in one day as 35,000 people. Locust control operations involve spraying of pesticides on the resting swarms during the night or early mornings and it usually takes four to five days to control a particular swarm. “Eighty nine fire brigades for pesticide spray, 120 survey vehicles, 47 control vehicles with spray equipment and 810 tractors mounted sprayers have been deployed for effective locust control, as per requirement during different days,” a note from the Agriculture Ministry said. Usually, locust swarms enter Rajasthan for summer breeding in the month of June/July with the advent of monsoon. However, according to experts, the extended rainfall season led to the incursion of locust swarms. According to the FAO update on the locust status, new swarms are expected to migrate to the summer breeding areas on either side of the India-Pakistan border. Good rains predicted for the first half of June is expected to aid egg-laying, which has prompted authorities to step up control operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-deploys-drones-tractors-mounted-with-pesticides-to-repulse-locust-attack-842738.html
28-05-2020||National||Maharashtra: Businessmen demand resumption of flights in Aurangabad||Businessmen from Aurangabad in Maharashtra have demanded resumption of domestic flights, saying when such services can be restarted in Pune, which has reported over 6,600 COVID-19 cases so far, why not in the Marathwada district where cases are comparatively less. So far, Pune district has reported 6,643 COVID-19 cases, while Aurangabad, which is a prominent industrial hub of the state, has reported 1,397 cases. Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture's former president Ram Bhogale recently tweeted a comparison of the number of COVID-19 cases in Pune and Aurangabad, and demanded resumption of flights from here. "Industrial zones in Aurangabad have resumed operations as per the permitted limits, but flights are not operational here, which is a major hurdle in planning activities which can help bring the industry and businesses back on track," he told PTI on Wednesday. When flight operations can be restarted in Pune despite such huge number of COVID-19 cases there, why they can't be resumed in Aurangabad, he said. Air connectivity with New Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru should be resumed, he said, while pointing out that many Aurangabad-based companies have set ups in Uttarakhand, Bengaluru and other places in the country. Another Aurangabad-based industrialist Mansingh Pawar also demanded resumption of flights from here. In Pune, industrial zones as well as flight operations have restarted, he noted. "In Aurangabad, industries are facing hurdles for permits and flights services have also not resumed. This will escalate losses here. Not just the industry, but other people here also need air connectivity. The city has representation in the Lok Sabha as well as the Rajya Sabha, but no one says a single word," he said. BJP's Rajya Sabha member Bhagwat Karad said he will talk to authorities concerned on Thursday on the issue. "We hope to get a positive response soon," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-businessmen-demand-resumption-of-flights-in-aurangabad-842744.html
28-05-2020||National||Educate both girls and boys that menstruation not a matter of shame: Irani on Menstrual Hygiene Day||On the occasion of Menstrual Hygiene Day on Thursday, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani called for educating not only girls but also boys that menstruation is not a matter of shame. Affordable sanitary napkins have been made available through all Jan Aushadhi Kendras to ensure menstrual hygiene for millions of women in India, she said. "Affordable sanitary napkins have been made available through all Jan Aushadhi Kendras thereby ensuring #MenstrualHygiene for millions of Indian women. On #MHDay2020 let's commit ourselves to educating not only girls but also boys that menstruation is not a matter of shame," Irani said in a tweet. Menstrual Hygiene Day is an annual awareness day that falls on May 28 to highlight the importance of good menstrual hygiene management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/educate-both-girls-and-boys-that-menstruation-not-a-matter-of-shame-irani-on-menstrual-hygiene-day-842745.html
28-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Organ transplantation during COVID-19||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, DH journalist Shruthi Srinath speaks to Dr Sonal Asthana about Organ transplantation in the times of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-organ-transplantation-during-covid-19-842749.html
28-05-2020||National||Cabinet Secretary holds meeting with District Magistrates of 13 COVID-19-hit cities||Ahead of the completion of nationwide lockdown 4.0, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Thursday held a meeting with municipal commissioners and district magistrates of 13 COVID-19 hit cities in the country including Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai, officials said. The meeting bears significance as these 13 cities are considered to be the worst Coronavirus affected locations and constitute about 70 per cent of the positive cases in the country. Chief secretaries and principal secretaries (health) of all states and Union Territories have attended the meeting through video conference with the agenda of 'Public Health Response to COVID-19'. Municipal commissioners of Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi/New Delhi, Ahmadabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata/Howrah, Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Jaipur, Jodhpur, Chengalpattu (Tamil Nadu) and Thiruvallur (Tamil Nadu) attended the meeting, a Home Ministry official said. District magistrates or collectors of the 13 cities also joined the meeting, the official said.  The measures taken by the officials and the staff of the municipal corporations for the management of COVID-19 cases were reviewed in the meeting. The central government has already issued guidelines on the management of COVID-19 in urban settlements.  The strategy defined the factors to be considered while mapping the containment and buffer zones, the activities mandated in containment zones like perimeter control, active search for cases through house-to-house surveillance, contact tracing, testing protocol, clinical management of the active cases. It also dealt with the surveillance activities in the buffer zones like monitoring of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) or Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) cases, ensuring social distancing, promoting hand hygiene etc.  The Centre has been pushing for the geographic area of containment zones to be defined based on factors like mapping of cases and contacts, geographical dispersion of cases and contacts. It said the area with well-demarcated perimeter and enforceability should be enforced. For municipal corporations, residential colony, mohallas, municipal wards or police-station area, municipal zones, towns can be designated as containment zones, as appropriate. The cities were advised that the area should be appropriately defined by the district administration and local urban body with technical inputs from the local level. Along with the containment zones, buffer zones around containment zones also must be demarcated to break the chain of transmission. Maintaining high vigilance and monitoring in areas of old cities, urban slums and other high-density pockets along with the camps for migrant workers are other key factors for the COVID-19 strategy for the high-risk areas. The nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic. It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17. The lockdown has now been extended till May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-secretary-holds-meeting-with-district-magistrates-of-13-covid-19-hit-cities-842751.html
28-05-2020||National||Odisha reports 67 new COVID-19 cases, total rises to 1,660||As many as 67 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Odisha, taking the total number of such cases to 1,660 in the state, a health department official said on Thursday. Of the new patients, 65 had recently returned to the state from various parts of the country and were indifferent quarantine centres across districts, while two others were detected with the infection as a result of the contact-tracing exercise, he said. The maximum of 26 fresh cases was found in Ganjam district, followed by 11 each in Jajpur and Khurda, seven in Nayagarh, four in Sonepur, two each in Balangir, Jagatsinghpur and Sambalpur and one each from Keonjhar and Bargarh. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 841, while 812 patients have so far recovered from the disease. Seven people have died due to COVID-19 A total of 3,037 samples were tested on Wednesday, the official said. The state health department tested 1,39,311 samples so far, he said. Of 30 districts in the state, 29 have reported COVID- 19 cases. Ganjam with 394 patients remains at the top of the list of districts affected by the coronavirus outbreak, followed by 253 in Jajpur, 139 in Balasore, 110 in Khurda, 106 in Bhadrak, 86 in Cuttack, 85 in Puri, 61 in Kendrapara, 57 in Nayagarh and 56 in Bolangir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-reports-67-new-covid-19-cases-total-rises-to-1660-842753.html
28-05-2020||National||NDMC seals headquarter building after employee tests positive for COVID-19||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) sealed its headquarter building in Central Delhi on Thursday after a senior employee tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of employees infected with the novel coronavirus to 7. "A Joint Director level employee has been found positive for COVID-19. Three more employees were found yesterday. Contact tracing is being done by district authorities as per protocol. The building has been sealed. A disinfection drive will be carried out," a senior NDMC official said "Meanwhile, all employees will be working from home till building premises completely sanitised and reopened," the official added. Three employees of the NDMC had tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, prompting the civic body to seal a floor of its headquarters in Lutyen's Delhi and a section of another building housing its office in Gole Market. < Earlier three employees of the NDMC, including a sanitation worker and engineer, had tested positive for COVID-19. Last week, a doctor at an NDMC dispensary had tested positive for COVID-19, following which the premises of the health facility was sealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ndmc-seals-headquarter-building-after-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-842755.html
28-05-2020||National||Air passenger who took Bengaluru-Madurai flight tests positive for COVID-19||An asymptomatic passenger who took an IndiGo Bengaluru-Madurai flight on Wednesday was found positive for COVID-19 during mandatory testing on the same day at a quarantine facility in Madurai, the airline said on Thursday. Domestic passenger flights resumed in India from Monday. Since then, five passengers of three different airlines have tested positive for COVID-19. "An asymptomatic passenger who travelled on IndiGo on 6E 7214 from Bangalore to Madurai on May 27, 2020 was discovered to be COVID-19 positive during the mandatory testing at the quarantine facility in Madurai on 27th May," the airline said in its statement. The passenger had observed all precautionary measures, including wearing face mask, face shield and gloves, like other passengers on the aircraft, IndiGo added. "All our aircraft are regularly sanitized as a standard operating procedure, and the aircraft operating these flights were immediately disinfected as per protocol," the airline said. "The operating crew has been home quarantined for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per the government guidelines, to ensure safety of our passengers and staff," it added. SpiceJet had said on Wednesday that two of its passengers who travelled from Ahmedabad to Guwahati via Delhi on Monday tested positive for COVID-19. On Tuesday, IndiGo had said that a passenger who travelled on flight 6E 381 from Chennai to Coimbatore on Monday evening tested positive for the disease. Air India had stated on Wednesday that a passenger who was on an Alliance Air flight from the national capital to Ludhiana tested positive for coronavirus and a total of 41 people, including five crew members, had been quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-passenger-who-took-bengaluru-madurai-flight-tests-positive-for-covid-19-842758.html
28-05-2020||National||BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra hospitalised after showing COVID-19 symptoms||BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra has been admitted to a private hospital in Gurgaon after he showed symptoms of COVID-19, sources said. He is admitted to the Medanta hospital in Gurgaon, hospital sources said on Thursday. The BJP leader has shown symptoms of COVID-19, a source said. Patra is one of the most visible BJP faces on news channels. He is also very active on social media and posted several tweets on Thursday as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-spokesperson-sambit-patra-hospitalised-after-showing-covid-19-symptoms-842766.html
28-05-2020||National||Liquor not a fundamental right, special 70 pc levy is privilege price, Delhi govt tells HC||Trade or consumption of liquor is not a fundamental right and the state has the authority to regulate its sale, the AAP government has told the Delhi High Court maintaining that its levying 70 per cent 'special corona fees' on MRP of all alcohol brands is a price for grant of such privilege to the public. The Delhi government opposed a batch of petitions challenging its May 4 notification levying the 'special corona fees' on liquor, and said there was an element of privilege viz-a-viz sale/ dealing in liquor and the state is free to regulate it under the excise law. “Accordingly the state is also free to impose and recover a price for grant of such privilege. Such imposition need not be either a tax or a fee yet less excise duty, or for that matter form part of Excise revenue. “The present impugned levy (special corona fee) is nothing but a combination of price of such privilege and cost of such regulation and supervision,” the Delhi government's Department of Excise said in an affidavit filed in response to the petitions. The pleas are listed for hearing in the court on Friday. “A citizen, therefore, has no fundamental right to do trade or business in liquor or for that matter also to consume liquor. On the other hand, the State has the authority and jurisdiction to regulate (including prohibit totally or partially) such trade and commerce as well as to regulate the sale, purchase and consumption of liquor,” the Delhi government said. Besides Delhi, 10 other states, Assam, Meghalaya, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal have imposed similar fees, it said.  The affidavit said owing to the clamp down on all economic activities due to coronavirus (Covid-19) lockdown, the revenue of Delhi government (which primarily comes from VAT/GST collection, state excise and stamp duty) has shrunk by almost 90 per cent in April 2020 and the total collections dwindled to a mere Rs 300 crore as opposed to approximately Rs 4,000 crore in the corresponding month in 2019. “Between May 4 to 25, the total sale of operational liquor vends has been Rs 187 crore which is way too less as compared to the sale figures of May 2019 as the number of shops operational last year were around 800 and as of now, only 40 per cent of them are operational due to various restrictions imposed by the government in view of the coronavirus outbreak,” it said. The government said the total excise revenue, including the 'corona fee', collected by the state during May 4 to 25 has been to the tune of Rs 227.44 crore which includes Rs 127 crore of special corona fee, as against the total revenue collection of Rs 425.24 crore in May last year. “The Delhi Excise Act, 2009 and the Rules framed thereunder also empowers the state to accord the privilege of a peculiar nature and also to regulate/ supervise the sale, purchase and consumption of liquor in the national capital territory of Delhi during the currency of COVID-19 pandemic, particularly in view of the lockdown measures/ directives announced by the Central government/ Delhi government and its Excise Department,” it said. A batch of petitions were filed, including by advocate Lalit Valecha and Praveen Gulati, challenging levy of 'special corona fees'. Valecha has contended in his petition that the 'special corona fees'' is in excess of what has been authorised by law and accordingly it is being collected arbitrarily. In his petition, he has said that the order of levying fee was an afterthought and an after effect of the overcrowding and violation of social distancing norms outside liquor shops. The unprecedented levy of 'special corona fee' by the Delhi government resulting in overall increase in MRP (maximum retail price) of the liquor by 70 per cent was "arbitrary, uncalled for and bad in law", the petition has alleged. Gulati, in his plea, has sought quashing of the May 4 notification claiming that it is highly arbitrary, irrational and, therefore, violates Article 14 (equality before law) of the Constitution. He has also sought directions to the government to refund the money collected under the notification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/liquor-not-a-fundamental-right-special-70-pc-levy-is-privilege-price-delhi-govt-tells-hc-842767.html
28-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Maharashtra Governor Koshyari announces series of austerity measures to cut expenses||The Governor gave instructions to Raj Bhavan to undertake the following measures in the current financial year to reduce its expenses: No new capital works to be undertaken. There will not be any new major construction/repairing works in Raj Bhavan. Only ongoing works in progress will be continued and completed.  The Independence Day Reception to be held on August 15, 2020, at Raj Bhavan, Pune will be cancelled. There will be no new regular recruitment in Raj Bhavan until further orders.The proposal for the purchase of a new car for Raj Bhavan to be deferred. The practice of offering gifts/mementos to VVIPS will be discontinued until further order.The practice of welcoming VIP visitors with bouquets will be discontinued.  Guest house rooms in Raj Bhavan should not be decorated with vases and flower pots.Meetings and interactions with Vice-Chancellors and various officers to be conducted via video conference to avoid any expenses on travel.It is estimated that these measures will save nearly 10 to 15 percent of the budget of the Raj Bhavan in the current financial year.The Governor has already contributed one month's salary and further pledged 30% of his salary for one year to the PM CARES Fund for COVID-19.  In the Governor’s estimation, these austerity measures will be a small but significant contribution to save resources that can be used to reduce the sufferings of the people in the backdrop of the situation that arose because of the Coronavirus disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-maharashtra-governor-koshyari-announces-series-of-austerity-measures-to-cut-expenses-842769.html
28-05-2020||National||COVID-19: 128 fresh cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally rises to 3,245||With 128 fresh infections, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh rose to 3,245 while one death due to the virus was reported, taking the toll in the state to 59, a bulletin from the government said on Thursday The lone death was reported in Kurnool district. Of the fresh cases in the past 24 hours ending 9 AM on Thursday, four were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, the bulletin said. Samples of 9,858 people were tested and 68 including those from other states have been discharged from various hospitals after treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 2,125 including 167 people from other states.  The number of active patients is now at 1061- 824 from AP, 126 and 111 from other states and foreign returnees respectively. Cumulative positive cases from other states stood at 293, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-128-fresh-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-rises-to-3245-842770.html
28-05-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh man hires 180-seater plane to ferry four family members||A Bhopal-based high net worth individual hired a 180-seater A320 plane of a private carrier to ferry four family members to New Delhi, in a bid to avoid crowd at the airport and in flight amid the COVID-19 outbreak, officials said on Thursday. The person, who is a liquor baron, chartered the aircraft to send to Delhi his daughter, her two children and their maid, who were stuck in Bhopal since the last two months due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, sources said. The plane arrived here from Delhi on Monday with crew only and flew back with just four passengers for whom it was specially hired, they said. "The A320 180-seater plane arrived here on May 25 to carry four members of a family, probably due to the coronavirus scare. It was chartered by someone and there was no medical emergency, an airline official said, refusing to divulge any further details. Bhopals Rajabhoj Airport Director Anil Vikram could not be contacted for comments. According to aviation experts, the cost of hiring an Airbus-320 is about Rs 20 lakh. Domestic commercial flight services resumed from Monday, after a nearly two-month break due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-man-hires-180-seater-plane-to-ferry-four-family-members-842771.html
28-05-2020||National||Overnight operations in Jhansi to clear swarms of locusts||Overnight operations were carried out by the administration and agriculture department to clear swarms of locusts in Moth and Garautha areas of the district, the official said on Thursday. A large number of locusts has been eliminated with the spraying of chemicals all through the night but a smaller number of those who survived has moved towards Pariksha near Jhansi on Thursday morning, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Kamal Katiyar, said Their further movement would depend on the direction of the wind, he said. Senior officials including those from a central team were present during the night-long operation and a close vigil is being maintained on the further movement of locusts, Katiyar said. Two fire brigade vehicles loaded with insecticide had been deployed in all four Jhansi tehsils besides six vehicles were kept ready at the district headquarter. Ten municipal employees with two insecticide spraying machines were posted in every block.  Locusts had earlier attacked some parts of Jhansi district on May 22 and 24. Taking cognizance of the matter, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had on Wednesday issued directions to district magistrates of bordering districts of the state to take appropriate measures to deal with the menace. Instructions were issued to DMs of Jhansi, Lalitpur, Agra, Mathura, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Mahoba, Banda, Chitrakoot, Jalaun, Etawah and Kanpur Dehat. At the state level, teams have already been formed and control rooms established to track the movement of locusts. At the district headquarter level, a nodal officer has been appointed, and a task force and control-room already set up. Instructions have been issued to officials to list elaborate details about the dangers posed by locusts and precautions need to be taken. These instructions should be circulated to all officials in districts through social media, and should also be made available to farmers and the common public. An advisory was also issued to beat drums, tin containers, metal plates and create noise to shoo the locusts in case of an attack. The officials of the agriculture department have been told to coordinate with members of the Locust Warning Team, locals and farmers.   Instructions have already been issued to take assistance of agriculture universities and pest management centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/overnight-operations-in-jhansi-to-clear-swarms-of-locusts-842778.html
28-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Migrants reach Patna after ‘ride’ of a lifetime||Would they be allowed to enter with slippers? What would happen when the plane takes off? Would they be safe? The questions raced through the minds of 10 migrants on Thursday as they readied to fly home to Bihar, an unforgettable first flight made possible by the generosity of their employer, a farmer in Delhi. Getting through the airport formalities was intimidating but they sought the help of an official who guided them till the plane. Excited, nervous and a little panicky as they settled in their seats, many closed their eyes as the plane taxied and then tilted sharply at take-off, Naveen Ram, among the 10 workers taking their debut flight, told PTI after landing in Patna. Some of them put their heads down on the table in front as the plane steadied in the skies, not daring to look out of the window even when the flight landed, Naveen said. All 10 farm workers, stuck in Delhi because of the coronavirus forced lockdown, belong to Samastipur in Bihar. They had never dreamed they would get on a plane but they did thanks to Pappan Singh, a mushroom farmer in Delhi, who bought their tickets. Recounting the experiences of the morning, one which they will remember all their lives, Naveen said people at the airport were looking at them when they entered the airport carrying jute bags and wearing slippers. "We were not well-dressed like others. We didn't know what we should do next after entering the airport because it was our first experience of travelling in a plane. We took the help of an airline official," the 27-year-old said over the phone. He, too, did not look out when the plane was taking off and landing.  But that was not the end of the thrilling ride for the group, catapulted to national news at a time when migrant stories are made of arduous journeys battling hunger and heat on foot, cycle, bus or train. Several mediapersons were waiting to interview them when they landed at the Patna Airport after the 6 am flight from Delhi, said Naveen’s fellow traveller and co-worker Jitender Ram. "We never expected to get so much attention. Yesterday, my friend phoned me, saying he was watching me on a news channel. We will always remember such a wonderful experience," Jitender said. Asked whether he will come back to Delhi after the lockdown is over, Naveen said, "Definitely, we will come back to Delhi when our malik (employer) calls us." All of them left for Samastipur district from Patna airport. Pappan Singh, who has helped rewrite the migrant narrative of tragedy and helplessness, said he called his workers every step of the way, from after they entered the airport to when they stepped into the plane -- asking if all was okay if they had taken their boarding passes, checked in their bags and safely made their way to the gate. "I wanted everyone to give them respect the way I do. I was very concerned as my workers were not well-dressed like other passengers. Some of them were wearing slippers and carrying jute bags. "I am happy that they have finally reached their home state," Pappan told PTI. Pappan had booked tickets worth Rs 68,000 and gave each Rs 3,000 in cash so they did not face any problems when they reach their home state. Pappan had completed all their medical formalities, in accordance with the requirements specified, so they have a smooth journey home. "These 10 workers would have left for their homes in Bihar in the first week of April on the train but they could not go due to the lockdown," he said, adding that he had made several attempts to send them back to their home state in a Shramik Special train but could not manage to do so. "I could not have taken a risk by allowing my workers to walk thousands of miles as it would have put their lives in danger because we are getting to know these days that migrants meet road accidents while going home," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-migrants-reach-patna-after-ride-of-a-lifetime-842780.html
28-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Chartered flight carrying 174 migrants reaches Ranchi from Mumbai||A chartered flight carrying 174 migrant workers of Jharkhand landed at Ranchi airport on Thursday, officials said. The return of the migrant labourers by air from Mumbai, among the cities worst-hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, was facilitated by the Alumni Network of National Law School, Bengaluru, they said. The alumni association had raised funds to lease an Air Asia aircraft to send home the workers, who were stranded in various parts of Mumbai amid the lockdown. The flight left the western metropolis around 8.15 am and reached the state capital around 10.30 am, an official statement here said. All returnees were subjected to health screening and placed under home-quarantine for 14 days, in accordance with the protocol laid down by the government, it said. One of the workers, after completing formalities at the airport, said he would want to thank the law school alumni network and the state for ensuring his safe return. "I work as a welder in Mumbai. We are all happy to return. I would like to thank everybody who facilitated our return," he told reporters. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren also expressed his gratitude to the alumni network of the Bengaluru law school for its noble initiative. "Iss punit karya ke liye mein Alumni Network of National Law School, Bengaluru dwara kiye gaye sahiyog ko saharaniya karte hein (I appreciate the effort of the alumni network of National Law School, Bengaluru)," Soren said in a statement. The state is committed to bring back all migrant workers stranded in different parts of the country, and the government is in touch with the Centre for the purpose, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-chartered-flight-carrying-174-migrants-reaches-ranchi-from-mumbai-842781.html
28-05-2020||National||'BJP to hold month-long campaign to mark first anniversary of Modi govt 2.0'||The BJP is going to hold a month-long campaign staring from June to mark the first anniversary of the Modi 2.0 government and will hold digital rallies in all districts across the country, its general secretary Bhupendra Yadav said. Underlining that the party stood with the general public in the fight against COVID-19, Yadav said the party workers distributed 19 crore food packets and more than 4 crore packets of ration across the country. Addressing a press conference via video conference, he said, "Amid the corona crisis the BJP workers were on the ground. They were serving people in all 909 organisational districts across the country and providing them all necessary help. Besides food, the party workers also distributed more than 5 crore masks, made people aware Aarogya Setu app, motivated them to contribute in PM Cares fund. Talking about the first anniversary of the Modi 2.0 government, Yadav said, "The party will hold digital rallies across the country and its all seven wings will also hold 500 digital rallies in their respective fields. BJP president JP Nadda will also address the party workers through Facebook Live on this occasion, he said. The party will reach out to people with a letter written by Prime Minister Narendra Modi talking about self-reliant India, achievements of the government, and will distribute them in ten crore families, Yadav said. It will be a month-long campaign starting from June, he said. When asked about upcoming Bihar elections, Yadav, who is also party’s in-charge for the state, said it is for the Election Commission to decide when and how polls should be held. "As far as the BJP is concerned, the party has been preparing for the elections and will use new technologies for campaigning and communicating with the people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-to-hold-month-long-campaign-to-mark-first-anniversary-of-modi-govt-20-842783.html
28-05-2020||National||Action against those spreading rumours of army deployment in Mumbai & Pune: Maha HM||The Home Ministry of Maharashtra government is tracking concerted campaign by miscreants spreading fake news or rumours across various social media platforms like WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, etc to create panic and dissatisfaction among people. One of the more worrying speculations that have been spreading even while India is in the grip of one of its worst public health emergencies due to the coronavirus pandemic is the about a complete lockdown of Mumbai and other cities to be enforced by deploying the army. The messages also ask people to hoard maximum provisions like vegetables, grocery and milk for this period. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday reiterated that this is wholly and completely fake news. “First of all, I want to underline that as the Home Minister I am fully confident of the Maharashtra Police's wherewithal and capabilities in tackling any emergent situation. I exhort citizens not to believe such messages or share/forward them as this unnecessarily compounds panic in society. The Maharashtra government is committed in its battle with COVID-19 and has been open in its communication with citizens on policy decisions with regard to combatting the pandemic,” he said but warned, “The spread of such rumours can attract penalties and punishment under the provisions of both the IT Act and the IPC. The Maharashtra Cyber Department is actually looking closely monitoring this issue and has already initiated action against the rumour mongers.”  An enquiry by the Maha Cyber Department found that 12 main user IDs on various social media platforms have been spreading this rumour/fake news from May 8 till date. Maha Cyber has already mailed notices in the form of a legal warning under CrPC Sec 149 to users of such handles to refrain from circulating fake news in the future. The platforms like FB, Twitter, etc have also been asked to take down these posts and suspend the accounts of miscreants who have been identified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/action-against-those-spreading-rumours-of-army-deployment-in-mumbai-pune-maha-hm-842790.html
28-05-2020||National||HC says NIA acted in haste in taking Navlakha to Mumbai||The Delhi High Court has pulled up the NIA for hastily removing activist Gautam Navlakha, accused in Bhima Koregaon violence case, from the national capital to Mumbai even when his interim bail plea was pending here. Justice Anup J Bhambhani, said the National Investigation Agency acted in "unseemly haste" in taking Navlakha, who was lodged in Tihar jail here, to Mumbai where the investigation is pending. While the order was passed on Wednesday, it was made available on the court's website on Thursday. Navlakha was taken to Mumbai by train on May 26. The court had on May 22, sought the NIA response on a plea by 67-year-old Navlakha, who said he was lodged in Tihar jail at a time when the entire nation was gripped by the threat of contracting the highly contagious and deadly Covid-19 virus.  The plea said given his advanced age, he is vulnerable to catching any infections/virus, especially in a crowded environment like prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-says-nia-acted-in-haste-in-taking-navlakha-to-mumbai-842793.html
28-05-2020||National||India's coronavirus lockdown to push 12 million into extreme poverty||Abdul Kareem was forced out of school and into a life of odd jobs like repairing bicycles before he finally managed to pull his family out of abject poverty transporting goods across the Indian capital in a mini truck.   The job, and the slim financial security that came with it, was the first stepping stone to a better life. “I don’t know what the job situation will be in Delhi once we go back,” Kareem said. “We can’t stay hungry so I will do whatever I find.” At least 49 million people across the world are expected to plunge into “extreme poverty” -- those living on less than $1.90 per day -- as a direct result of the pandemic’s economic destruction and India leads that projection, with the World Bank estimating some 12 million of its citizens will be pushed to the very margins this year.   For Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who came to power in 2014 promising to lift India’s poorest citizens out of poverty, the fallout from the lockdown brings with it significant political risk. He won an even larger second term majority last year on the strength of his government’s popular social programs that directly targeted the poor, such as the provision of cooking gas cylinders, power and public housing. The breadth and depth of this renewed economic pain will only increase the pressure on his government as it works to steer the country’s economy back on track. “Much of the Indian government’s efforts to mitigate poverty over the years could be negated in a matter of just a few months,” said Ashwajit Singh, managing director of IPE Global, a development sector consultancy that advises several multinational aid agencies. Noting that he did not expect unemployment rates to improve this year, Singh said: “More people could die from hunger than the virus.” Desperate Times Singh points to a United Nations University study estimating 104 million Indians could fall below the World Bank-determined poverty line of $3.2 a day for lower-middle-income countries. This will take the proportion of people living in poverty from 60% -- or 812 million currently, to 68% or 920 million -- a situation last seen in the country more than a decade ago, Singh said. The World Bank and the CMIE estimates were published in late April and early May respectively. Since then the situation in India has only become grimmer, with harrowing images of people making desperate attempts to reach their villages, on crowded buses, the flatbeds of trucks and even on foot or on bicycles dominating media coverage. The government has promised cheap credit to farmers, direct transfer of money to the poor and eased access to food security programs -- but these help people who have some documentation, which many of the poorest don’t. With millions of impoverished Indians now in transit across the country, the food security situation is dire -- news reports are emerging of people foraging through piles of rotting fruit or eating leaves. Shattered Economy  India’s economy was already growing at its slowest pace in over a decade when the virus struck. The lockdown, which came into effect on March 25, has hammered it, stalling business activity and putting a lid on consumption, pushing the economy to what may be its first full-year contraction in more than four decades. Modi, who has come under criticism for the pain inflicted on India’s poor, has said his government will spend $265 billion or about 10% of its GDP to help Asia’s third-largest economy weather the pandemic’s fallout. But experts say only a part of it is direct fiscal stimulus, and probably smaller than the total damage done to the economy during the lockdown period. “What is especially worrying is the government’s response,” said Reetika Khera, an economics professor at the Indian Institute of Technology in Delhi. “The epidemic will magnify existing -- and already high -- inequalities in India.” Still, the economic measures aren’t going to kick in for some time and industry will likely struggle to restart because of the flight of labor from India’s industrial hubs. And as the harsh Indian summer unfolds more pain lies in store in the villages now dealing with returning migrant workers. “There are no factories or industries here, there are just hills,” said Surendra Hadia Damor, who had walked nearly 100 kilometers (62 miles) from Ahmedabad, Gujarat before a voluntary organization drove him to his village in the neighboring state of Rajasthan. “We can survive for a month or two and then try and find a job nearby -- we will see what happens.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-lockdown-to-push-12-million-into-extreme-poverty-842805.html
28-05-2020||National||Resumption of elective surgeries required to soften COVID-19 blow to healthcare sector: Medical Technology Association of India||Industry body Medical Technology Association of India (MTaI) on Thursday sought the government's intervention to ensure that elective surgical procedures are resumed at the earliest, as this would enable hospitals to re-start their normal operations. The hospitals had to shut down their OPDs due to various government restrictions to control the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, which severely impacted their revenue flow, MTaI said in a statement. Elective surgeries account for about 50 per cent of revenues for hospitals in normal business conditions. Reduced revenues have curtailed hospitals' ability to pay for supplies of pharmaceuticals, diagnostics and medical devices, thereby severely disrupting entire healthcare value chain, it added. The fall in revenue of hospitals is creating an unprecedented financial crisis for the medical device sector due to delays in payment, the statement said. "The healthcare sector is in dire need of support to resume services to the optimal level. One quick measure in the current circumstances is resumption of elective procedures at the earliest," MTaI Director Sanjay Bhutani said. Hospitals need to work in tandem with the government to start elective surgeries without compromising their capabilities to handle COVID-19 cases, he added. "Creation of a clear communication module is equally important in order to allay any fears in the minds of patients," Bhutani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/resumption-of-elective-surgeries-required-to-soften-covid-19-blow-to-healthcare-sector-medical-technology-association-of-india-842817.html
28-05-2020||National||Cong holds online protest, seeks help from Centre for poor||Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat on Thursday led the party's online SpeakUpIndia agitation in the state, seeking monetary help from the Centre for the economically weak, in line with the Nyay scheme earlier proposed by party leader Rahul Gandhi. State Congress leaders took to social media platforms -- like YouTube, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram -- to ask the Centre to provide Rs 10,000 initially to a poor family and then Rs 7,500 per month for next six months. The agitation was held following instructions of the party's central leadership, Thorat said. He said giving the money to the poor, who are worst hit by the financial crisis triggered by the coronavirus- enforced lockdown, will enable them to make purchases, and ultimately help revive the economy. Ahead of the Lok Sabha elections last year, Gandhi had proposed the Nyay (justice) scheme. Under the scheme, he had proposed that a certain amount of money will be paid to the poor per month to enable them to make purchases. The purchasing power of the poor will in turn help increase production by factories, which will further lead to the creation of jobs and subsequently, remonetise the economy, Gandhi had said. "The common man is the worst hit by the coronavirus crisis. The one who struggles to make ends meet is left with no income source, said Thorat, who is also Maharashtra's revenue minister. What we are remembering the most at this juncture is the Nyay scheme Rahulji had proposed. We must give some amount of money to the poor if we want to give momentum to the economy. Hence, the Centre must extend monetary assistance to the poor, in line with the proposed scheme, Thorat said as he took part in the protest via Facebook live. The minister also picked holes in the Centres Rs 20 lakh crore special economic stimulus, alleging that it is not about spending money, but more about giving loans. The package is of no use to the poor who need monetary help to be able to make purchases, Thorat said. He also praised Congressmen for helping migrant workers in the state, following instructions by party president Sonia Gandhi. Another Congress leader and Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut seconded Thorat. Raut also demanded the Centre to take care of the ticket expenses of migrant labourers and provide financial assistance, and not loan, to the MSMEs. The working days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) should also be increased to 200, he demanded. Maharashtra Congress ministers Aslam Shaikh, Satej Patil and Varsha Gaikwad and state party spokesperson Sachin Sawant were also among the leaders who took part in the agitation. Sunny Valika, a Congress worker from Navi Mumbai, said the agitation was novel in a true sense and helped the youth who use social media extensively to flag the issues pertaining the poor. "We cannot move outside due to the lockdown. Hence, it was a great idea to agitate from where we are, maintaining social distancing and at the same time, take up the cause of the poor, Valika said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-holds-online-protest-seeks-help-from-centre-for-poor-842832.html
28-05-2020||National||Monsoon onset over Kerala likely on June 1: IMD||The southwest monsoon is likely to hit Kerala on June 1, thanks to a cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal, the India Meteorological Department said on Thursday. The IMD, in its onset date forecast on May 15, had said the monsoon is likely to hit the southern state on June 5, four days after its normal arrival. The normal onset of monsoon over Kerala is June 1. However, a cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal is likely to help in the faster progress of the monsoon. "A low pressure area is likely to form over southeast and adjoining east central Arabian Sea during May 31 to June 4. In view of this, conditions are very likely to become favourable from June 1 for onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala," the IMD said. A low pressure area is the first stage of any cyclone. It is not necessary that every low pressure intensifies into a cyclonic circulation. According to the IMD, the country is likely to receive normal monsoon this year. A low pressure area has also formed over west-central Arabian Sea. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region during next 48 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards towards south Oman and east Yemen coast during next three days, the IMD added. Under the influence of this weather system, heavy rainfall is likely over parts of south peninsular India during May 28-31, with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over Kerala and Lakshadweep during May 30-31. The IMD has also predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Tripura and Mizoram in the next 24 hours and heavy rainfall over Assam and Meghalaya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-onset-over-kerala-likely-on-june-1-imd-842837.html
28-05-2020||National||Supreme Court asks searching questions to Centre over migrant workers crisis||The Supreme Court Thursday asked some searching questions from the Centre on the plight of migrant workers ranging from as to how long they will have to wait before going to their native places to who will pay for their travel and provide them food and shelter. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, about the confusion over the payment of travel fare of stranded migrant workers and said that they should not made to pay for their journey back home. “What is the normal time? If a migrant is identified, there must be some certainty that he will be shifted out within one week or ten days at most? What is that time? There had been instances where one state sends migrants but at the border another State says we are not accepting the migrants. We need a policy on this," the bench told Mehta. The bench, questioning him over the travel-fare for the migrants, said: “In our country, the middlemen will always be there. But we don’t want middlemen to interfere when it comes to payment of fares. There has to be a clear policy as to who will pay for their travel." At the outset, Mehta submitted a preliminary report and said that between May 1-27 total of 3,700 special trains have been run for carrying migrant labourers and many have been shifted by road to bordering states. He said 91 lakh migrant workers have been shifted to their native places till Wednesday. Millions of migrant workers were stranded across the country without food, shelter and transportation after the nationwide lockdown was announced from March 25 at 4-hour notice to combat the spread of the global pandemic, COVID-19. They then started walking hundreds of miles to reach their homes, leading to miserable plight. The bench sought to know from Mehta that with food surplus available with the Food Corporation of India (FCI), during the time migrant workers are waiting to be transported, is food being supplied to them. It said that why there should be a shortage of food and shelter for the migrant workers and it should be provided to them till they get transport for travel. Questioning the delay over transportation of migrants, the bench said that it is a major problem and many have been waiting for weeks after their registration for journey to their native places. The top court said that food needs are to be provided to the migrant workers by the originating State or the Centre, as the question of receiver state providing the food would come only after they reach there. The bench said it needs to be ensured that till the time the migrants are transported back to their homes, food, shelter and other essentials are taken care of. It also asked the Centre to tell the time needed to shift all the migrants to places where they wanted to go and what would be the mechanism to ensure food and basic amenities to them. Mehta said the information with regard to the time frame can be provided by the State government. To this, the bench said that it is not that the government is not doing anything but looking at the number of stranded migrants, some concrete steps need to be taken. It also asked Centre about the status of migrant workers who are not living in shelter homes and many of them are still living in their rented homes. The top court asked about the estimated time required to shift the migrants and the arrangements made for that saying is there any mechanism in place and whether the migrant workers know that they would be transported on fifth day, seventh day of tenth day. On May 26, the top court had taken cognizance of the miseries of migrant workers and said there have been “inadequacies and certain lapses” by the Centre and the states, and asked them to provide transport, food and shelter immediately free of cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-searching-questions-to-centre-over-migrant-workers-crisis-842840.html
28-05-2020||National||CPI(M) MP seeks relief measures from PM to help newspaper industry||Coimbatore Lok Sabha member P R Natarajan has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come out with relief measures to help the newspaper industry, which has been suffering due to the ongoing coronavirus- induced lockdown. The CPI(M) Parliamentarian, in a recent letter to Modi, highlighted the challenges faced by the industry and said several newspapers have already cut down on the number of pages and even closed editions. He said the industry which provided jobs to lakhs of people was suffering due to the effects of the lockdown as advertisement revenues had taken a beating and were expected to continue for a longer period. Natarajan said the party's MPs supported the proposals of newspapers' body such as waiver of customs duty on newsprint, clearance of outstanding BOC dues, increased rate by 100 per cent for BOC ads, increased use of print medium for government announcements and complete tax holiday for the next two fiscals.P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-mp-seeks-relief-measures-from-pm-to-help-newspaper-industry-842842.html
28-05-2020||National||Chhattisgarh transfers 69 bureaucrats, including 23 collectors; BJP says state is corrupt anarchy||The transfer of nearly 70 bureaucrats, including 23 collectors, in the last two days, have stirred up a controversy in Chhattisgarh, which is witnessing a gradual increase in coronavirus cases, with the BJP claiming that the state is a "corrupt anarchy" now and resorting to "transfer business" during this sensitive time. An order of transfer of 55 officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) was issued on Tuesday by the general administration department of the state. As many as 23 collectors of the total of 28 districts of the state were transferred to other posts. In another order issued on Thursday, as many as 14 officers of state civil services, all of whom were working as deputy collectors in various districts, were transferred. Interestingly, the state finance department on Wednesday issued a directive mentioning a slew of austerity measures, including prohibiting the transfer of government employees, saying the nation-wide lockdown for prevention of COVID-19 infection has adversely affected the revenue collection of the state government. "As per the decisions, creating new posts, transfer, organizing meetings inexpensive hotels, foreign tours and purchase of new vehicles has been prohibited and instructions have been given to take economic measures for recruitment on vacancies, promotion, annual salary increment," an official release had said. The move to transfer around 70 bureaucrats has been criticised by the opposition BJP. "As many as 23 collectors of districts have been transferred at a time when coronavirus cases are increasing in the state. It is a set back to the efforts being put to check the pandemic. There is transfer industry working in the state which has become corrupt anarchy now," said O P Choudhary, member of BJP state executive committee. He said these transfers should have been avoided during this sensitive time. "The state of affairs in Chhattisgarh can truly be explained through Roman phrase, i.e. when Rome was burning, Nero was playing flute!,” said Choudhary, a former IAS officer-turned-politician. Choudhary, who had been Raipur collector and held various posts in the state, said the Congress government needs to put its house in order and stop playing with people's lives. A state government official termed these transfer as routine and rejected the BJP's allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-transfers-69-bureaucrats-including-23-collectors-bjp-says-state-is-corrupt-anarchy-842843.html
28-05-2020||National||ADB sign agreement for Maharashtra road development||The Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Government of India today signed a $177 million loan to upgrade 450km of state highways and major district roads in  Maharashtra. The signatories to the Maharashtra State Road Improvement Project were  Sameer Kumar Khare, Additional Secretary (Fund Bank and ADB), Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance who signed for the Government of India, and  Kenichi Yokoyama, Country Director of ADB’s India Resident Mission who signed for ADB, according to a press statement issued here on Thursday. After signing the loan agreement, Khare said that the project will improve connectivity between rural areas and urban centers in the state enabling rural communities to better access markets, employment opportunities, and services. Improved mobility will expand development and livelihood opportunities outside of the state’s major urban centers to second-tier cities and towns thus reducing income disparities. Yokoyama said that the project will also strengthen road safety measures by developing a road safety audit framework that will protect vulnerable groups such as the elderly, women, and children, following the international best practice. Giving more details, Yokoyama said that another feature of the project is to update the road maintenance system by encouraging 5-year performance-based maintenance obligations to contractors to sustain asset quality and service levels. Overall the project will upgrade two major district roads and 11 state highways, with a combined length of 450 km, to 2-lane standard across seven districts of Maharashtra, and improve connectivity to national highways, interstate roads, seaports, airports, rail hubs, district headquarters, industrial areas, enterprise clusters, and agricultural areas. The project will also focus on training the Maharashtra Public Works Department project staff to build their capacity in climate change adaptation and disaster-resilient features in road design, road maintenance planning, and road safety. ADB is committed to achieving a prosperous, inclusive, resilient, and sustainable Asia and the Pacific while sustaining its efforts to eradicate extreme poverty. Established in 1966, it is owned by 68 members—49 from the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adb-sign-agreement-for-maharashtra-road-development-842845.html
28-05-2020||National||A migrant in Bihar quarantine who eats 40 rotis, 10 plates of rice a day||Bihar officials visited a quarantine centre in Buxar district to enquire about an unusual incident there. A 23-year-old migrant, who had returned from Rajasthan and was quarantined at the Manjhwari Quarantine Centre in Buxar, was reported to be consuming 40 rotis (chapatis) in the breakfast and around eight to 10 plates of rice during lunch every day. The administrative officials, when informed about the diet of a young Anup Ojha, decided to visit the quarantine centre during lunch hour. They were shocked to find how a person can consume such quantum of food which would, otherwise, have fed at least 10 persons. “We were informed that, a Bihar delicacy ‘litti’ (a dough ball made of wheat flour and stuffed with roasted chickpea) was prepared for the migrants staying in the quarantine centre, Ojha ate 85 littis that day. The cook, who prepares roti, is now tired of preparing so many chapatis for one particular individual. So, we decided to get a first-hand account of this person and his diet,” said the Block Development Officer (BDO) AK Singh.  Actually, it was Ojha’s unusual diet which brought this quarantine centre into limelight. It was reported that the foodgrains and other eatables were running out of stock fast despite the limited number of migrants. The matter reached headquarters when it was informed that one particular individual consumes substantial food (which normally would have fed ten persons). “Ojha’s quarantine period is about to end. We have instructed the cook that he should not be deprived of food. Nor there should be any slash in his diet. Let him have whatever he wants,” the officials instructed the manager of the quarantine centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-migrant-in-bihar-quarantine-who-eats-40-rotis-10-plates-of-rice-a-day-842846.html
28-05-2020||National||Not ready to open food stalls on rly platforms yet; urge officials not to pressure us: Vendors body||Stalls on platforms have been shut throughout the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown, which was imposed on March 25 to check the spread of the infection. However, through a letter on May 21, the Railway Board directed all zonal railways to open permanent and vending stalls located inside railway stations with immediate effect. "No one likes to keep their business closed for long and sit without work but wants to operate their units under viable conditions,” Akhil Bharatiya Railway Khan-Pan Licensees Welfare Association president Ravinder Gupta said in a letter to Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav on May 28. "There are many hurdles and unprecedented situations in reopening of the units (stalls) due to the ongoing lockdown/ containment zones and Red Zones in most of the states of the country,” it said. The letter also said that most vendors had migrated to their hometowns due to the lockdown and raised the issue of safety for vendors alleging that no arrangements have been made for the protection of men and material on platforms. "'Shramik Trains' are continuing to transport migrant labourers who are looting and vandalising and causing heavy damages to some stalls. Are those local authorities going to take responsibility in case of loss or injury,” Gupta asked in the letter. The association also requested the railways to allow reasonable time for reopening of the static platform stalls. "It is therefore earnestly requested to kindly allow reasonable time for reopening of the static units, restrict officials from creating panic and building pressure, and collecting data in respect of reopening of the same which is causing fear in the mind of all concerned,” the letter said. It also said that there is no point in opening food stalls at the moment as very few trains were operational. "Only 100 pairs of passenger trains are scheduled to be operated from June 1. In absence of proper restoration of all trains and normalized situation, there are hardly any possibilities of availing vending services by bonafide passengers,” the letter said. Food vending services on platforms are an important source of meals for passengers at this time, especially for those on ‘Shramik Special’ trains who are undertaking long journeys and running out of food and water. These trains have around three stoppages. There are around one lakh static units or stall at 9,000 railway stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-ready-to-open-food-stalls-on-rly-platforms-yet-urge-officials-not-to-pressure-us-vendors-body-842848.html
28-05-2020||National||SC orders free food for stranded workers, no fare for journey||Faced with criticism of being indifferent to the plight of migrant workers, the Supreme Court on Thursday (May 28) got to cracking its whip on lapses by the Centre and States, as it directed for providing the stranded labourers with food by the concerned state government, till they returned to native places. It also directed that no fare of either train or bus can be charged from the migrant workers, by ordering the States to share the money. "All stranded workers shall be provided food by the concerned state, till their turn for return to native places," a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah said. "Although there is no doubt that concerned state governments and UTs are taking steps, there are several lapses in the process of registration, transportation, providing food and shelter to the migrants," the bench said. Acting Suo Motu on the plight of workers, the court ordered that originating state to provide meal and water at the station. Railways would have to provide meals and water to migrant workers during the journey. It also told the State to oversee the registration of migrant workers and their boarding of trains. SC also directed that the migrant workers found walking on the roads, should immediately be taken to shelter homes and provided with food and other facilities.  It further directed the States to speed up registration of migrant workers and build help desks to facilitate boarding buses or trains at an early date. The Supreme Court said complete information needs to be publicised to make migrants aware of it. The court gave the Centre and States time till Friday next to provide a complete detailed response on steps taken by them. The SC's order came on Suo Motu matter based on problems and miseries faced by migrant workers, after the nationwide lockdown was imposed since March 25. Though Solicitor General Tushar Mehta tried to convince the court of steps taken by the Centre and States, the bench decided to issue directions to address the "miseries and difficulty of migrants trying to get to their native place".  "Even after registration migrants have to wait for their turn to board the train or bus. A large number of migrants are still proceeding by foot," the bench said. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal, AM Singhvi, Indira Jaising, Colin Gonsalves, P S Narasimha, and other made interventions into the hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-free-food-for-stranded-workers-no-fare-for-journey-842850.html
28-05-2020||National||PM Modi calls for setting up one solar city in each state||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has suggested states to have at least one solar city,  where the entire area should get electricity through rooftop solar installations. The Prime Minister, who reviewed the work of the Ministry of Power and Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, on Thursday evening,  said: "each State should have at least one city (either a capital city or any renowned tourist destination) to have fully solar city through rooftop solar power generation." The meeting also discussed the policy initiatives of the Ministry of Power and New Renewable Energy including revised Tariff Policy and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 to redress the problems afflicting the power sector. The PM  pointed out that the problems in the power sector, especially of the electricity distribution segment, vary across regions and states. Instead of looking for a one-size-fits-all solution, the Ministry should put in place state-specific solutions to incentivise each state to improve its performance, said a statement. The PM  advised the Ministry of Power to ensure that the power distribution companies (DISCOMS) publish their performance parameters periodically so that the people know how their DISCOMs fare in comparison to their peers. Regarding the New and Renewable Energy, Prime Minister emphasized the need for a holistic approach for the entire supply chain of the Agriculture Sector ranging from solar water pumps to decentralized solar cold storages. India targetted to have 175 gigawatts (GW) of clean energy capacity by 2022 of which 100 gigawatts (GW) from solar projects by March 2022. At present country produces 33GW of solar power. As part of the Centre plans to bring major reforms in the electricity sector the Centre announced draft Electricity Act (Amendment) Bill 2020, in which the government proposed a cost-reflective tariff and setting up an Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority to enforce power purchase agreements (PPAs).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-calls-for-setting-up-one-solar-city-in-each-state-842855.html
28-05-2020||National||COVID-19 response in India can be strengthened by developing mobile health solutions: Study||India’s response to COVID-19 can be strengthened by developing comprehensive mobile health solutions for frontline healthcare workers and public health authorities, a study said, stressing on the need for "necessary but least intrusive" measures for disease surveillance. Published online in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR), the study also said there is a need for the mass installation of a single contact tracing mobile phone application. Under the study, conducted by researchers of Delhi-based George Institute for Global Health, Google Play and the Apple app store were searched using terms such as 'COVID-19', 'coronavirus', 'pandemic', an 'epidemic'. In addition, a search was run for COVID-19-related apps using the phrase ‘COVID-19 mobile apps in India’. The search was conducted in the first week of April and updated on May 3, as per the study. It said a list of COVID-19 specific functions was compiled based on the review of selected apps, the literature on epidemic surveillance and national and international media reports. WHO guideline on Digital Health Interventions was also used to classify app functions under the categories of the general public, health workers, health system managers and data services apps in India, it said. During the study, the researchers found that governments, including the Centre, have invested in the development of mobile apps to deal with this crisis. The search yielded 346 potential COVID-19 apps, of which 50 met the inclusion criteria, the study said.  Besides these, dissemination of untargeted COVID-19-related information on preventative strategies and monitoring the movements of quarantined individuals was the function of 27 and 19 apps, respectively. Eight apps had contact tracing and hotspot identification function, the study said. While there were differences in state-specific information in the apps developed by different states, the system architecture and many of the functionalities, including self-testing, quarantine monitoring and contact tracing, were common between these apps. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has taken proactive measures to promote installation and usage of the Aarogya Setu app, which is currently available in 11 Indian languages, the study said, highlighting that penetration of the app is critical to the success of technology-enabled contact tracing. Evidence suggests that 70 per cent of the population should have the app installed for digital contact tracing efforts to be effective, the researchers said. "The current technological plurality in the absence of robust data exchange mechanisms and Centre-state coordination can be detrimental for technology-assisted contact tracing in a heterogeneous country like India, especially once the lockdown ends and free movement of people starts," the study said. Overcoming this challenge requires Union and state governments to ensure the mass installation of a single contact tracing app collaboratively, it said. In terms of privacy, the study said contact tracing and quarantine monitoring apps reviewed in this study collected user data such as name, phone number, real-time location, and Bluetooth interactions with other app users. While the collection of location data is essential for mapping hotspots of disease transmission, privacy experts are concerned about this data being a hazard for an individual’s privacy and national security, it said. The Aarogya Setu app’s privacy factor was recently questioned by opposition parties, following which the government opened the source code of its coronavirus tracing app. The researchers said the collection of location data in South Korea and China sparked global concerns related to privacy and potential mala fide use of the data. To counter this, countries like Singapore and Argentina used tracking apps that only collect Bluetooth interaction data to preserve user privacy. "To ensure transparency, Singapore and Israel have shared their app source code with researchers for an independent audit. In the absence of a data protection law in India, the central and state governments need to address these privacy-related concerns to garner public trust that would ensure the deployment of these apps at scale," the study said. The review of app functionalities further revealed that information dissemination regarding preventative measures was the primary function of the majority of the existing apps in India, it said. The apps reviewed in this study did not have specific strategies to deal with the infodemic. The Union health ministry has formally recognized remote consultation through ‘Telemedicine practice guidelines’, with a growing number of COVID-19 cases, the study said. There is urgent need to create integrated teleconsultation options within these apps to assure quality healthcare services, including those with pre-existing conditions, it said. This study despite limitations has important implications for informing the development of future COVID-19 mHealth initiatives in India. "In a hysteric environment and a severe shortage of testing facilities, the self-risk assessment function available in the apps may help spot the patients at risk for COVID-19," the researchers said in the study.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-response-in-india-can-be-strengthened-by-developing-mobile-health-solutions-study-842862.html
28-05-2020||National||Financial distress forces two migrant workers to kill themselves in Uttar Pradesh||It seems to be a double whammy for the migrant workers, who have been arriving in large numbers at their native villages in Uttar Pradesh after fleeing the industrial towns in Maharashtra, Gujarat and other states in the country. The migrant workers, who had left their work places after they ran out of money following closure of business establishment in the COVID-19 enforced lockdown, were unable to find jobs back home to make two ends meet. The intensity of the problem can be assessed by the incident of two migrant workers killing themselves in UP's Banda district, allegedly owing to financial problems. According to the police sources, Suresh Kumar, a resident of Lohara village in the district, allegedly hanged himself by a tree on Wednesday. The residents said that Suresh worked in a private company in Delhi and had returned to his native village five days back. They said that Suresh did not have any money and that his efforts to get work had proved futile. In another incident, Manoj Kumar, a resident of Sindhan Kalan village in the district, hanged himself by a ceiling fan in his room on Wednesday. Manoj, who worked as a security guard in Mumbai, had returned ten days back. The locals said that Manoj did not have money to buy food.    District officials, however, said that the reasons behind the twin suicides are yet to be ascertained. ''We are investigating the matter,'', said a senior district police official in Banda. Barely a few days back, a migrant worker had died allegedly due to hunger in the state's Saharanpur district. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued a notice to the UP government in this regard. UP government has claimed that it is providing free ration to the migrant workers arriving from other parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/financial-distress-forces-two-migrant-workers-to-kill-themselves-in-uttar-pradesh-842871.html
28-05-2020||National||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman launches instant allotment of e-PAN based on Aadhaar||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday launched a facility for instant allotment of online PAN on furnishing of Aadhaar details. The Budget 2020-21 had proposed to launch a system under which Permanent Account Number shall be instantly allotted online on the basis of Aadhaar without filling up the detailed application form as it sought to further ease the process of PAN allotment. In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday formally launched the facility for instant allotment of PAN (on near to real time basis). "This facility is now available for those PAN applicants who possess a valid Aadhaar number and have a mobile number registered with Aadhaar. The allotment process is paperless and an electronic PAN (e-PAN) is issued to the applicants free of cost," the CBDT said.  The 'beta version' for instant allotment of PAN on trial basis was started on February 12, 2020 on the e-filing website of the Income Tax Department. Since then, 6,77,680 instant PANs have been allotted with a turnaround time of about 10 minutes, till May 25, 2020. As on May 25, 2020, a total of 50.52 crore PANs had been allotted to taxpayers, out of which around 49.39 crore were allotted to individuals and more than 32.17 crore linked with Aadhaar. The last date for the PAN-Aadhaar linkage is June 30, 2020. For generation of instant PAN, the applicant is required to access the e-filing website of the Income Tax Department, provide her/his valid Aadhaar number and then submit the OTP received on the Aadhaar registered mobile number. On successful completion of the process, a 15-digit acknowledgement number is generated. If required, the applicant can check the status of the request anytime by providing her/his valid Aadhaar number and on successful allotment, can download the e-PAN.  The e-PAN is also sent to the applicant on her/his e-mail ID, if it is registered with Aadhaar, the CBDT said. "The launch of the Instant PAN facility is yet another step by the Income Tax Department towards Digital India, thereby creating further ease of compliance for the taxpayers," the CBDT added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-launches-instant-allotment-of-e-pan-based-on-aadhaar-842877.html
28-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Homecoming not easy, say migrants as they look for suitable jobs in villages||Back home and now trying to fit in, several migrants who have returned to their villages after decades are scouring for work tailored to their experiences in the big city and their age profile. As lakhs of migrants are still making their way back to their villages, homecoming, some are discovering, is not always easy with limited work opportunities, few resources and no use for the work they did back in the city. Some say they are too old, others that they can’t handle the rigours of hard, physical labour. Hari Kumar, who scrambled for a seat on a Shramik Special train to take him from Delhi to his village Pilakhana in western Uttar Pradesh in the first week of May, is one of those trying to adjust to his new life.  The choices available to him include farming, livestock rearing and manual labour in rural construction projects, but the 43-year-old, who owned a tea shop in south Delhi’s Nehru Place office complex, feels like the proverbial square peg in a round hole – not quite fitting in.  "I made tea and snacks. That’s what I know. I don't have much of a choice but I have no idea how to work for 12 hours every day under the sun in this heat and compete with men who are in their 20s," Hari confessed. He said he left the village when he was 15 and almost three decades later is trying hard to adjust to his new life. "I spent so many nights crying, missing home. When I returned I just stayed at home and spent time with my children. Now, as days have passed, I have realised I need to look for a job here but my experience cannot be used here," Hari told PTI over phone. Returning to Delhi is not an option. He owned a tea stall but had to shut it down after the lockdown, to curtail the spread of COVID-19, started on March 25. With no business, he exhausted all his savings and now is left with nothing. Suresh, who goes by only one name, is in the same quandary. The 40-year-old, who suffers from a physical disability and walks with crutches, worked at a grocery shop in Noida where he was in charge of maintaining an inventory of the stock and is back home in his village in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. He said he was one of the first people to be fired from the grocery shop and can’t find suitable work in Hathras either. "It is difficult for a 40-year-old like me to be dependent on relatives for long and the kind of livelihood opportunities for me in the village are limited," he said. Suresh, who left Noida, a suburb of the national capital, earlier this month, refuses to say how he made the over 100-kilometre journey to his village. “It was desperation that drove me out. The situation was very bleak in Delhi. I just wanted to leave the city. I did not think what I will do once I come back to my hometown," he told PTI over phone. Guttan Singh, who moved back to Mughalsarai in Uttar Pradesh, lost his job as an office assistant in a firm in Noida. But the white collar worker, who took a bus home on May 18, has no such options in his village. The only work option he has is being involved in a construction project as a labourer. "I am 53, I am not sure if I am fit for the job but there is no other choice as I have a family of four to feed," he said. Explaining the crisis confronting the workers, Nirmalya Choudhury, senior researcher with VikasAnvesh Foundation, an NGO working in the rural development sector, said it is important to understand that returnee migrants are not a homogenous entity.   "They could be skilled, semiskilled, unskilled. They may have very few resources at home and hence they might be forced to return back even after all this trauma if they don't get an opportunity for livelihoods in their villages. However, what opportunities they get have to be pegged to who they are," he said. Choudhury said a skilled person who had a decent work in the city might not be interested in doing MGNREGA work. "However, a desperate migrant who is unskilled and has a lot of dependents, might be still willing to work on anything, even if it is unskilled labour work in MGNREGA," he said. "For the other category, one might need to make options for decent livelihood opportunities in the local area. So what is important is to understand the heterogeneity and accordingly make plans for livelihood enhancement for the return migrants," he said. The coronavirus-triggered lockdown has had a devastating impact on the economy as well as on the livelihoods of lakhs of migrant workers. The plight of migrant workers, walking hundreds, sometimes thousands of kilometres, cycling or clambering on to buses and train, to go from urban centres to their villages has been the focus of concern for almost two months. The Centre, on Saturday, said around four crore migrant labourers are engaged in various jobs across the the country. And so far, 75 lakh of them have returned home in trains and buses since the nationwide lockdown was imposed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-homecoming-not-easy-say-migrants-as-they-look-for-suitable-jobs-in-villages-842882.html
28-05-2020||National||Railways platform food vendors seek time to open stalls||The Railways Food Vending Association has said it is not ready to begin services on platforms due to the COVID-19 crisis and urged officials not to pressurise them opening stalls. "There are many hurdles and unprecedented situations in reopening of the units (stalls) due to the ongoing lockdown/ containment zones and Red Zones in most of the states of the country", Akhil Bharatiya Railway Khan-Pan Licensees Welfare Association president Ravinder Gupta said in a letter to Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav on May 28. The Association sought reasonable time to open static stalls on platforms.  All stalls on platforms have been shut throughout the country since lockdown announced on March 24 to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the Railway Board on May 21 directed all zonal railways to take steps to open permanent and vending stalls located inside railway stations with immediate effect. The Association letter also said that most vendors had migrated to their hometowns due to the lockdown and raised the issue of safety for vendors alleging that no arrangements have been made for the protection of men and material on platforms. The association also raised the incidents of passengers of Shramik Special looting and vandalising some of the stalls and said these incidents caused heavy damages to some stalls.  There are around one lakh static units or stall at 9,000 railway stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-platform-food-vendors-seek-time-to-open-stalls-842885.html
28-05-2020||National||Solicitor General terms those criticising govt as 'prophet of doom'||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on Thursday took potshot at those critical of the government's efforts in bringing relief to lakhs of migrant workers, by terming them as "prophets of doom". During the hearing in a Suo Motu matter on plight of migrants, he vehemently asked the Supreme Court not to let senior advocates Kapil Sibal, A M Singhvi, Indira Jaising and Colin Gonsalves make submission on behalf of intervenors and others. "For these arm chair intellectuals, lordships are neutral only if they abuse the executive. If a handful of people want to control the institution, then it will become an ADM Jabalpur incident (when SC did not uphold personal liberty during emergency). All these people wanting to intervene need to apply the vulture and child story," he said. Mehta said before a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah that these people should speak only if they proved their credentials. "The question to ask is: what have they contributed? Your lordships must ask them to file an affidavit on their contribution? Except for writing on social media, penning articles, giving interviews? People are working tirelessly, from the safai karamcharis to the PM," he said. Mehta asked the court not to let anyone use this platform to become a political platform. He also referred to the letter sent by a group of senior advocates, including Sibal, Chidambaram and Jaising.  On this, the bench said, "People who have been part of the institution, if they believe they can run down the institution it is unfortunate. We have to go by our conscience." Mehta also pointed out, "Some High Courts are running a parallel government." Sibal, for his part, maintained, "It (the issue) is a humanitarian crisis. It has got nothing to do with politics." Mehta said the Centre is doing a lot to prevent COVID-19 but there are "prophets of doom in the country who only spread negativity, negativity, negativity. These arm chair intellectuals do not recognise the nation's effort". He also mentioned story of a photographer who went to Sudan in 1983 and clicked a picture of a child being eaten by a vulture. The photo published in NYT won Pulitzer prize but the photographer committed suicide after four months. "A journalist had asked the photographer as to what happened to the child? He said I don’t know, I had to return home. Then the reporter asked him how many vultures were there? He said one. The reporter said - no. There were two. One was holding the camera," Mehta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/solicitor-general-terms-those-criticising-govt-as-prophet-of-doom-842901.html
28-05-2020||National||12 IndiGo passengers who travelled on four flights test positive for COVID-19||A total of 12 asymptomatic passengers who travelled in four flights of IndiGo have tested positive for COVID-19, the airline said on Thursday. Three passengers who travelled on Delhi-Jammu flight on Tuesday, six passengers who were on Bengaluru-Coimbatore flight on Wednesday, two passengers who were on Delhi-Coimbatore flight on Wednesday and one passenger who was on Bengaluru-Madurai flight on Wednesday tested positive for the novel coronavirus, the airline said. Domestic passenger flights resumed in India from Monday. Since then, 16 passengers of three different airlines have tested positive for COVID-19. On Thursday evening, IndiGo said in a statement, "A few asypmtomatic passengers who travelled on IndiGo flights were discovered to be COVID-19 positive on May 28, 2020. This included 3 passengers on 6E 955 from Delhi to Jammu on May 26, 6 passengers on board 6E 6992 from Bengaluru to Coimbatore on May 27 and 2 passengers on 6E 908 from Delhi to Coimbatore on May 27. Earlier during the day, the airline said in another statement, "An asymptomatic passenger who travelled on IndiGo on 6E 7214 from Bangalore to Madurai on May 27, 2020 was discovered to be COVID-19 positive during the mandatory testing at the quarantine facility in Madurai on 27th May." The passenger had observed all precautionary measures, including wearing face mask, face shield and gloves, like other passengers on the aircraft, IndiGo added. "All our aircraft are regularly sanitized as a standard operating procedure, and the aircraft operating these flights were immediately disinfected as per protocol," the airline said in both the statements. "The operating crew has been home quarantined for 14 days and we are in the process of notifying other passengers as per the government guidelines, to ensure safety of our passengers and staff," it said in both the statements. SpiceJet had said on Wednesday that two of its passengers who travelled from Ahmedabad to Guwahati via Delhi on Monday tested positive for COVID-19. On Tuesday, IndiGo had said that a passenger who travelled on flight 6E 381 from Chennai to Coimbatore on Monday evening tested positive for the disease. Air India had stated on Wednesday that a passenger who was on an Alliance Air flight from the national capital to Ludhiana tested positive for coronavirus and a total of 41 people, including five crew members, had been quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-indigo-passengers-who-travelled-on-four-flights-test-positive-for-covid-19-842905.html
28-05-2020||National||30 groups in India trying to develop coronavirus vaccines, many working at good pace: Principal Scientific Adviser||Nearly 30 groups in India, ranging from big industry players to individual academics, are trying to develop vaccines to fight coronavirus, Principal Scientific Adviser K VijayRaghavan said on Thursday. Of these 30, 20 are working at a good pace, he said. "About 30 groups in India, big industry to individual academics are trying to develop vaccines to fight COVID-19 of which 20 are keeping a good pace," VijayRaghavan said at a media briefing. Without naming the entity, he said some players are at a pre-clinical stage and may reach the clinical stage by October. He said vaccine development currently takes nearly 10 years and costs around USD 200-300 million, but the aim the world over is to find a vaccine for coronavirus in a year. But this requires a parallel processing, he noted. "Instead of working on one vaccine and seeing whether it works for a 10-year period, and investing on that, we have to invest in 100 vaccines (development). The world is investing on more than 100 vaccines at the same time," he said, adding that the entire process will now cost USD 2-3 billion. VijayRaghavan said it is also essential to go past the regulatory process without comprising on quality while finding a vaccine. Elaborating the work done by the Indian companies and institutions in vaccine development, he said efforts are being made to develop it within the country. On the other hand, Indian companies and institutions have also partnered with entities outside working on the same mission. He also cautioned that the logistics of making a vaccine accessible to everyone will be a big challenge as the most vulnerable lot will need it the most. Designing a new drug, he said, is a "very very big challenge" and just like a vaccine it takes a very long time. "Most attempts fail and thus you have to try a lot," he said. He said the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has been working on using different types of drugs for fighting the coronavirus. VijayRaghavan said the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research and the AICTE have also embarked on a drug discovery hackathon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/30-groups-in-india-trying-to-develop-coronavirus-vaccines-many-working-at-good-pace-principal-scientific-adviser-842908.html
28-05-2020||National||FAO expects locust swarms to reach as far as Bihar, Odisha but not south India||Swarms of locusts are expected to reach as far as Bihar and Odisha in July but there are less chances of migratory pests reaching south India, according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). In the past few days, there have been movements of adult groups of locusts in India, Oman, the UAE, and Uganda. Swarms are forming in the spring breeding areas and migrating east to the Indo-Pakistan border ahead of the monsoon rains, it said. In its latest update, the FAO said locust swarms have moved into northern India.   Spring-bred immature adult groups of locust and swarms that arrived in Rajasthan from the west continued to move east in the eastern portion of the state and to the central states of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Much of these movements were associated with strong westerly winds from Cyclone Amphan in the Bay of Bengal, the FAO said and added the control operations are underway. The FAO warned that "several successive waves of invasions can be expected until July in Rajasthan with eastward surges across northern India as far as Bihar and Orissa followed by westward movements and a return to Rajasthan on the changing winds associated with the monsoon," These movements will cease as swarms begin to breed and become less mobile, it said. "Swarms are less likely to reach south India" and also to Nepal and Bangladesh, the FAO said. The crop-eating pests have entered India through Pakistan. Besides Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, swarms have entered Uttar Pradesh's Jhansi district and also Maharashtra's Ramtek city, according to the Indian government's data. FAO Director General Qu Dongyu had on May 22 warned that efforts to control Desert Locusts will take time. "Our gains have been significant, but the battle is long and is spreading to new areas. It is clear that we cannot declare victory yet. Upsurges of this magnitude are rarely defeated in a few months," Qu said. In the coming months, desert locusts will continue breeding in Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia. New swarms will form in June and migrate to Sudan through South Sudan and pose a risk to the Sahel in West Africa. There is also an increased risk along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border, where outbreaks in Iran, and Pakistan are still ongoing. Despite control operations, recent heavy rains have created ideal conditions for the pest's reproduction in several countries. Young juveniles will become voracious adults in June just as farmers begin to harvest, compounding an already bleak food security situation. "The locusts, combined with the impacts of COVID-19, could have catastrophic consequences on livelihoods and food security," Qu emphasized. According to estimates, about 720,000 tonnes of cereal have been saved so far -- by preventing the locusts' spread and damage to many more hectares - enough to feed five million people for a year. The livelihoods of an additional 350,000 pastoral households were also spared, the FAO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fao-expects-locust-swarms-to-reach-as-far-as-bihar-odisha-but-not-south-india-842915.html
28-05-2020||National||Indian Railways' treatment of migrant labourers borders barbarism: NHRC||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Thursday(May 28) bluntly told the Indian Railways that its treatment of migrant workers bordered around “barbarism” and one could understand bad weather delaying services but it is “hard to believe” that trains are reaching unexpected destinations and taking more than a week to reach its scheduled station. Poor labourers cannot be treated in such an "inhuman manner just because they are poor and the government has paid for their tickets" and any "shortcoming on the part of the government agencies cannot be covered under the excuse of the unprecedented situation amid countrywide lockdown", it said. The NHRC's strong comments came as it sought reports from the Union Home Secretary, Chief Secretaries of Gujarat and Bihar and Railway Board Chairman following reports of seven deaths in Shramik Special Trains due to hunger as well as one train from Gujarat’s Surat taking nine days to reach Bihar’s Siwan. Taking Suo Motu cognisance of media reports, it said aggrieved families have suffered “irrevocable loss” and the State has "failed" to protect the lives of the poor labourers on board the trains. "The rail network in India is the largest in the world and well equipped with modern technology, trained staff and other infrastructure. A train getting late due to bad weather etc for some hours is always considered beyond the control of the authorities but trains getting lost during journey, reaching unexpected destinations and taking more than a week to reach its scheduled station is hard to believe and require a thorough investigation into the matter," it said. Poor labourers have already suffered a lot in distant places and are desperate to reach their homes to meet family, the NHRC said adding it was a "matter of concern for it as they are being subjected to such a treatment by the Railway authorities, which borders around barbarism". Acknowledging that the COVID-19 situation is "unprecedented", the NHRC said it has left the government agencies, scientists and the public at large "totally clueless". It also noted that complaints are being received from different parts of the country regarding unnecessary harassment of people by the public authorities and it has emerged from the entire scenario that the people belonging to vulnerable classes have suffered the most. "Daily wages workers, small shop owners, rickshaw pullers, cab operators and poor labourers have become the worst victims in recent days. As the lockdown was announced, it was stated by the central government that wherever a person is staying he/she should stay there only so that the social distancing could be maintained and the spread of the virus could be contained up to maximum," the NHRC said. It observed that migrant labourers started "feeling uncomfortable" and started protesting to reach their native places. "It was mandatory on the part of the host state to take care of them and to provide them basic amenities but the things gradually went out of control and the labourers, in large numbers, started moving on their own by different modes of transport and thousands of them chose to walk on foot. Many labourers lost life during their journey on foot and suffered badly. After reviewing the situation, the central government announced that special trains will start from different parts of the country to take the migrant labourers to their native places," the NHRC said. On May 1, the government started running special trains but the "sufferings of the poor labourers are not seemingly coming to an end", it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-treatment-of-migrant-labourers-borders-barbarism-nhrc-842917.html
28-05-2020||National||India acted as pharmacy of the world in response to coronavirus: MEA||India has acted as the "pharmacy of the world" and healthcare supplier to all parts of the globe in response to the coronavirus pandemic, the external affairs ministry said on Thursday. In a virtual address on 'Enhancing Economic Engagement with Diaspora in and post COVID-19 world', Sanjay Bhattacharyya,  secretary (overseas Indian affairs and consular passports visas) in the External Affairs Ministry, said India has the ability to be a bridge between the developed and developing world and facilitating a two-way flow of information, products and expertise. "India has acted as the pharmacy of the world and healthcare supplier to all parts of the globe. India has the ability to be a bridge between the developed and developing world and facilitating a two-way flow of information, products and expertise. There is growing interest in yoga and ayurveda," he said. He said on the diplomatic front, India has been actively engaged through the new medium of virtual contacts on phone and video. "Prime Minister and EAM (S Jaishankar) have had discussions with their counterparts in various countries not only to share experiences of coronavirus and ways to deal with it but also to develop a positive agenda for the post COVID-19 period," a statement by the External Affairs Ministry quoted him as saying. "We have engaged to give new momentum to regional and plurilateral groupings such as SAARC, BRICS, G-20 as well as in UN agencies. Bilaterally, EAM has even held Joint Commission meetings and we are preparing for a Summit meeting soon," he said. Bhattacharyya said these exchanges have also helped shape informed and coordinated responses to the coronavirus pandemic, such as evacuation of stranded nationals from each other's territories; maintenance of critical supplies of life-saving medicines and food; extension and facilitation of visas for each other's nationals; and sharing of best practices by partner countries. He said in the initial assessment, based on inputs from Indian missions, it was found that India's record of managing the pandemic of this scale with decisive and early steps - and a low per capita incidence and death rate - has drawn favourable international attention to its resolve and capabilities. "There is a significant market for food, agricultural products and food-processing industries. Indian automobiles, particularly low-cost automobiles, including two and three-wheelers will have an augmented market in developing countries. Textiles, garments and consumer durable industries will have export opportunities as many markets look to diversify their sources of supply," he said. He further said that Indian e-commerce, IT and IT-enabled service industries have demonstrated that they can work through a crisis of this magnitude. "These are obviously the businesses of the future. Digital highways can be used to leverage our higher education capabilities through tele-education onto a much larger market," he said. A major economic opportunity for India will arise from the drive to diversify global supply chains. The attractions of investing in India are obvious. It is a major opportunity and needs to be grasped, he added. "My own assessment is India will remain one of the fastest growing economies in post-COVID-19 scenario and economic growth will gain momentum in the medium to long-term," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-acted-as-pharmacy-of-the-world-in-response-to-coronavirus-mea-842931.html
28-05-2020||National||Indian firms to manufacture 5 lakh coronavirus test kits per day by July: Centre||India is expected to produce five million COVID-19 test kits per day by July, reducing significantly its dependence on imports for diagnostics of the viral infections spreading across the globe. Addressing a press conference, top scientists K Vijayraghavan and V K Paul also sought to give a reality check on the vaccine development efforts making it clear that the earliest immunisation shots will be available only some time next year. The global efforts at vaccine development are aimed at delivering results within a year what otherwise would have taken 10 years. “When a vaccine is made, it is not like a switch which will be available to everyone on day one. This disease is so unusual that the youngest to the oldest would need a vaccine and the logistics of making vaccines available is also being discussed,” Vijayraghavan, the Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India, said. On the testing front, Paul said 20 Indian companies have been manufacturing indigenous testing kits to meet the growing domestic requirement. “These companies will be in a position to deliver half-a-million testing kits every day by July. We may even export these kits after meeting our domestic demand,” said Paul, Member (Health), Niti Ayog.   India’s COVID-19 count increased by 6,556 on Thursday to touch 1,58,323, while the death toll witnessed a sharp spike as 194 fatalities, taking the total to 4,531. According to the Health Ministry, there are 86,110 active cases while 67,692 have been discharged from hospitals. Besides, Vijayraghavan said that AICTE and CSIR have embarked on a drug discovery hackathon where students are trained with information on how to do computational drug discovery. He also said five important things that need to be kept in mind for the prevention of COVID-19 before the vaccine is developed are – social distancing, hand hygiene, surface cleaning, tracking and testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-firms-to-manufacture-5-lakh-coronavirus-test-kits-per-day-by-july-centre-842937.html
28-05-2020||National||Railways increases advance reservation period for all special trains from present 30 to 120 days||Indian Railways on Thursday decided to  increase the advance reservation period (ARP) of all specials trains from current 30 days to 120 days. This is applicable to15 pair Special Rajdhani Express started from May 12 and 100 pair special timetabled train to be started from June 1. Booking of parcel and luggage shall be permitted in all these trains, said Rajesh Dutt Bajpai, spokesperson, Indian Railways said in a statement. Even current booking, tatkal quota allocation of seats to road side stations also to be same as in regular time tabled trains. These changes will be implemented with effect from 08:00 hrs of train booking date of  May 31, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-increases-advance-reservation-period-for-all-special-trains-from-present-30-to-120-days-842939.html
28-05-2020||National||11 IndiGo passengers test coronavirus positive, crew quarantined||11 asymptomatic IndiGo airline passengers, including six who boarded from the city's Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. All crew members who operated the concerned flights have been quarantined. The six passengers from the city had boarded the IndiGo 6E 6992 flight to Coimbatore on Wednesday. Three other passengers on flight 6E 955 from Delhi to Jammu who flew on May 26 and two others who travelled on the 6E 908 flight from Delhi to Coimbatore on Wednesday were also found to be COVID-19 positive. An IndiGo spokesperson said all the passengers had observed all precautionary measures including wearing of face mask, face shield and gloves, just like other passengers onboard the aircraft. All our aircraft are regularly sanitiSed as a standard operating procedure. “The aircraft operating these flights were immediately disinfected as per protocol. The operating crew has been home quarantined for 14 days.” The airline is now in the process of notifying other passengers as per the government guidelines. This is critical “to ensure safety of our passengers and staff,” the spokesperson added. IndiGo had on Tuesday grounded the Chennai-Coimbatore flight crew after one passenger tested positive. It was the first case after domestic flight services resumed on Monday. More such cases are expected to surface in the coming days, triggering more trouble for airlines. Quarantining crew for long could also lead to shortage of staff.  45 cancellations at KIA Meanwhile, 45 scheduled flights, including 24 departures and 21 arrivals were cancelled at KIA from midnight till 5.30 pm on Thursday. In all, 69 flights were operated during this period, including 33 arrivals and 36 departures. The cancellations are expected to surge on Friday since the state government announced curbs on flights arriving and departing to five states including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. Passengers from red zone cities in these states were mandated to undergo institutional quarantine for 14 days at their cost. This had caused widespread anger and frustration among travellers, who questioned its rationale.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/11-indigo-passengers-test-coronavirus-positive-crew-quarantined-842958.html
28-05-2020||National||Between May 1 and 27, 3700 Shramik trains have transported 91 lakh migrants: Centre tells SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed that migrant workers wanting to return to their home states will not be charged train or bus fares and those stranded across the country will be provided food free of cost by the authorities concerned. As the Centre submitted that 91 lakh migrants have been transported to their native states by 3,700 ‘Shramik Special’ trains and buses, the court posed searching queries to the Centre and state governments over stranded migrant workers facing endless wait for seats in home-bound trains or buses, the confusion over payment of fares and alleged lack of food and shelter for them. "What is the normal time? If a migrant is identified, there must be some certainty that he will be shifted out within one week or ten days at most? What is that time? There had been instances where one state sends migrants but at the border another state says we are not accepting the migrants. We need a policy on this," the court told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. "There has to be a clear policy as to who will pay for their travel." In its 11-page order, the court said certain interim directions were required to be issued to be followed by the states, union territories as well as the Centre to "redeem the immediate difficulties" of the migrant workers. There is no doubt that the concerned state governments/union territories are taking steps to do the needful, the court observed, but added there are several difficulties and lapses which are being noticed in the process of registration, transportation and in providing water, food, shelter to these migrant workers. Looking into the “difficulties and miseries” of migrant workers", the court asked the Centre and the states to file their affidavits on the migrants crisis within a week and posted the matter for further hearing on June 5. A bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah heard a battery of senior lawyers, including Solicitor General Mehta, Kapil Sibal, A M Singhvi, Colin Gonsalves and Indira Jaising through video conference for almost two-and-half hours before passing the interim directions. At one stage, Mehta complained that there are "arm chair intellectuals" acting as "prophets of doom" in the country by spreading negativity and not recognizing the "humongous" efforts being made to deal with migrant workers' crisis following the coronavirus lockdown which came into force on March 25.  Mehta submitted that since May 1 to May 27 the Railways has operated 3,700 ‘Shramik Special’ trains and transported over 50 lakh migrants to different States. “Over and above the 50 lakhs migrant workers shifted through Special Shramik Trains, 41 lakhs migrant workers were taken from their respective places to their desired destination through road transport,” he said. The top court, which on May 26 on its own took cognizance of the miseries of migrant workers, said states shall try to endeavour that after registration, the workers should be asked to board the train or bus at the earliest and complete information should be publicized to all concerned regarding the mode of transport. The move by the court came against the backdrop of criticism by activists and lawyers that it was not doing enough to address the migrants crisis. "No fare either by train or by bus shall be charged from any migrant workers. The railway fare shall be shared by the states as per their arrangement as submitted by the Solicitor General and in no case any fare should be asked or charged from any migrant workers by the states and the Railways," the court said in its order.     The court directed that those migrant workers who are found walking on the highways or roads shall be immediately taken care by the concerned state/union territory and they shall be provided the transport to the destination and all facilities including food and water be provided to those found walking on the road. It said that after the migrant workers reach their native place, the receiving state shall provide transport, health screening and other facilities free of cost. The court said that migrant workers, who are stranded at different places in the country, shall be provided food free of cost by the concerned states and UTs at "different places which shall be publicized and notified to them during the period they are waiting for their turn to board the train or bus." "Initially, as stated by the Solicitor General, the originating state shall provide water and meal and during the journey, the railways shall provide meal and water to the migrant workers and same facilities shall be extended when the migrant workers are transported by bus. The state shall take care of providing necessities water and meal during the period of transportation either in the bus or in the camps on the way." The bench noted in its order that even after registration for travel, the migrants have to wait for a long time for their turn to come. "We are of the view that in the responses which are to be filed by the Central government and the state governments, all necessary details regarding the number of migrant workers, the plan to transport them to their destination, the mechanism of registration and other details should be brought on the record," it said. Mehta further said Uttar Pradesh and Bihar account for more than 80 per cent of the migrant workers and both the States have adopted a novel policy which would not only help the migrant workers but would also substantially reduce the risk of spreading of virus. “The unprecedented situation needed unprecedented measures”, the law officer said, adding that a joint decision has been taken that the home-bound migrant workers, out of them 80 per cent hail from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, will not be burdened with the fare. To this, the court said,“In our country, the middlemen will always be there. But we don’t want middlemen to interfere with this when it comes to payment of fares. There has to be a clear policy as to who will pay for their travel. Mehta also said the state government and railways provided food and water free of cost. “So far, the Railways have served 84 lakh meals and over 1.5 crore Packaged Drinking Water Bottles (Rail Neer) apart from the services provided by the respective state governments.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/between-may-1-and-27-3700-shramik-trains-have-transported-91-lakh-migrants-centre-tells-sc-842970.html
28-05-2020||National||Border still tense, India echoes China’s amiable words; cold shoulders Trump’s mediation offer||New Delhi on Thursday subtly cold shouldered US President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate between India and China, indicating that it would rather continue with its bilateral engagements with the neighbouring communist country to restore the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto border between the two nations – on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh.   A spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi said that India and China had “established mechanisms both at military and diplomatic levels” to peacefully resolve through dialogue situations, which might arise in border areas between the two nations. He said that New Delhi and Beijing continued to “remain engaged through these channels”. Though a day has passed after Beijing struck a conciliatory note, raising hopes for an early breakthrough in its talks with New Delhi, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has not yet withdrawn its soldiers, who had transgressed into the territories claimed by India. The Indian Army too has not yet pulled out the additional troops it deployed in response to the Chinese PLA’s aggressive posturing. New Delhi, however, echoed the amiable words that came from Beijing on Wednesday. “India is committed to the objective of maintenance of peace and tranquility in the border areas with China and our armed forces scrupulously follow the consensus reached by our leaders and the guidance provided,” Anurag Srivastava, the MEA spokesperson, said in New Delhi on Thursday. He was referring to the consensus reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping during the two informal summits they had in April 2018 and October 2019 on maintaining peace and tranquility in the border areas pending the resolution of the protracted dispute over the boundary through negotiations. Srivastava’s statement came a day after his counterpart in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, Zhao Lijian, too had referred to the “important consensus” the two nations had reached during the informal summits between the Prime Minister of India and the Chinese President. Zhao had said in Beijing on Wednesday that the situation along the disputed border between the two nations was “overall stable and controllable”.  "At the same time,” the MEA spokesperson added while briefing mediapersons in New Delhi, “we remain firm in our resolve to ensure India’s sovereignty and national security.” He said that the Indian Army soldiers took a very responsible approach towards border management and strictly followed the procedures laid out in various bilateral agreements and protocols with China to resolve any issue that might arise in the border areas.  “We are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve these issues,” Srivastava said, avoiding a direct reply to a question from a journalist on New Delhi’s response to the US President’s offer to mediate between India and China to resolve the boundary dispute.  Trump’s earlier offers to mediate between India and Pakistan on the issue of Kashmir had been categorically rejected by New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/border-still-tense-india-echoes-china-s-amiable-words-cold-shoulders-trump-s-mediation-offer-842974.html
28-05-2020||National||Buffer stock of foodgrains at 752 lakh tonnes: Govt||The Centre has about 752 lakh tonnes of foodgrains in buffer stock as on May 27, which it believes is more than sufficient to meet regular demand under the food law and various other welfare schemes as well as for free distribution during the COVID crisis.  Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Thursday chaired a review meeting with the Food Corporation of India's zonal executive directors and regional general managers on the distribution and procurement of foodgrains. The review meeting was held through video conference. Paswan lauded the role of the FCI during the lockdown and said that foodgrains movement has been at an all-time high, according to an official statement.  He said FCI workforce has emerged as food warriors at the time of global pandemic crisis. While reviewing the allocation of foodgrains under Atma Nirbhar Bharat Package for migrants/stranded migrants, Paswan said the Centre has  allocated 8 lakh tonnes foodgrains (2.44 lakh tonnes wheat and 5.56 lakh tonnes rice) to 37 states/union territories for the months of May and June.    According to FCI, 2.06 lakh tonnes of foodgrains have been lifted by the states/UTs till May 27.  Under this package, 5 kg of foodgrains will be distributed free of cost to each migrant per month during May-June.  In the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), the Centre has made allocation of 120.04 lakh tonnes of foodgrains (15.65 lakh tonnes wheat and 104.4 lakh tonnes rice) to 37 states/UTs for the months of April, May and June 2020.  Till May 27, 95.80 lakh tonnes of foodgrains (15.6 lakh tonnes of wheat and 83.38 lakh tonnes of rice) have been lifted by the states/UTs. Under the PMGKAY, 5 kg foodgrains is being distributed free of cost per person per month during April-June period.  As per the FCI, the West Bengal government has requested 11,800 tonnes rice stock under the Open Market Sale Scheme OMSS (D) sale without e-auction at Rs 2,250 per quintal, but no requirement of foodgrains has been intimated by the Odisha government till date.  Paswan asked the FCI to coordinate with West Bengal and Odisha governments and appraise the latest status of food grains in the cyclone hit states. According to the FCI as on May 27, total 351 lakh tonnes of wheat (RMS20-21) has been procured during the rabi (winter-sown) marketing season 2020-21. About 60.40 lakh tonnes rice has been procured.  The FCI informed about the current stock position of foodgrains as on May 27, 2020.  Officials said 479.40 lakh tonnes of wheat and 272.29 lakh tonnes of rice are available in the central pool, taking the total buffer stocks to 751.69 lakh tonnes. "Expressing satisfaction at the stock position to meet the country's present and future needs of foodgrains, Paswan pledged the government's all-out support to FCI officers and workers who have been toiling hard during this period of crisis," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/buffer-stock-of-foodgrains-at-752-lakh-tonnes-govt-842978.html
28-05-2020||National||Gujarat HC bench that called Ahmedabad civil hospital 'dungeon' reshuffled||The division bench of Gujarat High Court, that had passed several scathing orders against the state government for poor handling of coronavirus pandemic terming the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital as a "dungeon", was reshuffled on Thursday, with the Chief Justice taking over as the lead judge, leaving the senior judge of the previous bench as junior. The chief justice Vikram Nath passed an order on Thursday, bringing himself in the bench along with justice J B Pardiwala. It is to be noted that the division bench of chief justice Nath and justice A J Shastri had first took suo motu cognisance on March 13 and issued notice to state government over "precautionary measures in the wake of the pandemic of coronavirus (COVID-19)."  Subsequently, many petitions were filed which are being heard together. Later, the bench was changed and justice Pardiwala and justice Ilesh J Vora were assigned to hear the petitions. On May 11, the bench led by justice Pardiwala took suo motu cognisance of several media reports on issues pertaining to migrant workers' plight, mortality rate of COVID-19 patients and grim situation in the Ahmedabad civil hospital. On May 22, the bench made many critical remarks against the state government for failing to control the pandemic and chaos. The court criticised the bureaucrats and health minister while terming the civil hospital, where nearly 400 patients have passed away, "as good as a dungeon." A couple of days later, the embarrassed state government filed urgent plea, despite being a national holiday for Eid, seeking clarification on observation with regard to the civil hospital and remarks made against the health minister Nitin Patel and other officers. Lawyers of other litigants were allegedly barred from the proceeding. While taking the clarification on record, the bench said that it would make a surprise visit to check the actual condition of civil hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-hc-bench-that-called-ahmedabad-civil-hospital-dungeon-reshuffled-842987.html
28-05-2020||National||India indicates readiness to Nepal's resolve border row||India on Thursday indicated its readiness to engage with Nepal to resolve the festering border row on the basis of mutual sensitivity and respect. India is monitoring the current situation in Nepal, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said referring to Kathmandu deferring a plan to bring in a constitutional amendment to validate a new map that depicted Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as its territory "We note that this matter is receiving careful consideration in Nepal, taking its seriousness into account," he said at an online media briefing. In the midst of a border dispute with India, Nepal last week released a revised political and administrative map of the country laying claim over the strategically key areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura. India reacted angrily to the move saying such "artificial enlargement" of territorial claims will not be acceptable and asked the neighbouring country to refrain from such "unjustified cartographic assertion" "India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an environment of trust and confidence. This is a continuous process and requires constructive and positive efforts," Srivastava said. He also talked about India attaching great importance to the deep-rooted historical, cultural and friendly relations with Nepal. Nepal delayed a discussion in Parliament to amend the Constitution for updating the country's map after Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli decided to seek national consensus on the issue. The Constitution amendment proposal was to be tabled in Parliament on Tuesday but it could not be done after Oli said that he wanted to hold an all-party meeting to discuss the matter. According to Nepal's law, a constitutional amendment requires two-thirds majority vote. The ties between the two countries came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory. Nepalese Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali earlier this month summoned Indian Ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra and handed over a diplomatic note to protest against India inaugurating the key road. The Lipulekh pass is a far western point near Kalapani, a disputed border area between Nepal and India. Both India and Nepal claim Kalapani as an integral part of their territory -- India as part of Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh district and Nepal as part of Dharchula district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-indicates-readiness-to-nepals-resolve-border-row-842991.html
28-05-2020||National||Ads with Big B, Hrithik, Akshay, Nehwal face ASCI flak||Campaigns featuring actors Amitabh Bachchan, Akshay Kumar, Kareena Kapoor, Hrithik Roshan, badminton player Saina Nehwal have been rapped by advertising industry's self-regulatory body ASCI for suspect and misleading claims. In all the campaigns, the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) has found that the brands could not prove that the celebrity had done due diligence prior to endorsing the product, an official statement said. Bachchan's ad for Step App was found to be promoting "gamified school education" by promising them a prize money of Rs 5,000-Rs 1 crore and it was not clear how this becomes a "scholarship", it said. The brand endorsed by Bachchan could not show the corpus of Rs 50 crore as claimed, nor could it establish how the scholarship offered by it is larger than rivals, it said. For Akshay and Kareena, it was their endorsement of Indira IVF Hospital during a movie co-promotion that made the unsubstantiated claim of being the country's largest and most successful IVF and fertility chain, which earned them the flak. Hrithik's endorsement for Jolly Tulsi 51 Drops was found to have made an unsubstantiated claim of saving or protecting from diseases, it said. In the case of Saina Nehwal's endorsement of Rasna Native Haat Honey Vita, claims of the product strengthening bones and aiding muscle redevelopment were unsubstantiated, it said. For February, the ASCI investigated complaints against 279 ads, of which 101 were promptly withdrawn, while the independent Consumer Complaints Council (CCC) evaluated the remaining 178 advertisements, of which complaints against 171 advertisements were upheld, it said. Of these 171 advertisements, 77 belonged to the education sector, 59 to healthcare, six were from real estate, and five each from visa/immigration services and personal care segments, it said. Other brands which faced flak included Bajaj Auto for its campaign for the Platina motorcycle featuring a pillion rider shaving the rider's beard while on the move that was deemed to be a promotion of a dangerous act and Ultratech Cement for its unsubstantiated claim of being the number one in India, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ads-with-big-b-hrithik-akshay-nehwal-face-asci-flak-842995.html
28-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Has community transmission already begun in India?||The gains of the two-months long lockdown period notwithstanding, the COVID-19 virus now sweeps through the community silently infecting others, even as the government keeps mum, say doctors and public health specialists tracking the pandemic. On the eve of the Lockdown 5.0 that would focus on 13 cities accounting for 70 percent of the cases, DH spoke to a cross-section of medical specialists who are unanimous in claiming that the virus is out in the open. "At the moment, there is community transmission. It is not the case of a local cluster anymore. It is fully expected as this is how an epidemic grows," said Jayaprakash Muliyil, former principal, Christian Medical College, Vellore and one of the country's leading epidemiologists. Gujarat health officials too admit on condition of anonymity that in cities like Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara the infection tracking efforts have been abandoned as the virus is being found in people who neither had a travel history nor were in contact with those who had such history.  Earlier this month, in Ahmedabad alone, the health officials detected over 700 COVID-19 cases in milkmen, grocers and vegetable vendors, signalling a spread in infection as a result of community transmission. On the other side of the country, officials in Kolkata also noted that the infection is being spread to people with no travel history and no link to people with travel history. "Community transmission is going on in most of the affected places. Our major challenge is the return of the migrant workers. Just wait for two weeks. It will become clear how the influx of migrant workers aggravate the situation in the eastern state," he said. In fact, some of the actions taken by the Indian Council of Medical Research are, in a sense, a tacit admission of the reality.  For instance, the council had advised all healthcare workers (doctors, nurses and paramedics) as well as police and other front line workers to take hydroxychloroquine as a preventive medicine.     The decision raises eyebrows with the experts questioning the need for such wide scale use of the controversial medicine, if there is no community transmission. But on the record, neither ICMR scientists nor  health officials at the central and state governments admit that the outbreak has moved from stage 2 to stage 3 in India whereas experts outside the government have a different opinion altogether. "The community transmission is indeed happening in India since mid-March. It has caused many infections and deaths that could have been potentially prevented if the public and healthcare personnel were warned in mid-March onwards of increasing spread among people so that they could take personal precautions," said T Jacob John, one of India's foremost virologists and a retired professor of CMC Vellore. Citing a number of cases of doctors falling prey to the virus, John said all those lives would have been saved if the government was forthcoming with the alert. "In Mumbai alone there are several cases of doctors who got the infection after opening their clinics. How did this happen? This is purely community transmission," said a senior doctor,  associated with the Indian Medical Association's Maharashtra unit.  While ICMR has undertaken a large scale sentinel survey to check if the virus is spreading in the community, a brief research paper published by its scientists last month lets the cat out of the bag. Carrying out an early surveillance exercise on 5,911 patients from 51 districts with SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) and ILI (influenza like illness) between February 15 and April 2, the researchers found 104 COVID-19 positive cases. Out of those 104 cases, there were 40 positive individuals from 36 districts with no travel and contact history - a sure shot signature of community transmission. (With inputs from ETB Sivapriyan, Satish Jha, Mrityunjay Bose and Soumya Das)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-has-community-transmission-already-begun-in-india-842999.html
28-05-2020||National||India lifts curbs on paracetamol exports||Government on Thursday lifted restrictions on the export of active pharmaceutical ingredients of  paracetamol, the common pain reliever drug, a Directorate General of Foreign Trade notification said  Export curbs were imposed on paracetamol and formulations made from the compound in March by the government to shore up domestic supplies amid the coronavirus pandemic.  In April, the government had removed the curbs on shipments of formulations made from paracetamol.  Now, it has removed restrictions on paracetamol APIs also. India's exports of formulations of paracetamol were to the tune of 5.4 billion dollars between April 2019 and January 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-lifts-curbs-on-paracetamol-exports-843002.html
28-05-2020||National||Rajya Sabha MP & Mathrubhumi Managing Director MP Veerandra Kumar passes away||M P Veerendra Kumar, a Rajya Sabha MP from Kerala and the Managing Director and Chairman of a prominent Malayalam media group that brings out the widely read daily Mathrubhumi, passed away on Thursday. The 83-year-old former Union Minister breathed his last after suffering a heart attack at a hospital in Kerala's Kozhikode where he was admitted at around 8:30 pm. Kumar was the president of the Loktantrik Janata Dal's (LJD) Kerala unit. He was also a prolific writer and has authored around ten books. Kumar, who always placed himself against communal politics, entered active politics in the 1950s and was the treasurer of the Samyuktha Socialist Party in 1968. He took charge as the Managing Director of the Mathrubhumi Printing and Publishing Company in November 1979 when the company was passing through turbulent times. Veerendra Kumar became an MLA for the first time in 1987 and was the Forests Minister in EK Nayanar government then. During the United Front government's rule, he was Minister of State for Finance in 1997 and was later promoted to the post of MoS with independent charge of Ministry of Labour. He was also the Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs. Kumar was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 1996. He then became an MP in 2004 and was the leader of the JD(S) in the Lower House till 2009. Veerendra Kumar was close to JD(S) patriarch and former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda. He, however, split with Gowda later following internal feud in the party unit in Kerala and formed the Socialist Janata (Democratic) in 2010.  In 2014, Kumar merged his party with the Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) after it snapped  its ties with the NDA. Later when Nitish returned to the NDA fold, Kumar refused to join him and resigned from the Rajya Sabha in 2017, a post he'd won on the JD(U) ticket. He was later re-elected from Kerala again with the support of the Left Democratic Front. He revived the SJD again but later aligned with Sharad Yadav who had fallen out with Nitish over the issue of joining the BJP, and merged with the LJD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-mp-mathrubhumi-managing-director-mp-veerandra-kumar-passes-away-843004.html
28-05-2020||National||Delhi violence: Ex-Cong councillor Ishrat Jahan moves court seeking interim bail to get married||Former municipal councillor from the Congress Ishrat Jahan, booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, moved a Delhi court Thursday seeking interim bail for 30 days to get married. She has been booked under the anti-terror law in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Parveen Singh put up the matter for further hearing on May 30 after the Additional Public Prosecutor sought more time to verify the facts of her scheduled marriage. During the hearing held through video conferencing, Additional Public Prosecutor Dharam Chand, appearing for the state, told the court that the genuineness of the marriage card needed to be verified. He further said that the fact about her scheduled marriage needed to be verified as according to the bail plea, it was fixed almost two years ago. According to the interim bail plea, filed through advocate S K Sharma, Jahan said her marriage was fixed in 2018 for June 12, 2020. The plea further said that Jahan would not tamper with any evidence or influence the witnesses if granted bail. Besides Jahan, Jamia Millia Islamia University students Asif Iqbal Tanha, Gulfisha Khatoon, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, President of Jamia Alumni Association Shifa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, former student leader Umar Khalid have also been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. The police had claimed in the FIR that Khalid and his associates had instigated people to start riots in the area and it was a “premeditated conspiracy”. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-violence-ex-cong-councillor-ishrat-jahan-moves-court-seeking-interim-bail-to-get-married-843005.html
28-05-2020||National Politics||Maharashtra, West Bengal target Railways over Shramik trains for migrants; Ministry says onus on states to coordinate||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday jumped right into the ongoing political feud between the Railways Ministry and the Maharashtra government as the two bickered over the operations of the Shramik Special trains. Banerjee sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention in the alleged "whimsical" functioning of the Railways in sending Shramik Special trains to West Bengal. She urged the Centre not to pursue politics when the state was battling a dual crisis of COVID-19 pandemic and trail of destruction left behind by Cyclone Amphan. Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab also hit back at Railways Minister Piyush Goyal, saying he had sent the trains in one go instead of the demand made by the Maharashtra government to operate them in a staggered manner. The Railways, however, said no trains were being "planned" by the national transporter and it was only operationalising the trains that had been asked for by the states. "The railways was given a demand with details such as the number of passengers, originating and destination points. All the related coordination is being done by the state governments," it said. "The railways is a medium providing service by arranging rakes based on the request from these states," it said. Around 41 trains were to leave for West Bengal on May 26, but only 10 had departed. So far, 35 trains have terminated in Bengal, 22 are in transit and three more are in the pipeline, according to the Railways data. Earlier, Goyal and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackaray had been involved in a slugfest over these trains. The Railways said the train schedule were finalised based on the requirement given by the originating State (Maharashtra in this case) and the same are communicated to the destination to the destination railway stations. Officials said while the Railways was ready to run around 100 trains, 26 departed from Mumbai on Wednesday. As many as 145 trains were scheduled to depart from Maharashtra on May 26, but most could not due to lack of passengers. So far, 677 trains have originated from the state, it said. Banerjee alleged that the state's infrastructure was "stretched to its limit" after Cyclone Amphan, and it can receive very few trains carrying migrant workers back on a daily basis as of now, she said. The state considers ferrying of a large number of migrant workers by the Railways as a big problem for public health. The pressure should be "optimal and well managed", Banerjee said. "The state government is facing a dual crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic and the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. Our infrastructure is completely stretched.  The Railways is sending Shramik Special trains to the state everyday according to its whims and fancies without even bothering to inform us," she said. "Where will we keep these migrant labourers for institutional quarantine?" she asked. "This is not the time for politics. We are facing a very tough situation and we need time and space to tackle it." The comments came ahead of the slated arrival of 11 Shramik Special trains in the state in the evening. "They can disturb me politically, but why are they causing harm to the state?" Banerjee said, as she hit out at the BJP. "West Bengal is facing such a major disaster. It will lead to a spike in COVID-19 cases. Who will take the responsibility then?" "I request the prime minister and Union home minister to look into the matter so that there is no spike in COVID-19 cases in the state. The prime minister should intervene," the TMC leader said. The TMC government had asked the Railways Ministry not to send Shramik Special trains to the state till May 26 in view of the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. However, a total of 41 such trains are scheduled to arrive in the city this week. Banerjee said she got to know only on Tuesday that many trains were coming from Maharashtra. "I myself spoke to the Maharashtra government and they said they were informed of it at 2'o clock the night before. Had the Centre drawn up a plan with us, the Railways ministry consulted us, it would have been better," Banerjee said. A senior railway official said that "it's the Maharashtra government and the West Bengal government which needs to coordinate. It is not a railway matter."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-west-bengal-target-railways-over-shramik-trains-for-migrants-ministry-says-onus-on-states-to-coordinate-842670.html
28-05-2020||National Politics||Maharashtra govt 'stable and strong', will complete five years: Nawab Malik||The Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, which has completed six months of its formation, is stable and strong and will definitely complete its five-year term, state minister Nawab Malik said on Thursday. Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray had taken oath as the state chief minister on November 28 last year along with six ministers, two each from his party, the NCP and the Congress, and the Cabinet was expanded later. The opposition BJP earlier raised questions over the stability of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, formed by three ideologically different parties. Some of the BJP leaders had reportedly said it will be a short-lived regime. Referring to that, state Minority Affairs Minister and NCPs national spokesperson Nawab Malik said, The government has completed six months. It is stable and strong. The BJP had said this government would be short-lived. But it will definitely complete its five-year stint." Malik alleged that the BJP keeps gossiping about the stability of the government. "And the government will not come down just because they are gossiping, he quipped. BJP MP Narayan Rane earlier this week met Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari and demanded imposition of President's rule in the state over the Thackeray-led government's "failure" in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. Malik said MVA was formed on the basis of a 'common minimum programme' drafted by the three parties, which are working unitedly. "The government is currently combating the COVID-19 threat. We will overcome it and will run the government properly, he said. The Shiv Sena, which has 56 seats in the state Assembly, forged an alliance with the once-rival parties NCP (having 54 MLAs) and Congress (44 MLAs) to form the government last year, after severing ties with long-term ally BJP. After elections to the 288-member Maharashtra Assembly last year, the Shiv Sena and BJP fell out over sharing the chief ministerial post in the state on a rotational basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-govt-stable-and-strong-will-complete-five-years-nawab-malik-842689.html
28-05-2020||National Politics||Scrapping RBI Bonds cruel blow to investors: Chidambaram||Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram on Thursday slammed the Modi government for giving a “cruel blow” to the people by discontinuing the popular RBI Bonds scheme and demanded immediate restoration of the same. “Every government is bound to provide at least one safe, risk-free investment option to its citizens. It was the RBI bond since 2003,” Chidambaram said. “After lowering the interest rates in PPF and small savings instruments, the abolition of the RBI Bond is another cruel blow. All citizens must demand that the RBI Bond must be restored immediately,” he said. He pointed out that the Modi government had discontinued the RBI Bonds scheme in January 2018, but re-introduced it the next day at a reduced interest rate. “I protested vehemently. Next day they re-introduced the bond but reduced the interest rate from 8 per cent to 7.75 per cent,” the senior Congress leader said. Chidambaram said effectively, after tax, the bond will yield only 4.4 per cent. “That is now taken away. Why? I deplore this action,” he said. The scheme was popular among retail investors looking for steady returns with minimal risk. It assured them a higher annual interest than what money in savings bank accounts, or even small savings schemes would typically earn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/scrapping-rbi-bonds-cruel-blow-to-investors-chidambaram-842730.html
28-05-2020||National Politics||Unlock treasury to help needy: Sonia||Top Congress leaders on Thursday (May 28) took to social media to highlight the travails of migrants and the poor with party chief Sonia Gandhi accusing the Modi government of turning a blind eye to their plight and demanded cash transfers to provide them succour. “For the first time since independence, people have seen the same pain and plight where lakhs of workers are walking barefoot, starving, thirsty, without medicines or any means forced to travel thousands of kilometers to reach home. Their pain and plight were seen by the entire nation but perhaps not by the government,” the Congress President said in a video message, kickstarting the ‘SpeakUp’ campaign. “Friends in Congress have decided that to raise India’s voice strongly we will run a social campaign to this effect. We request the union government to open the lock of treasury and give help to the needy,” she said. Scores of Congress workers led by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too highlighted the plight of the poor and demanded immediate cash transfers of Rs 7,500 per month for the next six months to alleviate the pain faced by the poor due to the anti-COVID lockdown. “We demand that all migrants be provided transport to reach home safely, increase employment days to 200 under MGNREGA, give Rs 10,000 immediate help to the poor and a financial package for small industries,” was the refrain of the Congress leaders who posted videos and messages on social media.  Chief Ministers Bhupesh Baghel, V Narayanasamy, and Amarinder Singh also posted videos making similar demands.     Priyanka also accused the BJP of making attempts to destabilise the Maharashtra government which was battling the COVID-19 outbreak in the state. “This is not the time to indulge in politics. This is a time for cooperation,” Priyanka said, criticising the Uttar Pradesh government for turning down the Congress offer to run 1,000 buses to ferry migrant workers to their respective villages.  “They claimed 12,000 buses of UP Transport Corporation would ferry migrants home. But the promise has remained on paper,” the AICC General Secretary, in charge of party affairs in Uttar Pradesh, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/unlock-treasury-to-help-needy-sonia-842760.html
28-05-2020||National Politics||Entire country heard cries of migrants but not govt: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said the entire country has heard the cries of pain of migrants "except the government" and urged the Centre to unlock its coffers to help those affected by the coronavirus-induced lockdown. In a video message posted as part of the Congress' 'Speak Up India' campaign launched on Thursday, she demanded that the government provide Rs 7,500 to each needy family for the next six months.   Gandhi lamented that even though the country is passing through a serious economic crisis with loss of livelihood, the central government has not helped those affected. "It is for the first time since Independence that such a spectre of pain and anguish has been witnessed, where lakhs of famished and thirsty labourers have been forced to walk hundreds of thousands of kilometres back home barefoot and without any access to medicines or transport," she said. "Everyone across the country except the government heard their cries of pain and trauma," she said in her video message on the party's social media handles. Gandhi said instead of loans, the government should provide financial relief to small and medium industry so that crores of jobs are saved and the country progresses. Noting that crores of livelihoods have been lost, lakhs of businesses and factories shut and farmers are running from pillar to post to self their produce, she said, "The entire country endured this pain but probably the government did not." "We again urge the Centre to unlock its coffers and help the needy. Put direct cash of Rs 7,500 per month in the account of every family for the next six months and provide Rs 10,000 immediately; ensure safe and free travel of labourers back home, employment opportunity and rations; and also increase the number of work days under MNREGA to 200 days to facilitate jobs in villages," Gandhi said. From day one, Congress workers and leaders, economists and social scientists and all leading citizens have told the government repeatedly to come forward and heal the wounds of people and help farmers, labourers, and traders, she recalled. "We don't know why the Centre is refusing to understand this issue and implement measures to address it. That is why the Congress has decided that it will run a social campaign to power the voice of India," she said. Asking people to join the campaign and share their problems, Gandhi said this will help the party strengthen the voice of people. "We stand by every citizen in this hour of crisis and together we will overcome these tough times," she said. A host of Congress leaders and workers have put out their messages on social media, asking the government to reach out those in need.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/entire-country-heard-cries-of-migrants-but-not-govt-sonia-gandhi-842794.html
28-05-2020||National Politics||Trains getting lost is magic of this govt's achche din: Sitaram Yechury||CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday said it was the "magic" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "achche din" that even trains are losing their way. The railways has said that it had to divert many Shramik Special trains travelling to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar between May 22 and May 24 due to 80 per cent of the traffic being routed there. This had led to many of these trains taking longer and convoluted routes with migrant workers on board without food or water. "The Modi government works only for the rich. They make fun of the poor and deny them their rights as citizens. "The Indian Railways has been running alright for decades. It is the magic of the achche din of the Modi government that now, even trains are losing their way. This is an example of not just mismanagement, but also this government's anti-poor mentality," Yechury said in a tweet. He also demanded a white paper from the government on how the lockdown was used to strengthen public health to fight the coronavirus pandemic. "Modi gave an unplanned unilateral last-minute firman for lockdown. Has no idea on how to end it scientifically now. The cost is being borne by millions of Indians. BJP govt compounded the misery of a public health emergency," the CPI(M) general secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trains-getting-lost-is-magic-of-this-govts-achche-din-sitaram-yechury-842956.html
28-05-2020||National Politics||Modi's 2.0 anniversary: With PM’s letter and Facebook Live, BJP set to fight back COVID-19 criticism||Facing a combined opposition attack over Modi governments’ COVID-19 strategy, the ruling BJP has decided to take the bull by horns, planning a month-long campaign from June citing the ‘nation’s united fight” against the pandemic and vowing to take to people the Prime Minister’s ‘atmanirbhar’ pitch to mark the first anniversary of Modi 2.0 government on May 30. A day after releasing a 30-page booklet titled "Who is trying to weaken India's fight against Covid?" which accused the Congress of weakening the fight against the pandemic, the BJP on Thursday unveiled plans to hold digital rallies across the country which it called “virtual samvad’. BJP president JP Nadda will also address the party workers through Facebook Live on this occasion Besides, all the seven wings of the BJP will also hold 500 digital rallies separately to address their respective constituencies including youth, women, farmers, Scheduled Castes, OBCs and women, “Dedicated to public service, BJP is walking shoulder to shoulder with the Modi government and while the government is taking big decisions for people’s safety, the party with its network of crores of workers is serving the people in various ways. Under the #FeedTheNeedy campaign, BJP’s 8.23 lakh workers in 909 district offices served food to 19 crore people and provided food packets to more than four crore people. In another campaign #WearFaceCoverStaySafe, the party distributed more than five crore face masks,” BJP general secretary Bhupendra Yadav said in an address through video conference.    In face of the massive attack from Congress and other Opposition parties, which described the government’s lockdown strategy a failure, Yadav expressed confidence that the country would triumph in the fight against COVID-19 and announced the party workers will distribute a letter written by the Prime Minister to 10 crore households in which Modi has talked about the steps taken by the central government during this difficult situation. The BJP has decided to hold at least one such event in every district and drive home the message of safety measures from COVID-19 to 10 crore homes during which party workers will also explain to people the significance of Indians adopting the use of indigenous products to make an "Atmanirbhar Bharat” The BJP also fielded Union Minister Smriti Irani separately to counter the attack of Congress, whereby she accused the main Opposition party of doing “cheap politics” taking the cover of the pandemic. “Congress is trying to weaken the resolve of the nation when not only the states but even the district administrative units are working together in the leadership of the Prime Minister against the pandemic,” she alleged. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had slammed Rahul Gandhi for allegedly acting in the  "most irresponsible" manner and spreading "falsehoods and misrepresentation of facts" while he released the booklet that compiled Gandhi's comments against the government vis a vis positive reports about the Modi government's efforts to combat COVID-19. BJP spokesperson GVL Narsinma Rao had accused Gandhi of indulging in “camera politics” and doing “politics of misery” over the issue of migrants after Congress released a video of Rahul interacting with a group of migrants  on move in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modis-20-anniversary-with-pm-s-letter-and-facebook-live-bjp-set-to-fight-back-covid-19-criticism-842963.html
28-05-2020||National Politics||Home Minister Amit Shah speaks to all CMs, seeks their views on extension of coronavirus lockdown||As the COVID-19 lockdown 4.0 ending this Sunday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday spoke to all chief ministers on the way forward and elicited their views on restrictions to be continued and further relaxations they would need. Officials said Shah heard the views of all the chief ministers, as the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is working on the next set of guidelines to be issued once lockdown 4.0 ends. Sources said the lockdown in a much more relaxed manner could be in place, though the Centre is insisting on stricter implementation in containment zones when the restrictions are likely to be extended for another fortnight. The Centre has given considerable relaxations during lockdown 4.0 that started on May 18. States are likely to enjoy more such relaxations post May 31 when it comes to the implementation of lockdown measures.  Sources said the MHA officials are working on the contours of the guidelines. They are looking at options like reopening shopping malls and gyms, though a final decision has not been arrived at as of now. Concerns are still there on allowing shopping malls, which have remained close since March 25, to open as it could attract large number of people. Some states are also pitching for opening up educational institutions from June 1 but the MHA appeared reluctant to do so. The bar on opening of cinema halls and other entertainment avenues may continue even post May 31. There are also suggestions from states like Delhi for staggered opening of Metro services. Sources said the new guidelines could further prune the negative list, announced for lockdown 4.0.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/home-minister-amit-shah-speaks-to-all-cms-seeks-their-views-on-extension-of-coronavirus-lockdown-842965.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||DCP in Delhi Police tests COVID-19 positive||A DCP in the Delhi Police tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, officials said. The Deputy Commissioner of Police is currently under home isolation, they said. Identification of the staff, who came in contact with the officer, is underway and further steps will be taken accordingly, a senior police officer said. The report of the officer being positive for noval coronavirus came on Wednesday, the official added. Earlier, an IPS-rank officer of the Delhi Police had tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dcp-in-delhi-police-tests-covid-19-positive-842632.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||DCP in Delhi Police tests COVID-19 positive||A DCP in the Delhi Police tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, officials said. The Deputy Commissioner of Police is currently under home isolation, they said. Identification of the staff, who came in contact with the officer, is underway and further steps will be taken accordingly, a senior police officer said. The report of the officer being positive for noval coronavirus came on Wednesday, the official added. Earlier, an IPS-rank officer of the Delhi Police had tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dcp-in-delhi-police-tests-covid-19-positive-842633.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Forest fire pics from Uttarkhand false: Rawat||Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat Wednesday said old pictures of forest fires in Chile and China are being circulated on social media to claim that Uttarakhand forests are in flames. He dismissed such social media photos as part of a "misleading propaganda", even as the state police threatened to take stern action against those responsible for spreading rumours about forest fires in Uttarakhand. "Old pictures of forest fires in 2016 and 2019 and those in Chile and China are being floated on the social media to spread a misleading propaganda about Uttarakhand. I request all not to believe in this deliberate propaganda. The number of forest fire incidents in the state this year are far lower than even last year," he tweeted. The Head of Forest Force, Jairaj, also called such pictures misleading. Forest fire incidents this year have been fewer than last year and the situation was well within control, he said. Meanwhile, the DG, Law and Order, Ashok Kumar said stern action will be taken against those who had spread such a propaganda which is "far from truth".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/forest-fire-pics-from-uttarkhand-false-rawat-842652.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Woman jumps into reservoir with 3 children||A woman allegedly committed suicide along with her three children by jumping into a reservoir in Rajasthan's Barmer district, police said on Wednesday. The incident occurred at Khara Mahechan village. All four drowned, Sindhari police station incharge Jetharam said. The deceased have been identified as Pappu Devi (30) and her three children -- Kavita (6) Manish (4) and Suresh (2). The officer said the woman''s eldest daughter survived as she was with maternal grandmother. No one was present at the time of the incident. He said the relatives of the deceased had been informed. Post-mortem will be done on Thursday after they arrive. The cause for incident has not been confirmed, but the woman apparently took the step due to some dispute with her husband.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-jumps-into-reservoir-with-3-children-842665.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Vehicle-borne IED blast averted in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama: Police||A vehicle-borne IED blast was averted as security forces detected a car fitted with explosives in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, police said. The improvised explosive device (IED) was safely defused. "A major incident of a vehicle borne #IED blast is averted by the timely input and action by #Pulwama Police, CRPF and Army," the Kashmir zone police wrote on its Twitter handle. According to sources, a white coloured private car was flagged by security forces at a mobile vehicle check point but the driver sped away. They said the security forces fired few shots at the car, which they found abandoned some distance away. During checking, an IED was found fitted in the vehicle, which was later defused, the sources said. Further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vehicle-borne-ied-blast-averted-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-pulwama-police-842716.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||2019-like suicide attack averted in Kashmir’s Pulwama||A major tragedy was averted after security forces recovered and defused a 20-kg improvised explosive device (IED) from a car in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Thursday morning. Police said the IED was recovered by a joint team of forces, including 44-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police, after the vehicle, a white Hyundai Santro car, with a fake registration number, was signalled to stop at a checkpoint, but it tried to accelerate and go through the barricade. “At least 40 to 45 kgs of explosive material was fitted in private vehicle jointly by Hizbul Mujahideen and Jaish-e-Muhammad terrorists in a bid to target security forces. Timely action of security forces averted major tragedy,” Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar told reporters. “Our men stopped the suicide attacker at two checkpoints and fired warning shots at both sites. The attacker jumped both checkpoints and left behind the vehicle late night yesterday,” the IGP said. He said that with the first light of the day, the security forces found that the vehicle was suspicious and that the Bomb Disposal Squad was instantly called. “After preliminary investigations, we found that the vehicle was laden with at least 40 to 45 kgs of explosive material which include ammonium nitrate, RDX and other material. Earlier, we thought it must be around 10 to 15 kgs,” the IGP said. He said a militant identified as Adil who works for the Hizbul and the Jaish and two other militants of these outfits are behind the act. “They were planning the suicide attack on 17th day of Ramazan (May 11), but couldn’t do it due to our intensified operations against militants,” Kumar said. On February 14 last year, a vehicle being driven by a local Kashmiri fidayeen (suicide) militant Adil Ahmed rammed his vehicle packed with explosives into a paramilitary bus on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway in the same district.  In the worst casualties suffered by the security forces in peacetime operations, over 40 CRPF personnel were killed and several others wounded. Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terror outfit had claimed responsibility for the attack and released a video clip of the suicide bomber, which it claimed was shot before the young man carried out the audacious attack in Lethpora, about 30 km from here. There has been a spurt in militant attacks in Kashmir in the last two months with 30 security forces personnel, including a colonel and a major, losing their lives. During the same period, nearly 40 militants, including Hizbul Mujahideen chief Riyaz Naikoo, have also been shot dead by security forces. The vehicle, along with the IED, was later destroyed by a bomb disposal squad. The massive explosion damaged several houses in the area, reports said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2019-like-suicide-attack-averted-in-kashmir-s-pulwama-842717.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||With 68 fresh cases, Bihar's COVID-19 tally crosses 3000-mark||Sixty-eight people tested positive for COVID 19 in Bihar on Wednesday, raising the state's tally for the dreaded coronavirus to 3,036, the health department said. Returning migrant workers continue to comprise a very high percentage of those infected and 2,072 of them have tested positive since May 3, according to the department. During the period, the state's overall tally has grown by around 2,500. The infected migrants happen to be returnees from 21 states across the country, though the most have come from Maharashtra (486), Delhi (462), Gujarat (301), Haryana (187), Uttar Pradesh (108), Rajasthan (107), Telangana (96), West Bengal (88) and Punjab (63). According to Anupam Kumar, Secretary, Information and Public Relations Department, more than 15 lakh migrants have arrived in the state by trains that begun plying since the beginning of this month while over 5 lakh are expected to arrive soon. Most of the cases reported during the day were from north Bihar districts such as Araria (15), Madhepura (9), Sitamarhi (6), Saran and Darbhanga (4 each), Begusarai, Saharsa and Purnea (3 each), Muzaffarpur and Supaul (2 each), and Kishanganj and Siwan (1 each). South of the Ganges, Arwal reported five cases, followed by Kaimur (4) and Aurangabad (3). Patna, the worst-affected district, reported a fresh case which caused its tally to climb to 218. Vaishali and Nawada districts also reported one case each. The state has so far reported 15 COVID 19 deaths -- two each from Patna, Vaishali and Khagaria districts and one each from Sitamarhi, Munger, East Champaran, Rohtas, Begusarai, Jehanabad, Nalanda, Siwan and Saran. The other worst-affected districts are Rohtas (201 cases), Madhubani (176 cases), Begusarai (162), Munger (148), Khagaria (143), Katihar (134), Buxar (114), Jehanabad (112) and Banka (106). All 38 districts have reported coronavirus cases, with Sheohar being the only with such number in single digit at 7. The number of patients who have been discharged from isolation centers upon recovery is 918. The number of samples tested so far is 68,262.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-68-fresh-cases-bihars-covid-19-tally-crosses-3000-mark-842718.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Jammu and Kashmir reports another COVID-19 death; toll rises to 27||An official said a 55-year-old man from Khanpora, Baramulla, died at SMHS hospital on Wednesday following which his samples were taken for COVID-19 testing. “His body was kept in a mortuary and his reports came positive for COVID-19 on Thursday,” he said, adding that he was having underlying health problems.  Nodal Officer for COVID-19 at GMC Srinagar, Dr Salim Khan confirmed the death and said that the patient was referred from GMC hospital Baramulla with fever, respiratory distress to SMHS hospital on May 27. “The patient died within hours of admission,” he said, adding that his samples were tested positive today. With his death, the toll due to COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir has reached 27 including 24 from Kashmir division and three from Jammu. In the past 12 days, the death toll of COVID-19 has more than doubled in Jammu and Kashmir. While the toll stood at 12 on May 16, it reached 27 on May 28. Most of the patients whose deaths have been attributed to the viral infection have been suffering from some comorbid conditions. However, the virus has also killed some ‘otherwise healthy’ individuals. Till Wednesday evening, Jammu and Kashmir had reported 1,921 COVID-19 positive cases out of which 854 have recovered and 1,041 are active positives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-jammu-and-kashmir-reports-another-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-27-842746.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Five more localities declared as containment zones in Delhi||Five more localities in Delhi were declared as coronavirus containment zones on Wednesday, taking the total number of such zones to 96 in the national capital. Fresh COVID-19 positive cases were reported from three pockets in east Delhi and two in south Delhi following which they were declared as containment zones by authorities, a senior Delhi government official said. "In east Delhi's Jagatpuri, Gali No. 3 from A/55 to S82 (Sai Chowk Dairy), Gali No. 4 and Gali No. 5 from B-98/1 to A/82 (Seedi Waa Mandir) under Anarkali Garden were sealed," he said. In south Delhi, two pockets in Tigri and Sangam Vihar were declared as containment zones. The affected streets and houses were sealed and police were deployed to prevent any unauthorised movement, officials said. The national capital on Wednesday recorded 792 fresh coronavirus cases, the steepest rise in a day so far, taking the overall COVID-19 infections to 15,257, while the death toll climbed to 303, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-five-more-localities-declared-as-containment-zones-in-delhi-842752.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Seven more die of COVID-19 in Rajasthan, toll 180; fresh 251 cases push state's tally to 8,067||Seven more COVID-19 deaths were reported in Rajasthan on Thursday, taking the toll in the state to 180, the health department said. The state also reported fresh 251 coronavirus cases which raised its infection tally to 8,067. One death each was reported from Ajmer, Banswara, Dausa, Jaipur, Karauli and Nagaur. The location of one more fatality is yet to be ascertained, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. Of the new cases, 69 were reported in Jhalawar, 64 in Jodhpur, 32 in Pali, 12 in Bharatpur, 10 in Sikar, nine each in Kota and Nagaur, seven each in Jaipur, Jhunjhunu and Bikaner besides cases in other districts, he said. There are 3,072 active COVID019 cases in the state, while 4,249 people have been discharged, officials said. Jaipur has recorded the maximum of 85 deaths and 1,909 cases in the state. Jodhpur has reported 17 deaths and 1,375 cases. Of the total cases, 2,199 are migrants who returned to Rajasthan from other states, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-more-die-of-covid-19-in-rajasthan-toll-180-fresh-251-cases-push-states-tally-to-8067-842761.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: This year, J&K's Kheer Bhawani festival unlikely to see any participation||Sources said the management of the Dharmarth Trust that manages the affairs of the temple, has decided to cancel the celebration of the Kheer Bhawani Mela, scheduled on May 30, citing the outbreak of coronavirus, lockdown and government advisories. A member of the Trust said all the rituals and arati of the deity will be conducted as per tradition by priests in the Temple on May 30 and the same will be shared with the public and devotees via social media.  However, he said in the larger public interest and safety, the Mela would not take place this year. Deputy Commissioner, Ganderbal, Shafqat Iqbal said they have not received any communication about the cancellation of the Mela yet. However, he said that it was unlikely to take place. Situated amidst Chinar trees in Tullamulla, 24 km from here, thousands of devotees would visit the revered temple every year, to celebrate the holiest religious festival of the displaced Kashmiri Pandit community. On January 25, 1998, when suspected Lashkar-e-Toiba terrorists killed 23 Pandits in nearby Wandhama village, the arrivals of devotees in the subsequent years decreased. However, after 2003, attendance at the festival started increasing with each year. In recent years, thousands of Pandits, including women and children, would converge at the temple from various far-off places including Delhi and Jammu to offer special prayers on the occasion of the annual holy day ‘Zyeshth Ashtami.’ Around 55,000 Pandit families left their ancestral homes in 1990 and migrated to Jammu and other parts of the country when a bloody insurgency broke out in Kashmir in 1989. Before their migration, Pandits used to visit the temple once in a month for conducting ‘havan’ and ‘puja.’ Now, it is held on Jyeshtha Ashtami (June) once in a year.  While summer unrests of 2008, 2010, 2016 and 2019 had affected all types of activities in the valley, the festival remained untouched as these unrests started after middle June and by that time the festival was over. The Kheer Bhawani Mela has become a symbol of communal harmony as Muslims in the locality of Kheer Bhawani Temple at Tulmulla make all the arrangements for the devotees, including setting up of stalls for flowers and other offerings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-this-year-jks-kheer-bhawani-festival-unlikely-to-see-any-participation-842764.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Panic grips Bishanpura village in Uttar Pradesh after bats die||Panic gripped Bishanpura village after some bats were found dead here during the past few days, officials said on Thursday. According to villagers, there have been incidents of bats falling from trees and dying in the Maniyar police station area. Teams of health, forest and veterinary doctors reached the village on Wednesday to take the samples for testing. District Forest Officer Shradha Yadav said the matter has come to the knowledge of the Forest Department and four samples have been taken into custody for testing. The reasons for their death will be known only after receiving the report, Yadav added. The incident has gained significance in view of of the raging coronavirus pandemic and villagers apprehend that the dead bats could lead to problems. A similar incident was reported from Belghat area of Gorakhpur earlier this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-panic-grips-bishanpura-village-in-uttar-pradesh-after-bats-die-842765.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Faux pas: Image of whiskey bottles posted on Ministry of Home Affairs' Facebook page||Work from home has its peril and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has learnt it the hard way! A person handling the social media accounts of the MHA inadvertently posted images of two bottles of whiskey and snacks along with a rescue and relief work in West Bengal which was battered by Cyclone Amphan. The photos were posted on MHA's official Facebook around 9 am and were taken off around 30 minutes later. Screenshots of the post splashed across social media. MHA officials attributed the faux pas to an "inadvertent mistake" on the part of the person handling the Facebook page. According to them, the person apparently mixed up with the personal and MHA Facebook page. The person handling the Facebook has apologised in writing, they said. "What’s wrong. Alcohol is a great contributor to the economy this tenure," a Twitter user wrote tongue in cheek. Another said, "They wanted to show economic loss due to cyclone and ways you can help by buying and drinking alcohol." "You have to appreciate it as they are acknowledging that our economy relies on alcoholics, not workaholic farmers. Next year there will special loans for them. Who understand the emotions and empowering of our country's youth?" another Twitter user said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/faux-pas-image-of-whiskey-bottles-posted-on-ministry-of-home-affairs-facebook-page-842784.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||195 healthcare workers at AIIMS test positive for COVID-19 so far||As many as 195 healthcare workers have tested positive for coronavirus infection at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here till date, sources said. Over 50 healthcare personnel, including one MBBS student, three resident doctors, eight nurses and five mess workers, have tested positive for COVID-19 over the last two days, the sources said. Others include laboratory staff, technicians, sanitation staff and security guards. Contact tracing has been initiated, the sources said.   According to them, samples of 28 healthcare workers have tested positive till Thursday morning, while around 23 were found infected till Wednesday morning. "Healthcare workers and ancillary staff testing positive are both from COVID and non-COVID areas of the hospital. Employees from all kinds of departments like engineering, laboratories, offices, canteens, operation theaters and wards among others have contracted the infection," they said. From Feb 1 till date, 195 healthcare personnel including two faculty, five resident doctors, 21 nursing staff, eight technicians, 32 sanitation workers and 68 security guards have been infected by the novel coronavirus. Several of them have recovered and joined back duty. One of the AIIMS' sanitation supervisor, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died on Sunday, while a  mess worker at the AIIMS had succumbed to the disease last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/195-healthcare-workers-at-aiims-test-positive-for-covid-19-so-far-842795.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Hurrying back home to skip COVID-19 fury, migrant workers in Bihar stare at uncertain future||He paid through the nose to return to his native village in Bihar from Mumbai, among the cities worst-hit by COVID-19, but back home the future looks bleak for 20-year-old Vishal Kumar, who happens to be the sole breadwinner of his family. Out of job and with little savings left, Kumar said he might have to go back to the western metropolis if he is unable to find a job in Arwal, his home district. After failed attempts to find a berth in a 'Shramik Special' train, Kumar had bought a plane ticket with almost all the money he had saved to reach Bihar, but the government, shortly after, shelved its plan to resume flight operations in mid-May. Left with no choice, he coughed up Rs 8,500 to book a seat in a private bus, which was ferrying migrants to Daltonganj in Jharkhand. "I used to get a monthly salary of Rs 16,000 working for an eyewear wholesaler in Mumbai. I barely managed to save money after meeting all expenses. Now, I have little money left, and my future hangs in a balance with no job opportunity in sight amid the lockdown," Kumar said. After an exasperating bus journey for five days, he reached Daltonganj on May 20, and returned to his native place at Chulhan Bigha in Arwal district with help from his relatives. He is currently undergoing 14-day quarantine at an isolation centre near his place. Along with him, over 50 other fellow migrants, many of them Surat returnees, are lodged at a quarantine centre in Pirawa panchayat area of the district. Vijay Kumar, a middle-aged daily wager who lost his job at a private concern in Surat, told PTI over phone, "I had no money left to pay rent. I thought it was best to return home." Vijay, who earned Rs 500 per day, said he was lucky to have got a berth in a Shramik Special train. "The factory owner gave around 500 of us eight kilogramme of foodgrains and vegetables, before shutting down the unit on May 22," he said. "Big cities extend hospitality only till you work there. Once out of work, it is difficult to arrange two meals a day. Cashless and hungry, hundreds of us returned to our native places in Bihar," Vijay added. Narrating his travel woes, Vishal Kumar said 35 of them travelled in a bus, which made stops at dhabas where they had 'dal-roti' in a hurry. For nature calls, too, they had to patiently wait for the bus to stop at remote locations, he said.  The two, however, were all praise for the arrangements made by the state government for housing migrants at the quarantine centres. "We got 'Balti kit' (bucket, towel, soap among other things) and comfortable beds set up in the classrooms of a middle school, which has been converted into a quarantine centre," Vishal said. He, was, however, sceptical about his job prospects in this eastern state. "As soon as I step out of the quarantine centre, I will start looking for a job. My 'malik' (employer) said I could return to work once the situation improves... But amid the COVID-19 crisis, I don't want to return anytime soon. If I don't find anything here, I may have to catch a train to Mumbai," he noted. Lakhs of migrants who have hurried back home in Bihar, walking, peddling bicycles and hitchhiking their way to their native places, are no longer sure if they would be able to live by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mantra of "Jaan Bhi Jahaan Bhi" (life as well as livelihood). The Bihar government has promised to make livelihood arrangements for the returnees after mapping their skills, but with so many having returned to the state from metropolises, it remains to be seen if they would stay put to dig earth or lay bricks under the MGNREGA scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hurrying-back-home-to-skip-covid-19-fury-migrant-workers-in-bihar-stare-at-uncertain-future-842806.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Centre, state govts have no concern for migrants: Mayawati||BSP president Mayawati on Thursday said the plight of migrant workers and reports of their deaths while trying to return to their homes reflected lack of concern on the part of the Centre and state governments. However, courts have started taking cognisance of the plight of migrants, she noted. "The manner in which the bitter truth of the sorry state of migrant labourers forced to return home and their deaths on the way are coming before the country and the world through the media, re-establish that the central and state governments have no concern for them, this is very sad," she said in a tweet. Nine migrants have been found dead in Shramik trains since Monday. "On the 65th day of lockdown today, this news gives some relief that the hon'ble courts have started questioning the central and state governments about the malfunctioning in government hospitals in testing and treatment of coronavirus, neglect of private hospitals, plight of migrant labourers and deaths," she added. The Supreme Court on Tuesday took suo-motu (on its own) cognizance of miseries faced by migrants, who are stranded across the country and asked the Centre and the states to take measures to provide relief to workers as there have been “inadequacies and certain lapses”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-state-govts-have-no-concern-for-migrants-mayawati-842835.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||SP national general secretary Akhilesh Katiyar, others booked for defying lockdown||Samajwadi Party national general secretary Akhilesh Katiyar and district unit president Chavinath Yadav were booked for allegedly defying the coronavirus lockdown, police said on Thursday. Katihar and Yadav, along with their supporters, visited Govindpur on Tuesday after a dispute among villagers over cattle grazing in which some persons suffered injuries, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Patti, Ramesh Chandra said. A case was registered against the two leaders and about 150 others in Aaspura Devsara police station on Wednesday for flouting the lockdown orders, he said. Further investigation is on, Chandra added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-national-general-secretary-akhilesh-katiyar-others-booked-for-defying-lockdown-842836.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||7 more die of COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh, total cases rise to 7,071||Seven more people died of coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, while 80 fresh cases pushed the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 7,071, officials said. With seven more fatalities, the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 in the state has reached 189. "The total number of cases reported so far are 7,071, including 4,062 who have been treated and discharged and there are 2,820 active cases. The death toll in the state has reached 189," Principal Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here. According to health department, among the seven fresh deaths, five were from Agra and one each from Jalaun and Kushinagar. Till Wednesday, of the 182 deaths reported, the maximum 33 were from Agra, 23 from Meerut, 15 from Aligarh, 11 each from Kanpur and Moradabad, nine from Firozabad, six from Sant Kabir Nagar, five each in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Gorakhpur and four each from Jhansi, Mathura and Varanasi. Apart from that, three deaths each were from Ghaziabad, Basti, Prayagraj, Pratapgarh, Etah and Ayodhya and two each from Jaunpur, Lucknow, Bulandshahr, Bijnor, Azamgarh, Bareilly, Ambedkar Nagar, Chitrakoot, Mainpuri and Jalaun. Besides these, one death each has been reported from Barabanki, Hapur, Siddharth Nagar, Raebareli, Amroha, Muzaffarnagar, Etawah, Mahrajganj, Shravasti, Unnao, Kanpur Dehat, Kushinagar, Mahoba and Lalitpur. Prasad said samples of 7,923 samples have been sent for testing on Wednesday. "Health workers have surveyed over 10 lakh migrant labourers and 959 have shown symptoms of coronavirus," he said. "We are emphasising on surveillance and over 3.74 crore people have been surveyed by 94,856 teams in Uttar Pradesh," he said. Prasad said the Centre's Aarogya Setu mobile application is being used and alerts are being sent to people. "We have made 28,054 calls on the basis of the alerts generated by the mobile app. Of them, 104 are positive and are undergoing treatment at various hospitals while 49 were treated and discharged. Among those called, 1,248 are in quarantine," he said. He said pulse oximeter machines have arrived in the state and will be given at every quarantine centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-more-die-of-covid-19-in-uttar-pradesh-total-cases-rise-to-7071-842861.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court directs states not to charge fare from stranded migrant workers; orders they be given food||The Supreme Court Thursday directed that no fare for travel either by train or bus be charged from migrant workers, stranded across the country following the COVID-19 lockdown and want to return to their destinations, and said they be provided food and water. The apex court, which passed interim directions, said all the migrant workers stranded at various places shall be provided food by concerned states and Union Territories (UTs) at places which shall be publicised and notified to them for the period they are waiting for their turn to board a train or a bus. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that the originating state shall provide meals and water at the station and during the journey, the Railways would provide the same to the migrant workers. It said that food and water be also provided to them for travel in buses. The bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and M R Shah, directed that states shall oversee the registration of migrant workers and ensure that they are made to board the train or bus at the earliest. The top court, which heard the matter through video conferencing for around two-and-a-half hours, said that complete information in this regard should be publicised to all concerned. The court observed that it is presently concerned with the miseries and difficulty faced by the migrants workers who are trying to get to their native places. It said though there is no doubt that the concerned state governments and UTs are taking steps, several lapses have been noticed in the process of registration, transportation and providing food, water to the migrants. The bench noted in its order that even after registration for travel, the migrants have to wait for a long time for their turns to come. The bench noted submissions of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who said instructions have been given to state governments to facilitate a bus or vehicle if any migrant workers are seen walking on foot. The bench further directed that migrant workers found walking on the roads should immediately be taken to shelters and provided food and other necessary facilities. Millions of migrant workers were stranded across the country without food, shelter and transportation after the nationwide lockdown was announced from March 25 at 4-hour notice to combat the spread of global pandemic, Coivd-19. They then started walking hundreds of miles to reach their homes, leading to miserable plight. The apex court said that some interim directions were required to be issued looking at the miseries of the migrant workers. The bench, which had on May 26 taken suo motu (on its own) cognizance of the miseries of migrant workers, said it believed that the Centre and state governments were required to be given some time to bring on record the steps taken by them on the issue. The bench said that details regarding number of migrant workers, plan for transportation, mechanism for registration and other relevant information should be brought on record. It also said that the Railways has to provide trains as and when state government put in such request. The bench has posted the matter for further hearing on June 5. In its order, the bench noted that Mehta has placed a report on behalf of the Centre while some states and UTs have also filed their replies. It noted submissions advanced by Mehta who said that 3,700 trains have been operated from May 1 till May 27 to take migrants back to their destinations. Mehta told the court that when these migrant reach their destinations, the respective state government takes care of them along with quarantine and necessary screening. He said all states have set up relief camps where migrant workers are provided food and other necessary facilities. Mehta also told the bench that all migrant workers do not intend to go back to their native states and some of them are willing to work. During the hearing, the bench asked some searching questions from the Centre on the plight of migrant workers ranging from as to how long they will have to wait before going to their native places to who will pay for their travel and provide them food and shelter. The bench asked the solicitor general about the confusion over payment of travel fare of stranded migrant workers and said that they should not made to pay for their journey back home. "What is the normal time? If a migrant is identified, there must be some certainty that he will be shifted out within one week or ten days at most? What is that time? There had been instances where one state sends migrants but at the border another State says we are not accepting the migrants. We need a policy on this," the bench told Mehta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-directs-states-not-to-charge-fare-from-stranded-migrant-workers-orders-they-be-given-food-842865.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||HC allows shifting of Markaz attendee foreigners from quarantine centres to alternate accommodation||The Delhi High Court Thursday allowed shifting of 955 foreign nationals, who had participated in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz event, from institutional quarantine to an alternate place of accommodation. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar, which conducted the hearing through video conferencing, disposed of two petitions filed by various foreign nationals and said all of them will be shifted from government's quarantine centers to nine designated places in the national capital as suggested by them.  The high court's order came after the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi Police did not object to the suggestion of petitioners' counsel for shifting the foreigners to alternate accommodation and that the financial burden will be borne by the community, Tablighi Jamaat. The Revenue Department, in a status report filed through Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, gave its no objection for shifting the foreign nationals. Similarly, Delhi Police and Centre also verbally recorded their no objection for it. The high court was also informed that 47 charge sheets have been filed against the foreign nationals as of now in the trial court. Senior advocate Rebecca John and lawyer Ashima Mandla, appearing for the petitioners, had sought that all foreign nationals who have been tested negative for COVID-19 and are in quarantine be released and sent to alternate places of accommodation and submitted the list. The Delhi Police had earlier told the high court that it had neither arrested nor detained anyone in the case lodged against members of Tablighi Jamaat for participating in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz event during the COVID-19 lockdown. The petitions had challenged a May 9 order of Delhi government's Department of Revenue which had directed for handing over of 567 foreign nationals, presently held in institutional quarantine, to the custody of Delhi Police after being tested negative for the virus. The petitioners had said the order is ultra vires to the right to equality before law and right to life and liberty.   The plea said FIRs were lodged by the Delhi Police in relation to the Markaz congregation against unknown persons. It said the Delhi government's Revenue Department's order directing for handling over custody of 567 foreign nationals under institutional quarantine to the custody of the Delhi Police, upon being tested negative for Covid-19, is prima facie illegal and untenable in law. After being exposed to a large gathering in March amid the COVID-19 or coronavirus lockdown many members of Tablighi Jamaat from Markaz Hazrat Nizamuddin were taken out by the authorities and lodged in different quarantine centres in Delhi. Some of them were sent to the centres a few days later after being detained from various mosques. In April, COVID-19 cases in Delhi spiked after hundreds of many Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended a large congregation in Nizamuddin, tested positive.  The other members were directly taken to quarantine centres to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-allows-shifting-of-markaz-attendee-foreigners-from-quarantine-centres-to-alternate-accommodation-842869.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt issues advisory in view of possible locust attack||The Delhi government has asked authorities concerned to spray insecticides and pesticides on standing crops, vegetation, gardens and orchards to prevent a probable attack of desert locusts in Delhi. Agriculture Department Joint Director A P Saini in an advisory issued on Wednesday asked the authorities to organise awareness programmes for public and farmers to prevent the attack of locusts in the national capital. "As the swarm of locusts flies in daytime, and rests during the night, it should not be allowed to rest at night," the advisory read. It asked the authorities to carry out spraying of pesticides chlorpyrifos and malathion. Also, Delhi's forest department is considering covering the saplings in its nurseries with polythene to protect them against the desert locust attack. "It is not possible to cover the trees. We will at least cover the saplings in the nurseries," Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Ishwar Singh said. "Covering plants with polythene can also be counter-productive during this heat. So, we will do this only when we know for sure that the swarm of locusts is headed towards Delhi," the official said. Singh said that in a city like Delhi, spraying of chemicals can be detrimental for environment. "If we spray the vegetation, trees and plants with chemical in anticipation of a locust attack, we should also consider how dangerous it will be for the environment," he said. There are 14 lakh saplings in 14 government nurseries across Delhi, Singh said. India is battling the worst desert locust outbreak in recent times. The crop-destroying swarms first attacked Rajasthan and have now spread to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. According to experts, broadly four species of locusts are found in India – desert locust, migratory locust, Bombay locust and tree locust. The desert locust is considered the most destructive. It multiplies very rapidly and is capable of covering 150 kilometers in a day. This insect, a type of a grasshopper, can eat more than its body weight. A one square kilometer of locust swarm containing around 40 million locusts can in a day eat as much food as 35,000 people. Experts blame the growing menace of desert locusts on climate change. They say breeding of locusts is directly related to soil moisture and food availabili||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-issues-advisory-in-view-of-possible-locust-attack-842874.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Woman kills herself after argument with husband for new mobile phone||A woman allegedly committed suicide by setting herself ablaze following an argument with her husband for a new mobile phone for their children's online classes in south Delhi's Maidan Garhi, police said on Thursday. Jyoti Mishra, 29, poured kerosene oil and set herself afire on Wednesday when her husband, Parmod Mishra, asked her to wait for a few days to buy a mobile phone. She was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital with 90 per cent burn injuries and succumbed on Thursday morning, they said. "The victim had serious burn injuries. The woman said in her statement that she had an argument with her husband due to which she took the extreme step," Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. The statements of her brother, Chander Shekhar Pandey, her husband and their neighbour Munna Sharma have been recorded. Her brother did not raise any suspicion. Police said they found a plastic can and matchsticks at the spot. The Mishras had been married for seven years and have two children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-kills-herself-after-argument-with-husband-for-new-mobile-phone-842897.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi people forced to abandon social distancing to get water: BJP||The BJP on Thursday charged the AAP government with not addressing the problem of water scarcity in Delhi, claiming people were forced to abandon social distancing and hand hygiene against the coronavirus to get to water tankers. BJP national spokesperson Meenakshi Lekhi alleged that the tanker mafia was operating in the city and people were paying up to Rs10,000 to get water even though the Kejriwal government takes credit for free water supply. There was no immediate reaction from the Aam Aadmi Party. "The people of Delhi have been so stricken by water problem that they do not even care about social distancing when water tankers arrive and crowds gather to get water," Lekhi told a press conference. She also showed a video of Indrapuri in Rajendra Nagar Assembly constituency, represented by Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman Raghav Chadha, and charged that people were struggling for water even in the AAP legislator's area. "Delhi government has failed to provide sufficient water to people to even clean hands to avoid the coronavirus infection. People have to wash their hands to avoid infection but they are not able to do this due to lack of water," Lekhi claimed.  Despite the AAP government's promise to provide free water, she alleged, people were paying Rs10,000 per month to the tanker mafia to get the water. "Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal should break his silence and tell people what action has been taken by his government against tanker mafia in Delhi," she said. The New Delhi MP expressed concern over the depleting groundwater in the city and suggested the city government work with the Environment Ministry to address this. Lekhi claimed that Rs1,200 crore was provided by the Centre in 2015 to resolve the water shortage but no account of the money or new pipelines laid has been given by the Delhi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-people-forced-to-abandon-social-distancing-to-get-water-bjp-842904.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||UP HC asks govt what it's doing to rehabilitate migrant workers in state||The Allahabad High Court has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to apprise it of the state's schemes for rehabilitation of migrant workers and their families in the state. "The state is also required to give a complete layout to reduce migration of the natives of Uttar Pradesh to other parts of the country to earn minimum livelihood," the bench added. The order was passed on May 26 by the bench hearing a lawsuit filed by two high court lawyers, Ritesh Srivastava and Gaurav Tripathi. As far as the issue of transportation and providing food to workers, raised in the lawsuit, the bench said it is not inclined to seek any explanation on it from the state government as the Supreme Court has already taken suo moto cognisance of it. The petitioners had moved the court, through a public interest litigation, bringing to the court's notice the plight of migrant workers travelling on foot and traversing hundreds of kilometres from their work places to reach their native villages and towns. Lakhs of workers are facing joblessness and penury and a situation closer to death without any fault of their own, the petitioners submitted to the court, adding that due to non-availability of basic infrastructure for employment in the Uttar Pradesh, lakhs of people used to migrate to the other states to earn their livelihood. Such migration is not at all wrong as the entire India is a Union but the present attitude of various state governments, where these people were working, is contrary to the spirit of the Union of India and its federal structure. Accordingly, it is necessary for the Uttar Pradesh to strengthen its edifice for local employment, the petitioners demanded in their plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-hc-asks-govt-what-its-doing-to-rehabilitate-migrant-workers-in-state-842922.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||'77 per cent of COVID-19 deaths in Punjab had end-stage comorbidity'||Thirty one out of the total 40 persons who died of COVID-19 in Punjab so far were suffering from other serious ailments, officials said on Thursday. “Out of 40 unfortunate instances so far occurring mostly in patients, 31 persons (77 per cent) were afflicted with serious underlying ailments like end-stage kidney disease and cancer, HIV, besides uncontrolled diabetes and high blood pressure,” said Punjab Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Anurag Agarwal in an official release here. Punjab has reported mortality rate of 1.3 per cent, release said, adding it has also reported 91 per cent recovery rate in coronavirus patients. In most cases, the patients who died were already suffering from serious illnesses which might have led to the mortality in the natural course of events, Agarwal added. As many as 1,918 patients, out of total 2,106 positive cases reported so far, have fully recovered, he said. Underlining scientific, systematic and aggressive contact tracing coupled with the effective enforcement of lockdown, Agarwal further stated that the doubling rate of COVID-19 in Punjab had been about 100 days for the last few days which was very encouraging.  In all cases, where patients are found to be COVID-positive irrespective of the underlying disease, the death is counted as Covid death as per ICMR guidelines, said Agarwal, while pointing out that the state's mortality rate was significantly lower than the national average of three per cent. Moreover, in many cases, the samples of dead bodies were taken with some of them turning positive and all these deaths were taken as Covid-19 deaths. This was done not to miss on contact tracing of possible positive cases, Agarwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/77-per-cent-of-covid-19-deaths-in-punjab-had-end-stage-comorbidity-842949.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi reports over 1,000 coronavirus cases in single day||COVID-19 situation in Delhi is entering an alarming stage with the national capital on Thursday breaching the 1,000-mark in cases on a single day for the first time as the total number of people affected by the virus infection rose to 16,281. The city reported 1,024 cases in the past 24 hours, the medical bulletin, which was issued at around 9 PM, said. On Wednesday, Delhi had 792 new cases. In May alone, 12,762 cases have been reported, which is 78.38% of the total cases. Since May 18 when lockdown 4.0 came into effect with more relaxations, there were 6,526 cases or 51.13% of the cases reported this month so far.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has said earlier this week that relaxation of lockdown norms would result in more cases and they were prepared to face the situation. He had said that Delhi cannot be kept under intensive lockdown as economic activities have taken a hit and several people have lost jobs. The first case in the capital was reported on March 2 and so far, 316 people have died due to Covid-19. Thirteen deaths were added to the official toll on Thursday. According to the bulletin, which was released usually late, 231 people were discharged in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 7,495. At present, there are 8,470 people still under treatment, including 4,227 people with mild symptoms in home isolation. Delhi has tested 1.91 lakh samples so far, including 7,615 fresh samples.     With the numbers rising, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor claimed the "abnormal jump" in the number of new cases was the result of Kejriwal government's "haste" to open markets and offices. "Need of the hour is that Kejriwal government should review its decision to give permission to open markets and offices and if the circumstances so warrant then total lockdown be clamped," he said in a statement. Kejriwal had last week announced that the government was allowing the opening of markets, shops as well as public transport with restrictions on the basis of the central guidelines for lockdown 4.0.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-over-1000-coronavirus-cases-in-single-day-842953.html
28-05-2020||North and Central||Jamia violence: JMI student Asif Iqbal Tanha gets bail||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) University student Asif Iqbal Tanha, in a case related to violence near Jamia Millia Islamia Univeristy during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in December last year. Additional Sessions Judge Gaurav Rao granted the relief to Tanha on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 25,000 and a surety of like amount. The court took note of the fact that out of the 10 accused involved in the case, eight were on bail. It also noted that Tanha was a student and 24 years old. “Considering the clean antecedents of the accused, on the ground of parity and most importantly considering the present situation arising out of Covid-19, accused is admitted to baiL,” it said. The court further directed Tanha not to indulge in any act of violence whatsoever and to act like a “good/responsible citizen” as well as abide by the law of land. During the hearing held through video conferencing, Additional Public Prosecutor Ashok Kumar, appearing for the state opposed the bail plea saying Tanha’s presence at the place of incident has been established in the investigation from the call data records. He further alleged that Tanha had played an active role in the large scale violence that took place and the allegations against him were serious in nature. Advocate Sowjhanya Shankaran, appearing for Tanha, told that court that he has been falsely implicated in the case. She further said that he was the main earning member of his family and used to work part time in a restaurant. The bail plea claimed that there were no specific allegations of violence against him in the chargesheet and he has not been assigned any role in connection with any act of violence. Tanha was arrested on May 17 while the chargesheet was filed on February 12 in the case and he had appeared before the police during the course of investigation, the plea said. It alleged that his belated arrest and subsequent custody were “ex facie illegal, punitive and unjustified”. During the course of investigation he joined the probe and cooperated with the police and there was no chance of tampering of evidence by Tanha as most of it was in possession of the prosecution, the plea said. Shankaran further said that Tanha was ready and willing to abide by any condition which may be imposed upon him while granting bail to him. Tanha, third-year student of BA in Persian language, was named as an accused in the FIR lodged in December last year but was not arrested till May. On December 15 last year, protesters torched four public buses and two police vehicles as they clashed with police in New Friends'' Colony near Jamia Millia Islamia during a demonstration against the amended Citizenship Act, leaving at least 40 people including students, policemen and fire fighters injured. He has also been booked under the anti-terror law -- Unlawful Activities Act – in a separate case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February this year. JMI student Gulfisha Khatoon, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, President of Jamia Alumni Association Shifa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, former student leader Umar Khalid have also been booked under the anti-terror law in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamia-violence-jmi-student-asif-iqbal-tanha-gets-bail-842961.html
28-05-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus Lockdown: Why Rs 5,000 crore credit facility for street vendors may fall short ||They were recognised as a particularly vulnerable group by the central government as one of the first measures announced as part of the ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’ economic package on May 14, directed relief for them. This involves a Rs 5,000 crore special credit facility, which means about 50 lakh street vendors across the country could avail loans of up to Rs 10,000. They have not yet clarified how the loan application process will work and which institutions will be involved. But how meaningful is the proposed relief through loans when street vendors have been found to have limited, even reluctant, engagement with formal financial institutions? This was a significant finding from a city-wide survey of 1,000 food vendors and small-scale food establishments in Bengaluru carried out in September and October 2018 by the Indian Institute for Human Settlements (IIHS). Street vendor survey Only 10 percent of respondents said that they had ever applied for a bank loan to run their businesses and less than a third of the vendors we spoke to said they did not even have a bank account (280 vendors). Moreover, less than one percent of food enterprises surveyed had accessed any government financial support schemes for starting or operating their businesses. These key factors on how vendors source finance raise concerns on how they will avail the Rs 10,000 loan promised to them. When vendors were asked if they believed banks were reluctant in giving out loans, a majority (61 percent) responded optimistically, saying that they believed banks were willing to give loans to informal enterprises like theirs. However, very few vendors had actually applied for loans. A lack of knowledge about the process, documentation requirements, provision of collateral and even the fear of being unable to repay the loan could have held them back.    Sources of capital for street vendors Since banks are rarely approached for financial support, what sources do food street vendors use to start their businesses? We found that 57 percent of vendors in our sample used their personal savings. This finding is key since, under present conditions, most vendors will have run out of their savings and will need the Rs 10,000 loan offered by the government to merely restart their businesses. The money needed for sustaining it during the coming uncertain months will have to be borne by themselves and for many vendors, this comes at great financial risk.   Vendors were also found to take loans or received monetary gifts from friends and relatives to start their businesses, which is less viable now as more people remain strapped for cash. The only other sources of finance are money lenders (32.8 percent) who charge steep interest rates and micro-finance institutions (8.2 percent). Crucially, only 2.8 percent of vendors accessed formal banks to start their food business.   Even during the best of times, street vendors do not fare well financially. Our survey found that the average monthly profit of food street vendors was about Rs 13,000. For over half the vendors, income from their food vending businesses constituted over 90% or more of their total household income, meaning lakhs of street vendors’ families across the country have lost almost all their household income over the last two months, while also facing the threat of the virus and other dispossessions.   What can the government do to ease the return of street vendors? While the Rs 5,000 crore relief package for street vendors is a start to helping street vendors re-establish their livelihoods, our survey highlighted that financial relief in the form of loans is unlikely to work for a majority of vendors. They, and other informal sector workers who have lost their livelihoods, urgently need money in their pockets through direct cash transfer rather than credit schemes.  With the government now relying on the MGNREGA scheme to deliver benefits in rural areas, there have been calls to start a similar programme in urban areas that might be used to deliver financial help to urban informal workers like street vendors.  Keerthana Jagadeesh is an associate and Shriya Anand is a senior consultant with the Indian Institute for Human Settlements in Bengaluru. Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-lockdown-why-rs-5000-crore-credit-facility-for-street-vendors-may-fall-short-842796.html
28-05-2020||Panorama||Professionalising valuers||Recently, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) invited comments on the Draft Valuers Bill, 2020 (Bill) as recommended by the committee of experts headed by M. S Sahoo, Chairperson, , naA (IBBI). The proposed recommendations suggest the development of a full-fledged profession of valuers akin to other professions such as Chartered Accountant and Company secretary.   Need for valuers Valuation of assets is necessary for the various transactions happening in a market economy. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 requires the assets to be valued fairly, so that the interests of the corporate debtors and stakeholders are protected. Overestimation of assets at the time of sanctioning of loans is being attributed as one of the several reasons for the growing Non Performing Assets (NPAs) in India. Errors in valuation can be disastrous to the economy. Valuation in India is undertaken as compliance and statutory requirement for purposes like banking, securities, tax, company and insolvency. Based on different valuation requirements under various laws, the valuation work was heterogeneously conducted by several professionals. As a result, the valuation profession developed as an independent multi-disciplinary profession. Most of the existing valuers take it up as part-time vocation, often an extension of their primary profession. Providing a separate legal and institutional framework to valuers profession will result in creating a distinct profession and identity to the valuers. It also helps in quality control, setting minimum qualification, regulation of the profession and to provide accountability to users of the valuation services. Not to forget, it also creates a new avenue for the young Indian population looking for a corporate career.  Section three of the Bill provides for the establishment of a National Institute of Valuers by the Central Government. At the outset, the Bill broadly specifies the duties and responsibilities of the Institute of Valuers. The duties include the introduction and implementation of measures in order to develop and regulate the profession of valuers. The Bill seeks to protect the interests of the users of the valuation services. The Bill also seeks to establish a governing council which shall be responsible for functioning and regulation of the National Institute. Additionally, the Bill also proposes to set up a Valuation Standard Committee which is entrusted with the responsibility of recommending and periodically reviewing the valuation standards. On the analysis of other key provisions, we note that the proposed law specifies the categories of persons who can undertake the provision of valuation services. The Bill provides for four categories of valuers namely valuation entities, associate valuers, fellow valuer and honorary valuer. The Bill lays down the eligibility criteria and the asset classes for which the valuation can be undertaken by each category of the valuer. Interestingly, the proposed Bill also indicates the usage of the prefix such as AV (Associate Valuer), FV (Fellow Valuer), HV (Honorary Valuer) in the names of the individual valuers similar to CA and CS. The Bill makes the valuers accountable to the users of the valuation service. A detailed procedure for determining any deficiency of services and penalty for deficient services is given. Pursuant to the objectives of the proposed Bill, the construct of consumer rights in respect of the valuation profession is effectively addressed. Having a separate law and institute for the regulation of valuers profession is surely a step in the right direction. However, at this stage, there may be several challenges in the passing and implementation of this Bill, in its present form. It is reported that the Valuers Association from Ludhiana has sent representation to the Government against the Bill. They have stated that the Bill violates the fundamental right to the profession of the Government Approved Valuers. With certain relaxations on eligibility criteria and other changes in view of ease of compliance, the Bill promises a bright future in valuation profession in India similar to existing mechanism in several developed countries.  (Dr. Gagan Krishnadas is Law Faculty at the Administrative Training Institute, Mysore. Sushmita Ravi is a Corporate Lawyer. Views expressed are personal.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/professionalising-valuers-842959.html
28-05-2020||Right in the Middle||The woes of a bibliophile||Most of my family and friends know that I’m an author and most are aware of my book collection. Sadly, the proud bibliophile in me has given most of my favourite books a prominent place in my showcase, which doubles as my bookshelf. The moment someone enters my room, they see my book collection, with the bestsellers all looking down their haughty paperback and hard-cover noses at them. Now with such a prominent display, people are tempted into borrowing. Groaning inwardly, I nod, hoping that the person returns the books back into the glass-fronted bookshelf and that none of my books interest them. Some bold souls do pick up a handful of books and sweetly ask me if they can borrow them. Not wanting to appear rude, I agree. I hand out a few bookmarks. They get the message, that I’m not in favour of my books' pages being dog-eared. These bold people are also the slowcoaches, one can go on a world tour and return before these people are halfway through the books. Or perhaps these people live in the hope that if they delay the return of the books, they can keep them forever, as I will most probably forget about it. Not happening in my case. My close friend has lost half her book collection people like this. I have a tendency to haunt people who borrow my books. I’ll call them, drop them a message and ask about my books whenever I bump into them. After a quick greeting, my conversation starts with my polite queries into finding out, albeit in a round-about way, when these people will return my books. My question, “I hope you are enjoying the book/s?” Which often elicits the response, “oh, I haven’t even started it yet” A panic grips my heart, and when the person says, “I hope you aren’t in a hurry?” the panic builds. With expertise that would put a con man to shame, I say in my most nonchalant voice that my family member didn’t enjoy the book. An alarmed look enters the borrower’s face. Who wants to be stuck with a boring book? Within a few days the book/s are back in my shelf. After years of reluctantly lending out my books, worrying about the book’s safety and shadowing people with polite reminders, I have finally learnt how to overcome this. I started putting on display, the thickest books that no one in their right minds wants to borrow. Seeing these voluminous tomes, most people give my book collection a royal ignore. Problem solved!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-woes-of-a-bibliophile-842967.html
28-05-2020||South||Kerala CM lashes out at union Minister Muraleedharan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday lashed out at Union Minister V Muraleedharan for alleging mismanagement of the COVID-19 situation in the state, saying that those holding responsible positions were continuing to make wrong statements. Muraleedharan, while levelling the charge, had said thatthe Union government had not asked states to mandatorily take money from repatriated expatriates. "Some from the state government have claimed that paid institutional quarantine was adopted in Kerala as per the Centres instruction. But the centre has not asked states to mandatorily take money from repatriated expatriates. It only said that there can be paid quarantine. Never did the central government ask states to take money from the poor," Muraleedharan said in Delhi. Hitting back at Muraleedharan, the chief Minister said those making such remarks should at least read the circulars issued by the Centre. "Those in responsible posts have been making wrong statements and are still continuing to do so. They should at least read the circulars issued by the Centre and the undertakings that haveto be signed by the expatriates before returning," Vijayan said. The issue came up after the state government on Tuesday made it clear that those coming from abroad would henceforth have to pay for seven day government quarantine facilities. "Paid quarantine is for those who come from abroad. Lakhs of people want to come to Kerala. The state may not be able to handle all of them," Vijayan had said. However there was no need to worry as there would be affordable quarantine facilities for everyone, he had said.  The Centre's guidelines on international arrivals state that before boarding, all travellers should give an undertaking to undergo mandatory quarantine for 14-days -- seven days paid institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by seven days isolation at home. Vijayan dismissed Muraleedharan's charge of mismanagement of the COVID-19 in Kerala and said home quarantine was a success in Kerala and the people of the state know it. "The people of the state very well know that whether our state's home quarantine mechanism is a a success or not. When we declared that expatriatesneed to be under institutional quarantine for seven days and rest of the seven days at home quarantine, the centre had a different opinion. Now they have agreed to our policy," Vijayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-lashes-out-at-union-minister-muraleedharan-842642.html
28-05-2020||South||3-year-old boy who fell into borewell in Telangana dies||A three-year-old boy who accidentally fell into a newly drilled open borewell in Telangana's Medak district was found dead in the early hours of Thursday, police said. The kid's body was retrieved at around 4 am after a nearly 10 hours' long rescue operation involving different agencies, they said. "He died a while before we evacuated him, most likely due to the mud that covered him from the top sealing off necessary oxygen supply, " Medak District Superintendent of Police Chandana Deepti told PTI. The boy had accidentally slipped into the 120- feet borewell at around 5 pm on Wednesday in an agricultural field located in Papannapet mandal of the district when he was walking with his grandfather and father, police earlier said. As part of rescue efforts, a parallel trench was dug along the borewell hole with the help of earth excavating machines and oxygen was supplied into it, but the efforts went in vain as the boy's body was found stuck at a depth of around 25 feet, the police said. Apart from the police, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel were also involved in the rescue operation. The borewell into which the child fell was one among the three dug by the family since Tuesday night to try and find water for their fields. But none of them yielded any water, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3-year-old-boy-who-fell-into-borewell-in-telangana-dies-842691.html
28-05-2020||South||Liquor sale resumes in Kerala after two months||After over two month of closure due to COVID-19 induced lockdown, liquor shops reopened in Kerala on Thursday with a new mobile application being used to regulate the crowd. State-run liquor outlets, bars as well as beer and wine shops have been closed since March 24, when the Centre declared a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus, Kerala State Beverages (Manufacturing & Marketing) Corporation Ltd (BEVCO) Managing Director G Sparjan Kumar said traffic on Google Playstore to download the app (BevQ) was heavy and resulted in many customers failing to make the booking. "At least 3.5 lakh people have downloaded the application which was launched yesterday. At least 2.5 lakh e-tokens have been issued for today. Traffic was heavy to download the application resulting in delay for booking the slot for many," Kumar told P T I. To purchase liquor, one needs to book a slot in the virtual queue through the BevQ app. Using the mobile app, people will receive an e-token to book the time slot to visit the nearest outlet and this would reduce the crowds seen earlier, state excise minister T P Ramakrishnan had said on Wednesday. Liquor sales commenced at the 301-state-run outlets and 576 bar hotels in the state and as a time slot has been allotted to each customer, crowd was not seen at any shop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/liquor-sale-resumes-in-kerala-after-two-months-842757.html
28-05-2020||South||As COVID-19 cases double in 3 weeks, Kerala ramps up testing||After the first COVID-19 case was reported on January 30, it took more than three months for the total numbers to cross the 500-mark on May 5 in Kerala. But with the inflow of Keralites from other states and abroad from the first week of May, it took only three weeks for the figures to cross the 1,000-mark on May 27. The number of active cases in Kerala had come down to 16 by May 8 but it shot back to 445 by Wednesday.  Of the 5.14 lakh people who registered to return to Kerala, only 1.12 lakh have returned so far. The rate of return will go up in the coming weeks as modes of transportation are being enhanced. Hence Kerala is heading towards a very grim COVID-19 scenario. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan himself has been repeatedly indicating that the state was heading towards a more severe situation. Health experts have also cited there are high chances of community spread. The state government has now decided to conduct COVID-19 PCR test on at least 3,000 persons every day. So far only around 1,300 tests were done daily. Health officials were justifying the comparatively lower number of tests in Kerala maintaining that kits were being used judiciously to ensure that the state did not suffer a scarcity of test kits at critical situations like community spread. Only those with high levels of symptoms were being tested so far. As the number of persons in quarantine increases drastically with the inflow of persons from other states and abroad, the state may also find it difficult to ensure proper quarantine. This poses a serious risk of community spread. So far Kerala managed to contain COVID-19 spread mainly by picking up infected persons at the initial stages itself and thereby minimising spread through local contacts, said a senior health department official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-covid-19-cases-double-in-3-weeks-kerala-ramps-up-testing-842762.html
28-05-2020||South||With over 1 crore OTP requests, BevQ app issuing liquor token in Kerala gets jammed||As many as 2.5 lakh tipplers in Kerala managed to get e-tokens for buying liquor on Thursday as liquor sales resumed in the state after two months owing to COVID-19 lockdown. BevQ, the mobile app for getting e-tokens for purchasing liquor, has suffered technical glitches owing to the heavy traffic as soon as it went live by Wednesday night. The SMS based OTP authentication system of the app got jammed due to over one crore OTP requests, most of which were duplicate requests. Kerala State Beverages Corporation managing director Sparjan Kumar told DH that of the 2.5 lakh tokens issued, many were found to be just trials by users and hence, the exact number of customers could be ascertained only after the sales. The startup firm that developed the app was continuously working on it to clear glitches and upgrade it. The average daily liquor customers in the state are around nine lakhs. But with the introduction of the virtual queue system to ensure social distancing, there will be dip in number of daily customers. Liquor sale will be allowed only through the e-tokens that can be obtained either through the app or an SMS interface of BevQ. The app evoked mixed response from customers as many who got the token said that it was a good option to avoid standing in long queue to buy liquor, while those who could not get the token owing to technical glitches flaying the initiative.  Sale is being carried out through 301 government run sales outlets, 576 bars and 291 beer and wine parlours. Sales will be from 9 am to 5 p.m. and e-token could be taken between 6 am and 10 pm. One customer can buy only three litre of alcohol and once a token is issued, request for token from same phone number would be accepted only after four days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-over-1-crore-otp-requests-bevq-app-issuing-liquor-token-in-kerala-gets-jammed-842820.html
28-05-2020||South||YSRCP cannot shake foundations of TDP: Chandrababu Naidu||The ruling YSRCP in Andhra Pradesh cannot shake the foundations of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) by conspiring and slapping false cases against its workers and leaders, TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu said on Thursday. Naidu, while addressing a political conclave here, also demanded Bharat Ratna for TDP founder N T Rama Rao for his outstanding and multifarious contribution to the poor people, cinema and the socio-political life of the country. In this regard, a resolution was also passed during the two-day digital conclave, which began on May 27. "Nobody can shake the foundations of the TDP because it has a strong place in the hearts of poorer sections and backward classes right from the party's inception," the TDP said in a statement quoting Naidu. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy's conspiracies and his YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) filing false cases will not "frighten" TDP workers and leaders who are ready to fight back with "self-respect and self-confidence", Naidu, a former chief minister, said. He said as an opposition party, the TDP is fighting against anti-people policies of the YSRCP-led government but false cases are being filed to harass the TDP cadre. "Even the media is being threatened with a black order while social media activists are being implicated in false cases," Naidu said. "False cases are being filed and attacks are being continued, but the TDP cadre will not surrender to the ruling party's intimidatory tactics," he added. Naidu recalled that in 1989, the TDP had met with a crushing defeat with a nine per cent vote margin but in 1994, the party came back with a resounding victory with a massive 17.7 per cent vote margin, and the Congress could not get even the opposition party status at that time. When the N T Rama Rao government was dismissed undemocratically during late prime minister Indira Gandhi's time, a ‘Save Democracy’ agitation was run for 30 days which went down as a historic event in the political history of the country as a whole, he said. Expressing concern about ill-treatment and humiliation meted to a Dalit doctor, Naidu said accused the YSRCP for "presiding over goondaism and rowdyism in order to frighten all sections of people and then to plunder the resources of the state." Naidu said Reddy's "rule of atrocities" cannot continue for long considering the strong democratic foundations of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ysrcp-cannot-shake-foundations-of-tdp-chandrababu-naidu-842844.html
28-05-2020||South||Steps in place to curb culling of male chicks in illegal ways in Kerala||Seeking to end the alleged practise of culling unwanted chicks by the private poultry industry in Kerala, the state Animal Husbandry department is taking steps including directives to district authorities to crack down on such instances. The Director of Animal Husbandry of Kerala has issued a directive to district animal husbandry officers on May 23 to take steps to ensure that private hatcheries were not handling unwanted chicks in cruel ways, official sources said. The department took the decision based on a complaint by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). Welcoming the decision, PETA India CEO and veterinarian Manilal Valliyate said in a statement, "We're grateful that the Kerala government is calling for a crackdown on the private poultry industry's common cruel and illegal methods of killing unwanted chicks." According to PETA India, the egg industry commonly kills male chicks because they can't lay eggs, while both the meat and egg industries routinely destroy other unwanted chicks as well, including those who are weak or deformed. Common killing methods include grinding, crushing, burning, drowning, or even feeding them alive to fish. In a letter to Valliyate, the Director of Animal Husbandry confirmed that male chicks on government farms were not destroyed in this way. In its complaint, PETA India had pointed out that the common cruel methods of killing unwanted chicks violated Section 11(1)(l) of The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. The group had requested that the Animal Husbandry department to stop any cruel killing methods practised by poultry hatcheries in the state. It has suggested that the government use in-ovo sex- determination technology as soon as it was available. "This new technology, which has been developed abroad and will be commercially available soon, would allow eggs with male embryos to be destroyed in an early stage of development and spare live chicks a horrific death", the group said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/steps-in-place-to-curb-culling-of-male-chicks-in-illegal-ways-in-kerala-842857.html
28-05-2020||South||Telangana native dies of COVID-19 in Kerala as state records highest spike||A Telangana native died of COVID in Kerala on Thursday, while 84 more persons were tested positive, the highest ever recorded in the state on a single day. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the Telangana native wrongly boarded a train to Thiruvananthapuram with family on May 22 from Rajasthan instead of Telangana. He was tested positive after reaching the state and died on Thursday. Of the 84 fresh cases on Thursday, 79 were persons who came either from abroad or other states. The state is witnessing a steep increase in COVID-19 cases from May first week with arrival of people from other states and abroad. Of the 1,088 persons tested COVID-19 positive in Kerala so far, 526 were now active.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-native-dies-of-covid-19-in-kerala-as-state-records-highest-spike-842900.html
28-05-2020||South||Southern Railway closes HQ in Chennai after staff test positive||Southern Railway on Thursday closed its headquarters and office of the Chennai Division after a “few staff” tested positive for coronavirus. The Integral Coach Factory (ICF) has also announced that its Shell Administrative Building will be closed for two days from May 29 as people working there have been found infected with COVID-19. Sources said the Southern Railway will carry out the disinfection of its entire premises located close to the iconic Chennai Central Railway station on Friday and Saturday. “A few staff working at the headquarters tested positive for COVID-19 and we have closed both the HQ and the building that houses the Chennai division. They will be disinfected thoroughly,” a Railway official told DH. He added that the offices are likely to open on June 1. The offices began to function after the Union Government allowed to reopen and work with 33 per cent, which was increased to 50 per cent recently.  An official from the ICF, the largest coach factory in the world, said a few staff who were working the Shell Administrative Building have tested positive for COVID-19. “We have positive cases everywhere around the ICF premises. Recently, ICF lost one of its staff to COVID-19,” the official said. He said the building will be closed for disinfection activities on May 29 and May 30 and will reopen on June 1 as May 31 is Sunday. The positive patients are being treated at Railway Hospital in Chennai, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/southern-railway-closes-hq-in-chennai-after-staff-test-positive-842914.html
28-05-2020||South||COVID-19: Community transmission widespread in Chennai, say doctors||Chennai, a metropolis with a population of nearly a crore, is grappling with an exponential increase in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus with each passing day. The Tamil Nadu government may be in outright denial, but experts say there is “widespread community transmission” in parts of Chennai as hundreds of people with “absolutely no travel or contact history” have contracted the virus. The city is also flooded with complaints that even symptomatic family members of confirmed COVID-19 patients are being turned away from testing centers. At least three people took to social media in the past two weeks to flag issues of symptomatic patients being turned away at testing centers and “rampant community transmission” in overcrowded areas in the city. They got tested only after their grievance caught the attention of the top brass of the government. Though the government maintains that its testing numbers are highest in the country, experts feel the number of tests conducted now – 3,500 to 4,500 a day in Chennai -- are “just not enough” to contain the virus in the city. Testing combined with enforcing of rules need of the hour Experts say the government should increase its testing numbers, which is currently 11,300 on an average for the entire state in a day, immediately to prevent further spread of the virus, while cautioning that testing and identifying confirmed patients alone are not enough. The government should focus on ensuring compliance of physical distancing, wearing of masks and other precautions followed universally, they told DH. Despite repeated denials from the government, Dr Ram Gopalakrishnan, Senior Consultant, Infectious Diseases with Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, said there is widespread community transmission within the metropolis and that there is no second opinion on the issue. “There is widespread community transmission within Chennai. We, in the medical profession, see patients who have absolutely no risk factors like contacts or travel but turn out to be positive. Within Chennai, there is no question that community transmission is happening. Outside Chennai, it is probably true that there is little or no community transmission,” Dr Gopalakrishnan told DH. At last count on Thursday, the city had 12,762 Coronavirus patients, 106 deaths, the highest in the state, and 6,304 discharges. More than 8,000 cases were from six zones – four of which houses some of the heavily congested areas, a breeding ground for community transmission -- in the metropolis. Over 11,000 of these cases were reported this month alone with around 500 people testing positive every day for the past few weeks. The city is also home to several clusters like the Koyambedu market that spread across Tamil Nadu and to a few neighbouring states as well. Sources said over a lakh people in Chennai have been tested so far, while the number of individuals tested across the state stands at 4,23,018.  ‘It is a community spread, not clusters anymore’ Echoing Dr Gopalkrishnan on wide-spread community transmission, leading epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil went a step ahead to say that the government should not be embarrassed in admitting community transmission as it cannot be “classified as its failure.” “At the moment, there is community transmission. It is no more local cluster or anything. That is obvious and I do not think that the government should feel embarrassed about it. It is fully expected as this is how an epidemic grows. And it cannot be considered as a failure on the part of the government because this is the nature of the disease,” Dr Muliyil, former principal of the Vellore Medical College, told DH. However, Dr J Amalorpavanathan, former director of the Institute of Vascular Surgery at the prestigious Madras Medical College, said announcing community transmission will not serve any purpose as the treatment for those who teste positive is the same irrespective of the stage. While advocating “aggressive testing” in containment zones to identify the source of the infection to contain it, Dr Amalorpavanathan told DH that people should follow the three cardinal principles of distancing, masking, and washing. “What does one achieve by announcing community transmission? The treatment for confirmed patients in the same irrespective of the state. Categorizing will be useful for academic purposes. The focus should be on testing asymptomatic patients inside the containment zones to reduce the infection. We are clueless as to why it is not being done?” he asked. Only increased testing can help identify more patients Sumanth C Raman, a physician by profession and a political commentator who keeps track of COVID-19 developments in Tamil Nadu, feels the number of people being tested in Chennai currently is “very inadequate” and the government needs to test at least 15,000 people a day in the city. “Since the prevalence of the infection is wide-spread in Chennai, the government should focus on aggressive testing to identify more patients and isolate them. 3,000 to 4,000 tests in Chennai per day is simply inadequate. 500 people testing positive out of these tests every day means one in seven people are testing positive and this is all the more a valid reason for ramping up the numbers,” he told DH. He also sought to know what the point was in increasing the number of testing labs, while reducing the number of tests. While agreeing that testing is of prime importance, Dr Gopalakrishnan said the aggressive testing strategy alone will not work. Testing every person and quarantining them and their contacts have “only limited benefit at this point” due to wide-spread community transmission and the focus now should be on strict implementation of measures like compulsory wearing of masks, maintaining physical distancing and avoid spitting on the road for the general population, he said. ‘Practicing universal aggressive precautions necessary’ “Test, test, and test is a reasonable strategy in the rest of Tamil Nadu which has low prevalence or medium prevalence. This virus spreads in asymptomatic fashion and we should move beyond testing and enforce certain rules. We need to practice universal aggressive precautions such as physical distancing and aggressively police certain measures like say to ensure that universal masking in public and avoidance of spitting,” he said.    Dr Gopalakrishnan also advocated the state to take “different approaches for different parts” of Tamil Nadu. “The government should change its approach towards Chennai by changing the focus on testing alone. While not losing focus on testing, it should lay emphasis on universal implementation of the preventive measures for all which is absolutely critical at this point,” he said. Dr Muliyil said the fight against any epidemic – now COVID-19 – should be collective as people, government and private sector should join hands to respond to the situation. He added that the “final responsibility of their health” rests with the people and their families. “You (government) should empower them to take care of themselves. Do not block the efforts of the families to take care of them. In our anxiety to fight COVID-19, we should not block their efforts and disempower the people,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-community-transmission-widespread-in-chennai-say-doctors-842918.html
28-05-2020||South||Five air passengers test positive in Salem; all travellers quarantined||Five persons who flew from here to Salem on Wednesday have tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, officials said here. With this, the number of domestic air passengers testing positive for the virus has gone up to six. As many as 56 passengers travelled on the Trujet flight from Chennai to Salem on Wednesday – it was the first aircraft to land at the airport which was operationalized under UDAN after air services resumed in the country on May 25. “Five passengers who travelled by air from Chennai to Salem on Wednesday have tested positive for COVID-19. All of them have been shifted to the Government Hospital here and under treatment,” Salem District Collector S A Raman told DH. He also added that a doctor working with the Stanley Medical College Hospital in Chennai, who returned to his native Salem district, has also tested positive. The district collector said all passengers who came by the aircraft have been quarantined. Officials said all 56 passengers were quarantined and their swab samples were taken on Wednesday after their arrival. A 24-year-old passenger who arrived in Coimbatore from Chennai had tested positive on Tuesday, leading to grounding of the Indigo crew.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-air-passengers-test-positive-in-salem-all-travellers-quarantined-842964.html
28-05-2020||South||Following furore, TTD board drops all plans of disposing devotee donated properties||In the wake of a huge controversy and opposition to the sale of the Tirupati temple lands, the board of trustees has decided against disposing of the immovable properties donated by the devotees in any manner. The resolution was made on Thursday in a meeting of the board of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, the trust that runs the celebrated Venkateshwara temple. “We have also decided to set up a committee comprising of officials, intellectuals, heads of Hindu religious institutions and devotees to recommend on utilizing the unviable and encroached properties so as to act appropriately without hurting the devotee sentiments,” said YV Subba Reddy, TTD board chairman. The revelation of TTD’s plans to auction some of the land parcels and other properties, donated by the devotees to the Lord, to accrue income has invited nationwide criticism. In a damage control measure, the Jaganmohan Reddy government has on Monday issued an order suspending the TTD’s plans. The board has now rescinded its decision on the immovable properties, though maintaining that the plan was initiated and processed by the previous board of TTD, during the previous Chandrababu Naidu government. The board has also decided to write to the state government to constitute an investigation committee on the entire episode to bring out actual facts, Subba Reddy said. The chairman stated the TTD was fully geared to commence the Srivari darshan, once receiving the government’s green signal. "We have inspected the Vaikuntam Queue Complex compartments, the temple, laddu making areas etc. today to plan pilgrim darshan arrangements following social distancing restrictions, and open the temple once the lockdown ends", he said. The temple has been closed for pilgrims since March 20.   The board has also decided to develop a specialty children's hospital exclusively for pediatric medical care. The five-hour-long conference was held first ever time in a virtual mode because of the COVID-19 pandemic situation. Except for a few like the chairman, executive officer and two local attendees present in the Annamaiah Bhavan in Tirumala, rest have attended the crucial meeting online. The board's 24 members hail from different states, including five from Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/following-furore-ttd-board-drops-all-plans-of-disposing-devotee-donated-properties-842976.html
28-05-2020||South||YSRCP-led Andhra govt completes one-year rule; says fulfilled 90% poll promises||The YSRCP-led Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday said it has fulfilled 90 per cent of its poll promises within one year of its rule and spent about Rs 40,139 crore for various welfare schemes, benefitting 3.57 crore people and creating over 30,000 jobs in the state. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy completed one year in office this month. He had assumed office on May 30 last year. "Despite inheriting empty coffers from the previous TDP regime and COVID-19 crippling the state's economy, Jagan Mohan Reddy went ahead with implementing a slew of welfare and development programmes as stated in the party manifesto," an official statement said. Andhra Pradesh, which has 3,245 COVID-19 cases at present, became a role model in combating the virus, it said. "Whether it is the number of tests, recoveries, low mortality rate, quarantine facilities, providing transportation and shelter to migrant labourers, showing compassion towards coronavirus victims, Andhra Pradesh has shown the path to other states," it added. The state government said health, education, farmers, irrigation, welfare and infrastructure remained the focus areas in the last one year. In this one year, over 30,000 new jobs were created by units that have come up in different parts of the state, it said. "… the chief minister has fulfilled 90 per cent of the promises made within one year of ruling," it added. According to the government, as many as 15 welfare schemes were implemented during the last one year, benefiting 3.57 crore individuals by spending Rs 40,139 crore. From old age people to autorickshaw drivers, handloom weavers to fishermen, women of self-help groups to poor parents, students to junior advocates, every sector was covered, the statement said. Maintaining cordial relations with the Centre and improving relationship with neighbouring states was also top on the agenda of the chief minister, who is also striving for zero tolerance as far as corruption is concerned, it said. "Maintaining law and order and ensuring communal harmony never took a backseat," the government said, adding the prestigious Polavaram irrigation project is going on at a brisk speed and it is on top of the agenda of the state government. In 2019’s state election manifesto, the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) had promised to implement nine Navratna Welfare Schemes -- YSR Rythu Bharosa, fee reimbursement, Arogya Sree, Jalayagnam, total ban on sale of liquor, Amma Vodi, YSR Asara, houses to homeless and increase in pensions. In a separate statement, opposition leader and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu accused the chief minister’s one year rule of having “crippled legislature, executive, judiciary and also the media-the four pillars of democracy”. "Every programme of Jagan Reddy is designed for corruption," he said. The TDP leader also accused the ruling party of committing "massive fraud" in the name of liquor prohibition by supplying poor quality brands and putting poor people's health at risk. "Abnormal rates were being collected causing further financial loss to poor workers. ‘JST collections’ or Jagan Reddy Service Tax are rampant everywhere and the chief minister is literally behaving like a leech, squeezing blood out of poor people," Naidu alleged in his valedictory address at a two-day digital political conclave here. Naidu slammed the YSRCP government for imposing an additional burden of Rs 50,000 crore on the people in the form of increased taxes and rates of liquor, sand, power, cement, APSRTC and mines. "Essential commodities rates have also skyrocketed, making poor people's lives difficult during the lockdowns,” he alleged. He added that the state government should change its "biased attitude" and start rebuilding the new capital at Amaravati itself, without endangering the future of the state further. Meanwhile, the state government said about Rs 25,000 crore financial assistance has been extended to over 80 lakh farmers under the YSR Rythu Bharosa scheme during the last one year for buying crop inputs. Under the YSR Pension Kanuka scheme, the state has disbursed Rs 2,500 monthly pension amounting to Rs 14,438 crore to 58,61,120 beneficiaries like the aged, widows, tappers, weavers, single women, fishermen, HIV-affected and traditional cobblers. The pensions were distributed by village volunteers at the doorstep in the first week of every month, saving the beneficiaries from travelling to the nearby banks and waiting in long queues. Under the YSR Zero Vaddi scheme, interest free loans to the tune of Rs 1,400 crore has been disbursed to 90.37 lakh Self Help Group women in both rural and urban areas, while under the Amma Vodi scheme, Rs 15,000 per annum amounting to Rs 6,349 crore was distributed to 42.33 lakh mothers having school-going children in last one year, the statement said. Similarly, under the YSR Arogya Sree, the state has spent Rs 1,534 crore for treatment of poor, benefitting 6.24 lakh beneficiaries. “As promised in the manifesto, the YSRCP government has taken over all the liquor shops, and reduced the numbers by over 20 per cent. Liquor rates have been hiked almost 100 per cent and the government plans to ban it in the next three years. “For monitoring and effective implementation of these schemes, the state government has appointed about 2,70,000 village volunteers and over 1,30,00 staff on permanent basis for village and ward secretariats,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ysrcp-led-andhra-govt-completes-one-year-rule-says-fulfilled-90-poll-promises-842980.html
28-05-2020||State||Enquiry panel reports against DTE director||An enquiry committee has found some of the complaints against state Technical Education Department director H U Talwar to be prima facie true.     The panel — appointed by the Higher Education Department and headed by IAS officer Vikas Kishore Suralkar, who is also the executive director of the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) — submitted a 158-page report to the state government. “Prima facie it is proved that the performance of the Director, Technical Education, is not satisfactory,” says the report, a copy of which is available with DH. The complaints against Talwar pertain to misuse of public office, harassment of colleagues, misuse of power, purchase powers, admissions, appointment to teaching posts, violation of roaster/reservation norms, appointment of teachers with fake documents etc. There were 54 complaints against him, of which 11 have been found to be true. “Out of the 54 complaints, 20 were unknown and six had no proper documentation. No direct involvement of the director was proved in 17 of the remaining 28 complaints. The rest 11 were found to be true prima facie and the director’s performance is not satisfactory,” the report states. In one of the cases, Talwar reportedly favoured the management of a private engineering college by converting unfilled seats into management quota. “It has been proved that private college managements have distributed more seats than their intake. The technical education director has failed to discharge his duties in the interest of students and his conduct was not satisfactory,” the report says. Talwar joined the department as a faculty of a government polytechnic college. Ten years ago, he was promoted as the director. There were objections to his appointment too. Sources from the Department of Higher Education, however, said, “The report will be submitted to the Higher Education minister recommending the suspension of the director and seeking explanation or sending him on long leave.” Reacting to the report’s findings, Talwar told DH that he has not received any notice yet. “I have an objection against this enquiry. The IAS officer appointed to conduct the inquiry has no eligibility as my post is above the rank of IAS selection grade. When I was appointed in 2009, the IAS officer was not even appointed and he is a 2012 batch officer. I do not know on what grounds he was appointed as the inquiry officer. Further, I directly come under the control of the Department of Personnel Administration and Reforms (DPAR). This inquiry has been done with an intention of tarnishing my image and I will question this at a suitable forum after receiving a notice,” Talwar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/enquiry-panel-reports-against-dte-director-842609.html
28-05-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown: Temples in Karnataka await guidelines on opening from June 1||Though the state government has announced that the temples will be opened from June 1, the authorities of the temples coming under the Muzrai department are yet to get any order from the government. When DH contacted Kukke Subrahmanya Temple EO Ravindra, he said, “The guidelines from the government is yet to reach us. Only after the guidelines, we can initiate measures to maintain social distance and take necessary measures.”    April and May is the peak season for the temples in Dakshina Kannada. About 20,000 to 25,000 devotees were visiting the Kukke Subrahmanya Temple daily during the period.  All sevas in the temples in DK had remained suspended since March, as preventive measures to check the spread of Covid-19.   While Sri Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple Hereditary Priest Harinarayana Asranna said, “I heard Muzari minister’s statement on the opening of temples through media. We are yet to receive any guidelines from the department. In spite of it, we have chalked out plans for the use of sanitisers and what measures to be followed while allowing the devotees inside the temple. Once the guidelines reach us, we will make all preparations accordingly.” Kollur Mookambika Temple Executive Officer Arvind Suttagundi said that the government is yet to issue guidelines. However, wearing mask will be made mandatory. The temple will offer sanitisers. To ensure social distancing, security men will be deployed and markings will be made and all the devotees will not be allowed inside the temple together in large number. The temple has incurred around Rs 14 crore loss during the lockdown period from March to May.  Temple head priest Sridhar Adiga said that there will be no mass feeding. No ‘Homa’ and ‘Havanas’ will be held inside the temple. Routine puja rituals are held during the lockdown period with a minimum number of priests. While the Facebook page of Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Manjunatha Swamy Temple said that devotees will be allowed to enter the temple from June 1. As per the government guidelines, devotees will be allowed to enter after thermal scanning, usage of sanitisers and by strictly adhering to the norms of social distance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-temples-in-karnataka-await-guidelines-on-opening-from-june-1-842723.html
28-05-2020||State||Seven out of 10 workers lost employment during lockdown in Karnataka: Survey||Seven out of ten (72 per cent) workers in Karnataka reported having lost their employment during the COVID-19-induced lockdown, according to findings of a survey by Azim Premji University, in collaboration with ten civil society organisations. The university said in a statement it conducted "a detailed" phone survey of 5,000 workers across 12 states in the country, to gauge the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown on employment, livelihoods, and access to government relief schemes.  The survey covered self-employed, casual, and regular wage and salaried workers and it released the findings for Karnataka on Thursday. Seventy-six per cent of urban workers and 66 per cent of rural workers lost their employment, the survey findings said. For non-agricultural self-employed workers and wage workers, who were still employed, average weekly earnings fell by two-third. More than four in ten salaried workers (44 per cent) saw either a reduction in their salary or received no salary during the lockdown. Six out of ten households reported that they did not have enough money to buy even a weeks worth of essential items, according to the survey. Eight out ten households reported a reduction in food intake, while less than three in ten vulnerable households (27 per cent) in urban Karnataka received any form of cash transfer from the government, it said. In summary, the disruption in the Karnataka's economy and labour markets is enormous. Livelihoods have been devastated at unprecedented levels during the lockdown. The recovery from this could be slow and very painful, the statement said. As a response to the findings of this survey, the team which has conducted the survey suggested a universalisation of the PDS to expand its reach and implementation of expanded rations for at least the next six months. It suggested cash transfers equal to at least Rs. 7000 per month for two months, and proactive steps like an expansion of MGNREGA, the introduction of urban employment guarantee, and investment in universal basic services, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/seven-out-of-10-workers-lost-employment-during-lockdown-in-karnataka-survey-842860.html
28-05-2020||State||Chances of locusts reaching Karnataka remote: Minister||Amid locusts attack in some parts of the country, the Karnataka government on Thursday claimed chances of a massive locust swarm reaching the state are remote due to change in the wind direction. "Good thing is that the wind is not blowing towards Karnataka..according to the MET department report wind is expected to be towards a different direction,99.99 per cent it (locust) will not come to Karnataka, so farmers need not worry," Agriculture Minister BC Patil told reporters. As a precautionary measure, to face the situation in case of a locust swarm, a committee, comprising Agriculture and Horticulture directors and senior officials, has been constituted, and the officials have been directed to visit Kalaburagi, Bidar, Koppal and Yadgir districts. "Our officials are in constant touch with officials in Maharashtra and are monitoring the situation," he added. Patil along with Horticulture Minister Narayan Gowda today held discussions with experts, disaster management cell officials and top officials of the departments regarding the locust swarm. In the last few months, locust attacks have been reported from many parts of the country, including Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra. The insects eat up crops in a field they attack, inflicting damage to the farm production. Mentioning about the change in the wind direction, an official release said the locusts are about 450 km away from Bidar district border, and may not reach Karnataka. Swarms of locusts have been reportedly seen in Maharashtra's Gondia district. Stating that according to experts locusts have appeared in large numbers due to good rains last year in Rajasthan, a desert area, Patil said it has started moving in an eastward direction now. "They travel along the wind direction and not against it," he said. The minister also said as a precautionary measure, they have stocked pesticide chlorpyrifos and it can be sprayed in case the locusts come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/chances-of-locusts-reaching-karnataka-remote-minister-842867.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka govt ends COVID-19 testing for asymptomatic international flyers||A circular signed by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary to the State Government, dated May 27, says that any “person who has completed seven days of institutional quarantine and is asymptomatic can be permitted for home quarantine without a COVID-19 test (RT-PCR), subject to undergoing a medical check-up.”  This check-up equates to thermal screening (with a required temperature of under 37.5C or 99.5F and pulse oximetry of under 94%).  The circular added that all elderly people, over the age of 60, and those with comorbidities (such as Diabetes mellitus, hypertension, asthma, heart ailment, renal disease...etc) are “required to be clinically evaluated diligently prior to shifting them for quarantine.” On Wednesday, Pankaj Pandey, Commissioner, the Department of Health and Family Welfare told DH that these new guidelines were based on recommendations from the COVID Task Force. A member of the COVID Task Force told DH today that new strategies had been formulated based on the latest findings on how the SARS-Cov-2 virus affects people. The latest finding on how COVID-19 virus behaves According to a white paper by the National Centre for Infectious Diseases and the Chapter of Infectious Disease Physicians, Academy of Medicine, Singapore, which aided the Task Force in formulating its new strategy, the infectious period of SARS-CoV-2 virus in symptomatic individuals may begin as early as two days before the onset of symptoms and persists for about seven to 10 days after the onset of symptoms. This finding, the paper stated, was based on accumulated data since the start of the pandemic. Another startling finding is that active viral replication is said to “drop quickly after the first week, and the viable virus was not found after the second week of illness despite the persistence of PCR detection of viral RNA.”  A study of 766 patients in Singapore also indicated that by day 15 from the onset of illness, 30% of all COVID-19 patients tested negative on RT-PCR tests using swabs samples taken from the nasopharyngeal area. This percentage increases to 68% by day 21, 88% by day 28 and 95% by day 33. The study determined that the detection of viral RNA  through the RT-PCR method does “not necessarily mean the presence of an infectious or viable virus.” However, the paper also cautions that “robust data is lacking regarding infectiousness of asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic individuals and how much asymptomatic infection drives the transmission.” The problem of RT-PCR In formulating its new guidelines, the Karnataka COVID Task Force also considered international studies which appear to indicate that countries, such as India, which use a policy of repeating respiratory sample RT-PCRs tests to determine if patients were negative for the disease, had resulted in some case where patients test positive again after being discharged.  At least two patients in Karnataka fall under this category. One is a patient in Belagavi, who was readmitted into COVID-19 care for an additional eight days after being given a clean bill of health following 19 days of hospital care in April. Another is a member of Bengaluru’s Hongasandra cluster, who went back into COVID-19 care despite being discharged with a clean bill of health after 17 days of hospitalisation from April to May. He was subsequently discharged after five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-govt-ends-covid-19-testing-for-asymptomatic-international-flyers-842732.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka wants to restrict flights from five states||The BS Yediyurappa Cabinet on Thursday decided to ask the Civil Aviation Ministry to "reduce" the number of flights flying into the state from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan due to the high load of COVID-19 cases in these states.  While briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said it was decided to "restrict" air travel from these states. Later, the government clarified that it was not a "ban", but a "request" to the Civil Aviation Ministry to reduce the number of flights.  The Cabinet also decided to continue the restriction on road travel from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu until further orders. The government will also push for restriction of train services, especially from Maharashtra. "Those coming from Maharashtra by road, rail or air, we have decided that we must restrict them for some days. That's because most of our COVID-19 positive cases are from Maharashtra," Madhuswamy said. A decision on prohibiting trains from other states with high caseload will be taken in the coming days.   We hereby clarify that there is no ban on flights and trains to Karnataka. But we have requested the Central govt to restrict the number of flights from high risk states. While entry by road stays prohibited, trains that are already running will continue to do so. Allowing more people to return from these states will burden Karnataka's existing quarantine facilities. "So, till a batch or two of people currently in quarantine are cleared to go home, Karnataka wants to restrict people from these states," Madhuswamy said. Several Cabinet ministers favoured restricting movement of people from the five states, especially Maharashtra. "Testing everyone in quarantine has burdened the state's testing infrastructure. Tests are also not being completed (on time) due to the large number of arrivals from these states," he said.  The police in the northern districts of Karnataka have been directed to be extra vigilant along Maharashtra border. "There are fears that around 20,000-30,000 people could cross over from the state along the dry riverbed of Bhima river," Madhuswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-wants-to-restrict-flights-from-five-states-842858.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Poll panel postpones panchayat elections in Karnataka||The Karnataka State Election Commission (SEC) on Thursday announced postponement of gram panchayat elections due to the COVUD-19 pandemic, paving the way for the ruling BJP to take control of the rural local bodies. Between June and August, the term of some 5,800 gram panchayats will end. There are totally 6,025 gram panchayats in the state. “The State Election Commission has examined the feasibility of conducting general elections to gram panchayats. Considering the current situation as ‘exceptional circumstance’, it has been decided to temporarily postpone the general elections to the gram panchayats,” the SEC said in a statement. Last week, the SEC had sought the opinion of all deputy commissioners on conducting elections. “Their reports suggest that personnel in all districts are engaged in COVID-19 affairs, leading to shortage in manpower for elections. Also, there will be shortage in transportation and inconveniences in maintaining law & order,” the SEC said. Gram panchayats are the first in the self-governance strata and gaining control over them can alter local political equations at the grassroots. The government, through a Cabinet decision, had asked the SEC to postpone the elections. According to sources, the government is toying with the idea of nominating pro-BJP people as members of administrative committees that will take control of the gram panchayats, or name bureaucrats as administrators.     Postponement of the gram panchayat polls has enraged the Opposition Congress, which has threatened to wage both legal and political fights. “This is a violation of the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act, 1993. The Congress will question this anti-democratic decision in the court,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said, accusing the SEC of “dancing to the BJP’s tunes.” He said it was “shameful” that the BJP government is looking to take control of the gram panchayats this way. “People are fed up with the government. They’re scared to face elections, so they’ve taken this path of nominating members to the panchayats,” Siddaramaiah said. The former CM argued that Section 8 of the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act did not allow administrative committees to be appointed without conducting an election. “We will tell the court of this illegality and we’re confident of getting justice.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/poll-panel-postpones-panchayat-elections-in-karnataka-842930.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 115 new COVID cases, tally now 2,533||As many as 115 new coronavirus cases were reported in Karnataka on Thursday taking the infection count to 2,533, Karnataka Minister S Suresh said. The total coronavirus cases include 834 discharges, 1,650 active cases, 47 deaths so far due to the disease and two deaths due non-COVID causes, Suresh Kumar, who is minister for primary and secondary education, said during the daily COVID-19 briefing. According to him, 29 cases were reported in Udupi on Thursday, followed by 24 in Dakshina Kannada district, 13 in Hassan, 12 in Bidar, nine in Bengaluru Urban, seven in Yadagiri, six in Chitradurga, five in Kalaburagi, four in Haveri, three in Chikkamagaluru, two in Vijayapura and one in Raichur. The minister said among the new cases, 95 are inter-state passengers and two international passengers. According to the health department, 84 infected people have returned from Maharashtra and eight from Tamil Nadu. Among those discharged today, 13 are in Davangere, 12 in Dakshina Kannada, nine each in Yadagiri and Vijayapura, five in Gadag, three in Belagavi, one each in Mysuru and Bagalkote. Two are severe acute respiratory infection cases. There were, however, no coronavirus related deaths in the state today, the minister said. Kumar said the government has issued another circular making changes in the quarantine rules. "A person who has completed seven days of institutional quarantine and is asymptomatic can be permitted for home quarantine without a COVID test, subject to undergoing medical check-up," the minister said. According to the circular, all elderly people of above 60 years of age and those with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma, heart ailment and renal diseases, are required to be clinically evaluated diligently prior to shifting them to home quarantine. Such people will be under mandatory home quarantine for seven days, the circular read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-115-new-covid-cases-tally-now-2533-842946.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||99.99% chance that locusts won’t enter Karnataka: Minister||Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Thursday said there was a “99.99%” chance that Karnataka will not face a locust attack thanks to a weather forecast that the wind will take them away from the state.  The government has, however, taken precautions in the border districts of Bidar, Kalaburagi, Koppal and Yadgir that are vulnerable. The locust swarm is some 450 km away from the Bidar border, the minister said.  ‘Wind not towards state’ “Locusts can travel 150-200 km along with the wind. They can’t fly against the wind. The good news is that the wind isn’t blowing towards Karnataka. Experts have told us that the wind is set to go northeast from the southwest,” Patil said. “There’s a 99.99% chance that a locust attack won’t happen. So, farmers need not worry or panic,” Patil told a news conference after meeting officials to take stock of the locust threat.  As a precautionary measure, a committee comprising the directors of agriculture and horticulture has been asked to be vigilant in the Bidar, Kalaburagi, Koppal and Yadgir districts to handle any exigency. “We have kept one lakh litres of insecticides and pesticides such as Chlorpyrifos and Lambda cyhalothrin in stock that can be sprayed,” Patil said.  Fire scare He also advised farmers to use fire and beat drums to divert locusts, if they came. “This (locust swarm) started in South Africa. It reached Afghanistan, Balochistan and Pakistan. From there, it came to Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra,” he said. “The swarm can be 10 km long and 2 km wide. Each locust eats about 1-2 gram of food, but a swarm can destroy an entire field.”  Locusts feed on crops only between 4 pm and 7 pm, Patil said. “They live on trees the rest of the time. That’s when we can use fire tenders or drones to spray insecticides on them,” Patil said.  The government has nearly Rs 200 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to deal with a locust attack. “The SDRF outlay is Rs 1,054 crore, of which 30% is for Covid-19. We can use 25% of what’s remaining for pest control and crop protection,” Patil said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/9999-chance-that-locusts-won-t-enter-karnataka-minister-842947.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Five-month-old baby recovers from Covid-19, discharged||A five-month-old baby girl and a two-year-old girl have been discharged Karwar Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) after they completely recovered from Covid-19. The baby girl was taken to a hospital in Mangaluru in the third week of April for the treatment of epilepsy. The parents contracted novel coronavirus from their 18-year-old relative. The parents and the baby girl tested positive for Covid-19 on May 8. The parents were discharged from KIMS on May 23. Since the girl had epilepsy, doctors continued the treatment for 19 days. Similarly, a two-year-old girl too was discharged after she completely recovered. Paediatricians Dr Vishwanath, Dr Sonia and Dr Praveen treated the girls, said deputy commissioner Dr K Harish Kumar. The trio had successfully treated an 83-year-old Covid-19 patient.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/five-month-old-baby-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged-842948.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Winds to rescue Karnataka farmers from locusts; swarms head towards MP||Farmers and officials of the districts bordering Maharashtra - Bidar, Kalaburagi and Vijayapura are a relieved lot. Change in wind direction has averted a possible locust attack on crops in three border districts. Swarms of locusts were expected to move from Maharashtra to Karnataka in the next few days. But the bugs are now heading towards Madhya Pradesh, courtesy change in wind direction. After entering Maharashtra through Nashik, locusts changed directions owing to variations in weather conditions. The bugs had wreaked havoc in two districts of Aurangabad division. Locusts then moved into Bhandara district, triggering fears of new wave of invasion for farmers in Madhya Pradesh and making Telangana districts bordering Maharashtra vulnerable to pest attack. After swarms of locusts invaded Vidarbha region, the Bidar district administration was in touch with its counterparts of Varada, Yavatmal, Nanded and Latur districts in Maharashtra, monitoring the movement of locust swarms. With the change in wind direction, Kamreddi and Nizamabad districts in Telangana face an increased risk of locust attack. Vidyananda, joint director, Agriculture, told DH, “We are in touch with Faridabad-based Locust Warning Organisation (LWO). According to the LWO, locust swarms are heading towards Madhya Pradesh. There is no need for the farmers from border districts in Karnataka to fear locust attack.” However, we are ready to combat the pest menace. Bidar district has stocked enough pesticides. An awareness about locust attack is being created among farmers through assistant agriculture directors and gram panchayats, theofficer said. Dr Sunilkumar M N of Krishi Vignana Kendra said, “Locusts can travel up to 150 km a day. They normally fly easterly direction. But again it depends on wind direction. An offshoot may have changed it direction and heading towards Madhya Pradesh. But there is a need to monitor otherswarms that are lagging behind.” Allaying the fears of farmers in border districts, he said, “Locusts have moved to Bhandara from Nagpur. Hence, the farmers of Bidar and Kalaburagi can breathe easy now.” Swarms of locusts have wreaked havoc on crops in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/winds-to-rescue-karnataka-farmers-from-locusts-swarms-head-towards-mp-842950.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||122 child marriages prevented in Ballari district||As many as 122 child marriages have been prevented during the lockdown period in the district. Those, who were scheduled to get married, were aged between 14 and 16 years. “Parents had scheduled the marriages in a hurry considering less expenses for the marriages due to restrictions on large gatherings in the wake of lockdown,” district child protection officer Syed Chand Pasha told DH. Preventing the possible love affairs and inter-caste weddings of their wards in future had prompted the parents to conduct the marriages in a hurry, according to the officials. The officials were tipped-off about the weddings by sources close to boys or girls helping the district administration halt such marriages, he said. Some were under the impression that there wouldn’t be any hurdle for the child marriages as officials were busy with Covid-19 tasks. However, people voluntarily informed the administration which indicated awareness about the child marriages, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/122-child-marriages-prevented-in-ballari-district-842955.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rlys restricts time for ticket refunds||To reduce the chances of social contact during at its reservation counters, the South Western Railway (SWR) has restricted the timings in Bengaluru division for a refund of tickets for trains cancelled during the lockdown period. In a press release, the SWR said that the reservation for tickets for the resumed trains has started on May 22, the day when the refund of tickets also began. However, this has led to intermingling of passengers waiting for reservation with those seeking refunds, resulting in crowd formation. “In order to ensure social distancing in a queue, the refund of cancelled tickets will be entertained from 12 pm to 6 pm on all working days and 11 pm hrs to 2 pm on Sundays and public holidays,” the release said. The new timings will be applicable for nine reservation counters in Bengaluru division: KSR Bengaluru City, Bengaluru Cantonment, Yeshwantpur, Yelahanka, Krishnarajapuram, Kengeri, Mandya, Tumakuru and Hosur. The SWR has assured that some more passenger reservation counters will be opened for reservation and refunds shortly. For trains cancelled during the national lockdown period, a full refund will be given up to July 31, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rlys-restricts-time-for-ticket-refunds-842960.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt may say no to online classes for LKG, UKG||The government is likely to restrict schools from conducting online classes for LKG and UKG students, while officials feel children up to Class 3 should be exempted from the same. A report submitted by the director of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans) had clearly said that online classes should not be conducted for children up to the age of 6 years. The department of public instructions is now framing guidelines for the same. Exemption till class 3 The issue was also discussed during a meeting conducted by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Tuesday, where officials said, it is not advisable to allow online education for children from pre-primary to Class 3. The department is issuing a detailed circular about the same along with guidelines to conduct online classes by Monday. Dr K G Jagadeesha, commissioner, department of public instruction, said, "The matter was discussed and no decision has been taken yet about online classes. Regarding online classes for LKG and UKG, we will issue a circular by Monday." However, several parents have communicated to the schools their opposition to conduct online classes for their wards studying in kindergarten. "We brought this to the notice of the department also. How can the schools expect a four- or five-year-old to sit in front of the screen and concentrate?" a parent questioned. "In my daughter's school, they are conducting a practice session by providing online karate and art classes, but she is not showing interest. I am going to ask the school authorities not to conduct the online class for her," another parent said. Many parents have responded to Suresh Kumar's message on social media and urged him not to entertain online classes for pre-primary children. "Children watching television and playing games on mobile phones is different from attending the online class. The schools must understand this. Conducting regular classes for kindergarten kids after things return to normalcy will not make a big difference," says another parent, who is also a teacher.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-may-say-no-to-online-classes-for-lkg-ukg-842969.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Opening places of worship leaves devotees, traders joyful||The small shops selling framed pictures of presiding deities, trinkets, toys and canteens on the way leading to the entrance of popular temples across the districts are buzzing with activities. Those running these private establishments are solely dependent on pilgrims and tourists and have already begun clearing the dust and moping the floor in order to keep the shops spotlessly clean on the day when the temple throws its doors open to its devotees. “Fifty per cent of staff who had returned to their villages have been asked to come back,” said Harish Kamath of Neo Mysore Cafe which is located close to Kukke Subrahmanaya temple in Subrahmanya. Kamath says he is brimming with joy and had never expected that the government would order the opening of temples on June 1. “Business will not be like before but there will be pilgrims and tourists visiting the temple,’’ said Raghu of Sri Amrutha Easy Stay, located near Sri Annapoorneshwari Temple in Horanadu. He said in December and January business had doubled and they had re-invested the profits on improving facilities in the hotel without an inkling about the coronavirus crisis. “Besides boredom, there were fears on whether the temples would be allowed to open and whether they would eke out a living as before,” he said and declared that opening of temples was a right step in the direction of reviving the micro economy. Even devotees have welcomed the government’s decision. Veena Shantaram, a resident of Mangaluru, said closing the doors of the temple was not a good idea. “Government should have ensured social distancing and batch-wise visits to the temples,” Veena added. “My husband and I are devotees of Shri Narasimha temple in Mulki. We used to visit Mulki once in a week or once in a fortnight. These visits became difficult due to the lockdown and non-availability of public transport. “During the relaxation of the lockdown, we used to offer prayers from outside and return. We are happy that temples will be opening on June 1,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/opening-places-of-worship-leaves-devotees-traders-joyful-842971.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Elephant carcass found at M M Hill wildlife range||The forest department personnel, who were on patrol, found the carcass of a tusker at Male Mahadeshwara Hill Wildlife range on Thursday. Deputy Conservator of Forest V Yedukondalu said the elephant might be around 50 years. Prima facie, it looks like a natural death. Postmortem would be conducted on Friday morning and the exact reason would be known after the report is submitted. This is the fourth elephant carcass found in the Male Mahadeshwara Hill limits in the last two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/elephant-carcass-found-at-m-m-hill-wildlife-range-842979.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Allow temples, hotels to open: BSY to PM||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said that he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking permission to open hotels and places of religious worship from June 1.  “Temples will open from June 1, but totally, it needs permission from the PM. I’ve written to him. I’m expecting that permission will be given,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “And if temples are allowed, then mosques and churches will also open. The law is the same for all. We’re awaiting permission from the Centre and we’re trying for it.”  Yediyurappa said that the Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari D Veerendra Heggade has imposed some restrictions on visitors to the Manjunatha temple. “From June 1, he has said that no one can stay in the rooms and that they’ll have to get darshan and leave. Like this, gradually, we have to learn to live with the coronavirus,” Yediyurappa said.  The CM made a case for hotels to open by pointing out that people from other states were coming in large numbers. “Hundreds and thousands of people are coming from outside. Without hotels, they won’t have food and rooms. I’ve written to the PM about this. As soon as we get permission, we will open (hotels),” he said.  Asked about opening malls and theatres, the CM pointed to the Centre. “I can’t decide. The Centre will have to take a call.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/allow-temples-hotels-to-open-bsy-to-pm-842988.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Online Seva begins at MM Hills||Male Mahadeshwara Temple launched online Seva for devotees from Wednesday. Male Mahadeshwara Swami Development Authority's website www.mmhillstemple.com will be open between 4 am and 5.30 pm and also from 6.45 pm to 8 pm, every day, according to Jayavibhavaswamy, secretary of the authority. The devotees can also perform various Sevas to the deity and have darshan online. The authority has fixed the rate for each Seva. For example, pancha kalasa navaratna kireeta dharane will be Rs 600; Ekadashi rudrabhisheka Rs 750, Shiva ashottara bilwarchane Rs 300; temple illumination Rs 1,200 for one hour and Rs 750 for half-an-hour and Rs 500 for 15 minutes. Devotees would be sent 'bilwapatre, vibhuti and dry grapes' as prasada through post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/online-seva-begins-at-mm-hills-842990.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Fishing priority than social distancing for villagers||The decreasing water level of the Amanikere lake near here attracted the people of Kikkeri and surrounding villages in large numbers for fishing activity. Social distancing and masks were neglected, and around four tonne fish was caught, before the police dispersed them. The people of Gangenahalli, Tenginaghatta, Lakshmipura, Kunduru, Sollepura and Kodimaranahalli caught fish weighing huge quantity of fish. There were also great demand for catch from the buyers. The locals did a good business, on Tuesday. However, the police rushed to the spot and cleared the crowd, who were seen without masks and forgot the social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fishing-priority-than-social-distancing-for-villagers-842992.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Renaming flyover after Savarkar: MP, minister condemn opposition leaders||Minister of Water Resources Ramesh Jarkiholi and MP Pratap Simha took severe exception to the statements of opposition party leaders, particularly former chief minister Siddaramaiah, for opposing the proposal to name a flyover in Bengaluru after Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. Simha said, “Siddaramaiah did not find any Kannadigas name while naming the canteens. Congress leaders do not know any names, except that of Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi.” The MP asked Siddaramaiah not to play politics in these matters. “The people have rejected him and unless he does constructive politics, the people will never accept him,” he said. "Congress leaders have not tolerated Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and B R Ambedkar. While Congress leaders have named several streets, parks after Indira and Rajiv Gandhi, why are they worried about naming a flyover after Savarkar?" he asked.  It has to be noted that Siddaramaiah had tweeted: "Naming the Yelahanka flyover after Savarkar is an insult to this land's freedom fighters." Jarkiholi said, "The opposition leaders, including former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, must support the proposal. Creating issue for naming of a flyover after a freedom fighter is not a good development." Sarvarkar Jayanti BJP leaders celebrated Savarkar Jayanti at Sri Tripura Bhairavi Mutt in Shivarampet in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/renaming-flyover-after-savarkar-mp-minister-condemn-opposition-leaders-842994.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Muniswamy dares Nanjegowda resign, win election||MP S Muniswamy dared Malur legislator K Y Nanjegowda resign, face the byelection and emerge victorious. “People in the district know who won due to a wave. I will resign, face the election and emerge victorious. If Nanjegowda is capable, let him resign, face the election and win again,” he told reporters. The MLA recently had charged that the MP had won merely due to wave. “It was Nanjegowda who won because of the wave. People voted for me due to maladministration of the previous MP. In Malur Assembly constituency, I got a lead of 37,000 votes. He knows it every well and speaks unnecessarily. He lacks general knowledge,” Muniswamy charged. The MP said that he had been in the political field and did not win accidentally. Muniswamy alleged that Nanjegowda carried out crushing activities in 109 acre land in Malur taluk in benani names. He had looted money from different sources. He had failed to pay Rs 62 tax . Power for his crushing units had been disconnected, the MPsaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/muniswamy-dares-nanjegowda-resign-win-election-842996.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers urge govt to withdraw amendment to APMC Act||Akhila Bharatha Raitha Sangharsha Samanvaya Samiti members staged a protest here on Thursday in front of deputy commissioner’s office seeking the State government to withdraw the amendment to Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. The government has adopted the anti-farmer policy by trying to protect the interests of capitalists and corporate companies. The government has amended the APMC Act to exploit farmers. The farmers will be in the hands of corporate companies henceforth, the protesters charged. “Farmers are in distress due to lockdown, the decline in prices of produces and drought. The ordinance to the Act has created more problems for farmers. The farming community has been victimised due to unscientific policy of the state and the central governments,” alleged the Samithi district unit general secretary T M Venkatesh. He said that lockdown has resulted in hunger and unemployment, besides affecting the economy badly. The government has handed over the market to private persons. On the pretext of competitive price, the government has implemented the policy benefitting the corporate companies. As per the norm, one APMC should be set up for every 5 kilometres and there should be 42,000 APMCs in the country. However, there are only 7,000 APMCs in the country. The government is weakening the APMC Act instead of strengthening it, alleged Raitha Sangha state general secretary Shivappa. He said that the corporate companies would increase the prices and achieve a monopoly in the APMCs affecting food security. The protesters urged the State government to withdraw the ordinance immediately and protect the interests of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-urge-govt-to-withdraw-amendment-to-apmc-act-843000.html
28-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BPO staffers cheat firm of Rs 4.8 cr||A BPO has filed a complaint against six of its executives for allegedly cheating the firm of Rs 4.8 crore. In a complaint, Mohan Kumar N R, administrator of the company, which has its office in Whitefield, said the firm provides services to international clients. Six employees were assigned to redress clients' complaints and were authorised to issue reimbursements up to $100 (nearly Rs 8,000) in case of a dispute. But misusing the privilege, the executives created fake identities of the clients, generated complaints and transferred $100 for each complaint for several months.  Internal audit During an internal audit, it was found that they had cheated the company to the tune of Rs 4.8 crore. The Whitefield police have booked the accused for cheating and criminal breach of trust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bpo-staffers-cheat-firm-of-rs-48-cr-843003.html
28-05-2020||West||Major fire at hotel in south Mumbai; 25 rescued||At least 25 people were rescued after a major fire broke out in a five-storey hotel in south Mumbai on Wednesday night, officials said. Twenty-five doctors were residing in Hotel Fortune near Metro Cinema when the blaze broke out, according to the fire brigade officials. The BMC has arranged temporary accommodation for emergency and essential service staffers, including doctors and nurses, in various hotels and lodges in the city due to COVID-19 pandemic. "The fire spread on the first to third floors of the hotel located on 1st Marine street," an official said. "It is a level-2 fire and at least eight fire engines have been rushed to the spot." The officer said the fire was confined to the electric wiring and cables in the entire electrical duct, and to the false ceiling in the lobby, common passages on first, second and third floors of the hotel. "Hotel was housing about 25 resident doctors and all are evacuated safely," the official said, adding that five of them were rescued using ladders and donning breathing apparatus sets. Firefighting, as well as search and rescue operation, are on inside the hotel. The cause of the blaze is not known immediately, the fire brigade said. Further details are awaited. Earlier on April 21, a big fire broke out in a lodging room of Hotel Ripon near Mumbai Central, which was being used as a quarantine facility by the civic body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/major-fire-at-hotel-in-south-mumbai-25-rescued-842646.html
28-05-2020||West||Key witness who identified Kasab, braved bullets dies||Harishchandra Shrivardhankar, a key witness who had identified terrorist Ajmal Kasab during the case trial, died at his house in Kalyan in Maharashtra's Thane district, his family members said on Wednesday. He was 70. Shrivardhankar was hit by two bullets on the night of November 26, 2011, when ten Pakistani terrorists had attacked Mumbai, near Cama Hospital in south Mumbai. He had also hit Kasab's accomplice Abu Ismail with his office bag. "He died on Tuesday night," his family members said. Shrivardhankar was the first key witness to identify Kasab before the special court and also testified against him. Kasab, the only terrorist among the ten who was captured live by the police, was hanged in Pune's Yerwada jail in secret on November 21, 2012 after a court trial. A few days back, Shrivardhankar was found lying in a famished condition on a footpath in Kalyan. His family members reportedly could not afford his medical treatment. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had checked on the medical condition of Shrivardhankar at a private hospital in Kalyan two weeks back, sources said. Fadnavis had announced that the BJP would provide Rs 10 lakh to help Shrivardhankar's family. He is survived by his wife, two sons and daughters- in-law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/key-witness-who-identified-kasab-braved-bullets-dies-842649.html
28-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Man held for selling fake travel passes to migrants in Mumbai||A 28-year-old man has been arrested from Mumbai for allegedly selling fake travel passes to migrant labourers during the lockdown, police said. During an investigation, it was found that the accused, Manoj Ramu Humbe, was charging Rs 5,000 for the fake passes, a police official said on Wednesday. The police got to know about the fraud after they came across a mobile number of the accused, through which he claimed to be arranging e-passes for migrant workers who wanted to travel from Mumbai to their native states. Later, the Dongri police in Mumbai conducted a probe and nabbed the accused from suburban Chembur on Tuesday, the official said. "When questioned, the accused said he took help of his friends in the fraud. Some of his friends had obtained passes from police in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, and the Mumbai and Palghar district administrations. They used to change the name and QR code on the pass and sell it for Rs 5,000," an official from Dongri police station said. The accused has been booked under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-man-held-for-selling-fake-travel-passes-to-migrants-in-mumbai-842779.html
28-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: 1,958 stranded Gujarat residents return home from abroad||More than 1,900 residents of Gujarat stranded abroad due to worldwide travel curbs have been brought home so far in special flights started under the central government's 'Vande Bharat' mission. Between May 12 and 27, as many as 1,958 natives of Gujarat, who were stranded overseas due to the coronavirus- induced lockdown, were brought back from 11 countries under the Vande Bharat mission, said a state government release on Wednesday. On May 12, the first batch of 135 Gujaratis were brought back in a special flight from the UAE. It was followed by flights from the US, Singapore, Canada and the Philippines, among other countries, it said. In the second phase of the mega mission, another 1,869 people from Gujarat will be brought back between May 29 and June 9, the release said. These stranded people will be brought back mainly from the UK, the USA and some Gulf countries, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-1958-stranded-gujarat-residents-return-home-from-abroad-842782.html
28-05-2020||West||Samajwadi party MLA protests in Mumbai against police over transportation of migrants||Alleging mismanagement by the police in transporting migrant workers to their hometowns, Samajwadi party MLA Abu Asim Azmi staged a protest in south Mumbai's Nagpada area. A video of the protest that took place late on Wednesday night has surfaced on social media, where Azmi can be seen sitting at Nagpada junction with a few of his supporters, who raised slogans against the police. The SP leader allegedly blamed the police for transporting workers to the nearest railway station, where they were scheduled to board a train to Lucknow, which eventually got cancelled after a long wait. A senior officer, however, claimed that the police were not at fault, as the train was cancelled because of unavailability of railway coaches. Migrants were asked to go home after a long wait at the station, the official said. The police make adequate preparations and confirm with the Railways before sending passengers to railway stations, another official said. Over 10,000 people had been kept waiting for over six hours outside the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus on Wednesday, as the station premises was being cleared of outgoing passengers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/samajwadi-party-mla-protests-in-mumbai-against-police-over-transportation-of-migrants-842791.html
28-05-2020||West||Locust swarms head towards Gondia in Maharashtra, authorities alerted||Swarms of locusts have moved towards Maharashtra's Gondia district after attacking crops in neighbouring Bhandara, an official said on Thursday. Authorities in Gondia were alerted while pesticides were sprayed on crops and trees at a village in Bhandara which was affected by the pests, he said. An agriculture team rushed to Bhandara in the early hours of Thursday and sprayed pesticides with two fire tenders on trees in one-km radius in Temani village of the district, divisional joint director of agriculture Ravi Bhosle told PTI. "When the team reached the area in the early hours, pests were seen on mango, teak, moha, jambhul, ber and other trees. Pesticides were sprayed and by morning, a large number the crop-eating pests fell from trees and died," he said. "Mango trees were the most affected. The pests ate leaves but fruits were not damaged. Also, no damage was reported in the paddy fields," he said. The locust swarms were now heading eastwards, in the direction of wind, towards Tiroda tehsil in neighbouring Gondia district, the official said. Field machinery in Gondia has been alerted about the movement of the insects, he said. In the last few months, locust attacks have been reported from many parts of the country, including Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/locust-swarms-head-towards-gondia-in-maharashtra-authorities-alerted-842815.html
28-05-2020||West||NLS-AirAsia help Jharkhand migrants||In a major humanitarian initiative, the alumnis of Bengalaru-based National Law School helped a 175-odd group of migrants stranded in Mumbai to reach their home state of Jharkhand.Through a crowdfunding initiative,  they chartered an AirAsia India aircraft and flew them to Jharkhand. The AirAsia plane left the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai around 6 am and within hours, the happy group landed at the Birsa Munda Airport at Ranchi. "AirAsia India is proud to be a part of this initiative that helps migrant workers adversely impacted by the lockdown reach their homes and families," said Anup Manjeshwar, Head, Sales & Distribution, AirAsia India. The alumni of the NLS  have independently crowdfunded their efforts to assist and repatriate migrant workers from Mumbai to Ranchi. "As per standard protocol, all our guests will be screened before boarding and provided customised safety kits compromising masks, sanitiser and face shields for their personal safety," he said. AirAsia India has been operating select cargo flights during the lockdown carrying essentials such as Covid supplies, PPE kits recently. However, this is the first charter operation with passengers since operations resumed. "We hope the path laid by the organisers would be followed by others and stand ready to support other individuals and organisations  with similar initiatives,” Manjeshwar added. Speaking about the initiative, one of the organisers,  Shyel Trehan said: "NLS taught us the importance of the value of equality and dignity. We are happy to have made this very small contribution to addressing a massive travesty. I'd like to thank AirAsia for all their support." This was a massive group effort with Priya Sharma, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT Bombay, and alumni from National Law School working together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nls-airasia-help-jharkhand-migrants-842925.html
28-05-2020||West||367 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat, 22 deaths||The number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 15,572 on Thursday after 367 new patients were found since previous evening, 247 of them in Ahmedabad district alone, a Health Department release said. During the same period, 22 patients succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll due to the pandemic in the state to 960, said the statement. 454 coronavirus patients recovered and were discharged from various hospitals, taking the total of recovered patients in Gujarat to 8,001. 381 patients were discharged in Ahmedabad district alone, followed by 21 in Surat and 12 in Kutch. Besides Ahmedabad, other districts where significant number of cases were reported on Thursday are Surat (44), Vadodara (33), Sabarkantha (8) and Kutch and Rajkot (seven each). 16 coronavirus patients died at hospitals in Ahmedabad, three in Vadodara and one each in Kutch, Patan and Surendranagar districts. Out of the total 15,572 cases recorded in Gujarat so far, as many as 11,344 were reported in Ahmedabad district alone, followed by 1,465 in Surat and 947 in Vadodara.  The majority of deaths were also reported in these three districts: 780 patients have died so far in Ahmedabad, 65 have died in Surat and 39 in Vadodara. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 15,572, new cases 367, deaths 960, discharged 8,001, active cases 6,611 and people tested so far 1,98,048.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/367-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-22-deaths-842985.html
