29-05-2020||First Edit||Heat wave amidst a pandemic lockdown||North and Central India are reeling under severe heat wave conditions over the past week. Churu in Rajasthan recorded a temperature of 50 degrees Celsius on Tuesday; the highest temperature recorded in the country this summer. Like Delhi, which sizzled at 47.6 Celsius earlier this week, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh are sweltering in the high 40s. Temperatures over the past week are reportedly the highest for this time of the year that India has experienced in almost two decades. And respite is unlikely to come soon. The Meteorological department says that heat wave conditions will persist for a few more days. This year’s soaring temperatures have been attributed to Cyclone Amphan. The depression in the Bay of Bengal reportedly sucked out the moisture from across the subcontinent to dump it as rain on India’s east coast last week. As a result, North and Central India are now steaming hot. This year’s heat wave comes amid a trying time. The country is reeling under multiple crises: the Covid-19 pandemic and the related lockdown, the destruction wrought by Cyclone Amphan and a locust invasion of North-Western India. In previous years, many people would escape the full intensity of the heat by spending several hours in air-conditioned malls or at parks and beaches. People will not be able to avail these options this year because of Covid-19 and the need to maintain social distancing. As in previous years, it is the poor who will suffer the most on account of the heat wave. Many of them work outdoors and live in tin shacks with no ventilation. Migrant workers who are trudging home to their villages are bearing the brunt of the heat wave. Many of them have been walking for days and are exhausted. Their bodies are already weak and heat stress will put it under additional pressure. They are extremely vulnerable to heat strokes and even death. Authorities are advising people to drink plenty of water. This is sensible advice. But have they provided the poor with access to safe drinking water? Heat waves are lasting longer and have become more intense over the past decade. It is not just day temperatures that are soaring; nights are becoming hotter, too. The number of Indian states hit by heat waves has surged in recent years. Hotter summers and heat waves are hitting our hills, too. Himalayan glaciers are receding rapidly, causing serious flooding. Clearly, climate change is not a distant nightmare any longer. Global warming is real and already unfolding and India is suffering its deadly impact, this time in the midst of a pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/heat-wave-amidst-a-pandemic-lockdown-843070.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||With 135 positive cases, Kalyana Karnataka witnesses sharp rise in COVID-19||All cases have a travel history to Maharashtra.   While Yadgir and Raichur districts saw a huge spike with 60 cases each, a total of 15 cases confirmed in Kalaburagi district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/with-135-positive-cases-kalyana-karnataka-witnesses-sharp-rise-in-covid-19-843195.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya reports two new COVID-19 positive cases||Both cases in Mandya have a travel history to Maharashtra.    While one is a 50-year-old man, the other is a 10-year-old boy. Both are being treated at the COVID-19 hospital in Mandya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-reports-two-new-covid-19-positive-cases-843212.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: Krishna Mutt in Udupi won’t open on June 1||Ishapriya Tirtha swami, Paryaya Admar Mutt seer said even though the state government has decided to reopen temples under the Muzrai department from June 1, Krishna Mutt in Udupi will not open for devotees up to June 15. He said the decision on opening the Mutt will be taken after consulting and seeking suggestions of all the Ashta Mutt seers.  “Following the COVID-19 pandemic, no devotees were allowed inside the Mutt. We have been adhering to the guidelines of the district administration and Central and State governments. There is darshan facility for Krishna devotees from outside the temple and the devotees should cooperate. Only needed staff are inside the Krishna Mutt. All the puja rituals are held as per the tradition,” the seer added. “Though other temples are allowing darshan of the presiding deity, the seers are only conducting puja rituals in Ashta Mutt. If anyone inside the Mutt is affected, then it will affect the puja rituals. Hence it has been decided to offer darshan of the deity only after 10 to 15 days,” the seer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-krishna-mutt-in-udupi-won-t-open-on-june-1-843221.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka plans agricultural tours, guidelines soon||In a bid to boost tourism and help farmers at the same time, the state government is mulling 'agri-tourism' that will be piloted soon in two districts. Agriculture Minister BC Patil, Horticulture Minister Narayana Gowda and Tourism Minister CT Ravi huddled on Friday with officials to discuss this.  Patil told DH they wanted to frame the guidelines at the earliest and initiate the programme. "Today was the preliminary meeting. We want to begin with one district in the northern part of the state and another in the south. We will finalise it soon," he said.  The basic idea was to get people acquainted with agriculture, rural culture, arts and sports. According to Ravi, who is also minister for sports and Kannada & Culture, the government was looking at a similar initiative in Maharashtra. "Maharashtra tried something similar, which was successful. We are keeping that as the model while developing guidelines," Ravi said.  The initiative will be taken up in coordination with tourism, horticulture and agriculture departments. Apart from highlighting rural culture, the guidelines will be designed in a way to benefit farmers. "We want the farmers to be stakeholders in this initiative," he said.  During the meeting, the ministers also considered coordinating with agriculture and horticulture universities in the state. Coming up with a tourism package where tourists would visit these universities, interact with scientists, visit nearby tourist spots and spend time on farms learning about agriculture were among the ideas discussed. "Roping in school students is another option as it will be an educative experience for children," Patil added. The government was also open to inviting private agencies to coordinate the initiative, according to the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-plans-agricultural-tours-guidelines-soon-843346.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya reports two coronavirus cases; Hassan four||Two people, who had completed the 14-day quarantine and was ready to be discharged tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Both are migrants from Maharashtra. They were found positive during the second time test. With this, the total number of cases has increased to 257. According to Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh, both the patients (P 2548 and P 2549) are father and son duo, who had returned from Mumbai. The 50-year-old man was running a tea shop at Vinayak Nagar in Mumbai. They were sent for quarantine, on May 12. Initially, they tested negative and were ready to leave after 14 days quarantine, when they were tested again and turned positive.  Both were asymptomatic, and have been shifted to the Covid hospital, he said. The total number of positive cases in Mandya district is 257. In all, 33 have been discharged so far and there are 224 active cases.    Hassan district, which reported zero cases in the morning, confirmed four cases in the evening. This includes three male and a female patient. While P-2767, P-2768 and P-2770 have a contact history with P-1996; P-2769 is said to be a contact of containment zone. As on Friday, the number of positive cases are 144. While 30 have been discharged, there are 114 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-reports-two-coronavirus-cases-hassan-four-843372.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown: Shramik Special train leaves for West Bengal||A Shramik Special train, carrying 1,520 migrants, left for New Jalpaiguri in West Bengal from Mysuru on Friday. Following the request by the governments of West Bengal and Karnataka, South Western Railway, Mysuru division, arranged the special train to ferry the migrants. The train, comprising 20 LHB coaches left Ashokapuram Railway Station in Mysuru city at 1 pm. The train will reach Jalpaiguri on Sunday.  According to Divisional Commercial Manager Priya Shetty, the authorities of Health department and SWR had made elaborate arrangements to ensure the safety of passengers. After scrutiny and verification of documents of registered migrants of Mysuru, Mandya and Hunsur, the authorities completed the screening process, before they boarded the train. The state government, in association with Rotary Club of Mysuru and Jain Samaj, provided food and water to the passengers. The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation has taken care of catering during the remaining part of the journey, in collaboration with the Railway divisions on the path of the train.  It has to be noted that a Shramik Special with 1,298 migrants from Hassan and Kodagu districts left for New Jalpaiguri in West Bengal on Thursday. Mysuru division has run 10 Shramik Special trains so far, facilitating 14,066 passengers to reach their respective homes.  The railways has observed that some people, availing train services have pre-existing medical conditions, which aggravates the risk during Covid-19 pandemic. A few unfortunate cases of deaths related to pre-existing medical conditions, while travelling, have happened. In order to protect vulnerable persons from Covid-19, the railway authorities have appealed that persons with co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, cardio-vascular diseases, cancer, immune deficiency conditions, pregnant women, children below the age of 10 years and persons above 65 years of age should avoid travel by rail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-shramik-special-train-leaves-for-west-bengal-843373.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Nalvadi, Visvesvaraya statues at KRS: Ramesh Jarkiholi||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said statues of Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and Sir M Visvesvaraya will be installed at Krishnaraja Sagar at Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya district. The minister informed the same to Rajamatha Pramoda Devi Wadiyar at Mysuru Palace, here, on Friday. The region is self-sufficient in water resources and agriculture, among the other sectors owing to the contribution of the Wadiyars. The Wadiyar pledged gold to construct KRS dam, which irrigates thousands of acres, he recalled. The state government has decided to install the statue of Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and Visvesvaraya at KRS South Gate. The works have commenced at a cost of Rs 8.5 crore and will complete soon, he said. Pramoda Devi Wadiyar appreciated the government and urged the minister to complete ongoing water projects soon. Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Managing Director Jayaprakash and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nalvadi-visvesvaraya-statues-at-krs-ramesh-jarkiholi-843377.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus safety measures in place for passengers: KSRTC chief||Mangaluru, DHNS: All precautionary measures have been taken for the safety of passengers who travel in KSRTC buses, KSRTC Mangaluru Divisional Controller (DC) Arun S N said on Friday. Thermal scanning is used for screening passengers, drivers and conductors, he replied to a query from public during a phone-in-programme organised by Prajavani, sister concern publication of DH, at PV-DH office in Balmatta. Besides mouth masks, use of sanitisers before boarding the bus has been made mandatory. To ensure social distancing, buses are operated with less than 50% capacity, he added.   Arun said buses were sanitised after every trip. No case of Covid-19 being spread while travelling in the KSRTC buses had been reported in the district so far. Every week, a mask and a sanitiser is supplied to the bus conductors and drivers. As according to the guidelines from government and KSRTC MD, the corporation is operating from district to taluk headquarters and to hoblis. In order to operate long-distance buses, KSRTC has adopted need-based approach, he added On an average 90 to 110 buses operate 130 to 140 trips. The KSRTC also had relaunched sleeper coach bus service in night to Bengaluru, Mysuru, Ballari and Belagavi. Karnataka Sarige buses are operated to Hubballi, Bagalkote, Dammur, Kabbargi and Muddebihal during the night hours. The night bus services begin before 7 pm from Mangaluru. Seven JnNURM buses are being operated to different destinations in and around Mangaluru as well. Arun said food parcels for passengers travelling in buses without any scheduled stops are collected from hotels by informing them in advance. The division had taken precautionary measures to sanitise the buses using sodium hypochlorite solution and dettol. The division has around 1,828 conductors and drivers. Around 1,250 drivers and conductors were stranded more than 250-km away from the headquarters during the lockdown. "There was huge pressure on available conductors and drivers, to ferry stranded labourers to different destinations. With the relaxation of lockdown, many drivers and conductors had returned to the duty,” he said.  Arun added that the inter-state buses were yet to begin its operations. The state government has issued restrictions on the inter-state movement, he replied while answering a query. Loss during lockdown KSRTC Mangaluru division has incurred a loss of Rs 24 cr in the month of April while Rs 28 crore to Rs 30 crore in the month of May. May is the month where the demand for buses is high. Owing to lockdown, people could not visit various places and buses could not be operated. About Rs 2.3 crore is pending to be released by the government for ferrying stranded labourers to their destinations free of charge, Arun added. Mask production Rising to the occasion, KSRTC has begun manufacturing masks to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Around 2,000 masks were stitched in the division of which 700 to 800 were distributed to the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-safety-measures-in-place-for-passengers-ksrtc-chief-843384.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two test positive for coronavirus in Chikkamagaluru||Chikkamagaluru, DHNS: Two persons, who had returned recently from Delhi, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Chikkamagaluru. P 2765 is a 28-year-old man and P 2766 is a 38-year-old man, and were in a quarantine centre when they tested positive. Both are being treated at designated Covid hospital in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-chikkamagaluru-843388.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||KEA launches WhatsApp number to address queries||The students who have registered for Common Entrance Test and postgraduate seat selection through Karnataka Examinations Authority can resolve their issues just by sending a WhatsApp message. The KEA has created a dedicated WhatsApp number for the benefit of students where the queries of students will be addressed by officials. This is to avoid the physical visit of candidates during this Covid-19 pandemic.  “In case students have any queries and doubts, they can drop a message on the WhatsApp number provided in the website. A dedicated staff will answer all the queries,” said an official from KEA. Candidates can reach authority through the WhatsApp number: 9741388123.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kea-launches-whatsapp-number-to-address-queries-843402.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown: No cut in travel, daily allowances for netas||The 30% cut in salary and other remuneration of all MLAs, MLCs and ministers, including the chief minister, will exclude travel allowance and daily allowance, the Law and Parliamentary Affairs department has clarified. Salaries and all other allowances - telephone, constituency allowance, postal allowance, annual air and rail allowance - will see a 30% cut with effect from April 1, 2020.  “Daily allowance to attend meetings (within and outside the state), travel allowance and vehicle allowance (per km) will be excluded,” the department said in an order.  The government decided to cut salaries of all elected representatives by 30% and this amount - Rs 15.36 cr - will be diverted toward the Covid-19 relief efforts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-no-cut-in-travel-daily-allowances-for-netas-843403.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Migratory birds of Almatti backwaters to get state protection||The backwaters of Almatti reservoir in Bagalkot and Vijayapura districts is one of the most preferred places for migratory birds from Central and East Asia. During winters, thousands of migratory birds like Flamingo, Bar-headed goose Oriental Pratincole among others arrive, by the Central Asian flyway (flight path), in Almatti backwaters for breeding. The migratory birds will soon get the state protection. The Forest department is all set to submit a proposal to the state government seeking a conservation tag for the backwaters of Almatti, spreading across the undivided Vijayapura district, the winter home of migratory birds. The Forest department has sought the help of ornithologist and retired agriculture scientist with GKVK, Dr S Subramanya, to prepare a blueprint for the same. Migratory birds using flyway arrive in Krishna backwaters at Herkal in Bilagi taluk, Mallapur in Bagalkot taluk and Benal in Basavanabagewadi taluk of Vijayapura district. At Halerolli village in Bilagi taluk Krishna river splits into two, giving way for an island measuring 2,000 hectares. The island has become a winter home for many migratory birds from Central Asia. Hanumanth Doni, Range Forest Officer, Bilagi, told DH, “It is not possible to declare the entire reservoir and its catchment as conservation reserve. Hence, we are planning to get the protected area tag for the island and villages in its surrounding.” Migratory birds arrive to backwaters in October for nesting and they leave to their original habitat in April or May, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/migratory-birds-of-almatti-backwaters-to-get-state-protection-843407.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Farmers fear locust menace in Madhurigi||Farmers around Gauribidanur Road and surrounding areas in the town have expressed apprehensions over the swarms of locusts found in the area. The farmers said the locusts are eating the leaves of the plants in the taluk and they may even destroy the crops. Hence, the officials of the department concerned should destroy the locusts before they wreak havoc in the area, they urged. Horticulture department assistant director V S Vishwanath Gowda said there was no information about origin of locusts. The issue will be brought to the notice of the scientists, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-farmers-fear-locust-menace-in-madhurigi-843413.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus cases explode in Kalyana Karnataka||Covid-19 cases exploded in Kalyana Karnataka region on Friday. Three districts -Raichur, Kalaburagi and Yadgir - combined accounted for 74% (183) of the 248 fresh infections recorded in the state. All the cases reported in the region were linked to Maharashtra. Raichur district, which was in Green Zone till May 18, saw its biggest single-day spike in cases at 62. Devadurg taluk alone has recorded 56 cases on Friday. All infected were quarantined at BCM Hostel in Devadurg after they arrived from Maharashtra. Five teams have been formed to trace the primary and secondary contacts of the infected, said Deputy Commissioner R Venkateshkumar. He added, test results of 1,800 are awaited. All 62 patients have been admitted to OPEC Hospital in Raichur. The flurry of cases has taken the district’s tallyto 133. Meanwhile, Maharashtra returnees continued to give nightmares to Yadgir district administration. On Friday, as many as 60 people with a travel history to the western state tested positive for novel coronavirus on Friday. Among the infected are nine children under-10 and six in the age-group of 11 to 15 years while 17 people from Arakera Tanda in Yadgir taluk contracted the virus. The total case count in Yadgir district jumped to 223. Of which, nine patients are discharged post-recovery while one woman lost her battle against the virus.  Kalaburagi district witnessed a huge spike in novel coronavirus cases with 61 new infections. All cases have a travel history to Mumbai and other Maharashtra cities. Among the infected are nine children in the age group of 2 to 10 years. The district’s tally rose to 251 with 159 nine active cases. The death toll remained at seven.  Ballari district witnessed nine more cases on Friday. Of which seven are Rajasthan returnees while one case each has travel history to Gujarat and Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-cases-explode-in-kalyana-karnataka-843419.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Experts for pre-test counselling for COVID-19 suspects||A month after the first Covid-19 patient took his own life in Bengaluru, a second Covid-19 patient ended his life at a quarantine centre at Kadandale in Dakshina Kannada district on Thursday. Psychiatrists suggest Covid-19 wards should be inspected by architects and all potential points, where patients can endanger their lives should be sealed or safety nets should be provided. Dr Prabha Chandra, Professor of Psychiatry, NIMHANS, said, “It is important for structures housing Covid-19 patients to be safeguarded. Simple measures like putting a mesh in the open sides of staircases can help minimise suicides. At NIMHANS, we have no bolts for the bathrooms or if they are there, they are loose, so that a push can easily break them open.” Getting a psychiatrist to come in along with an architect who has designed mental health facilities can be helpful, she suggested. “We can have fire exits, for example, without it being risky for patients,” she said. While it’s common for Covid-19 patients to be counselled by doctors once they’re admitted in the hospital, one also needs to counsel them before testing that they can be cured if tested positive. The state has so far held 1,02,994 counselling sessions for positive patients and suspects, both hospitalised and quarantined. “Unfortunately, ours is one of the few countries where Covid-19 has become a stigmatising illness. Either they are too afraid or there is a lot of stigma,” she said. “Even when HIV initially started, routinely we had pre-test counselling and post-test counselling on why this test is needed, how one can protect himself/herself if tested positive, how can they protect others, who to talk to, etc. Now, Covid-19 patients are taking their lives too often to ignore it. Everybody who goes through the test should be given proper counselling,” she suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/experts-for-pre-test-counselling-for-covid-19-suspects-843420.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: New SOP for 7-day quarantine for international passengers||For Vande Bharat returnees approaching the end of their 14-day mandatory quarantine period, new guidelines reducing the institutional quarantine period appeared to be Godsend. But, many have been waiting in vain to be discharged. Several returnees told DH that for days, they had been kept guessing about whether or not they would be allowed to go home, as per new institutional quarantine SOPs for international travellers issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday. According to new SOP, the international arrivals would be kept in quarantine for a minimum period of seven days. In a circular issued by the Pankaj Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, dated same day (May 25), the state authorized a period of seven days institutional quarantine for Category II patients (those who are asymptomatic), followed by seven days of home quarantine. Pandey specified that the new order came on the heels of a Ministry of Home Affairs SOP advocating the reduction of the institutional quarantine period. “Our order, which was drafted on May 25, advocates the discharging of people if they test negative after seven days of institutional quarantine, then they are eligible to do seven days of home quarantine. But there are caveats. All passengers will be tested between the fifth and seventh day of arrivals at hotels or hostels,” the Commissioner said.  However, several returnees who reached out to DH said that they had been initially told by local nodal officers that the circular did not apply to them, and then subsequently that they should wait for the swab tests to be done. “Our nodal officer informed us only on Wednesday morning that we were eligible to leave the hotel and return home as soon as the swab samples are taken. But the testing team has been overdue for over 24 hours,” a Malaysia returnee, who landed on May 19, said. Bed occupancy  Although officials attributed the change in the quarantine discharge policy to the MHA change in guidelines, bed occupancy could potentially be a factor. Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar said that as of Wednesday, there were a total of 798 passengers staying in five-star quarantine hotels, 1,096 passengers staying in three-star hotels and 431 in budget hotels, in Karnataka. “This amounts to a total of 2,328 people,” the minister said. According to data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, it has a total of 84 hotels in the city to serve as “covid care centres” (CCCs), with a total of6,068 beds. So far, according to Air India, a total of 881 people have returned to Bengaluru during Phase 1 of the Vande Bharat Flight. In the ongoing Phase 2, about 2,166 people have returned to Bengaluru (up to May 26), according to the Ministry of Civil Aviation. A total of 3,800 are slotted for repatriation in this second phase, until the first week of June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-new-sop-for-7-day-quarantine-for-international-passengers-843421.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP MLAs' meeting triggers speculations; CM rejects reports of convening emergency meet||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday dismissed reports that he has convened an emergency meeting of a section of BJP MLAs after a group of party legislators met in Belagavi, fuelling speculations about fresh discontentment in the ruling camp. The MLAs from North Karnataka met at the residence of former MP Ramesh Katti at Bellad Bagewadi in Belagavi district on Thursday evening in the backdrop of coming elections to four Rajya Sabha seats from the state, according to party sources. The gathering is seen as a move to drum up support for Ramesh Katti, brother of senior MLA Umesh Katti who was among the ministerial aspirants, in getting one of the four seats. It led to speculations about fresh bout of discontent among a section of ruling party MLAs, who missed out on ministerial berths when Yediyurappa came back to power in June last year after the collapse of JDS-Congress coalition government. The meeting also triggered reports in a section of media that the Chief Minister would hold a meeting with a few legislators, apparently to placate them, a claim rejected by Yediyurappa. "I have noticed reports being aired by some news channels that I have convened an emergency meeting with a few legislators. It is far from truth. I would like to clarify that I have not convened any such meeting," he tweeted on Friday. Confirming that the meeting took place at his residence, Ramesh Katti, however, sought to dismiss any link to the Rajya Sabha polls and said only a feast was organised. Talking to reporters here, he, however, recalled that his brother Umesh Katti, a senior BJP MLA from Hukkeri, was not given a ministerial position in the Yediyurappa government. According to him, Yediyurappa had assured Umesh Katti that he (Ramesh Katti) would be made a Rajya Sabha member. "Recently my brother met the Chief Minister and reminded him about it (Rajya Sabha seat) and he too assured him that he will do it," Katti said. Umesh Katti maintained no politics was discussed at the meeting. "We had not met for quite long time so the feast was an occasion for get-together.. We did not discuss politics or anything related to discontentment or rebellion. I am responsible MLA. I know that this is not appropriate to discuss such things during this time." Vijayapura BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, among those who attended the meeting, expressed his dissatisfaction with Yediyurappa, saying some works had not been completed despite the legislators taking them up with the chief minister, but did not elaborate on the works. The MLAs who attended the meeting shared their "joy and pain". "Being MLAs we ask the Chief Minister to get some works done but how many times can we ask," he told reporters here. When asked whether Yediyurappa should continue as the Chief Minister, Patil said he would not talk about it in the media. "I will tell only our senior party leaders. I will tell them whatever is in the best interest of the state in clear terms. We will abide by our high command... If they say the Chief Minister should continue let it be so and if they want to change the leadership, we will abide by it," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-mlas-meeting-triggers-speculations-cm-rejects-reports-of-convening-emergency-meet-843208.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP MLAs’ lunch meet spooks political circles||A meeting of BJP legislators at senior BJP leader Umesh Katti’s residence on Thursday to eat North Karnataka’s staple ‘rotti oota’ has triggered speculation on dissidence and factionalism within the saffron party, creating ripples in the political circles.  The lunch meeting came at a time when the BS Yediyurappa administration is busy battling the COVID-19 pandemic, and is headed towards completing one year in office.  Katti, an 8-time MLA who hosted the lunch at his residence, has been sulking for not being made a minister. However, he dismissed talk of disgruntlement or that attempts are being made to unseat the aging Yediyurappa.    The lunch meeting was also attended by senior MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Shivaraj Patil, Raju Gowda (Narasimha Nayak), Siddu Savadi and over a dozen others from the North Karnataka region.  While Yatnal said that the meeting was not against leadership or to hatch a conspiracy, he did make it clear that all is not well with him and Yediyurappa.  Meanwhile, the only response from Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa was a clarification. “It is being said that I have convened an emergency meeting with some party MLAs. This is far from the truth. I haven’t convened any other meeting,” Yediyurappa said in a tweet.  According to Katti, this was the second lunch with MLAs at his residence in a span of two weeks. The meeting was seen as an attempt to mount pressure on Yediyurappa to induct Katti into the Cabinet, and pick his brother Ramesh for the Rajya Sabha seat from Karnataka that falls vacant this year.  "We are responsible MLAs and I believe such politics is not right during the corona pandemic," Katti said, denying any rebellion.  Yatnal, who has been vocal about his disgruntlement, said there were things he cannot discuss in public. “Are we disgruntled or not is something we will discuss in the party’s platform,” Yatnal, a former Union minister, told reporters. “But we North Karnataka people have the habit of eating rotti. It had been a long time since we got together for rotti oota, so we went to Katti’s house where the meals were arranged. We also ate Ratnagiri mangoes and chatted casually,” he said. “We won’t topple or trouble the government,” Yatnal said, pointing out that the BJP was “a party of discipline” and the central leadership was “very strong.” All party MLAs want the Yediyurappa government to do well and be transparent, he said.  But his own equation with Yediyurappa seems to have deteriorated. “Yediyurappa had called me for a meeting Saturday last, but I didn’t go,” he said. “I will never go to the CM again. Why should I, when my constituency works won’t get done? He’s busy with corona, so I let him be.”  He also vowed that he will not become a minister in the Yediyurappa Cabinet. “I’ve never lobbied for a ministerial berth. I won’t be a minister in the Yediyurappa government; this is my self-declaration. I’m not so incapable that I’d beg for it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-mlas-lunch-meet-spooks-political-circles-843220.html
29-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress demands white paper on COVID-19 expenditure||Opposition Congress in Karnataka on Friday urged the government to bring out a "white paper" on the expenditure towards COVID-19 measures including the purchase of PPE kits, sanitizers and masks. Addressing reporters here, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president Saleem Ahmed said the charges relating to misappropriation of funds for procuring PPE kits and other protective items should be enquired by the public accounts committee (PAC). Ahmed said the state government has not yet responded to the Congress demand to announce a special package of Rs 50,000 crore for coronavirus relief measures on the lines of Telangana. The Congress has been acting as a responsible opposition and supporting the governments actions to tackle the Covid-19 crisis, he said. He also criticised the state governments "apathy" towards the plight of migrant labourers. During the lockdown, the Congress had distributed 1.6 crore food packets, over 75 lakh grocery kits, 35 lakh masks and seven lakh sanitizers to the people, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-demands-white-paper-on-covid-19-expenditure-843347.html
29-05-2020||Mysuru||Two persons test positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru||Patient (P2561), a returnee from Rajasthan, is a 26 years old and is isolated at a hospital in Mandya.  P2565 is a 28-year-old male, a returnee from Ireland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/two-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mysuru-843215.html
29-05-2020||National||Coronavirus pandemic planning goes micro ahead of Lockdown 5.0||With India getting into the league of top 10 COVID-19 caseload countries clocking nearly 1.6 lakh cases, the Centre on Thursday held deliberations for a focused approach during Lockdown 5.0 to check the spread of the disease in 13 worst-affected cities that constitute 70% of the country’s cases. The blueprint after May 31 (when Lockdown 4.0 ends after 68 days of restrictions across the country) will also take note of the surge in cases due to easing of travel restrictions announced during Lockdown 4.0. This was discussed at the meeting Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held on Thursday with the states. The agenda of this video conference was ‘Public Health Response to Covid-19’. The highlight of the meeting was Centre’s direct deliberations with municipal commissioners and district magistrates of 13 worst-hit cities of Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Indore, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur.  Chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories concerned attended the meeting on Thursday. The Centre has stressed that containment zones are to be geographically defined based on factors like mapping of cases and contacts and their geographical dispersion. This would enable demarcation of a well-defined perimeter and enforcing strict lockdown. While Lockdown 4.0 saw substantial powers in containment with states, Lockdown 5.0 could see a massive push at the micro-level. Indicating a shift in strategy, the Cabinet Secretary,  in the meeting said corporations can decide if residential colonies, mohallas, municipal wards or police-station areas, municipal zones, towns can be designated as containment zones. The cities were advised to appropriately define areas with technical inputs from the local level. It also discussed the factors to be considered while mapping the containment and buffer zones and activities mandated in containment zones like perimeter control, active search for cases through house-to-house surveillance, contact tracing, testing protocol, clinical management of the active cases and monitoring of factors like severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) or influenza-like illness (ILI) cases, ensuring social distancing and promoting hand hygiene.  Readying a revised roadmap to fight the pandemic, the Centre is veering to the concept of a Limited Lockdown as the view is growing that the entire country cannot be locked out for a long time. The regions with the highest number of cases have been asked to bring down the load of positive cases. The discussions held on Thursday will provide inputs for consultations with the Health Secretary and PMO. Fresh guidelines for Lockdown 5.0 could be released in a couple of days while Prime Minister Narendra Modi will speak on Lockdown 5.0 in his Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday. The Centre has emphasised that buffer zones around containment zones also must be demarcated to break the chain of transmission. In the meeting, the Maharashtra government mentioned the ‘Chase The Virus’ initiative that has been launched in Mumbai to increase contact-tracing, where, against every Covid positive case, 15 persons in his close contacts would be government quarantined. Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to all Chief Ministers on the lockdown and elicited their views on restrictions and the sectors they want to open after May 31 when lockdown 4.0 ends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pandemic-planning-goes-micro-ahead-of-lockdown-50-843008.html
29-05-2020||National||Migrant crisis: HC takes cognisance of woman's death on train; two more die on 'Shramik Specials' meanwhile||The Patna High Court on Thursday took suo motu cognisance of the death of a woman on board a train carrying migrants from Gujarat to Bihar, after a video clip of her little son fiddling with the shroud placed on her body while it lay at a railway station went viral and provoked outrage. Meanwhile, two more deaths were reported on board 'Shramik Special' trains in Khagaria district carrying migrant workers back home from different parts of the country amid the lockdown. A Division Bench headed by Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar took up the matter soon after the latter brought to the notice of the court a newspaper report about the incident that took place on Monday last but came to light two days later. The court directed Additional Advocate General S D Yadav to return with details in the post-lunch session. In the afternoon, Yadav submitted that the deceased was mentally unstable and had died a natural death" during the course of her journey from Surat which was a fact" reported by her companions--her sister and brother-in-law. Yadav also informed the court that no post-mortem was conducted nor was any FIR registered and the body was allowed to be taken home after recording the statements of the family members by railway authorities at Muzaffarpur station. The district administration facilitated their onward travel by arranging for an ambulance up to their destination. The Additional Advocate General also said that the woman, hailing from Katihar, had been living with her sister and brother-in-law after being deserted by her husband and that the orphaned child is in safe custody in the guardianship of the sister of the deceased. Yadav added he will, nonetheless, personally pursue the matter with the authorities (concerned) who would again reach out to the family, enquiring about any need of assistance. The court took note of Yadavs contention that the Advocate General had spoken to the states Standing Counsel in the Supreme Court and the Solicitor General of India for ascertaining information of overlapping of issues though the same had not been received by the time of hearing. The court posted the matter for further hearing on June 03, noting that in view of the submissions made, it would prudently refrain from issuing any further directions, more so when the child is in safe custody. However, let what is so stated by Shri Yadav, as also complete facts be known to the court, on the personal affidavit of the concerned principal secretaries, before the next date, the bench said. Bihar has received close to 20 lakh migrants since these special trains began running and there have been quite a few incidents of people dying on way to their homes. Two such deaths were reported on Thursday in Bihar's Khagaria district. A woman died on a Katihar-bound train from Gujarat, while a man travelling by another Shramik Special from Rewari in Haryana also breathed his last aboard. On Monday, Muzaffarpur railway station was witness to another death. Besides the woman, a boy aged about five years died in his mothers lap while his father made a desperate hunt for some milk to feed the hungry child upon alighting from the train they had boarded from Delhi. Meanwhile, leader of the opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Yadav interacted with the womans bereaved parents via video conferencing, offered his condolences and got an amount of Rs five lakh handed over to them by the Katihar district unit chief of his Rashtriya Janata Dal. He also expressed dismay at complaints of lack of facilities like food and water on 'Shramik Special' trains and mismanagement in their running, often causing inordinate delay in their arrival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-crisis-hc-takes-cognisance-of-womans-death-on-train-two-more-die-on-shramik-specials-meanwhile-843012.html
29-05-2020||National||367 domestic flights operated till 5 pm on Thursday; WB airports to resume services||A total of 367 domestic flights, carrying 30,136 passengers, operated throughout the country till 5 pm on Thursday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. Airports in West Bengal also started operations on Thursday, three days after domestic air travel resumed in India after a gap of two months. Earlier in the day, Puri had said that 460 domestic flights carrying 34,336 passengers were operated on Wednesday.  In the case of West Bengal, the minister on Sunday had said that the state will handle domestic flights from Thursday. "Figures for domestic flights for 28th May 2020 are in. Departures 367, 30,136 passengers handled. Arrivals 310, 25,530 passengers handled. Total movements 677 with 55,666 passenger footfalls at airports. “Total number of flyers 30,136. These are numbers till 1700 hrs for Day 4," Puri said in a tweet. A total of 428 domestic flights carrying 30,550 passengers and 445 domestic services carrying 62,641 flyers were operated in the country on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. In February this year, when the lockdown was not imposed, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data. During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said. A total of 16 asymptomatic passengers on seven different flights including 13 of them who travelled by IndiGo have tested positive for COVID-19 since the resumption of domestic air services on Monday, according to airlines data. Two of the three asymptomatic passengers who tested positive for the infection had travelled by Spicejet while one took a flight of Air India subsidiary Alliance Air. The Karnataka government, meanwhile, said on Thursday it has requested the civil aviation ministry to reduce the number of flights originating from five states--Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan--in the light of the high number of COVID-19 cases there, hours after a minister said it has "suspended" air travel from these states. Seeking to clarify his statement, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy maintained that Karnataka has not sought imposing a ban on flights from the five states as reported in some sections of the media. "India is flying high. Domestic operation figures for May 27, 2020 (till 23.59 hrs): Departures 460 with 34,336 passengers handled. Arrivals 464 with 33,525 passengers handled," Puri had said earlier in the day on Twitter.  If a flight takes off before midnight and lands in another airport after midnight, its departure and arrival are counted on different days, leading to a seeming mismatch in the figures of a particular day. The Delhi airport, India's busiest airport, is scheduled to handle 147 departures and 145 arrivals on Thursday, said senior government officials. The Mumbai airport's operator MIAL said it handled a total of 50 domestic flights on Thursday. International passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country. Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases. While domestic services resumed in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, they restarted in West Bengal on Thursday. Though domestic flight operations across the country began on May 25, they could not be restarted in Kolkata and Bagdogra as the state's machinery was involved in relief and restoration work after cyclone Amphan's devastation. "Welcome Back, Passengers! Kolkata Airport saw the arrival of 122 passengers from @DelhiAirport after two long months and 40 passengers departed to Guwahati. Proper checks were followed, and regular sanitization was carried out in the terminal which was abuzz with passengers," the Kolkata airport tweeted. On Thursday, eleven flights took off from Kolkata and an equal number arrived in the city, sources at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport said. "A total of 1,745 passengers arrived and 1,214 passengers flew out of the city today (Thursday)," airport sources said. The airports in Kolkata and Bagdogra are permitted to handle 20 daily flights each from Thursday onwards. While it is not clear how many flights were handled by the Bagdogra airport on Thursday, the officials said 899 passengers arrived while 484 passengers departed from the airport during the day. The West Bengal government recently came up with a set of guidelines for people arriving in the state on domestic flights. According to it, those entering the state from Thursday must submit a self-declaration form, stating that they have not tested positive for COVID-19 in the past two months. The passengers will also need to undergo health screening after they arrive at the airport, the state's guidelines said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/367-domestic-flights-operated-till-5-pm-on-thursday-wb-airports-to-resume-services-843017.html
29-05-2020||National||India to expand Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate more Indians from abroad||Over 45,000 stranded Indians were brought back home from abroad under the Vande Bharat mission and another 1,00,000 will be evacuated till June 13, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. The mega evacuation mission was launched on May 7. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the government is also assisting return of stranded Indians from remote locations in Latin America and Caribbean, Africa, and parts of Europe. "This is being done by taking advantage of foreign carriers flying to India primarily for evacuation of their nationals," he said during an online media briefing. He said a total of 45,216 Indians were brought back till Thursday afternoon and they include 8,069 migrant workers, 7,656 students and 5,107 professionals. About 5,000 Indians have returned through land border from Nepal and Bangladesh. In the first phase of the mission from May 7 to 15, the government evacuated around 15,000 people from 12 countries. The second phase of the evacuation mission was scheduled from May 17 to 22. However, the government has extended it till June 13. Srivastava said a total of 3,08,200 people have registered their request with Indian missions abroad for repatriation to India on compelling grounds. "During the phase two, a total of 429 Air India flights (311 international flights + 118 feeder flights) from 60 countries are scheduled to land in India. The Indian Navy will be making four more sorties to bring back returnees from Iran, Sri Lanka and the Maldives," Srivastava said.  The MEA spokesperson said the government is targeting to bring back 1,00,000 people from 60 countries by the end of phase two of the Vande Bharat mission. "Preparations for third phase of Vande Bharat Mission are well underway," he said. As per the government's policy for evacuation, Indians having "compelling reasons" to return like pregnant women, elderly people, students and those facing the prospect of deportation are being brought back home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-expand-vande-bharat-mission-to-evacuate-more-indians-from-abroad-843037.html
29-05-2020||National||IIT Alumni Council to set up mega lab in Mumbai to conduct 1 crore COVID-19 tests a month||As part of its effort to fight the COVID pandemic, the IIT Alumni Council on Thursday announced the setting up of a mega lab in the metropolis with a capacity of 1-crore tests per month. The council also said it will soon start identifying partners for the same through a global competition. Having launched the first 'Covid Test Bus' in the city earlier in the month, the council also said trials have already begun on two of the supercomputer clusters in the megapolis, which alone has seen more than 35,000 cases out of the close to 1.58 lakh in the country and nearly 2,000 of the over 4,700 deaths in the country so far. While vaccine is still more than a year away in the best case scenario, the testing capacity has emerged as the biggest challenge. So the focus of the lab is to ensure timely testing, therefore their focus is on detecting, preventing and treating the disease with timely as well as affordable testing. It can be noted that the council has also set up COVID-19 Taskforce under the chairmanship of K Vijay Raghavan, an IIT Kanpur alumnus and the principal scientific officer to the Centre, with 20 IIT directors as members, along with many other distinguished alumni of the institutes. "The IIT Alumni Council has decided to set up the largest genetic testing laboratory for COVID-19 and other infectious diseases after consulting global experts in the areas of virology, RT-PCR machine manufactures, test kits, pooling algorithms, AI, machine learning, robotics and microfluidics. "A dedicated team has already started work on designing the MegaLab Mumbai with a capacity of 10 million RT-PCR tests per month," said Ravi Sharma, president of the IIT Alumni Council. "The MegaLab will be based on the end-to-end Kodoy indigenous technology stack and will have adequate capacity for testing the entire population of Mumbai for infectious diseases, once a month," he added. The COVID-19 Taskforce, announced on March 25 itself — the day the first phase of the now-nine-weeks long national lockdown was announced, has various working groups involving over 1,000 dedicated alumni spread all over the world to finding/creating appropriate solutions to fight the pandemic.  Apart from these, the council also set up digital X-ray systems at the Poddar Hospital that uses AI to detect coronavirus for the first time in the country on April 23. On May 1, it also launched the country's first 'COVID Test Bus' in the city and from May 10, it started work on indigenising the test kits. The MegaLab Mumbai is the latest initiative of the IIT Alumni Council with an aim to design and establish the largest genetic testing laboratory for COVID-19 and other infectious diseases like tuberculosis with an end-to-end capacity to carry out over 1 crore tests a month.  The MegaLab will be based on the end-to-end Kodoy indigenous technology stack, and for implementation, the Kodoy stack is divided in 64 steps from (collection of) virus in the throat to the virus being ultimately zapped/disinfected by UV at the completion of testing in a RT-PCR. The testing infrastructure will comprise the vehicle mounted automated sample collection stations in cars or cabs and Covid Test Buses, while the MegaLab will comprise robotic contactless sample transport from the vehicles to the testing line with robotic pooling followed by high speed RNA extraction using magnetic bead technology. The IIT Alumni Council is the largest global body of alumni, students and faculty across all the 23 IITs with over 100 city chapters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-alumni-council-to-set-up-mega-lab-in-mumbai-to-conduct-1-crore-covid-19-tests-a-month-843040.html
29-05-2020||National||India trashes Pakistan's objection to commencement of construction of Ram temple||India on Thursday trashed Pakistan's criticism of commencement of the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, saying Islamabad has no locus standi over the issue. "We have seen an absurd statement by Pakistan on a matter on which it has no locus standi. Given its record, Pakistan should be embarrassed to even mention minorities," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. Pakistan Foreign Office on Wednesday said that while the world is grappling with the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, "the RSS-BJP combine" was advancing the Hindutva agenda. The commencement of construction of a mandir at the site of the historic Babri Masjid in Ayodhya on May 26, 2020, is another step in this direction and the government and people of Pakistan condemn it in the strongest terms, it said. The Supreme Court, in a landmark verdict in the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi title case last year, paved way for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. "As for the judiciary, Pakistan must realise that theirs is thankfully not the norm. There are others elsewhere with credibility and integrity that Pakistan understandably finds difficult to recognise," Srivastava said. He was replying to a question on Pakistan's reaction on the matter. "India is a nation served by the rule of law and which guarantees equal rights to all faiths. Pakistan's Foreign Office may take time out and read their own constitution to realize the difference," the MEA spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-trashes-pakistans-objection-to-commencement-of-construction-of-ram-temple-843042.html
29-05-2020||National||India's COVID-19 tally past 1.6 lakh; toll over 4,600||The nationwide tally of confirmed COVID-19 cases crossed 1.6 lakh on Thursday to make India the world's ninth worst hit country by the deadly virus infection, while the death toll rose to 4,633 to near China's official count of 4,634 fatalities, as per data from various states and union territories. However, an online real-time tally maintained by Johns Hopkins University showed India surpassing China with as many as 4,695 deaths by Thursday night. The first case of the novel coronavirus was discovered in China last December and since then it has spread to virtually all parts of the world infecting more than 57 lakh people globally. More than 3.5 lakh have died too across the world, but very few new cases are being reported in China for the last few days. According to China's official tally, its total number of confirmed cases stood at nearly 83,000 while the deadly virus has claimed 4,634 lives so far there. In its morning 8 AM update, the Union Health Ministry said the death toll due to COVID-19 across India has risen to 4,531 and the number of cases has climbed to 1,58,333, registering an increase of 194 deaths and 6,566 cases in the 24 hours since Wednesday 8 AM. It put the number of active COVID-19 cases at more than 86,000 and recoveries at 67,691, giving a recovery rate of around 42.75 per cent. However, a PTI tally of figures announced by different states and union territories, as of 9.30 PM, showed the number of confirmed cases rising by more than 7,000 to 1,60,666 and the death toll increasing by 187 to 4,633. It also showed more than 70,000 recoveries. However, the real-time data maintained by Johns Hopkins University & Medicine, put India's death toll higher at 4,695, as of 10.45 PM, and ahead of China's count of fatalities at 4,638 as per its tracker. It also put India's tally of confirmed cases much higher at more than 1.65 lakh and recoveries at over 70,500. India has now overtaken Turkey as the ninth worst hit country in terms of total number of cases. India's count of recoveries is the tenth largest now after the US, Brazil, Germany, Russia, Spain, Italy, Turkey, Iran and China. In terms of total number of confirmed cases, the US is the worst hit with over 17 lakh cases, while other countries with more cases than India are Brazil, Russia, UK, Spain, Italy, France and Germany. While Turkey is now ranked 10th, China is at 14th place and below Iran, Peru and Canada.  The US also tops the death toll with more than 1 lakh fatalities, followed by UK, Italy, France, Spain, Brazil, Belgium, Mexico, Germany and Iran in the top ten. India is ranked 13th now after Canada and Netherlands at the 11th and 12th places, respectively.   In terms of active case, India's tally is the fifth biggest in the world after the US, Russia, Brazil and France. However, India has also done better than many other countries in terms of the absolute number of tests conducted cumulatively and is placed at the seventh place globally. However, when it comes to the quantum of tests in proportion to the population, India does not figure even among the top-100 countries. More than 33 lakh tests have been conducted so far in India, as compared to over 1.5 crore in the US, over 97 lakh in Russia, nearly 40 lakh in Germany, close to 38 lakh in the UK, over 36 lakh in Italy and over 35 lakh in Spain. In China, more than 65 lakh people have been tested and now the country has a total of 413 asymptomatic cases under medical observation, including 344 in Wuhan, known as the epicentre of the deadly virus infection. The count of cases has spiked up in India this month, during which large-scale movement of people began via special trains and flights and also because of easing of various restrictions during the ongoing fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown. Many states have attributed the rising numbers to the influx of people from outside. The lockdown has been in place since March 25, which was initially imposed for 21 days but has been extended thrice already and the fourth phase will end on May 31. A decision on the future course of action on the lockdown is expected soon and officials said Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to all chief ministers over telephone to seek their views on extension of the lockdown. Shah sought to know the areas of concern of the states and the sectors they want to open up further from June 1, a Home Ministry official said. The Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba also held a meeting with municipal commissioners and district magistrates of the 13 worst hit cities in the country, including Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai.     Delhi reported a record number of 1,024 new cases to take its tally to 16,281, while its death toll rose to 3165. This is the first time that the national capital has witnessed 1,000-plus new cases for a day. According to an official estimate, nearly 23 lakh people, who have moved within the country or arrived from international destinations during the ongoing nationwide lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, are currently in quarantine facilities arranged by states and union territories. While the majority of the state governments and union territory administrations have made at least seven days' quarantine compulsory for anyone arriving in their jurisdiction, a few of them have opted for home quarantine for those reaching their administrative limits. Maharashtra has the highest number of people in quarantine facilities -- 6.02 lakh -- followed by Gujarat, which has kept a total of 4.42 lakh people in quarantine centres.According to the government, a total of 91 lakh migrant labourers were transported by trains and buses from various places to different destinations across the country during the lockdown till Wednesday. The states that have been attributing the surge in cases to the influx of people from outside include West Bengal, Kerala, Assam, Bihar, Odisha, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. West Bengal recorded its biggest single-day spike of 344 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking its tally to 4,536. The worst-hit state Maharashtra reported 2,598 new cases to take its tally to 59,546, while its death toll rose to 1,982 with 85 more fatalities reported during the day. Gujarat reported 367 new 19 cases, pushing its tally to 15,572; while 22 more patients succumbed to take the death toll to 960. Jammu and Kashmir also saw 115 new cases, taking its tally to 2,036, while Madhya Pradesh reported 192 fresh cases taking its total count of COVID-19 patients to 7,453.In Andhra Pradesh, 128 fresh cases were detected to take its tally to 3,245, while its death toll rose to 59. Maharashtra tops the count of confirmed cases as well as of COVID-19 deaths. K VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, said an aggressive testing and contact tracing will be very important once the lockdown is eased further, given the absence of a vaccine. He, however, said nearly 30 groups in India, ranging from big industry players to individual academics, are trying to develop vaccines to fight the novel coronavirus. Without naming any entity, he said some players are at a pre-clinical stage and may reach the clinical stage by October. He said vaccine development currently takes nearly 10 years and costs around USD 200-300 million, but the aim the world over is to find a vaccine for coronavirus in a year. "Instead of working on one vaccine and seeing whether it works for a 10-year period, and investing on that, we have to invest in 100 vaccines (development). The world is investing on more than 100 vaccines at the same time," he said, adding that the entire process will now cost USD 2-3 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-past-16-lakh-toll-over-4600-843050.html
29-05-2020||National||COVID-19: More people being discharged now after revised policy, says NITI Aayog member||The speed at which people are being discharged following treatment for COVID-19 has accelerated after the revised discharge policy came into force which could be reflecting in the recovery rate but many patients who had recovered earlier were not even counted, NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul said on Thursday. Chairperson of one of the 11 empowered groups formed to suggest measures to ramp up healthcare, put the economy back on track and reduce misery of people once the lockdown is lifted, Paul said even when the previous discharge policy was in place COVID-19 infected patients were recovering and were discharged but were not counted. A total of 67,691 people have recovered from coronavirus in the country so far and in the last 24 hours 3,266 patients were found to have been cured. This takes the country's total recovery rate to 42.75 per cent, the Union health ministry said.   "Before the new guidelines came into force, we were discharging patients after some time based on certain conditions. But then the patients had already recovered," Paul said at a press conference.  "But when it came to notice, through data, that the patients were recovering timely. Also data emerged about virus turning negative fast which gave the clinicians and the scientific community confidence that the patients can be discharged after a certain period based on mild, moderate and severe cases," he said. Paul said this was good and positive as the patients could be sent home early and safely and as a result beds would be vacated timely. Earlier this month, the Union Health Ministry issued a revised discharge policy according to which moderate cases of COVID-19 and pre-symptomatic, mild and very mild cases need not undergo tests before being discharged after the resolution of symptoms.   Coronavirus-infected patients developing severe illness or with compromised immunity will have to test negative through RT-PCR test after resolution of symptoms before they are discharged by a hospital.   Moderate cases of COVID-19 and pre-symptomatic, mild and very mild cases need not undergo tests before being discharged after the resolution of symptoms. According to the previous guidelines, a patient was considered fit to be discharged if he or she tested negative on day-14 and then again in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-more-people-being-discharged-now-after-revised-policy-says-niti-aayog-member-843056.html
29-05-2020||National||Jaishankar discusses post-COVID-19 economic recovery with EU foreign policy chief||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday held discussions with European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell on initiatives to promote post-Corona economic recovery and preparations for the 15th EU-India Summit. Jaishankar said they also shared perspectives on technology, connectivity and security. "Concluded a review meeting of #IndiaEU relations with EU HR/VP @JosepBorrellF. Discussed initiatives to promote post-Corona economic recovery. Underlined our shared perspectives on technology, connectivity and security. Preparing for India-EU Summit," Jaishankar said in a tweet. In a statement, the EU said the main topics of their conversation were the response to the coronavirus pandemic and preparations for the 15th EU-India Summit, which had been postponed in March due to the outbreak of the virus. Borrell and Jaishankar confirmed the commitment of both the EU and India to work together to overcome the global pandemic and stressed the importance of an effective global socio-economic recovery, the statement said. Borrell also thanked Jaishankar for India's assistance in facilitating the repatriation of over 11,000 EU tourists from India. "They agreed on the need to ensure the flow of crucial medical supplies, and on keeping global trade and value chains open," the statement said. "Borrell and Jaishankar agreed that the current pandemic made the EU-India Strategic Partnership even more relevant. This was true in terms of joining efforts to strengthen the multilateral system, as well as in further developing the bilateral relationship, including trade and investment and security cooperation," the statement said. The two leaders also discussed preparations for the EU-India Summit, which will be held as soon as possible, it said. "They looked forward to the Summit as an important opportunity to advance on all aspects of the EU-India relationship. They also discussed relevant foreign policy topics, including Afghanistan, China, and Iran," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-discusses-post-covid-19-economic-recovery-with-eu-foreign-policy-chief-843058.html
29-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 29, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-29-2020-edition-843060.html
29-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 29||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,73,077 as of May 29. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 4,847 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 67692 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-29-843061.html
29-05-2020||National||DH Toon | As coronavirus cases continue to surge, over 350 domestic flights in opertaion so far||367 domestic flights operated till 5 pm on Thursday; West Bengal airports to resume services A total of 367 domestic flights, carrying 30,136 passengers, operated throughout the country till 5 pm on Thursday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-as-coronavirus-cases-continue-to-surge-over-350-domestic-flights-in-opertaion-so-far-843062.html
29-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Many states oppose restarting of regular trains||The states including West Bengal, Chattisgarh, Bihar, Rajasthan and Odisha requested the Centre to put on hold the regular passenger trains at least for another month.  While saying that they have no problem with operating Shramik Special trains to ferry stranded migrant workers, the states have said that they were not in favour of resuming partial passenger train services. They are projecting the fact that the arrival of a large number of migrant workers has caused a spike in Covid-19 cases in several states. Since a large number of migrants are already in quarantine centres, testing and treating positive cases is a daunting challenge to the states. The states have conveyed to the Centre that in such a situation, regular train services would put extra pressure on the health systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-many-states-oppose-restarting-of-regular-trains-843068.html
29-05-2020||National||Agriculture key to reviving economy in Nagaland: Minister||Days after the ruling PDA coalition, of which the BJP is a part, said it would focus on agriculture and allied sectors to lift the sagging economy of Nagaland, the state unit of the saffron party has begun distributing hybrid seeds of kharif crops among farmers. Nagaland BJP chief and state minister Temjen Imna Along launched the distribution programme at the party's state headquarters on Thursday in the presence of other leaders. "The seeds, mostly of eggplant, bitter gourd, pumpkin, chiili, beans, cucumber and okra, will be distributed by the BJP district farmers' wing. This is a small step by the party to make Nagaland a self-reliant state," he said. Amid the COVID-19 crisis and lockdown restrictions, "agriculture is the best weapon against hunger and poverty", Along, the minister for higher and technical education and tribal affairs, said. "Everything else can wait, but not agriculture. If our state remains on the back foot when it comes to agri and allied sectors, we will face greater problems after the pandemic," he said.  Despite having a fertile land encompassing 16,000 sq km, Nagaland has to depend on other states for vegetables such as a chilli, he rued. "Let us all work towards farming and growing our own vegetables, while also increasing meat production, to build a stronger and more vibrant Nagaland," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agriculture-key-to-reviving-economy-in-nagaland-minister-843093.html
29-05-2020||National||New Delhi dismisses Trump's claim on talks with PM Modi on India-China border tension||Even as United States President Donald Trump claimed that he had of late spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about an escalation of tension along India-China disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh, sources in New Delhi said that the two leaders had no recent contact. Trump told journalists in White House in Washington DC that he had spoken to Modi, who was “not in a good mood” about what was going on between India and China. “They have a big conflict – India and China. Two countries with 1.4 billion people (each). Two countries with very powerful militaries. India is not happy and probably China is not happy,” the PTI quoted the US President telling journalists at the Oval Office in White House. “I can tell you; I did speak to Prime Minister Modi. He is not in a good mood about what is going on with China,” he added. The US President’s claim about his talks with the Prime Minister came as a surprise to New Delhi. Sources in New Delhi said that the last conversation between Prime Minister and the US President had taken place on April 4, when they had discussed on export of Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) drug from India to America. The tension along the disputed boundary between India and China on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh started on May 5 when the Chinese People’s Liberation Army personnel attacked Indian Army soldiers with sticks and stones in an area perceived in New Delhi to be well within the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto border between the two neighbours. They also demolished on May 6 some makeshift structures built by Indian Army soldiers. The Chinese PLA followed up by building a bunker in order to restrict the access to an area where Indian Army soldiers regularly patrolled. The PLA later deployed nearly 5,000 soldiers in a large camp set up recently at Galwan Valley within the territory claimed by China – obviously to support the smaller number of troops, who had transgressed the LAC in several locations and entered into the areas claimed by India. The Indian Army also rushed soldiers in “adequate numbers” as a countermeasure to the deployment by the Chinese PLA. Trump’s claim about his talks with Modi came just a day after he offered to mediate between India and China to defuse tension along their disputed boundary. India, however, cold-shouldered the offer made by the US President. A spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi said that India and China had “established mechanisms both at military and diplomatic levels” to peacefully resolve through dialogue situations, which might arise in border areas between the two nations. He said that New Delhi and Beijing continued to “remain engaged through these channels”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-delhi-dismisses-trumps-claim-on-talks-with-pm-modi-on-india-china-border-tension-843096.html
29-05-2020||National||Amidst COVID-19 lockdown, universities hold online convocations for students||Online convocations or e-convocations may or may not be a part of the new-normal post coronavirus. However, during times of crisis, it is proving to be the only viable option.  Owing to the lockdown since March 25, there has been a restriction on large gatherings due to which colleges and universities have either had to delay the convocation ceremony without any tentative dates or have decided to conduct it online. As graduating students remain unsure of what the future holds for them, institutes that are conducting e-convocations have somewhat managed to adapt to the changing times. Srijita Sen, who is graduating this year from the Indian Institute of Journalism and New Media, says that e-convocations are necessary as instead of delaying the event indefinitely, students are at least being awarded their degrees. “I had it all planned, from wearing the robe to tossing hats and clicking the most memorable pictures. It is surely disappointing that it will not work out but we need to have a positive attitude today more than ever,” she said.  The Institute has decided to hold an e-convocation via a Zoom call on June 8 and send out the degrees to the graduates by post. Reportedly, University of Mysore had also planned to host its 100th annual convocation this year to celebrate its graduating batch. However, they have put the plan on hold until further directions from the Government. Other institutes that have deferred the convocation ceremony include several IIMs and IITs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amidst-covid-19-lockdown-universities-hold-online-convocations-for-students-843105.html
29-05-2020||National||PM Modi condoles death of RS member and Mathrubhumi MD M P Veerendra Kumar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed anguish at the death of Rajya Sabha member and managing director of leading Malayalam daily Mathrubhumi M P Veerendra Kumar, saying he believed in giving a voice to the poor and the underprivileged. Veerendra Kumar, a former Union minister and member of PTI's Board of Directors, died on Thursday following a cardiac arrest. "Anguished by the passing away of Rajya Sabha MP Shri M.P. Veerendra Kumar Ji. He distinguished himself as an effective legislator and Parliamentarian," Modi wrote on Twitter. Veerendra Kumar believed in giving a voice to the poor and the underprivileged, the prime minister added. "Condolences to his family and well wishers. Om Shanti," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-rs-member-and-mathrubhumi-md-m-p-veerendra-kumar-843112.html
29-05-2020||National||FACT CHECK | False claim that PM Modi was appointed the ‘chairman’ of WHO - a position that does not exist||Alt News has received multiple requests on its mobile application to fact-check the graphic.  The WHO has two governing bodies — World Health Assembly and Executive Board.  Therefore, the claim that PM Modi has been elected as the ‘chairman’ of WHO is bogus since the World Health Organization does not have a chairman. It has a Director-General which is the highest post. The Executive Board has a chairman, which is currently held by Indian Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-false-claim-that-pm-modi-was-appointed-the-chairman-of-who-a-position-that-does-not-exist-843117.html
29-05-2020||National||After gas leak tragedy, Bhopal victims fall prey to coronavirus||Victims of a horrifying 1984 gas leak in the Indian city of Bhopal, who have long suffered the debilitating fallout of the world's worst industrial disaster, are now dying from coronavirus, with relatives and activists accusing the government of abandoning them and withholding treatment. Toxic methyl isocyanate released from the Union Carbide pesticide factory killed 3,500 people in the central Indian city immediately and 25,000 more in the years that followed. Now its victims make up a significant proportion of coronavirus fatalities in Bhopal -- at least 20 out of 45, according to government data, while activists say 37 of the dead suffered illnesses related to the leak. Gaurav Khatik's 52-year-old father Naresh was one of them. Khatik said his father, who suffered lung damage in the disaster, was denied treatment at a hospital built for gas-afflicted patients. The state-of-the-art Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) -- a busy four-storey 350-bed facility on a sprawling compound on the city's outskirts -- was requisitioned by the Madhya Pradesh state government in March for virus patients. But the move created "a lot of confusion" and contributed to deadly treatment delays, Khatik told AFP. A lack of transport due to the lockdown also meant that an average 40-minute journey from the city centre to the hospital became an arduous, longer trip under sweltering conditions. "People wasted a lot of time going from one hospital to another to seek treatment, which claimed many lives," the 20-year-old said.  The BMHRC turned away people who were not considered virus patients even though they had COVID-19 symptoms, critics said. They were then denied treatment at other hospitals, with staff saying they did not have the specialised equipment to treat gas-related ailments. They were presumed not to have the virus and no tests were carried out. "If there was no confusion over the status of Bhopal Memorial Hospital, my father would probably be alive," Khatik said. Naresh was eventually admitted to a private hospital, where he was finally tested for the virus as his condition deteriorated. He died within hours of being found positive, leaving his shell-shocked family without a breadwinner and almost $1,180 in medical debt. "He was our lifeline," Khatik said, fighting to hold back tears. Activists accuse the government of abandoning the community, whose health conditions make them vulnerable to coronavirus. "We had alerted the government that if they didn't take proactive action, many gas victims would die from COVID-19 ... but they paid no heed," Rachna Dhingra of the Bhopal Group for Information and Action told AFP. "They should have reached out to all gas victims suffering from diabetes or hypertension and tested them." Like Khatik, housewife Gulnaz faced a "nightmare" when her father-in-law Riyazuddin -- who suffered respiratory ailments after the gas disaster -- complained of breathing difficulties. "We had to struggle a lot... to get help," the 35-year-old told AFP, adding that four hospitals, including BMHRC, refused to take the 65-year-old. He was finally admitted to the state-run Hamidia Hospital, where he tested positive for coronavirus. "He was in the hospital only for a day and passed away by evening," Gulnaz, who only gave her first name, said. Authorities eventually reversed their decision to requisition BMHRC. But the move came too late for many patients, Dhingra said. The activist said at least five gas victims died from coronavirus because the hospital rejected them. Bhopal's health commissioner Faiz Ahmed Kidwai told AFP "only one case of a patient turned away is accurate". "All those who died did not die because BMHRC refused admission," he said. The 1984 disaster left deep scars across the city of 1.8 million. Government statistics compiled after 1994 say at least 100,000 people living near the plant suffered ailments including respiratory and kidney problems, and cancer. Gas-affected mothers gave birth to infants with congenital disorders. Children fell ill from polluted groundwater. A $470-million settlement inked in 1989 only provided compensation to some 5,000 people, campaigners say. The government in 2012 filed a legal petition seeking further damages from US chemical giant Dow Chemicals, which now owns Union Carbide. The state's Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation department director Ved Prakash told AFP thermal screening were now being carried out on gas victims who have COVID-19 symptoms or are vulnerable "so that they can be isolated and quarantined". But Dhingra said the move -- which reflects India's push to largely limit testing to people with acute respiratory infections, cough and fever -- would sound a death knell for gas victims. "They have to test... instead of just screening patients who are high-risk. By the time they turn symptomatic, it will be too late. "The entire system has collapsed and the most vulnerable are paying with their lives."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-gas-leak-tragedy-bhopal-victims-fall-prey-to-coronavirus-843127.html
29-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: What is happening in the world of sports?||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, DH journalist Vivek M V brings you updates from the world of sports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-what-is-happening-in-the-world-of-sports-843128.html
29-05-2020||National||India now ninth-worst hit country in world with over 1,65,700 coornavirus positive cases||The number of COVID-19 cases in India has climbed to 1,65,799, making it the world's ninth worst-hit country by the coronavirus pandemic. The Health Ministry said the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,706 in the country, while the number of cases climbed to 1,65,799, registering an increase of 175 deaths and a record jump of 7,466 cases since Thursday 8 am. According to Worldometer, India has now overtaken Turkey as the ninth worst-hit country in terms of total number of cases. The Health ministry said the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 89,987, while 71,105 people have recovered and one patient has migrated. "Thus, around 42.89 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior Health Ministry official said. The total confirmed cases include foreigners. Of the 175 deaths reported since Thursday morning, 85 were in Maharashtra, 22 in Gujarat, 15 in Uttar Pradesh, 13 in Delhi, 12 in Tamil Nadu, eight in Madhya Pradesh, seven in Rajasthan, six in West Bengal, four in Telangana and one each in Jammu and Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh and Haryana. Of the total 4,706 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 1,982 deaths followed by Gujarat with 960 deaths, Madhya Pradesh with 321, Delhi with 316, West Bengal with 295, Uttar Pradesh with 197, Rajasthan with 180, Tamil Nadu with 145, Telangana with 67 and Andhra Pradesh with 59 deaths. The death toll reached 47 in Karnataka and 40 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 27 fatalities due to the disease, Haryana has 19 deaths, Bihar has 15 while Odisha and Kerala have reported seven deaths each. Himachal Pradesh has registered five COVID-19 fatalities, while Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Chandigarh and Assam have recorded four deaths each so far. Meghalaya has reported one COVID-19 fatality so far, according to the ministry data. According to the ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities. According to the health ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 59,546 followed by Tamil Nadu at 19,372, Delhi at 16,281, Gujarat at 15,562, Rajasthan at 8,067, Madhya Pradesh at 7,453 and Uttar Pradesh at 7,170. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 4,536 in West Bengal, 3,296 in Bihar and 3,251 in Andhra Pradesh. It has risen to  2,533 in Karnataka, 2,256 in Telangana,  2,158 in Punjab, 2,036 in Jammu and Kashmir and 1,660 in Odisha.  Haryana has reported 1,504 coronavirus infection cases so far, while Kerala has 1,088 cases. A total of 856 people have been infected with the virus in Assam and 469 in Jharkhand. Uttarakhand has registered 500 cases, Chhattisgarh has 399, Chandigarh has reported 288 cases, Himachal Pradesh has 276, Tripura has 242, Ladakh has 73 and Goa has 69 cases so far. Manipur has reported 55 COVID-19 cases, Puducherry has 51 instances of infection while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 33 infections. Meghalaya has registered 21 cases. Nagaland has reported 18 infections, Arunachal Pradesh reported three cases, Dadar and Nagar Haveli has two cases, while Mizoram and Sikkim have reported a case each till how. "4,673 cases are being reassigned to states," the ministry said on its website, adding, "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR." State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-now-ninth-worst-hit-country-in-world-with-over-165700-coornavirus-positive-cases-843130.html
29-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Real estate can generate 5 crore jobs, beat lockdown crisis, CREDAI MCHI tells PM Modi||Pointing out that real estate supports up to 250 industries and that can help save the economy from the current lockdown crisis, developers have launched an online campaign generating close to 25,000 signatures from across the country. The Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by the government offers minuscule benefit to the crisis-ridden real estate industry as compared to the massive impact to the industry, said the SOS campaign, #ReviveRealEstateReviveEconomy, addressed to the Prime Minister. It pointed out that the real estate industry contributes about 8% to the GDP and hence needs immediate attention. This is significant in view of the RBI forecast of negative economic growth for the country. The petition by MMR Action Committee of developers’ body CREDAI MCHI called for the reduction of home loan interest to 5%, passing of the RBI repo rate cut benefit to the end consumer, one-time restructuring of developers’ loans, an extension of project completion timeline by RERA by a year, apart from GST reliefs.  “We request for urgent intervention at the highest level in the government so that the industry is revived to rejuvenate the economy as a whole,” said Ajay Ashar, spokesperson of the MMR Action Committee of CREDAI MCHI. “The lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19 has resulted in halting the entire economic activity. The pandemic has compounded the difficulties of the crisis-ridden real estate industry,” he said. The online support for the campaign is swelling by the hour. Every rupee spent on construction results in an increase in the overall output of the economy by two rupees while each one crore of revenue results in employment generation for 25 workers. Thus the contribution of real estate is far more than any other sector, the petition said. The revival of real estate will also kickstart many other industries such as cement, steel, electric, paint, plumbing and elevators and all these will help safeguard jobs. CREDAI MCHI asked for doubling the PMAY benefit and extending the plan to the entire country without any restrictions. The petition sought extension of the GST Input Tax Credit for new projects as well increasing the SWAHIM fund to Rs one-lakh crore, scrapping of the market-value basis for GST, speedy clearance of Indian Navy and aviation NOCs for want of which over 25,000 buyers are stuck.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-real-estate-can-generate-5-crore-jobs-beat-lockdown-crisis-credai-mchi-tells-pm-modi-843132.html
29-05-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: Quarantine must for rail passengers with COVID-19 symptoms||Considering the resumption of timetable-based train services from June 1, Madhya Pradesh Health Minister Narottam Mishra has said passengers who show symptoms of COVID-19 upon their arrival in the state will be quarantined for 14 days. Starting June 1, the Railways plans to run 200 non-AC passenger trains daily as per timetable. "As per information provided by the Railways, 15 trains, other than Shramik Special services, will halt at some railway stations in Madhya Pradesh," said Mishra, who is also the state's Home Minister. District collectors have been directed to make arrangements for screening of passengers upon their arrival at railway stations that come under their jurisdiction, he said. Passengers who show symptoms of COVID-19 will have to undergo institutional quarantine for 14 days, he said. Those refusing to stay at such facilities can quarantine themselves at select hotels at their own expense, the minister added. Once the quarantine period ends, they will be re-examined and allowed to go home only if they are found to be healthy, the minister said. Moreover, officials were directed to implement the standard operating procedures set by the Union health and home ministries in dealing with the coronavirus outbreak, he said. According to information shared by the divisional railway manager (Bhopal division), trains operating from June 1 will halt at Sagar, Vidisha, Raisen, Bhopal, Hoshangabad, Harda, Khandwa, Ashok Nagar, Guna, Rajgarh and Shajapur stations, an official said. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary and state control room in-charge ICP Keshari informed that as on Thursday evening, 5.63 lakh migrant workers have been brought back to the state from other parts of the country. Of these, about 3.96 lakh workers had returned to the state in buses and 1.67 lakh by trains, he said. As on May 28, Madhya Pradesh has recorded 7,453 cases of coronavirus, including 321 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-quarantine-must-for-rail-passengers-with-covid-19-symptoms-843136.html
29-05-2020||National||494 domestic flights carrying 38,078 passengers operated in India on May 28: Puri||A total of 494 domestic flights, carrying 38,078 passengers, operated on Thursday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday said. Domestic flight operations resumed in the country on Monday after a gap of two months of suspension due to the coronavirus lockdown. International passenger flights continue to remain suspended. A total of 1,65,605 people have travelled through 1,827 domestic flights that have traversed Indian airspace between Monday and Thursday. On Friday, Puri tweeted, "Figures for domestic flights for 28th May 2020 till 2359 hours: Day 4, Departures 494, 38,078 passengers handled, Arrivals 493, 38,389 passengers handled." A total of 16 asymptomatic passengers on seven different flights, including 13 who travelled by IndiGo, have tested positive for COVID-19 since the resumption of domestic air services. Two of the other three asymptomatic passengers who tested positive for the infection had travelled by Spicejet while one took a flight of Air India subsidiary Alliance Air. On Monday, a total of 428 domestic flights carrying 30,550 passengers operated while on Tuesday, 445 flights ferried 62,641 people. On Wednesday, 460 planes flew 34,336 passengers. In February, when the lockdown was not imposed, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data. During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said.  Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases. While domestic services resumed in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, they restarted in West Bengal on Thursday. Though domestic flight operations across the country began on May 25, they could not be restarted in Kolkata and Bagdogra as the West Bengal machinery was involved in relief and restoration work after cyclone Amphan's devastation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/494-domestic-flights-carrying-38078-passengers-operated-in-india-on-may-28-puri-843140.html
29-05-2020||National||Shramik trains: Railways appeal to people with comorbidities, pregnant women to avoid travel||Days after nine deaths were reported on-board Shramik Special trains, the Indian Railways on Friday appealed to people not to travel on these trains if they are suffering from pre-existing health conditions. At least nine passengers were reported dead on May 27 over a span of 48 hours on board the migrant trains, with the railways stating that all of them had health conditions. The railways have been running Shramik special Trains on a daily basis throughout the country to ensure that migrants can travel back to their homes since May 1. "It has been observed that some people who are availing this service have pre-existing medical conditions which aggravate the risk they face during the COVID-19 pandemic. A few unfortunate cases of deaths related to pre-existing medical conditions while travelling have happened," it said in a statement. "In order to protect vulnerable persons from COVID-19, the Ministry of Railways makes an appeal that persons with co-morbidities (for example - hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, cancer, immune deficiency conditions), pregnant women, children below the age of 10 and persons above 65 years of age may avoid travel by rail, except when it is essential," it said.  It also said that the railway family is working 24X7 to ensure that rail services are provided to all citizens of the country needing to travel. "We seek the cooperation of all citizens in this matter. In case of any distress or emergency please do not hesitate to reach out to your railway parivaar and we will help you as always (Helpline number - 139 & 138)," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shramik-trains-railways-appeal-to-people-with-comorbidities-pregnant-women-to-avoid-travel-843142.html
29-05-2020||National||SpiceXpress receives DGCA approval for drone trials||Budget carrier SpiceJet on Friday said its freighter arm SpiceXpress has received approval for conducting drone trials from aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). Post trials and approvals, the airline plans to use drones in delivery of essential supplies to remote areas, the company said in a release. "A SpiceXpress-led consortium had submitted a proposal to the regulator for conducting experimental beyond visual line of sight (BVLOS) operations of remotely piloted aircraft in response to a DGCA notice inviting expression of interest,” SpiceJet said. Based on the recommendations of the BVLOS Experiment Assessment and Monitoring Committee, SpiceXpress was granted permission for conducting experimental BVLOS operations, it stated. The consortium includes Throttle Aerospace, a drone manufacturing company, AeoLogic, an analytics and software solution firm and Involia, which is a provider of air traffic awareness and collision avoidance services. Testing of drone technology for last mile connectivity and cost-effective cargo deliveries is a big leap in the air transportation of essential and non-essential supplies in India, said Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, SpiceJet. SpiceJet is optimistic about using this new mode of delivery for products like perishables and medicines which have a smaller shelf-life and need urgent deliveries in the remotest parts of India, he added. SpiceXpress, which is the dedicated freighter arm of SpiceJet, has eight dedicated freighters in the fleet comprising five Boeing 737s and three Bombardier Q400s. "Post trials and approvals, SpiceXpress plans to use drones to provide for a quicker, faster and a cost-effective delivery of medical, pharma and essential supplies and e-commerce products," the airline said. It also said SpiceXpress will be looking at last-mile delivery from the warehouse and the prime focus will be on delivering medical emergency parcels and essential supplies in remote areas. Drones will ensure a faster delivery bringing down costs and would go a long way to augment the airline's business to offer express delivery of medicines, perishable items and e-commerce, SpiceJet added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spicexpress-receives-dgca-approval-for-drone-trials-843146.html
29-05-2020||National||India registers biggest single-day spike of 7,466 COVID-19 cases||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,706 in the country, while the number of cases climbed to 1,65,799, registering an increase of 175 deaths and a record jump of 7,466 cases since Thursday 8 am, the Union Health Ministry said. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 89,98, while 71,105 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. "Thus, around 42.89 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior Health Ministry official said. The total confirmed cases includes foreigners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-biggest-single-day-spike-of-7466-covid-19-cases-843149.html
29-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Traffic back on roads, but business not the same at crossroads for traffic signal vendors||Sheela Devi, who is waiting on a footpath trying to get some respite from the scorching heat with her two kids, rushes as soon as the traffic signal turns red and knocks on a car's window trying to sell dusters and window screens. However, no one rolls down the window anymore, she says, as everyone is scared of coronavirus. Dejected she moves back to the pavement, to check on her kids and waits for the signal to turn red again. Sheela Devi, is among scores of traffic signal vendors who were happy to see vehicles back on roads after several restrictions of lockdown imposed due to COVID-19 were eased. Struggling to make ends meet for two months and with unsold stocks lying with them, the vendors rushed to traffic signals to earn their livelihood. But business at the crossroads, may not be same for quite some time. "This is the way we have earned livelihood for the past seven years. My husband goes to a different signal, I go to a different one. I didn't stop it even when I was pregnant but had to when the lockdown was announced. Now the traffic is back as usual but its not the same. Even if I am covering my face, people simply refuse to even roll down their windows to have a look, forget buying something," she told PTI. "I have to get my kids with me because my husband can't take care of them during day. He also has to do other chores like sourcing stocks to sell and other responsibilities," she added. For years, the livelihood of these vendors has been directed by the changing of traffic lights from green to amber to red. For them the red light means business, amber to quickly move away to the other side before it turns green. These traffic signal vendors negotiate the busy crossings for business in a matter of seconds. 36-year-old Tribhuvan Kumar says business may not be the same for quite some time now.  "People will always be scared because of the virus now. The goods we sell vary seasonally — ranging from dusters, wipers, tissue papers, battery chargers, books, steering covers, window screens to flowers, magazines and toys. We have always done it successfully within a few minutes, perhaps seconds, to coax the commuters into buying their goods before the traffic light turns green. But it's not the same scenario anymore," he added. Malti, whose kids go to different community kitchens to collect food by the time she is back from the signal, said, "Two months were still manageable somehow, but to go on there has to be some business. Earlier, something or the other always worked. Sometimes simply waving your goods was enough, sometimes a smile worked but we had to use our persuasive skills in a matter of seconds to influence commuters to buy our goods, but now there is a limited chance". "At times policemen stop us if we are not covering our face but mostly they allow us to make attempts to sell," she added. The nationwide lockdown was first imposed from March 25 with an aim to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus that claimed 4,706 lives and infected 1.65 lakh people in the country. The lockdown was extended upto May 31 with several restrictions eased in non-containment zones. India's economy has been severely hit by the lockdown with thousands of people losing their means of livelihood across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-traffic-back-on-roads-but-business-not-the-same-at-crossroads-for-traffic-signal-vendors-843151.html
29-05-2020||National||CISF official posted at warship building GRSEL succumbs to COVID-19||A Central Industrial Security Force personnel posted at the GRSEL, a warship manufacturing facility in Kolkata, has succumbed to the novel coronavirus, officials said on Friday. They said head constable Susanta Kumar Ghosh, 58, was a resident of Murshidabad district of West Bengal. This is the fourth death from coronavirus in the about 1.62 lakh personnel strong force and the second from this unit, a defence PSU located in Kolkata. Earlier, 55-year-old Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) rank official from this unit had succumbed to the virus. An official posted at the Indian Museum in Kolkata and another in the unit that guards the Mumbai international airport have been the earlier COVID-19 casualties in the force. At least 40 CISF personnel of the GRSEL unit have been infected with the disease and as per the latest data, only one person is under treatment, while the rest have recovered. The Garden Reach Ship Builders and Engineers Limited (GRSEL), under the administrative control of the Defence Ministry, was entrusted with building four Anti-Submarine Warfare Corvettes (ASWCs) for the Navy, all of which have been delivered.  It is a strategically important and sprawling warship building facility that caters to the combat vessel requirements of not only the Navy but also the Coast Guard. The GRSEL has both wet and dry docks for shipbuilding and trial purposes which open on the riverfront. Over 400 armed CISF personnel were deployed here in 2016 for providing an anti-terror cover to the facility backed by vehicle-borne quick reaction teams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisf-official-posted-at-warship-building-grsel-succumbs-to-covid-19-843152.html
29-05-2020||National||Lockdown: HC extends gangster Arun Gawli's parole by five days||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Friday extended convicted gangster Arun Gawli's parole by five days and directed him to get a travel permit from the police to surrender before the Nagpur Central prison. A division bench of Justices S B Shukre and A S Kilor directed Gawli to seek permission from the concerned police authorities to travel from Mumbai to Nagpur amid the COVID-19 lockdown and surrender before the Nagpur Central prison. His advocate Mir Nagman Ali informed the court that as per an order passed by another bench of the HC last week, Gawli had appeared before the authorities at Taloja Prison in Navi Mumbai to surrender. However, the prison authorities had refused to admit him in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, Ali said. After hearing Gawli's application seeking more time to surrender, the court said, "We are of the opinion that one last opportunity should be granted to the applicant (Gawli)." The bench directed Gawli to file an online application to the concerned police authority seeking permission to travel from Mumbai to Nagpur within a day. "The concerned authorities shall within a period of one day then grant permission to the applicant to travel from Mumbai to Nagpur. The applicant shall then surrender before the Nagpur prison within three days thereafter," the bench said. The court further clarified that if Gawli files another application seeking more time to surrender citing the COVID-19 pandemic or the lockdown, the same shall not be entertained.  Gawli, who is serving a life sentence in a 2008 murder case, was lodged at the Nagpur Central prison. He was granted parole on March 13 to attend to his ailing wife Asha and was supposed to surrender on April 27. The parole leave was, however, extended for a period of seven days due to the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown. On May 8, the period was extended for another seven days and Gawli then approached HC seeking further extension till May 31. On May 22, the court refused to grant him more time and directed Gawli to surrender at Taloja Prison in Navi Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-hc-extends-gangster-arun-gawlis-parole-by-five-days-843153.html
29-05-2020||National||Taking urgent steps for cremation of COVID-19 deceased, Delhi govt tells HC||The AAP government informed the Delhi High Court on Friday that it was taking urgent steps, including extending the timings of crematoriums, to tackle the issue of cremating those who have died due to COVID-19 and the piling up of bodies at mortuaries. The Delhi government told the court that 28 such bodies were cremated on Thursday and the last rites of the remaining 35 will be performed by Saturday. Only those bodies will be retained where post mortem and investigations are to be carried out, it said. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal, conducting the hearing via video conferencing, directed that this situation should not be repeated and no bodies should be returned. The court asked the Delhi government and the three municipal corporations to file a detailed status report and listed the matter for further hearing on June 2. Anguished by lack of facilities to cremate those who died due to COVID-19 and the bodies piling up in the mortuaries, the high court on Thursday had initiated on its own a PIL to deal with the issue, saying if this was the correct situation then it was "highly dissatisfactory and violative of the rights of the dead". The bench had said that as citizens of Delhi they were pained at the state of affairs as reported in newspapers on Thursday. It had noted that according to the news reports, inside the COVID-19 mortuary of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital in Delhi, there are 108 bodies of which 28 are piled on floor on top of each other as there are only 80 storage racks. During the Friday's hearing, Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose informed the court that urgent steps were taken to remedy the situation, including that LNJP Hospital being authorised to divert bodies to crematoriums at Panchkuian and Punjab Bagh, as opposed to only Nigambodh Ghat. He said the government has now authorised wood fired traditional cremations, in addition to electric and CNG furnaces, providing personal protection (PPE) kits for all workers at crematorium and bodies and the working hours of crematoriums are extended to 7AM - 10 PM from existing 9 AM - 4 PM. Ghose said the situation, based on which the court had initiated the suo motu proceedings, was a result of unavoidable circumstances like reduced capacity of Nigambodh Ghat to handle bodies on account of snags in furnaces, workers at crematorium refusing to handle COVID-19 deceased, sudden spike in coronavirus cases and related deaths in Delhi and relatives refusing to come forward to claim bodies. The authorities assured the court that all steps are being taken to avoid such circumstances in the future. In its May 28 order, the court had noted that, according to the reports, LNJP Hospital is the largest dedicated COVID-19 hospital in the city and its mortuary is the repository of bodies of those who died of the corona virus disease or are suspected to have died of it. The news reports had also said that on May 26, eight bodies were returned from Nigambodh ghat CNG crematorium as the facility was not in a position to accept more bodies as only two of its six furnaces were working, the court had noted.  "Bodies of those who died five days ago, are yet to be cremated. The backlog in disposal of bodies has been caused owing to non-functioning of CNG furnaces at Nigambodh and Punjabi Bagh crematoriums," the court had said referring to the news reports. The bench had also noted that though wood based cremation was permitted, personnel operating the said crematoriums are refusing to take part and there unrest at the Nigambodh Ghat as the staff and priests working there have stopped functioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taking-urgent-steps-for-cremation-of-covid-19-deceased-delhi-govt-tells-hc-843157.html
29-05-2020||National||Make jobs available to migrant workers near their homes: Mayawati to Centre||BSP president Mayawati on Friday asked the Centre and state governments to solve basic problems of livelihood and food faced by migrants returning home and said providing them jobs near their homes will be the real test of their intention. Referring to the Supreme Court's directions that no fare for travel either by train or bus be charged from migrant workers stranded across the country, Mayawati said the government has been ignoring a similar demand made by the BSP. In a series of tweets, she said, "Finally, for lakhs of migrant labourers returning home, suffering from all kinds of neglect/disdain due to the lockdown for the last 66 days in the country, the court had to say that it is the responsibility of the government to send them home by rail/bus free of cost. The government had been ignoring this demand of the BSP." However, it is the duty of the central and state governments to solve the basic problem of livelihood and food faced by lakhs of helpless migrant labourers returning especially to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.  "Making permanent employment available to them near their homes will be the test of government's intention, policy and loyalty," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister stressed. "In fact, it would also be a test of fair use of the package of Rs 20 lakh crores announced by the Centre, though late, in the public interest. The public can hardly forget their neglect and unprecedented misery and plight. They need justice to live," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/make-jobs-available-to-migrant-workers-near-their-homes-mayawati-to-centre-843164.html
29-05-2020||National||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir's father's SUV stolen from outside his home in Delhi||An SUV belonging to east Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir's father was stolen from outside their home here in central Delhi's Rajinder Nagar, police said on Friday. Deepak Gambhir, the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) MP's father, told police that he owned the Toyota Fortuner car, they said. The car was parked in front of the house at around 3.30 pm on Thursday. On Friday morning, it was not there as it had been stolen, a senior police officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (central) Sanjay Bhatiya said a case has been registered and an investigation is underway. We are analysing the CCTV footage of the area to identify the culprits and trace the route taken by them, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-gautam-gambhirs-fathers-suv-stolen-from-outside-his-home-in-delhi-843171.html
29-05-2020||National||Use of public transport likely to reduce for 6 months post-lockdown: CSE survey||The use of public transport is expected to reduce for six months post-lockdown and 'health safety' will be the top priority for people while choosing the most suitable mode of travel, a recent analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment claimed. The CSE's perception survey on changing commuting choices post-pandemic included over 400 middle and high-income groups in Delhi and surrounding NCR cities. The first results show public mood is changing. "While use of public transport is expected to reduce in the short run, there is positive shift in attitude towards high quality public transport, contact-free walking and cycling and lifestyle adjustment to reduce unnecessary travel trips in the longer term," the environment policy think tank said. The CSE said post-lockdown, health safety will be the top concern, followed by road safety, availability of mode options, comfort, distance of trips, cost of journey and environmental consciousness. The analysis showed that preference for car ownership and usage will also increase in the short run. Among the 36 percent respondents who do not own any vehicle, around 28 per cent said they may want to buy one for safety reasons in the near future. Within six months after the lockdown, metro ridership will decline from 37 per cent in pre-lockdown period to 16 per cent, the CSE said. "But cars' and two-wheelers' share will increase from 28 per cent to 38 per cent. Encouragingly, walking and cycling share will increase from 4 per cent to 12 per cent," it said. According to the CSE, 73 per cent respondents have preferred to move to public transport if it meets high quality standards for services.  About 22 per cent said they would continue to use personal transport and the rest will move to cabs and shared mobility. About 38 per cent have preferred public transport for the reasons of connectivity, 23 per cent each for cost effectiveness and sustainability, and 16 per cent to avoid traffic, it said. Delhi has 5,400 buses, with a total service capacity of 741.6 lakh km per day. With new physical distancing norms (20 people per bus), the service capacity has reduced substantially to 211.9 lakh km per day, it said. Thus, the city needs an additional fleet of 13,243 buses to regain the original service capacity level of pre-lockdown time. "This is a clear indicator for the policy makers that a massive shift towards public transport, walking and cycling is possible if good quality and convenient public transport systems and well-designed walking infrastructure are available," the CSE said. The survey also showed that in Delhi-NCR, close to 40 per cent people do not have access to bus stops within 500 metres; and 69 per cent do not have access to metro stations within 500 metres. "This will vary from city to city. But clearly, this makes using public transport inconvenient and people become captive user of personal transport," the think tank said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-of-public-transport-likely-to-reduce-for-6-months-post-lockdown-cse-survey-843175.html
29-05-2020||National||UP: Migrant labourer escapes from quarantine centre, commits suicide||A 35-year-old migrant labourer escaped from a quarantine centre and allegedly committed suicide in Jauharpur village under Tindwari Police Station area, police said. Jagdish Prasad who had gone to Surat about six months ago had returned on May 20 and was put under quarantine in the village. He, however, escaped from there on Wednesday night and arrived at his in-laws' place and allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself on Thursday morning, SHO Tindwari Police Station Neeraj Kumar Singh said. Prima facie it appears to be a fall out of the marital dispute, the SHO said, adding that investigations are on. According to Prasad's father-in-law, upon reaching home on Wednesday night, he had an argument with his wife Rajkali over buying ration. “He committed suicide by hanging himself the next day,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-migrant-labourer-escapes-from-quarantine-centre-commits-suicide-843177.html
29-05-2020||National||Maharashtra agriculture varsity suggests ways to tackle locust menace||As parts of Maharashtra and other states face attacks from locusts, which destroy crops and vegetation, an agriculture university has suggested a slew of measures like destroying their eggs and spraying neem oil on crops to tackle threat from the migratory pests. Swarms of crop-eating locusts have spread across Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. The fast-moving insects entered parts of Vidarbha in eastern Maharashtra earlier this week. Locusts crossed into Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh from eastern Maharashtra on Thursday afternoon, a senior agriculture department official had said. Earlier on Thursday, officials had said the swarms were moving eastwards, towards Gondia district of Maharashtra after entering Bhandara from Nagpur district on Wednesday. The Vasantrao Naik Agriculture University at Parbhani in Marathwada said threat from swarms of locusts destroying crops and travelling long distances in search of food can be tackled by undertaking certain measures. Destroying their eggs, digging trenches of a specific size and spraying neem oil on standing crops are some of the effective methods to tackle the menace caused by locusts (schistocerca gregaria), it said in a statement. The department of agricultural entomology of the university published a set of guidelines on Thursday for farmers in this regard. "Female locusts lay 50 to 100 eggs in moist sandy land. The hatching period of these eggs depends on environment and may stretch from two to four weeks. Larvae cannot fly immediately when they come out," the varsity said. The university suggested destroying those eggs in groups. Farmers can dig trenches in a size of 60 centimeters wide and 75 centimeters deep which can help to catch small locusts from the flock, it said. According to university experts, larvae when they grow and start flying in groups, can destroy leaves, branches, flowers and seeds. Adult locusts can eat food equivalent to their weight and can fly with a speed ranging from 12 to 16 km per hour, they said. "If a swarm of locusts is in one square km area, their weight can be up to 3,000 quintals. Their flocks can be neutralised during night time (which is their resting time) with the help of smoke. "But farmers need to be very careful and ensure their crops do not catch fire," the university said. Spraying 2.5 litres of neem oil per hectare has also proved effective in controlling swarms of locusts, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-agriculture-varsity-suggests-ways-to-tackle-locust-menace-843180.html
29-05-2020||National||Decision to open shops in malls soon after taking into account health ministry's guidelines||The decision to open shops in malls will be taken soon, after taking into account the guidelines of the health ministry, the commerce and industry ministry said on Friday. Issues of retail traders were discussed in a meeting between Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday with representatives of traders associations through video conferencing. Regarding some of the hardships being faced by the retail traders even after the relaxations of the guidelines, he said that a majority of shops have been allowed to be opened, without any distinction of essential and non-essential. "The decision to open the remaining shops in the malls will be taken soon, after taking into account the guidelines of the health ministry," the ministry said in a statement. The minister said that that the Aatmanirbhar package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to fight COVID-19 provided for Rs 3 lakh credit guarantee for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), and it also covers traders. Goyal told the traders not to feel threatened by the e-commerce juggernaut, as the common person has now realized that the brick and mortar kirana neighbourhood shopkeepers only helped them in their hour of crisis.  He added that the government is working on a mechanism to facilitate Business-to-business (B2B) for the retail traders and providing technical support to them to expand their reach. Regarding other problems of the trader community pertaining to term loans, and mudra loans, the minister said that the matter will be taken up with the finance ministry to find a solution. "Several indicators show that economic recovery is on the anvil. The power consumption this month is almost at par with the corresponding period last year. Exports, which went down in April by almost 60 per cent, have started showing an upward trend, and the preliminary figures indicate decline this month will be smaller," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-to-open-shops-in-malls-soon-after-taking-into-account-health-ministrys-guidelines-843181.html
29-05-2020||National||PM Modi’s vocal-for-local campaign should be applicable to tobacco control policies in India: FAIFA||Urging the government to be sensitive towards the financial distress faced by tobacco growers due to the coronavirus pandemic, farmers body FAIFA on Friday said PM Narendra Modi's vocal-for-local campaign should be applicable to tobacco control policies in India. It said the government should shun aping the western world and adopt measures that are "rooted into the reality of tobacco consumption pattern" of the country. Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) claims to represent farmers and farm workers of commercial crops across Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Gujarat. It asked the government to "reduce cigarette taxes to pre-GST levels so the market share of smuggled foreign brands can reduce and Indian industry and farmers can benefit in line with the vocal-for-local vision of the Prime Minister." "In the last few years, under the influence of WHO FCTC (Framework Convention on Tobacco Control), the government has imposed harsh regulations such as increasing the size of pictorial warnings, imposing punitive taxation on cigarettes with the tax burden more than trebling since 2012-13 and has even withdrawn export benefits," FAIFA President Javare Gowda said. These policies are a result of the legacy of aping the western world by the previous governments where cigarettes represent 91 per cent of tobacco consumed as compared to India where cigarettes are only 9 per cent of the tobacco being consumed, he added. Gowda further said, "All these are leading to adverse consequences on livelihood of crores of Indians without providing any alternatives livelihood opportunities or help to farmers who cannot grow any other equally remunerative crop in the dry and arid regions they reside in." While lauding PM Modi's vocal-for-local campaign, FAIFA asked "the government to shun the legacy of tobacco control policies aping the western world and adopt policies that are rooted into the reality of tobacco consumption pattern of India." FAIFA said India has a unique pattern of tobacco consumption and cigarettes are the smallest component of tobacco consumption in India. "However, it is facing the brunt of these most draconian and stringent regulations in the world. Also, the per capita annual consumption of cigarettes in India is just 96, amongst the lowest in the world," it added. The farmers' body further claimed that only 3 per cent of the adult population consumes cigarettes. While, smokeless tobacco product users and bidi smokers outnumber cigarette smokers by 6 times and 3 times, respectively. "However, cigarettes account for more than 80 per cent of revenue from tobacco taxation, while the contribution to tax collections from the other two segments is insignificant. Majority of the tobacco industry (68 per cent) is in the untaxed or unorganised sector," it said. "In view of the current weakening economic scenario and the rising unemployment in the country due to COVID-19, the government should remain mindful of the fact that no such policy decisions are taken that brings instability in farm prices and have an adverse impact on the livelihood of Indian flu-cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco farmers," it said. Indian tobacco farmers are already facing huge losses due to delays in marketing their crop, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-s-vocal-for-local-campaign-should-be-applicable-to-tobacco-control-policies-in-india-faifa-843187.html
29-05-2020||National||Goa CM bats for COVID-19 lockdown extension; wants malls, gyms to open||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said the current phase of lockdown, slated to end on May 31, should be extended till June 15 considering the overall COVID-19 scenario in the country, where the case count has crossed the 1.6 lakh-mark. Sawant, who spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the phone on Thursday, said during the conversation he suggested lockdown extension for another 15 days, but sought relaxations for Goa during the period. The chief minister said Goa will pitch for relaxations like allowing reopening of malls, restaurants and gyms in the state during the lockdown period. For latest updates on coronavirus, click here He said all these sectors (gym, mall and restaurant) can open with 50 per cent of their staff capacity and by strictly adhering to social distancing norms and other protocols related to curbing the coronavirus spread. Sawant said the state government is waiting for fresh lockdown guidelines from the Union home ministry, which are expected to be announced on Saturday. Only after understanding those guidelines, we will come to know whether Goa is allowed to give certain relaxations, he said. Sawant said Goa will be the most preferred holiday destination in India in the post-COVID-19 era.  Compared to rest of the tourist places in the country, Goa will be the more preferred destination for domestic and international travellers, he said. Meanwhile, the chief minister on Friday laid the foundation stone for a 1,300-seat capacity convention centre in the state capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-cm-bats-for-covid-19-lockdown-extension-wants-malls-gyms-to-open-843188.html
29-05-2020||National||BEST decides not to charge bus ticket fares from migrants||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) on Friday announced that no ticket fares will be charged from migrant labourers when buses are made available for dropping them at the city railway stations for their journey to their home states. A BEST spokesperson said that the decision was taken as per the directives of the Supreme Court. The apex court on Thursday directed that no fare for travel either by trains or buses be charged from the migrant workers stranded across the country, and they be provided food and water. Till Thursday, the BEST was charging regular fares from the migrants as per the distance for dropping them at the railway stations, he said. The Mumbai Police have also been arranging special buses for ferrying the registered migrants to the railway stations.  The Railway Ministry has been running Shramik special trains to carry the stranded migrants to their native places since May 1, 2020. The BEST is over a century old public transport body, which has a fleet of more than 3,500 buses. During its normal days of operations, it ferries around 35 lakh commuters everyday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/best-decides-not-to-charge-bus-ticket-fares-from-migrants-843190.html
29-05-2020||National||Plea in NGT seeks implementation of Centre's contingency plan to control locust attack||As the locust attack threat looms over Delhi and neighbouring states, a plea in the National Green Tribunal has sought the implementation of the Centre's contingency plan to combat the situation. The plea filed by an NGO said that despite having the contingency plan several states like Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are facing the locust swarm attack since February and the situation is getting worse in some of the areas. Gujarat and Maharashtra have also been impacted by the swarm of millions of insects which eat up crops in the field they attack, inflicting heavy crop damage. The Delhi government issued an advisory on Tuesday on preventive measures to control the looming locust attack in the national capital. It asked the authorities to organise awareness among farmers, spraying of insecticide and not letting the swarms rest during the night. The plea said: "The worst affected are the farmers of the said area, thus the applicant NGO seeks urgent intervention of this tribunal and seeks direction to submit status report on the implementation of plan prepared by Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage, Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer Welfare, Union of India." The contingency plan is a guidance document for Locust Field Offices, state governments and other stake holders during the attack, said the plea filed by 'Centre For Wildlife And Environmental Litigation Foundation'. According to the plea, the plan covers assistance required from different stakeholders, their contribution and role, activities, type of strategy to be adopted, formation of teams, available resources, short falls and ways and means of obtaining additional resources, and the deployment as also the actions that need to be taken. The plan also provides for use of aircraft with spraying kits for locust control purpose, it said. The NGO has sought constitution of committees to control the locust swarm attack within their respective states. "Direct the Centre to evaluate the crop damage caused due to locust swarm attack and provide compensation to poor farmers affected by it," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-ngt-seeks-implementation-of-centres-contingency-plan-to-control-locust-attack-843191.html
29-05-2020||National||COVID-19: HM Amit Shah meets PM Narendra Modi; briefs on CMs' views on lockdown||Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday discussed the next phase of lockdown with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, where he shared the views of some chief ministers that lifting restrictions altogether at this stage will be fraught with risks. Shah had spoken to the chief ministers of various states on Thursday and sought feedback on their Covid-19 containment strategy after the current lockdown ends on May 31.  Shah told Modi that most of the states favoured a further extension of lockdown but with substantial relaxations to bring businesses back on rails and ease commuting, as several offices have begun to function.  Modi, who will announce the next strategy during his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on Sunday, will take into account the inputs of the states he received from Shah, as well as Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, who had on Thursday, held detailed interactions with the district magistrates and municipal commissioners of 13 cities with the highest virus load. They had advocated a ground zero strategy to arrest the spread of the virus through aggressive monitoring of technically defined containment zones. States like West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Rajasthan and Odisha have asked the Centre to put on hold regular passenger train services for at least one more month, expressing apprehension that it might trigger an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in fact dubbed the Shramik Special trains “Corona Express” and slammed the Centre for sending thousands of migrants in each train.  Mamata is in favour of opening all religious places and said that the lockdown will continue in her state with "minimal effects". Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat has decided to keep markets in the state open from 7 am to 7 pm. Odisha is mulling opening hotels after the start of flight services from May 25. Congress-ruled states are also wary of lifting restrictions in one go though party leader Rahul Gandhi had said that the government's purpose behind the national lockdown has failed. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel feels that state borders should not be opened. He urged Shah to consider the strong views expressed by many chief ministers on the resumption of train and flight services.  The BJP-ruled Karnataka had on Thursday requested the Civil Aviation Ministry to reduce air traffic from five states, citing inadequate quarantine facilities for a large number of returnees. Pramod Sawant, BJP’s Goa Chief Minister — who was the first to break the decision on Lockdown 4.0 a fortnight ago — again said on Friday that as per the conversation he had with Shah, he feels the lockdown could be extended for 15 days till June 15. “But still, we feel that relaxations should be given to our hotel industry, restaurants and gyms,” Sawant said, adding that the state will make its plans as per the MHA guidelines. He urged the home minister to allow opening of eateries with 50% attendance in Goa, which is a tourist destination. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has already hinted at an extension of the lockdown. He said it was not proper to impose the lockdown suddenly, and now, lifting it abruptly could also be detrimental. The BJP-ruled Himachal Pradesh has on its own extended curbs in two districts, Hamirpur and Solan, till June 30 after a surge in cases. Shah’s meeting with the prime minister is a precursor to the Centre issuing new guidelines for Lockdown 5.0, where smaller units of administration like districts and municipal corporations will have more decision-making power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-hm-amit-shah-meets-pm-narendra-modi-briefs-on-cms-views-on-lockdown-843197.html
29-05-2020||National||No call between Donald Trump and Narendra Modi on China border tension - official source||Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not spoken with US President Donald Trump about the south Asian nation's military standoff with China, a government source said on Friday, after Trump suggested Modi was upset about border tension. The neighbours' troops have been facing off along the disputed border in the western Himalayas since early May, after Chinese troops intruded into Indian territory, Indian military officials say. "They have a big conflict going with India and China. Two countries with 1.4 billion people. Two countries with very powerful militaries," Trump told reporters, according to a White House transcript. "And India is not happy, and probably China is not happy. But I can tell you, I did speak to Prime Minister Modi. He's not - he's not in a good mood about what's going on with China," Trump added. The comments followed a Twitter post the previous day in which Trump said the United States had told India and China that it was ready to arbitrate their "raging border dispute", the first time he has thrown himself into India-China diplomacy. But Indian officials expressed surprise at Trump's latest remarks. "There has been no recent contact between PM Modi and President Trump," a government source said. "The last conversation between them was on April 4, on the subject of hydroxychloroquine." The source spoke on condition of anonymity, citing diplomatic sensitivities. On Trump's offer to mediate between the two nuclear-armed nations, the source said, the "Indian foreign ministry had also made it clear that we are directly in touch with the Chinese through established mechanisms and diplomatic contacts." On Friday, China's foreign ministry said there was no need for a third party to mediate. Both countries lay claim to thousands of kilometres of territory in each other's possession along a vast stretch of the Himalayas. They went to war in 1962 and have not been able to settle the border since, prompting occasional flare-ups between border troops. Military observers say one likely reason for the renewed border tension in the Ladakh sector is India's effort to build new airstrips and roads near the de-facto border to try to narrow the gap with China's superior infrastructure. During talks to resolve the crisis, the Chinese side have demanded that India stop all construction activity in the area, saying the whole area is disputed, one of the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-call-between-donald-trump-and-narendra-modi-on-china-border-tension-official-source-843198.html
29-05-2020||National||Maharashtra lady police officer transferred after argument with Abu Azmi||Lady police officer Shalini Sharma has been transferred after a verbal duel with influential Samajwadi Party MLA Abu Asim Azmi. Sharma,  who was the Senior Police Inspector of Nagpada police station,  has been shifted to the Chembur police station. An experienced no-nonsense officer,  she is trained in hostage negotiations crisis management from Scotland Yard. She has also worked in the Extradition Cell of the Crime Intelligence Unit of Mumbai Police. A couple of days ago,  a video of her arguing with Azmi had gone viral on social media platforms. This happened when a large crowd of migrants assembled in Nagpada.     Azmi had staged a protest demanding transfer of Sharma alleging mismanagement by police in sending migrant labourers back to their hometowns. However, senior officials said Sharma had requested for a transfer, which was accepted. Jai Prakash Bhosale has taken over the duty of Sharma at the Nagpada police station. It may be recalled that she was in the news during the Mumbai Bagh protest on the lines of Shaheen Bagh assembly. She was involved in tiffs the protestors several times. It is noteworthy to mention here that Azmi,  whose party as two MLAs,  is part of the ruling coalition, Maha Vikas Aghadi,  that has Shiv Sena,  NCP and Congress as primary members. The BJP has raised the issue of her transfer and lashed out at the Uddhav Thackeray government. Mumbai BJP Vice President Kirit Somaiya said that the SP MLA was not wearing a mask and provoking the migrants and abusing a lady police officer.He demanded the arrest of Azmi for violation of the Indian Penal Code and Disaster Management Act.     "The government notification says Police Inspector Shalini Sharma transferred from Nagpada to Chembur "in public interest!? For Thackeray Sarkar meaning of public interest is protecting the ruling front leader who abused the lady officer by saying  "Tere Bapko Aana Padega" and demoralising police force," Somaiya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-lady-police-officer-transferred-after-argument-with-abu-azmi-843199.html
29-05-2020||National||COVID-19 shadow over first anniversary of Modi 2.0 government||As Modi 2.0 government completes its one year in office on May 30 amid the devastating impact of the worldwide pandemic COVID-19, the mood is sombre even as the ruling BJP and the Opposition is locked into a fierce blame game. The party has lined up a month- long programme of digital rallies and public reach out through events like Facebook Live but celebrations have been muted keeping in view the Covid crisis. For the ruling BJP, the pandemic has exposed the glaring loopholes in our health care system and the massive employment challenge that came out in open during the massive migrant crisis that unfolded as the Modi government decided to clamp a national lockdown to ward off the evil impact of the pandemic.  As there was no let down in cases despite more than two months of lockdown, the Opposition seized the opportunity and trained guns on the government also blaming it for  ‘messy management” of migrant issues. BJP responded by releasing a booklet alleging how Rahul Gandhi is “weakening” the national resolve to fight the COVID-19. BJP is confident that the Modi 2.0 government, which has in the pre-pandemic period, fulfilled its core promises like abolition of Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir and resolution of the vexed Ram Temple issue by the Supreme Court in favour of the Hindu side besides taking many “long-term institutional reforms” is still popular and Modi faces no formidable challenge. The passage of triple talaq bill in July last year was also hailed in the Parivaar backyard as moving towards the realisation of the dream of Uniform Civil Code, besides a milestone for gender justice. However, electoral gains these emotive issues have eluded the saffron party, which lost two party-ruled states Maharashtra and Jharkhand and failed to break the Delhi jinx losing it once again in 2020 despite a high octane election campaign by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah amid nationwide protests by sections of people against CAA, which the BJP has been projecting as justice to Hindus being persecuted in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. In Haryana also the party could barely manage to retain its government with the help of a new ally, while in Maharashtra NDA also had its oldest ally Shiv Sena, which later aligned with opposition parties to form a government. This has dented to some extent the aura of invincibility surrounding the duo—Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. Delhi riots had a big dent in the over-all image of the government. In 2020, Bihar will go to polls in which the NDA government is led by JDU’s Nitish Kumar. Despite all not so well in Nitish-BJP ties, the two could stick together as neither has an option. In West Bengal despite winning nine time more Lok Sabha seats than in 2014, BJP’s popularity now seems petering away ahead of 2021 assembly polls. The party is, however, confident of a change of power in the state even as it lost in assembly by-polls held in the state months after Lok Sabha polls. On the economic front, the merger of 10 public sector banks in four banks this year was hailed as a bold decision. Modi’s recent ‘atmanirbhar Bharat’ pitch, giving thrust to locally made goods has, also warmed the hearts of the Swadeshi warriors in the saffron family  but what will matter more is how people respond to the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Modi post COVID-19 to help the poor and the farmers and bring economy out of the tailspin it finds itself in. While a Congress survey says 76 percent of people unhappy with the Modi government, a survey by Local Circles says 62 percent people are satisfied with Modi government’s handling of COVID-19. Well surveys had hardly predicted the pulse of the people either way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-shadow-over-first-anniversary-of-modi-20-government-843203.html
29-05-2020||National||CBI starts preliminary enquiry into cash transactions and foreign donations of Tablighi Jamaat||Islamic missionary outfit Tablighi Jamaat is in further trouble with the CBI initiating a preliminary enquiry (PE) into "dubious cash transactions" and "non-disclosure" of foreign donations it received. The activities of Tablighi Jamaat came under scanner after it was linked to a large number of COVID-19 cases in the country. A number of Tablighi Jamaat members who returned from a religious congregation in Delhi in mid-March were accused of being the reason behind the further spread of the virus infection in several states.  The CBI has registered the preliminary enquiry on a complaint that the organisers of the Jamaat were indulging in "dubious cash transactions through illegal and unfair means". They are also accused of hiding receipt of foreign donations to the authorities mandated under the Foreign Contributions (Regulations) Act. A preliminary enquiry is the first step to ascertain whether there exists prima facie material to proceed with a full-fledged investigation with the registration of an FIR. CBI officials said the premier investigating agency has started collecting records of Tablighi Jamaat from various authorities, including the Delhi Police. The investigators will also look into 47 chargesheets running into around 40,000 pages filed by Delhi Police's Crime Branch earlier this week against 900 foreign followers of the Tablighi Jamaat. In April, the Enforcement Directorate had registered a money laundering case under under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad, trusts linked to Tablighi Jamaat and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-starts-preliminary-enquiry-into-cash-transactions-and-foreign-donations-of-tablighi-jamaat-843206.html
29-05-2020||National||COVID-19: RTI plea seeks to know amount spent on equipment purchase; Health Ministry refuses info||The Central government's Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has denied to share the information related to the expenses incurred to combat the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak, saying that it has no specific information to provide. The ministry responded with this unusual reply to a Right to Information (RTI) query filed by Mumbai-based activist Anil Galgali, who had sought the monetary expenses with regards to control and prevent COVID-19 by the Government of India. In his online query, Galgali had sought the name of the purchased equipment and materials, total amount spent to combat pandemic. After 22 days of filing the query, Department of Health & Family Welfare, in its reply stated that the CPIO deals with the matters relating to HLL Lifecare Limited, a Public Sector Undertaking under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.    It also said that the Central Public Information Officer is not required to furnish information which requires drawing of interference and/or making of assumption, or to interpret information, or to solve the problem raised by the applicant, or to furnish replies to hypothetical questions. “The information sought does not come under the definition of information as defined in Section 2(f) of RTI Act, 2005. The CPIO has no specific information to provide,” department further said it its reply.   Reacting sharply over the unprofessional approach and reply, Galgali said that if it was the matter, then why it took 22 days to reply in denial mode. “It should not only be furnished through RTI, but all the financial details be uploaded on its website, so that no one need to file an RTI to about the expenses,” said Galgali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-rti-plea-seeks-to-know-amount-spent-on-equipment-purchase-health-ministry-refuses-info-843217.html
29-05-2020||National||More than 38,000 doctors volunteer to join fight against COVID-19||More than 38,000 doctors, including those retired from the Armed Forces Medical Services, have volunteered to help the government in its fight against COVID-19 pandemic, a senior official said on Friday. On March 25, the government had made an appeal to doctors, including the retired ones, to come forward and join the efforts to fight the pandemic. "38,162 volunteer doctors, including retired government, Armed Forces Medical Services, public sector undertaking or private doctors have signed up with the government to battle COVID-19 pandemic," the official told PTI. The official further said Niti Aayog has sent a list of names of these doctors to Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). In a statement posted on Niti Aayog's website on March 25, the government had said those who wish to contribute to this noble mission may register themselves through a link provided on the Aayog's website. "The Government of India requests for volunteer doctors who are fit and willing to be available for providing their services in the public health facilities and the training hospitals in the near future. "We appeal to such doctors to come forward at this hour of need. You could also be a retired government, Armed Forces Medical Services, public sector undertaking or a private doctor," the statement had said. It had noted that in case the outbreak leads to a high number of infected individuals, India's public health facilities will face tremendous load to take care of a large number of patients. Many countries, including the US, Italy, the UK and Vietnam, had also urged retired health workers to come back to work amid the pandemic. The number of COVID-19 cases in India has climbed to 1,65,799, making it the world's ninth worst-hit country by the coronavirus pandemic. The Health Ministry on Friday said the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,706 in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-38000-doctors-volunteer-to-join-fight-against-covid-19-843223.html
29-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Amitabh Bachchan organises 10 buses for migrant workers||Moved by the plight of migrants,  superstar Amitabh Bachchan has organised 10 buses for Uttar Pradesh. The buses left from the Haji Ali dargah and Mahim dargah. The buses were flagged off by Suhail Khandwani Managing Trustee,  Mahim Dargah,  and Trustee,  Haji Ali dargah,  and Rajesh Yadav, Managing director AB Corporation Ltd. About 300 migrants are being sent to the various locations in UP, viz, Lucknow,  Allahabad, Ghorakhpur, and Bhadoi. These are 52-seater buses and only 25 passengers were taken per bus so that physical distancing is followed. The buses have been provided with food and snacks for the entire journey with water,  juices. The medical kits are also being provided to the migrants in case they may need it in their journey.  Hand sanitizer,  masks are also being provided.  "It was the brainchild of Bachchan-Sahab who has been deeply concerned by the sufferings of the migrants since the lockdown. He made a proposal and the Haji Ali Dargah and Mahim Dargah responded by offering to make all the arrangements,” according to the organisers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-amitabh-bachchan-organises-10-buses-for-migrant-workers-843225.html
29-05-2020||National||11 more healthcare workers at AIIMS test positive for COVID-19||As many as 11 healthcare workers, including two resident doctors, have tested positive for coronavirus at the AIIMS on Friday, taking the total number of hospital staff infected so far to 206. Since Feb 1, 206 healthcare workers including two faculty, ten resident doctors, 26 nurses, nine technicians, five mess workers, 49 hospital attendants, 34 sanitation workers and 69 security guards have been infected by the novel coronavirus, an AIIMS official said. More than 150 healthcare personnel have recovered and have joined back duties, AIIMS Medical Superintendent, Dr D K Sharma, said. Over 64 healthcare personnel including resident doctors, nurses, laboratory staff, technicians, sanitation staff and security guards have tested positive in the last three days. "We are taking all precautionary and safety measures for our healthcare workers at the institute. The moment any healthcare worker tests positive, we immediately isolate him or her and initiate the process of contact tracing," Dr Sharma said, According to sources, samples of around 11 healthcare workers tested positive till Friday morning, while 30 were found infected till Thursday morning and 23 were found infected till Wednesday morning. "Healthcare workers and ancillary staff testing positive are both from COVID and non-COVID areas of the hospital. Employees from all kinds of departments like engineering, laboratories, offices, canteens, operation theaters and wards among others have contracted the infection," Dr Sharma said. One of the AIIMS' sanitation supervisor, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died on Sunday while a mess worker at the AIIMS canteen had succumbed to the disease last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/11-more-healthcare-workers-at-aiims-test-positive-for-covid-19-843227.html
29-05-2020||National||ED official contracts COVID-19 infection||A junior-rank officer of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has tested positive for coronavirus infection, officials said on Friday. The official is an upper division clerk who works at the establishment branch of the headquarters, they said, adding that he last came to office on May 18 and his COVID-19 test report came on Thursday. He was on deputation to the investigative agency from a central paramilitary force, the officials said. The coronavirus-positive official has been admitted to hospital for treatment and an employee who was in his contact quarantined, they said. All COVID-19 protocols are being followed, the officials said. ED, the federal agency that probes money laundering and hawala crimes, sanitises its office building twice a week and only those employees who are required for work on a given day report to office, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-official-contracts-covid-19-infection-843232.html
29-05-2020||National||SC to hear plea seeking replacement of word India with 'Bharat' in Constitution on June 2||The Supreme Court will hear on June 2 a plea which has sought a direction to the Centre to amend the Constitution and replace the word India with 'Bharat' or 'Hindustan', claiming it will "instill a sense of pride in our own nationality." The plea has sought a direction to the government to take appropriate steps to bring amendment in Article 1 of the Constitution, which deals with name and territory of the Union, to the effect that "the same refers to the country as Bharat/Hindustan, to the exclusion of India". The petition was listed for hearing on Friday before the apex court but it got deleted from the list as Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde was not available. As per a notice uploaded on the top court website, this matter would be listed for hearing on June 2 before a bench headed by the CJI. The plea, filed by a Delhi-based man, has claimed that such an amendment will "ensure the citizens of this country to get over the colonial past". "The removal of the English name though appears symbolic, will instill a sense of pride in our own nationality, especially for the future generations to come. Infact, the word India being replaced with Bharat would justify the hard fought freedom by our ancestors," the plea claimed. Referring to the 1948 Constituent assembly debate on Article 1 of the then draft constitution, the plea said even at that time there was a "strong wave" in favour of naming the country as 'Bharat' or 'Hindustan'. "However, now the time is ripe to recognize the country by its original and authentic name i.e. Bharat especially when our cities have been renamed to identify with the Indian ethos," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-plea-seeking-replacement-of-word-india-with-bharat-in-constitution-on-june-2-843242.html
29-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: AirAsia India and Sonu Sood fly 167 migrant workers from Kochi to Bhubaneswar||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, who has been in the forefront in helping migrant workers reach home in buses, has now organised an aircraft to fly stranded people from Kochi to Bhubaneshwar. Speaking of this initiative, Anup Manjeshwar, Head, Sales & Distribution, AirAsia India said, “AirAsia is happy to be a part of this initiative of Sonu Sood and help people in need get back to their loved ones. Sonu Sood's compassion and empathy with the plight of migrant workers has been inspiring and it has been a pleasure working with him to facilitate this fantastic initiative and give wings to the dreams of 147 women and 20 men who work with a clothing and stitching firm on today's flight."  Commenting on the initiative, Sonu Sood said, “When I decided to come forward in support of these migrant workers who have been stranded, all that I had in my mind was how I can help reunite them with their families and homes. I must thank AirAsia India for their immediate response and interest in supporting this endeavour. AirAsia India has been very appreciative that this Umeed Ki Udan may be the first flight for many of them. The Allstars of AirAsia who have been part of this journey have been true COVID-19 warriors and  have done everything possible to make the guests on board comfortable.” M Prashanto, a migrant worker, added "We would like to thank Sonu Sood from the bottom of our hearts for making these arrangements for us to fly back home. Words aren't enough for us to express our gratitude towards this gesture. All of us haven't met our families for so many months. Our happiness has no bounds and we are thankful to AirAsia India for making this journey so special."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-airasia-india-and-sonu-sood-fly-167-migrant-workers-from-kochi-to-bhubaneswar-843243.html
29-05-2020||National||Delhi, West Bengal not yet distributed May month quota of free foodgrains under PMGAY: Paswan||Union Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Friday said Delhi and West Bengal governments have not yet distributed the May month quota of 5 kg free foodgrains under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Yojana (PMGAY) to ration card holders, while other states and Union territories have completed the distribution, fully or partially. Many beneficiaries are still waiting for the May month quota in states such as Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Kerala and Manipur where up to 80 per cent distribution has been done, according to the official data. On distribution of one kg free pulses per household under the PMGAY, Paswan said states have lifted 1.68 lakh tonnes of pulses and are yet to provide month-wise distribution of the same. The progress report is awaited. To ensure no poor goes hungry, the Centre has allocated 5 kg rice or wheat per beneficiary and 1 kg pulses per family for free under the PMGAY for April-June as part of the Rs 20-lakh crore economic package announced to help those affected due to the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. "Delhi and West Bengal have distributed April month quota of foodgrains under the PMGAY. Delhi achieved 96 per cent distribution in April, while West Bengal 93 per cent. However in the month of May, the two states have achieved zero," Paswan said via digital press conference. Barring Delhi and West Bengal, other states and union territories have distributed fully or partially the May month quota of free grains under the PMGAY, he said. "We have written several letters to Delhi and West Bengal governments on this issue," he added. According to the latest data, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland have distributed fully the May month quota to ration card holders through public distribution system (PDS). More than a dozen states/UTs like Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Telangana, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Megalaya, Odisha, and Rajasthan have completed over 90 per cent distribution of grains for the current month. Free quota of grains given under the PMGAY to 81 crore ration card holders is over and above subsidised grains distributed under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). On pulses distribution under PMGAY, Paswan said his ministry has not received data on month-wise distribution progress but states have reported distribution of 1.68 lakh tonnes of dals to beneficiaries so far.  So far, about 3.70 lakh tonnes of pulses have reached states out of the total quantity of 4.7 lakh tonnes dispatched by the central government. Barring West Bengal, other states have either lifted pulses fully or partially for distribution, he said. On a report about distribution of poor-quality pulses, the minister said the government had initially received complaints about the quality especially from Delhi and Jharkhand. However, pulses have been replaced there. Now, there are no such complaints from any states. "We can tolerate delay in milling raw pulses but not poor quality. The issue has been addressed. A standard operating procedure has been issued in this regard," Paswan said. Paswan also mentioned that the government has enough stock to feed the poor people in the country and appealed to state governments to ensure timely distribution of free foodgrains under the PMGAY in this COVID-19 crisis. Currently, state-run Food Corporation of India (FCI) has more than 76.3 million tonnes of foodgrains stock, much more than the monthly requirement under PDS and other welfare schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-west-bengal-not-yet-distributed-may-month-quota-of-free-foodgrains-under-pmgay-paswan-843246.html
29-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani junks social media chatter on complete lockdown||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday asked people not to believe in rumours regarding the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the fourth phase of which is scheduled to end on May 31. Rupani had to issue a clarification amid social media talk that the state government was planning to impose total lockdown from June 1 as the number of COVID-19 cases was not coming down. "Some people are spreading rumours that from June 1st the state government will order total lockdown and order closure of everything. People should not believe in such rumours and stay away from spreading such things," Rupani said. Earlier, social media posts, with photos of deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, warning of implementation of complete lockdown had gone viral. The lockdown for the coronavirus outbreak has been in place across the country since March 25, though in the fourth phase that started on May 17, the Rupani government had divided the state into containment and non-containment zones, and eased several restrictions, including industrial and commercial, in the latter. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had, on Thursday, spoken to chief ministers of states on phase five of the lockdown, likely to commence from June 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-junks-social-media-chatter-on-complete-lockdown-843250.html
29-05-2020||National||Active locust swarms in 11 districts, Centre to deploy choppers to spray pesticides||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/active-locust-swarms-in-11-districts-centre-to-deploy-choppers-to-spray-pesticides-843256.html
29-05-2020||National||'We are being treated like animals'- UP patients protest for lack of water||Uttar Pradesh government was left red-faced after a video, showing patients admitted at a Level 1 COVID-19 government hospital in the state's Prayagraj district protesting against lack of water and half-cooked food. ''Kal Raat se pani nahin hai...pyas se mare ja rahen hain.....roti adhi kachhi-pakki dete hain,'' (there has been no water since last night...we will die of thirst...the chapati given to us is also half cooked), the patients could be heard saying in the video, that went viral on the social networking sites. ''Janwar bana diya hai'' (we are being treated like animals), one of the patients is heard saying. The hospital in question was in Kotwa Bani area in Prayagraj. The three-minute video made by one of the patients by his mobile was widely shared on social media sites. According to the sources the protest took place on Thursday (May 28). The district health officials in Prayagraj, however, said that the water supply had been interrupted for a few hours. ''Now it has been restored,'' a senior official said on Friday. Earlier also there had been similar protests at quarantine centres in Agra and Etawah districts. The Mayor of Agra town, one of the worst affected towns in the state, Naveen Jain had also alleged that the quarantine centres in the city lacked adequate facilities.  Apparently, to prevent the inmates at the quarantine centres from making videos, the state government had, a few days back, banned use of mobile phones inside the hospitals. The government, however, was forced to withdraw the order after the opposition leaders attacked the decision. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav had said that the government did not want the people to see the real condition of the COVID-19 hospitals in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-are-being-treated-like-animals-up-patients-protest-for-lack-of-water-843263.html
29-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Bombay HC asks Maharashtra govt to respond on sanitary napkin plea||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Maharashtra government to respond to a petition seeking a direction to declare sanitary napkins as an essential commodity and for their supply to poor and needy women amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The petition, filed by law students Nikita Gore and Vaishnavi Gholave, raised concerns over the Central and state governments not implementing effective menstrual hygiene management, resulting in women and adolescent girls facing barriers. "The Central and State governments have not paid any heed towards effective implementation of menstrual hygiene management, which consists of access to knowledge and information of safe menstruation, safe menstrual absorbents, water and hygiene infrastructure and so on," the plea said. The plea said, in view of the COVID-19 outbreak and the following lockdown, a large number of migrants, daily wage labourers and poor persons, including children, adolescent girls and women, were suffering. "While the Centre and state government were helping these persons with essential food items, they have failed to take care of girls and women by not providing menstrual hygiene articles like sanitary napkins and other medical facilities," the petition said. The plea said women go through menstruation every month and in other to manage it in a hygienic way, basic facilities like soap, water and menstrual absorbent were a must, and if these were not available, then it would lead to bacterial infections in the urinary tracts and reproductive system. The petition sought the court to direct the government and other authorities to ensure availability of free sanitary napkins, toilet and medical facilities to all poor and needy women during the lockdown period. The petition sought supply and distribution of sanitary napkins under the Public Distribution System on par with other essential commodities, to needy persons, if not free, then at an affordable and reasonable price. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice K K Tated on Friday directed the state government to respond to the plea and posted it for further hearing next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-bombay-hc-asks-maharashtra-govt-to-respond-on-sanitary-napkin-plea-843264.html
29-05-2020||National||Govt appeals to broadcasters, producers of TV serials to clear payments of artistes||The Information and Broadcasting Ministry on Friday urged broadcasters and producers of TV serials to clear payments of artistes. The ministry's request comes after two TV actors -- Manmeet Grewal and Preksha Mehta -- had allegedly committed suicide in the wake of the countrywide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. Grewal was going through a major financial crisis, according to his friends. Mehta had returned to her hometown Indore from Mumbai before the lockdown and was said to be depressed. The ministry, in its letter, said the pandemic of COVID-19 has led to financial downturn for a large number of sectors of the economy, including the broadcasting industry. Prakash Javadekar, the minister of information and broadcasting, had an occasion to discuss the problems of the broadcasting sector with the major stakeholders, and the government is seized of their concerns, the letter said.  The Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC) is working on a war footing for liquidating the pendency of advertisement bills of the media industry. "However, equally important is the livelihoods of the employees (and their families) who are working in this sector, including a large number of modestly paid TV artists engaged for production of various TV serials. While services of such persons were taken, some of them may not have received their remuneration," it said.  While appreciating concerns of the broadcasting sector, the imminent need to give remuneration to them cannot be lost sight of, the letter said. "It is, therefore, urged that broadcasters and producers of TV serials may take a compassionate view and ensure that all payments due to such persons up to March, 2020 are cleared at the earliest. This will be of immense relief to them and their families," the letter said. The letter was sent to News Broadcasters Association, Indian Broadcasting Foundation, Association of Regional TV Broadcasters of India and the Producers Guild of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-appeals-to-broadcasters-producers-of-tv-serials-to-clear-payments-of-artistes-843267.html
29-05-2020||National||Former Minister's wife moves SC against detention in J&K||Former Union Minister Prof Saifuddin Soz's wife has approached the Supreme Court with a habeas corpus petition against the detention of the senior Congress leader in Jammu and Kashmir with the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution since August 5, 2019. Her plea claimed that the detention was not only illegal, malafide, and unconstitutional, it was also extremely appalling. In the petition filed by advocate Sunil Fernandes, Mumtazunnisa Soz contended the octogenarian leader has been illegally and arbitrarily detained for the past ten  months purportedly under the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, 1978 without having been provided with the materials indicating grounds for it. "All efforts by him to obtain a copy of the detention order have been of no avail due to the illegal, arbitrary exercise of powers by the Jammu and Kashmir administration," she claimed. The petitioner contended that the house arrest ordered against Prof Soz was "arbitrary, whimsical and fanciful deserves to be quashed on the anvil of Articles 14, 21 and 22 of the Constitution". She also pointed out Prof Soz has not committed any breach of peace, neither has he disturbed the public tranquility, nor is he likely to do any wrongful act. Several senior politicians of Jammu and Kashmir were put under detention in August, last. Former Ministers Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah were subsequently released. Former Chief Minister Mahbooba Mufti's daughter Iltija has also challenged her mother detention before the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-ministers-wife-moves-sc-against-detention-in-jk-843268.html
29-05-2020||National||Dharmendra Pradhan envisages home delivery of petrol, CNG||After doorstep delivery of diesel, the government is looking at starting home delivery of petrol and CNG for the greater convenience of customers, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Friday. Also, the government is looking at unveiling a new fuel retailing model where all types of fuels -- petrol, diesel, CNG, LNG and LPG -- would be available at one place, he said. Indian Oil Corp (IOC), the nation's largest fuel retailer, in September 2018 started home delivery of diesel through a mobile dispenser. This service is available only in a handful of cities. Doorstep delivery of petrol and CNG is said to pose risks due to highly inflammable nature of the fuel, and safe and secure modes approved by relevant authorities need to be evolved. Speaking at a function to inaugurate 56 new CNG stations in 11 states, Pradhan said the government has already started mobile dispensers for diesel. It "would like to expand the same for petrol and LNG," an official statement quoted him as saying. "Pradhan said that people would be able to get the home delivery of the fuel in future." The government, he said, is working on energy efficiency, affordability, security and accessibility. He envisioned that soon, the customers will have to go to only one place, where all types of fuels - petrol, diesel, CNG, LNG and LPG will be made available. The minister said city gas network of CNG supplies to automobiles and piped cooking gas to kitchens will soon cover 72 per cent of the country's population. He was speaking on the occasion of inauguration of 56 new CNG stations in 11 states including Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, New Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. "Lauding the efforts of all the stakeholders in the expansion of the gas network in the country, Pradhan said that 72 per cent population of the country will soon be covered through the City Gas Distribution (CGD) network, with spread over 53 per cent of the geographical area," the statement said. CGD network, comprising of over 2,200 CNG outlets and nearly 61 lakh piped natural gas users, presently covers about half of the country's population. Stating that the country is moving towards a gas-based economy, he said the number of piped natural gas (PNG) users has gone up from 25.4 lakh in 2014 to 60.68 lakh. Industrial gas connections have risen to 41,000 from 28,000 and the number of CNG vehicles has gone up from 22 lakh to 34 lakh. He said that it is a matter of satisfaction that besides the public sector, private companies are taking part in the expansion of gas infrastructure in the country. Oil Secretary Tarun Kapoor said that India is the third-largest energy consumer of the world, and is working to raise the share of natural gas in its energy basket to 15 per cent from current 6.2 per cent. He said that as the economic activity and consumption level goes up in the country, the energy consumption is bound to go up. The government will promote and support gas as an environment-friendly, energy-efficient and economically efficient fuel, he said. "Completion of work at these stations was affected due to the countrywide lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus. However, after easing of restrictions last month, the work gathered pace and was carried out ensuring all safety and social distancing norms. This ensured minimum delay in commissioning of these stations as against the original schedule," the statement said. With the addition of these stations to India's CNG network, the daily filling capacity in the country has gone up by over 50,000 vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dharmendra-pradhan-envisages-home-delivery-of-petrol-cng-843269.html
29-05-2020||National||Vande Bharat Mission: Air India to operate additional repatriation flights to six countries||Air India said it will operate additional repatriation flights to six countries between June 4 and June 6 to bring back stranded Indians under the phase 2 of Vande Bharat Mission. Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the six countries where these flights will operate are the US, New Zealand, the UK, Sweden, Germany and South Korea. On Twitter, the national carrier said it will operate Delhi-Auckland flight on June 4, Delhi-Chicago flight and Delhi-Stockholm flight on June 5. It said it will operate Mumbai-London flight and Mumbai-Newark flight on June 6. It added it will run flights on Delhi-New York route, Delhi-Frankfurt route and Delhi-Seoul route on June 6. The Narendra Modi government started the Vande Bharat Mission on May 7 to bring stranded Indians home on a payment basis amid the coronavirus lockdown. It also permitted foreign nationals and valid visa holders to book seats on these outbound flights. Under phase one of the mission, Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express operated 64 flights to bring 14,800 Indians home from 12 countries between May 7 and May 14. Phase two of the mission began on May 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-mission-air-india-to-operate-additional-repatriation-flights-to-six-countries-843271.html
29-05-2020||National||Triple murder case: Tejashwi Yadav stopped from taking out protest march||The Bihar Police on Friday (May 29) stopped the leader of the opposition, Tejashwi Yadav, from taking out his protest march from Patna to Gopalganj. The march was being taken out to protest triple murder case in Gopalganj where the father, mother and brother of an RJD leader JP Yadav were shot dead allegedly by the kin of a JD (U) MLA on May 24. JP Yadav too sustained grievous injuries in the indiscriminate firing and is presently recuperating at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). “The Patna DM has denied you permission for travel to Gopalganj under the MHA guidelines issued for lockdown,” a senior police official told Tejashwi, as his cavalcade, followed by several party legislators in their SUVs, came out of Rabri Devi’s residence while on way to Gopalganj. “I am not going to Gopalganj to fight with someone. I had said on Wednesday (May 27) that either arrest the JD (U) MLA Amarendra Pandey named in the FIR (in the triple murder case), or else, I will march to Gopalganj on Friday. My protest march is to highlight the poor law and order in Bihar which has worsened in recent times,” Tejashwi told the cops. However, his arguments failed to cut any ice. After high-voltage drama for over four hours, Tejashwi was eventually allowed to meet the Assembly Speaker Vijay Choudhary at the Vidhan Sabha. “I have submitted a memorandum to the Assembly Speaker to convene a special sitting of the House where two issues should be discussed threadbare: First, the deteriorating law and order. And secondly, the migrants’ issue where the poor are facing unimaginable hardship,” said Tejashwi, after his meet with the Speaker was over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/triple-murder-case-tejashwi-yadav-stopped-from-taking-out-protest-march-843273.html
29-05-2020||National||DD News shifts operations to Khelgaon after video journalist tests positive for COVID-19 posthumously||Doordarshan News has shifted its operations from Mandi House to its studio in Khelgaon after a video journalist employed with it tested positive for coronavirus following his death, officials said on Friday. According to his family, the 53-year-old video journalist had last gone to work on May 21 and after he returned home, he started feeling uneasy and took leave. According to his elder brother, he did not have coronavirus symptoms but had ''mild breathing difficulty''. On May 25, when he felt unwell, he consulted his family doctor who advised him against getting tested for coronavirus and asked him to undergo some blood tests. "His blood test reports were normal. But on May 27, he collapsed and died en route to the hospital. He tested positive for the virus later. The doctor suspected that he had a heat stroke," his brother told PTI. According to an official of DD News, initially they were told that he had a heatstroke and then they learnt he had a heart attack which led to his death. However, when they learnt that he had died due to coronavirus, the areas he may have accessed were sanitised. "The news operations have been shifted to the Khelgaon studio from the night of May 28. The floors of the Mandi House headquarters where news operations took place are being sanitised and it will take another two-three days," the official said. The official said that the employee used to only access the camera section. "We have been following strict protocol and the employees are mandated to collect the equipment and leave the building. No one was allowed to loiter," the official said on condition of anonymity.  "But as a precautionary measure, all the camera section employees, around 35-40 persons, are being tested at RML and if they want, they can also undergo a test at a private lab," the official added. The official said the employees are being called on a rotational basis and May 21 (the day the deceased employee fell unwell) was only the sixth day in the month that he had reported for work. "We have automatic hand sanitizer machines at the entrance of the building so that people do not have to touch them and those entering the building have to undergo thermal screening," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dd-news-shifts-operations-to-khelgaon-after-video-journalist-tests-positive-for-covid-19-posthumously-843294.html
29-05-2020||National||Shramik Special: No train lost on route, says Indian Railways||Amidst criticism over delays in Shramik Special trains, ferrying migrant workers, and trains being 'lost' on route, Indian Railways on Friday said only 4 out of the total 3,840 Shramik Specials run so far have taken over 72 hours to reach their destinations since they started operating on May 1. Dismissing news reports that several Shramik Special trains  have lost their routes, Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told media here that no trains lost on route, but between May  20-24, total 71 trains have diverted due to congestion in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar going routes as these two states received 90% of trains. He also said 90% of these migrant trains ran with an average speed higher than regular mail express trains. Among the destination-states for which the trains were diverted were Bihar (51), Uttar Pradesh (16), Jharkhand (2), Assam and Manipur (1 each).  Earlier railway diverted a train, which left from Vasai Road in Mahrashtra to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, to Rourkela due to route congestion than its usual route via Jhansi. From May 1 to till 28, total 3,840 Shramik Specials operated ferrying a total of 52 lakh passengers. "Railways has accommodated almost all requests received from the sending states. Now demand for special trains have come down and  request for  only  492 trains is  with railways," he said. He also said the railways ready to operate Shramik Special trains as long as migrants workers want to go home.   Earlier railways appealed to the public with pre-existing health problems, pregnant women, persons aged 65 and above and children below 10 years of age to avoid unwanted journeys. With around 30 babies have born in Shramik special trains since May 1, Yadav said in several instances soon after getting information about women experiencing labour pain, railway staff rushed to helped  them in  shifting nearest railway hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shramik-special-no-train-lost-on-route-says-indian-railways-843296.html
29-05-2020||National||US President Trump never spoke to PM Modi over India-China tensions, claims New Delhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is “not in a good mood” over tension along India-China disputed boundary, the United States President Donald Trump said after claiming to have spoken to him over phone – a conversation, which, according to New Delhi, never took place. New Delhi dismissed Trump’s claim that he had of late spoken to Modi about escalation of tension along the disputed boundary between India and China. A source in New Delhi pointed out that the Prime Minister and the US President had last spoken to each other over phone on April 4 – several weeks before the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) personnel attacked Indian Army soldiers on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh on May 5, triggering the current spell of tension along the Line of Actual Control – the de facto border between the two nations. “They have a big conflict going with India and China. Two countries with 1.4 billion people (each). Two countries with very powerful militaries,” Trump told journalists at the White House in Washington D.C. early on Friday (Indian Standard Time). “And,” the US President went on, “India is not happy, and probably China is not happy. But I can tell you, I did speak to Prime Minister Modi. He's not -- he's not in a good mood about what's going on with China.” Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/international/china-rejects-trump-s-offer-to-mediate-in-sino-india-border-standoff-says-no-need-for-third-party-intervention-843186.html Trump on Wednesday posted on Twitter that the US had informed both India and China that it was “ready, willing and able” to “mediate” between the two nations or play the role of an arbitrator to resolve the border dispute they had since long been embroiled in. His offer got a cold shoulder from New Delhi, which pointed out on Thursday that India and China had “established mechanisms both at military and diplomatic levels” to peacefully resolve through bilateral dialogue any “situation, which might arise in border areas between the two nations”. Neither did his offer find any taker in Beijing. “The latest dispute can be solved bilaterally by China and India. The two countries should keep alert on the US, which exploits every chance to create waves that jeopardize regional peace and order,” Wang Wenwen, a columnist, wrote in an article published in the Global Times, a newspaper run by the Communist Party of China.    The US President however reiterated his offer early on Friday. “I would do that. You know, I would do that. If they -- if they thought it would help if I were the mediator or the arbiter, I would do that. So, we’ll see,” he said, in response to a query from a journalist early on Friday. His earlier offer to mediate between India and Pakistan to resolve the issue of Kashmir was rejected by New Delhi. The US President’s claim about his talks with the Prime Minister came as a surprise to New Delhi. Sources in New Delhi that the last conversation between Modi and Trump had taken place on April 4, when they had discussed the export of the Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) drug from India to the US. New Delhi had imposed a ban on export of the HCQ, but had later relaxed it after Trump had requested Modi to allow the US to procure the drug from India to help treat the COVID-19 patients. The tension along the disputed boundary between India and China started on May 5 when the Chinese People’s Liberation Army personnel attacked Indian Army soldiers with sticks and stones in an area perceived in New Delhi to be well within the LAC’s Indian side. They also demolished on May 6 some makeshift structures built by Indian Army soldiers. The Chinese PLA followed up by building a bunker in order to restrict the access to an area where Indian Army soldiers regularly patrolled. The PLA later deployed nearly 5,000 soldiers in a large camp set up recently at Galwan Valley within the territory claimed by China – obviously to support the smaller number of troops, who transgressed the LAC in several locations and entered into the areas claimed by India. The Indian Army also rushed additional troops “in adequate numbers” in response to the deployment by the Chinese PLA. The build-ups by both sides escalated tension along the LAC and the military officials and diplomats of both sides are now holding discussions to defuse the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-president-trump-never-spoke-to-pm-modi-over-india-china-tensions-claims-new-delhi-843301.html
29-05-2020||National||Snags in Kerala's liquor app triggers corruption allegation||With technical snags in the mobile app for liquor sale in Kerala remaining unresolved for the second day, opposition Congress alleged of irregularities and demanded a vigilance probe. While the average customer turnout at liquor outlets in Kerala on normal days was around nine lakhs, only 2.25 lakh persons could get the e-token through the app for buying liquor on Thursday (May 28) and 1.3 lakh on Friday (May 29). Liquor sales resumed in Kerala after two months on Thursday. Hence lakhs of customers tried to use the app as soon as it was launched. But the app failed to manage the load. Kerala excise minister T P Ramakrishnan held a meeting with the representatives of the start-up firm that developed the app and IT experts of the state government. The company officials have assured to address the snags soon. Meanwhile, Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that an inexperienced firm was awarded the work as key official of the firm was a 'CPM fellow traveler'. He demanded a vigilance probe. There were also allegations that many bars were selling liquor without the e-tokens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/snags-in-keralas-liquor-app-triggers-corruption-allegation-843303.html
29-05-2020||National||National Conference declines to participate in delimitation exercise in J&K||Regional National Conference (NC) has declined to be part of the Delimitation Commission set up by the Central government to redraw parliamentary and assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir. Lok Sabha Speaker, Om Birla had on Thursday (May 28) nominated three NC MPs, Farooq Abdullah, Justice (retd.) Hasnain Masoodi and Mohammad Akbar Lone as associate members of the Commission. “The @JKNC_ will not participate in the delimitation exercise. Detailed statement to follow soon,” NC chief spokesperson Aga Ruhullah Medhi tweeted. The government had on March 6 constituted the Commission, to be headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai, to redraw Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir and the northeastern states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Nagaland. A senior NC leader told DH that if the NC would participate in the exercise, it will amount to acceptance of the constitutional changes brought in through J&K Reorganisation Act-2019, which it is currently contesting in the Supreme Court. Section 60 of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act states the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of J&K shall be increased from 107 to 114. Out of these, 24 seats are reserved for Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.  The erstwhile state of J&K had 87 seats in the assembly and six in Parliament, which got reduced to 83 and five, respectively, after it was bifurcated to make Ladakh a separate UT. So effectively, the seats will go up from 83 to 90 for J&K. People and politicians in Kashmir view the exercise as a move to tilt the balance of power towards Jammu, by increasing the assembly seats in Jammu. However, in Jammu, it is being regarded as a move correcting Kashmir’s historical ‘dominance’ over Jammu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-conference-declines-to-participate-in-delimitation-exercise-in-jk-843306.html
29-05-2020||National||Tamil Nadu COVID-19 tally crosses 20,000-mark; Chennai registers record-high cases||Tamil Nadu on Friday registered its highest single-day increase with the swab samples of 874 people, including 141 who returned from other states, rendering positive, even as the state crossed the 20,000 mark in the number of COVID-19 patients. Chennai, the state capital that is grappling with an increasing number of cases, also registered its highest single-day increase with 618 people testing positive.  With Friday’s increase, the total tally in Tamil Nadu has gone up to 20,246 with 154 deaths – 9 of which were reported on Friday taking the death toll to 154. 113 of those died are from Chennai, which now has 13,362 cases, including 6,895 discharges. In the only consolation at a time the state is reporting an increased number in the positive cases, the number of discharges continued to grow with over 618 leaving hospitals after treatment on Friday alone. The number of discharges is 11,313, while the number of active cases as on Friday is 8,776.  The daily bulletin released by the health department said all nine deaths were due to co-morbidities in the patients. The state has been reporting an exponential increase in the number of cases since the beginning of May. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the recovery after successful treatment for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu stood at 54.4%, while the death rate was minimal. He appealed to the public to co-operate with the government in the battle against coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-covid-19-tally-crosses-20000-mark-chennai-registers-record-high-cases-843310.html
29-05-2020||National||ED attaches Rs 385 crore assets of Agusta middleman Rajiv Saxena||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday said it has attached assets, including five Swiss bank accounts, worth Rs 385.44 crore of Rajiv Saxena, a middleman in the AgustaWestland VVIP choppers money laundering case. It said the value of the properties attached is USD 50.90 million (Rs 385.44 crore) and a provisional order under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has been issued. The attachment pertains to two PMLA cases being probed by the central agency, the Rs 3,600 crore VVIP choppers case and the Moser Baer bank fraud case in which the prominent accused are the promoters of the latter firm, businessman Ratul Puri and his father Deepak Puri. Ratul Puri is the nephew of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath and is also an accused in the VVIP choppers case. "The attached assets include a villa in Palm Jumeirah, Dubai, worth 20 million AED and balances in five Swiss bank accounts amounting to USD 45.55 million," the agency said in a statement. Saxena was deported by India from the UAE in January last year and was arrested by the ED. He is out on bail at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-rs-385-crore-assets-of-agusta-middleman-rajiv-saxena-843313.html
29-05-2020||National||IIT-M researchers help increase population of Irrawaddy dolphins||The famous Chilika Lake, the largest brackish water body of Asia and the first Ramsar site of India, is now home to 160 Irrawaddy dolphins, considered a rare species, from just 20 in 2000 when researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) were asked to restore the waterbody. The researchers conducted geotechnical, hydraulic, and satellite imagery studies and developed a dredging methodology with minimum impact on the lake ecosystem that has led to an exponential increase in the population of the Irrawaddy dolphins and a seven-fold increase of fish catch people living in villages near the lake. The project was taken up in 2000 and it took 20 years for the population of the Irrawaddy dolphins, which are found in coastal areas in South and Southeast Asia, to increase substantially. The lake successfully was restored and removed from the threatened list (Montreux record) 1st from Asia, while the Chilika Development Authority also received the Ramsar Wetland Conservation Award and Evian special prize 2002 for outstanding achievement. “The project lasted for 20 years and the dolphin needs brackish water and the salinity had to be restored along with sufficient fish for the dolphins. We did a lot of research and took measures to increase the population of Irrawaddy dolphins. Our efforts have now borne fruit and the population of the dolphins is 160 now,” Prof.  R. Sundaravadivelu, Institute Chair Professor, Department of Ocean Engineering, IIT-M, told DH. Prof. Sundaravadivelu, who spearheaded the project, also said they were surprised with such a massive increase in the population of the Irrawaddy dolphins. “We are in the process of conducting more studies and have been doing necessary interventions in the last 20 years,” he added. Spread over Puri, Khurda, and Ganjam districts of Odisha, the Chilika Lagoon is over 4,000 years old and the highly productive ecosystem of the lake supports the livelihood for fishermen and also acts as drainage for Mahanadi river basin. The lake was in a degraded condition and included in the threatened list (Montreux Record) by Ramsar Convention in 1993. This warranted urgent action for the restoration of the lake. The hydrodynamic regime of the lagoon was affected due to the shifting of the mouth towards the northeast and subsequent reduction of seawater into the lake. Consequently, the ecology, biodiversity, and economy of the area were also affected. The present study deals with the intervention carried out in October 2000 to open the mouth 18 km south of the shifted mouth. “The Chilika Lake was restored with a cost of Rs.10 crores by opening the mouth and other related works in six months’ time which has resulted in fish catch worth Rs.100 crore and revenue of Rs. 35 crore due to Tourism every year.” Prof Sundaravadivelu added. IIT Madras developed the dredging methodology identifying the location of dredging along with disposal and selection of suitable dredger with minimum impact on the ecosystem. Based on the outcome of this successful hydrological intervention by IIT Madras undertaken under the aegis of the Chilika Development Authority (CDA), the flood inundation and freshwater weeds are reduced. The hydrological intervention restored the lake ecosystem and ameliorated the biodiversity, the IIT-M said in a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-m-researchers-help-increase-population-of-irrawaddy-dolphins-843316.html
29-05-2020||National||No sign of community spread of COVID-19 in Kerala: CM Pinarayi||Two cabin crew of Air India were among the 62 fresh COVID-19 positive cases reported in Kerala on Friday (May 29), while one person who came down from UAE died. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that so far there are no signs of community spread in the state as the government is taking effective steps to contain the local spread. Only one out of 71 patients tested were so far found positive in Kerala, while at the national level it was one out of 23. After the return of Keralites from abroad and other states from May first week, only ten percent got COVID-19 infection in Kerala through local contact so far.   Among the 62 tested positive on Friday, 56 were from abroad and other states. Two were prison inmates. Two Air India cabin crew tested positive were on a Vande Bharat mission flight. Their source of infection was yet to be traced. One health worker also got infected taking the total number of health workers infected to 28. One person got the infection through a local contact.   The deceased person was Joshi, 68, a native of Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta. He came down from UAE on May 11 and was under treatment at Kottayam medical college. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that he was diabetic and was also having other issues like obesity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-sign-of-community-spread-of-covid-19-in-kerala-cm-pinarayi-843317.html
29-05-2020||National||Renowned astrologer Bejan Daruwalla passes away||Popular astrologer Bejan Daruwalla died of lung infection on Friday at a private hospital in Ahmedabad. The 89-year-old astrologer had been admitted to the hospital last week and was on ventilator. The family friends said that the last rites will be performed at a crematorium. Daruwalla is survived by his two sons, Nastur and Fardun, and a daughter Nazeen. The hospital authority and his family members denied reports that he died of coronavirus. When contacted Apollo hospital's spokesperson said that “We can’t disclose any other information due to privacy the family members have requested.” He said that Daruwalla had been admitted to the hospital last week and died on Friday evening. Businessman Behram Mehta, a family friend of Daruwalla, also denied reports that he was infected with COVID-19. and said that “Just because of current situation to cremate is a safer option. His Parsi prayers have already started at the Parsi agiary (fire temple) khamasa gate." He added that "Bejan wanted a glorious funeral but due to lockdown he will not have that." Meanwhile, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani tweeted, "Saddened by the demise of renowned Astrologer Shri Bejan Daruwalla. I pray for the departed soul. My condolences. Om Shanti..." Known as a devotee of Lord Ganesha, his website, Ganeshaspeaks, was one of the most-accessed sites by people who believe in astrology. He is known to have predicted victory of Narendra Modi as a Prime Minister in 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/renowned-astrologer-bejan-daruwalla-passes-away-843322.html
29-05-2020||National||Locust swarms pose threat to aircraft during landing and takeoff phase: DGCA issues guidelines||Aviation regulator DGCA on Friday issued guidelines for stakeholders like pilots and engineers on how to deal with locust swarms, saying they pose a threat to aircraft in the critical landing and takeoff phase of a flight. India is battling the worst desert locust invasion in more than 21 years. The crop-destroying swarms first attacked Rajasthan and have now spread to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. "Generally, locusts are found at lower levels and therefore pose a threat to aircraft in the critical landing and takeoff phase of the flight. Almost all air intake ports of the aircraft will be prone to ingestion in large numbers, if the aircraft flies through a swarm (areas like engine inlet, air-conditioning pack inlet etc.)," the regulator said in its circular. Pitot and static sources can also get partially or fully blocked while flying through locust swarms, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said. "Blocked pitot and static sources lead to erroneous instrument indications, especially unreliable air speed and altimeter indications," it said. A pitot tube in airplanes is used to measure the flow speed of the wind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/locust-swarms-pose-threat-to-aircraft-during-landing-and-takeoff-phase-dgca-issues-guidelines-843323.html
29-05-2020||National||Veteran lyricist Yogesh Gaur passes away at age 77||Veteran lyricist Yogesh Gaur, who penned the famous 'Kahin Door Jab Din Dhal Jaaye' and 'Zindagi Kaisi Hai Paheli" in "Anand", passed away on Friday. He was 77. Known by his first name in film circles, Yogesh was a prominent lyricist in '70s Hindi cinema and gave some of his best songs in the middle-of-the-road films of Hrishikesh Mukherjee and Basu Chatterjee. Imbued with a sense of longing and nostalgia, his lyrics have survived the test of time by staying fresh in the memory of music lovers. Some of his evergreen hits are "Badi Sooni Sooni Hai", "Maine Kaha Phoolon Se' from Mukherjee's "Mili"; "Rajinigandha Phool Tumhare", "Kai Baar Yunhi Dekha Hai" from from "Rajinigandha" and "Na Jaane Kyon Hota Hia Yeh Zindagi Ke Saath" and the quirky "Jaaneman Jaaneman Tere Do Nayan" from "Ek Chhoti Si Baat". Veteran playback singer Lata Mangeshkar expressed her grief over the death of Gaur. “I just got to know about the death of Yogesh Ji and I am deeply saddened. He wrote so many heart-warming songs. I have sung many songs written by him. He was a very calm and composed man. I pay my respects to him,” Mangeshkar wrote on Twitter. Writer-lyricist Varun Grover said, “Alvida Yogesh saab. Writer of so many gems (‘Kahin Door Jab’, ‘Rimjim Gire Saawan’, ‘Zindagi Kaisi Hai Paheli’ et al) he always managed to find the sweet spot between simplicity and depth.” Gaur was born in Lucknow and later he moved to Mumbai in search of work at the age of 16 through the help of a relative. His breakout film was Hrishikesh Mukherjee's "Anand". His discography also includes songs such as 'Rimjhim Gire Saawan’ from “Manzil”, 'Badi Suni Suni Hai' from “Mili”, 'Na Bole Tum Na Maine Kuch Kaha' from “Baton Baton Mein”, among many others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/veteran-lyricist-yogesh-gaur-passes-away-at-age-77-843331.html
29-05-2020||National||Attempts to erase predecessor's imprint and confrontation with judiciary mark Jagan's first year at AP's helm||From his father YS Rajasekhara Reddy’s untimely death in a chopper crash in September 2009, it took almost a decade for Yeduguri Sandinti Jaganmohan Reddy to be seated in the chief minister chair in Andhra Pradesh. The journey was testing for the now 47-year-old. His ambitions cold-shouldered by the Congress party, Jagan, as he is popular, formed the YSR Congress Party in 2011. In the 2014 elections, he missed power narrowly when he took on the TDP-BJP combine supported by Pawan Kalyan’s Jana-Sena. In a resolute rebid, Jagan went on a 3648 KMs padayatra covering nooks and crannies of the state, breaking all such on-foot electoral feat records. In the 2019 polls, he was rewarded with an astounding 151 MLAs in a state assembly of 175 members. YSRCP also took 22 out of AP’s 25 Lok Sabha seats. Wiping the predecessor’s stamp … Since achieving his desire and taking oath on 30 May 2019, Reddy has been obsessively, some analysts say vindictively, engaged in undoing the five-year administration of his predecessor – Chandrababu Naidu. What began with the demolition of Rs nine crore convention centre, Praja-vedika built by Chandrababu Naidu culminated in the dismantling of the ex-CM’s dream capital Amaravati estimated to be built at a cost of over Rs one lakh crore. Though a legislative hurdle and COVID-19 pandemic has put brakes on the shifting of the executive capital to Visakhapatnam and the judiciary to Kurnool, YSRCP leaders state the much controversial three capitals structure as imminent.   In the last one year, Jagan also reversed Naidu’s several major infrastructure plans. In what he called “reverse tendering,” Jagan replaced the firm chosen by the Naidu government to execute the Polavaram multipurpose national project on river Godavari. In the process, Jagan claimed to have saved over Rs 800 crore. His decision to review the power purchase agreements made with the private renewable energy firms even rattled the central government. On the ground level, Jagan downed the shutters of “Anna Canteens”, the food kiosks opened by Naidu providing meals to the poor at Rs five. Thus, Jagan did almost everything to erase Naidu’s imprint from Andhra Pradesh version 2.0. Reduced to 23 MLAs (three of them switched loyalties) in the assembly, Naidu now appears hapless. However, in the party’s general convention Mahanadu held this week, Naidu accused Jagan of wrecking the state administratively, economically, while scaring away investors. He also faulted Jagan as mismanaging the COVID-19 pandemic. Confrontations with judiciary Jagan’s one-year rule is also marked by disagreements with the judiciary - the Andhra Pradesh high court. A series of HC’s observations, directions and judgments like on the capital shift moves, English medium education in government schools, CBI probe into his uncle YS Vivekananda’s death, YSRCP party colors on government offices went against Jagan’s intentions. This week, the High Court gave notices to over 90 YSRCP supporters, including a Lok Sabha MP, for allegedly making adverse comments about various orders. On Friday (May 29, the court also annulled the appointment of a new state election commissioner in place of Nimmagadda Suresh. After Nimmagadda postponed the local body polls in March because of COVID-19, Jagan accused him as partisan and removed him through an ordinance. Populist Plan of Action to retain power in 2024 Despite the opposition onslaught and legal setbacks, Jagan is steadfast in catering to his core voter base, delivering a series of welfare schemes. Even as he talks about the state coffers as drying up, Jagan has launched several big-budget populist schemes like YSR Rythu Bharosa providing farm incentives, full reimbursement of education course fees for the poor students, 'Amma-vodi' providing Rs 15,000 per year to poor sections mothers sending kids to schools, hiked social welfare pensions, YSR health scheme and so on. The chief minister claimed Rs 40, 139 crore was spent in the last twelve months benefitting 3,57,51,612 people of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attempts-to-erase-predecessors-imprint-and-confrontation-with-judiciary-mark-jagans-first-year-at-aps-helm-843335.html
29-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Karnataka, Bihar have higher than average infection spread rate, says new prediction model||Karnataka and Bihar are the two Indian states that have experienced an exponential growth in COVID-19 infected patients in the last two weeks, according to an Indian disease prediction model. Both states report an R (reproduction number) value of 1.62 in the May 16-24 period, which is way above the national average (1.23) and higher than states like Maharashtra (1.27), Gujarat (1.26) and Tamil Nadu (1.56) with high case load. R is the number of persons, one infected person can spread the infection. An R value of 1.9 means that 10 infected persons will on average cause 19 new infections.   India initially had an R of 1.8, which has now come down to 1.23, as per the model. Developed by Sitabhra Sinha, a scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai  the statistical model has captured the number of active cases till lockdown 3.0 accurately but overestimated the numbers a bit for the lockdown 4.0 period. In the latest run of the model, Sinha estimated that India would be having around 100,000 active cases by May 30. In reality,  there are more than 90,000 active cases currently. Karnataka and Bihar exhibited increased growth rate in the previous run of the model on May 20. A third state, Odisha, too was also in the same bracket at that time. "Both the states are showing a much higher exponential growth rate than earlier, because the last week has seen many active cases emerging at a rate much higher than expected from the earlier growth rate," Sinha gold DH. "Given that usually it takes about 10 days to two weeks for any change in ground conditions to be reflected in the active case numbers, the causative factors (contributing such a growth) happened between April 24-28 for Bihar and between May 2-5 for Karnataka," he said.  Meanwhile, a second Indian disease prediction model questions the NITI Ayog's claim of averting 37,000 to 210,000 fatalities during the lockdown. "We estimate that approximately 8000 to 32,000 fatalities have been averted, till May 15, compared to a “do nothing” scenario," a team of nine scientists who developed the dynamic  INDSCI-SIM model said in a statement. The researchers are from five institutes including IMSc and Indian Institute of Sciences, Bengaluru. In a set of presentations last week, NITI Ayog presented four sets of figures on the number of lives saved due to the lockdown, but didn't disclose the methods adopted to arrive at such figures. The estimates were made by different agencies like the Boston Consulting Group, Public Health Foundation of India, Indian Statistical Institute and two sets of independent experts. "Our estimates are more conservative, but explicitly documented. Our analysis estimates that a large number of infected cases  remains undetected. We urge that the governmental agencies should provide details of their analysis while making projections or estimates related to the epidemic spread," the INDSCI-SIM team said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-karnataka-bihar-have-higher-than-average-infection-spread-rate-says-new-prediction-model-843340.html
29-05-2020||National||Ban on travellers from Maharashtra needed to check COVID-19 cases in Goa||With travellers from Maharashtra accounting for nearly 90 -percent of Goa's COVID-19 cases, Ports Minister Michael Lobo has called for a 15-day ban on the entry of persons from Maharashtra into Goa in order to prevent transmission of coronavirus cases from across the inter-state border. Lobo also said, that it was best to take the extreme precaution, because the best of experts were still unsure about how the COVID-19 virus would react during the monsoon, with health professionals fearing a spike in cases during the oncoming rainy season. "Entry of people from Maharashtra into Goa should be banned by road, by rail, and through air travel. If you want to stop more COVID-19 patients coming into Goa we have to ban their entry. This is the only solution because there is the transmission of COVID-19 virus in Maharashtra in a big way," he further said. "I am demanding from my CM in writing, to impose this ban for at least 15 days. I do not mean to be discriminatory against Maharashtra, but to keep Goa secure and safe we must take the step," the Ports Minister said.    The Goa government was also mulling a separate SOP for passengers coming in specifically from Maharashtra, but in light of a subsequent decision to make administering of a COVID-19 test mandatory on arrival, the plan for a separate SOP was scrapped.  Speaking to reporters in Panaji on Friday (May 29) Sawant was asked if Goa, like Karnataka, would impose a ban on entry of persons from COVID-19 hotspots like Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, etc, to which he said: "We are testing everyone coming into Goa, so there is no need to ban anyone. When we are testing 100-percent at the state borders, I do not think something specific like this is needed".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ban-on-travellers-from-maharashtra-needed-to-check-covid-19-cases-in-goa-843341.html
29-05-2020||National||India is pharmacy of world, will remain so: Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey||During the time of the COVID-19 pandemic, India has provided medicines such as hydroxychloroquine to various countries as India wants to help the world, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey said on Friday. "India is the pharmacy of the world and will remain the pharmacy of the world," Choubey said while addressing the inaugural session of webinar on 'The Future of Healthcare, Pharma and Allied Industries' organised by CorpGini. Encouraging innovations in Pharma, he said "we should focus on brain gain and avoid brain drain", so that India can strengthen its dominance in pharmaceutical and wellness sectors and serve humanity. Highlighting efforts made by the government to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, Choubey said that currently, India has 641 test labs across the country. Testing machines and personal protective equipment (PPE) are being made in India. PM Narendra Modi had set a target for conducting one lakh tests a day before May 31, that figure has already been surpassed as 1,22,000 tests are being conducted per day.  p>In similar vein, Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance (IPA) Secretary-General Sudarshan Jain said, "COVID-19 is a great opportunity; any adversity has to be transformed into an opportunity. There is outstanding work that is being done in India". India controls 60 per cent of the vaccine market globally. The time-frame for vaccine development in India has been reduced from 10 years to 1 year, he added.  India is a great destination for doing bio-equivalence clinical trials. There is cost-effectiveness, precision and knowledge in India. I think the first COVID-19 vaccine will come from India. By September or December, we will have a solution to this pandemic," Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India Chairman Dinesh Dua said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-pharmacy-of-world-will-remain-so-minister-of-state-for-health-and-family-welfare-ashwini-kumar-choubey-843355.html
29-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Indian Railways to provide TTEs with magnifying glass to check ticket from distance||With Indian Railways set to operate 100 special trains from June 1, the national transporter has decided to give magnifying glass to TTEs to enable them to check tickets from a distance without physical contact. As per the guidelines issued by the national transporter to prevent spreading of COVID-19, Travelling Ticket Examiner (TTE) will be provided with magnifying glass if possible to verify tickets and identity cards of passengers from distance without touching them.  The guidelines also said that the TTEs need not to wear coat and tie, instead he has to wear his name and designation badge for easy identification.  The TTEs should be provided with protective equipment. Besides mask, face shields, gloves, sanitisers should be made available to staff sufficiently, said the guidelines issued to zonal railways. However 15 Special Rajdhani trains and Shramik Special trains will also continue to operated by the railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-railways-to-provide-ttes-with-magnifying-glass-to-check-ticket-from-distance-843357.html
29-05-2020||National||More than 1.65 lakh people travelled in 2,198 flights since resumption of services||More than 1.65 lakh people have travelled in 2,198 flights till Friday afternoon after the government allowed partial resumption of domestic services from Monday amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, who has been sharing daily updates on the numbers of flights and flyers, said, "Our airports continue to function smoothly." So far, 16 asymptomatic passengers on seven different flights have tested positive for the novel coronavirus after landing in their respective destinations. Private carriers have operated a total of 2,198 flights till 5 pm on Friday -- 428 on Monday, 445 on Tuesday, 460 on Wednesday, 494 on Thursday and 371 on Friday. During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said. Domestic flight operations resumed in the country on Monday after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus lockdown. International passenger flights continue to remain suspended. "Day 5, May 29, 2020 till 1700 hours. Departures 371. 30,814 passengers handled. Arrivals 324. 27,212 passengers handled," Puri tweeted. In another tweet, he said, "Figures for domestic flights for 28th May 2020 till 2359 hours: Day 4, Departures 494, 38,078 passengers handled, Arrivals 493, 38,389 passengers handled." On Wednesday, 460 planes flew 34,336 passengers. On Tuesday, the minister tweeted, "Our skies & airports are busy again. On 26th May, the 2nd day of recommencement of domestic passenger flights in India, our airports handled 62,641 flyers on 445 departures & 447 arrivals. All airport functioning was smooth. Only 6 departures were rescheduled." An official said Tuesday's figure of flyers was cumulative of departures and arrivals and that the actual number would be around half of it. On Monday, a total of 428 domestic flights carrying 30,550 passengers operated. In February, when the lockdown was not imposed, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data. Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases. While domestic services resumed in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, they restarted in West Bengal on Thursday. Though domestic flight operations across the country began on May 25, they could not be restarted in Kolkata and Bagdogra as the West Bengal machinery was involved in relief and restoration work after cyclone Amphan's devastation. A total of 16 asymptomatic passengers on seven different flights, including 13 who travelled by IndiGo, have tested positive for COVID-19 since the resumption of domestic air services. Two of the rest three asymptomatic passengers who tested positive for the infection had travelled by Spicejet while one took a flight of Air India subsidiary Alliance Air.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-165-lakh-people-travelled-in-2198-flights-since-resumption-of-services-843364.html
29-05-2020||National||With 128 new cases, J&K’s COVID-19 tally touches 2,164||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 128 new COVID-19 cases on Friday taking the overall tally in the Union Territory to 2164. Among the new cases, 94 are travelers returning from outside J&K. This was the third consecutive day when the UT reported more than a hundred positive cases. J&K recorded 162 and 115 positive cases on Wednesday and Thursday respectively. The number of casualties due to the coronavirus rose to 28 in the region after a 70-year-old man from south Kashmir’s Shopian district tested positive a day after his death. Health officials said the septuagenarian was admitted on May 27 as “pneumonia patient with underlying hypertension and diabetes mellitus.” He died at SMHS hospital last evening, he said. “Today his sample report showed positive for SARS COV-2,” said nodal officer, COVID-19, Dr. Salim Khan. Of all COVID fatalities in the UT, 25 are from Kashmir division and three are from Jammu. Officials said that of the new 128 positive cases, 92 were reported in Kashmir while 36 were in Jammu. Of the 10 districts of Kashmir division, fresh cases were reported in Anantnag, Kulgam, Srinagar, Kupwara, Baramulla, Shopian, and Pulwama districts, taking the total tally in the division to 1728.  The highest jump was in Srinagar with 27 new cases, all travelers, while Kulgam recorded 19 new cases including 18 travelers followed by Kupwara with 18 cases, including six travelers. In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur, Samba, Poonch, and Rajouri districts, taking the division tally to 436.  For the past one week, J&K has been witnessing a spike in COVID-19 cases. The UT recorded the highest single-day spike of 162 new cases on Wednesday (May 27) with two deaths due to the respiratory disease. J&K crossed the 1,000 mark on May 15 and it took just 13 days to add 1,000 cases to the total. While the first case was reported on March 9, the first 1,000 patients took 80 days to accumulate. J&K government says the rise in cases is due to intensive testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-128-new-cases-jk-s-covid-19-tally-touches-2164-843367.html
29-05-2020||National||Union tourism minister Prahlad Patel meets online travel agents, discusses post coronavirus lockdown protocols||Union Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel on Friday met a delegation of leading online travel agents (OTAs) of the country to discuss calibrated opening of hotels and accommodation units and issuing post-lockdown protocols for travel-related activities. He shared the plan of the ministry for rebooting the travel sector starting with domestic tourism and also noted the inputs and ideas put forward by the online travel agents, according to an official statement. "The delegation further discussed matters relating to partnership with the Ministry of Tourism on ways to leverage the Incredible India digital platform to provide better access to various tourist services. "The other areas of cooperation included creating an e-market place for tourist guides and reform in tax collected at source (TCS) and tax deducted at source (TDS) for the OTA sector," it stated.  The delegation also requested Tourism Minister Patel to liberalise the ministry's OTA 2018 guidelines by making it simple and "based on principle of self-certification" powered with industry-driven quality assurance and grievance redressal system. Those present in the meeting included senior officials from the ministry and the online travel agents were represented by Ritesh Agarwal from OYO, Deep Kalra from Make My Trip, Dhhruv Shingri from Yatra.com and Rikant Pittie from EaseMyTrip.com  OTAs are online companies who through their websites enable people to book various travel related services. They are third party agents reselling trips, hotels, cars, flights, vacation packages and other provided or organised by others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-tourism-minister-prahlad-patel-meets-online-travel-agents-discusses-post-coronavirus-lockdown-protocols-843368.html
29-05-2020||National||India now ranks ninth among nations with the highest COVID-19 cases||India reported its biggest spike in COVID-19 as it added 7,466 new patients on Friday taking the total cases to 1,65,799 putting it in the ninth spot among nations worst hit by the infectious disease. The death toll due to COVID-19 also rose by 175 in a single day taking the total fatalities to 4,706, surpassing China which has reported 4,638 deaths due to the disease. The number of active COVID-19 patients stood at 89,987, while 71,106 – or 42.88% of the total confirmed cases – had recovered and discharged from hospitals. A separate DH COVID-19 Tracker put the total confirmed cases at 1,72,144 and the deaths at 4,949 at 8:30 p.m. on Friday. The total cases in India are now more than double that of China (84,106), where the COVID-19 outbreak was first reported. Maharashtra continued to be the worst-hit state in the country with 62,228 confirmed cases, with a single day increase of 2,598. Delhi and Tamil Nadu also registered sharp spikes of 1,024 and 827 cases respectively. Tamil Nadu now ranks second in the country with 19,372 cases followed by Delhi (16,281) and Gujarat (15,562). Of the 175 deaths reported till Friday morning, 85 were in Maharashtra, followed by Gujarat (22), Uttar Pradesh (15), Delhi (13), Tamil Nadu (12), Madhya Pradesh (8), Rajasthan (7), West Bengal (6), Telangana (4) and one each in J&K, Andhra Pradesh and Haryana. The US, at over 17 lakh, has the maximum number of COVID-19 cases followed by Brazil, Russia, Spain, UK, Italy, France, Germany and India. Turkey is now ranked 10th, China at 15th place and below Iran, Peru, Canada and Chile. The Health Ministry has stepped up efforts to convey the message of good hygiene by releasing a rap video to discourage people from spitting in public places. India is currently in the fourth phase of lockdown which is scheduled to end on May 31. The Health Ministry said that cases increased sharply after the lockdown was extended on May 17 with significant relaxations of travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-now-ranks-ninth-among-nations-with-the-highest-covid-19-cases-843370.html
29-05-2020||National||Locust invasions till July, may spare South India: Food and Agriculture Organisation||The Food and Agriculture Organisation has warned of successive locust invasions until July in Rajasthan with eastward surges as far as Bihar and Odisha. However, the FAO has said that the swarms were less likely to reach south India, Nepal and Bangladesh. According to the FAO Bulletin, adult locusts were forming groups and small swarms in spring breeding areas in Pakistan and Iran. These infestations will move to the summer breeding areas along the India-Pakistan border from the Cholistan to Tharpakar. The locust swarms would begin their westward movements and return to Rajasthan on the changing winds associated with the monsoon. The Home Ministry has now allowed expenditure from the State Disaster Relief Fund for locust control operations. Civil Aviation regulator DGCA has warned airlines that the locust swarms pose a serious threat to flights while landing and take-offs. “As far as possible, it is strongly advised that flights should be avoided through any known Locust swarm. The only favourable aspect is that locusts do not fly at night, thus providing a better opportunity to sight and avoid them” the DGCA said asking pilots to share information about swarms observed during the course of the flight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/locust-invasions-till-july-may-spare-south-india-food-and-agriculture-organisation-843371.html
29-05-2020||National||AP high court orders reinstatement of election commissioner, removed unceremoniously by Jagan||In a major setback for the Jaganmohan Reddy government, the Andhra Pradesh high court on Friday annulled an ordinance that removed Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar from the post of the state election commissioner. The court has ordered Nimmagadda’s reinstatement with immediate effect, while cancelling the appointment of Justice V Kanagaraj, a retired judge of the Madras High Court, in his place. Nimmagadda was removed from the office that conducts the local body elections after he postponed the panchayat and municipal polls in the state scheduled in March second half by six weeks, in the wake of the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. While announcing the SEC decision on March 15, Nimmagadda also directed the shifting of few police officers from their duties for their complacency in acting on the election-related intimidation and violence in some places.   Following the SEC announcement, Chief Minister Reddy had accused Nimmagadda of being partisan, while attributing caste. Reddy even took the matter to Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan, accusing the SEC of taking the election deferment decision unilaterally without consulting the government on the COVID-19 situation and its management. The Supreme Court upheld the election postponement in response to the state’s petition. Thereby on 10 April, the Reddy government brought in an ordinance making changes to the AP Panchayati Raj Act, 1994, curtailing the SEC tenure from five to three years. Thus, Nimmagadda, appointed in 2016 during the previous TDP tenure and had time till next year had to step down. Nimmagadda petitioned in the high court challenging the ordinance and his removal. Soon after the HC order, Nimmagadda said that he resumed charge as SEC. “I will discharge my duties fairly and impartially as I did in the past and as mandated. In consultation with the principal stakeholders and all the political parties, I wish to resume the electoral process to the local bodies at the earliest on the return of normalcy,” Nimmagadda said in communication he reportedly sent out. The reinstated SEC further observed that “individuals are not permanent” but constitutional institutions and the values they represent are. The HC’s restoration judgment is seen as another judicial embarrassment for Reddy just a day ahead of his one-year anniversary as the Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ap-high-court-orders-reinstatement-of-election-commissioner-removed-unceremoniously-by-jagan-843374.html
29-05-2020||National||IIT alumnus to launch special online classes for children with dyslexia during COVID-19 lockdown||An alumnus of Indian Institute of Technology-Madras has decided to start a specialised online class for children with dyslexia to make up for their academic loss during COVID-19 lockdown. D Chandrasekhar, a metallurgy and material engineering graduate, founded Madras Dyslexia Association to help the children. However, he felt the progress the students made will go waste with the suspension of classroom teaching due to lockdown. "We are launching a new initiative to help children with learning disabilities. We will leverage the ubiquitous internet and computer to have engaging live online sessions that teach students with dyslexia in unique ways. These sessions aim to build ground-up - from pre-skills to essential skills to read, write (English and Tamil) and study effectively and is intended for children enrolled in classes 2-7," Chandrashekhar said. "The language skills programs (both English and Tamil) approach the subject holistically-going from sounds of letters, reading words as whole words or using techniques like syllabication, meaningful reading of phrases and sentences, building vocabulary, going onto comprehension, analysis and finally making inferences,” he added. The association has also come up with an "Avaz Reader" paving way to become an engaged independent reader. "Catching-up with school's academic needs and bridging academic gaps if any, would build the child's self-esteem and also enhance his/her interest in academic activities. The threat posed to a child can be turned into an opportunity to learn smart. "The skill of writing builds up from building ability to write grammatically and semantically correct sentences to ideating and writing coherent paragraphs. The ‘Study Smart’ program, develops essential skills such as categorization, organization visualization and verbalization and then develop and use of graphical organisers to learn a specific content, retain it and express it in written form,” he added. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Later, a 21-day nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day. It has now been extended till May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-alumnus-to-launch-special-online-classes-for-children-with-dyslexia-during-covid-19-lockdown-843380.html
29-05-2020||National||Goa Lokayukta quotes Mahabharata characters to question government's resolve to crack down on corruption||Goa Lokayukta P.K. Mishra in a letter to Governor Satya Pal Malik, has used mythological characters from the Mahabharata as a metaphor, to question the BJP-led government's resolve to act on the authority's order given in January this year, indicting former Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar and two top officials, for alleged irregularities in the renewal of more than 50 mining leases in 2015. The letter, written weeks after the Goa Governor declined permission to prosecute Parsekar and the two officials for the alleged irregularities, also asks whether posterity would question the amount of public money being spent on establishing anti-corruption bodies like the Lokayukta if the government routinely rejects its reports without paying heed to them. The Goa Lokayukta's letter to the Governor, copy of which is available with DHNS, also offers examples from the Mahabharata involving Shakuni and King Dhritarashtra, while explaining the conduct of the government vis a vis its reluctance to act against alleged acts of corruption. "The posterity may rightly question as to why public exchequer should be depleted by establishing Lokayukta or Human Rights Commission if their reports are to be routinely rejected without bestowing the attention their reports deserve," Mishra says in his letter to the Goa Governor. "Only a Dhritarashtra and or Gandhari would be unable to perceive anything sinister in what happened on January 12, 2015 and it seemsthere is no death of Dhritarashtra or Gandhari these days in Mera Bharat Mahan," the letter also states.   "For that matter, it also seems there is no dearth of Shakuni in rendering 'appropriate' advice. 'Putra Moha' seems to have been substituted by 'party moha' or other kinds of 'moha' in the system of public administration and shouting from the rooftops regarding eradication of corruption, while only paying lip service when the question actual eradication crops up," it further states. In its order in January this year, the Goa Lokayukta had said, that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) should probe corruption in the second renewal lot of mining leases, while also slamming the state government’s Anti-Corruption Bureau for shielding influential persons linked to the irregularities. In its order, Goa Lokayukta had also questioned the speed with which a BJP-led coalition government led by then Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar cleared as many as 56 mining lease renewals in a week, including granting of 31 clearances during one day, incidentally just before the Central government amended the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, which mandated that mining leases could only be auctioned afresh and not renewed in favour of existing leaseholders.   Parsekar had subsequently defended the renewals, saying the same had been carried out on the advice of the state advocate general and had rejected any possibility of corruption. The January order had followed a complaint filed by Goa-based green NGO Goa Foundation, which had alleged that illegal renewal of the mining leases in the State of Goa, had led to losses to the state government of Rs. 1,44,000 crore". Earlier this month, however, the Goa Governor had written to the Lokayukta declining permission to prosecute Parsekar and others who had been indicted in the anti-corruption ombudsman's report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-lokayukta-quotes-mahabharata-characters-to-question-governments-resolve-to-crack-down-on-corruption-843382.html
29-05-2020||National||India can access carbon credits worth USD 50-60 bn if propagates agroecology: Niti Aayog||Suggesting adoption of innovative farming methods based on ecological principles, Niti Aayog vice chairman Rajiv Kumar on Friday said India can have access to carbon credits worth USD 50-60 billion if it propagates natural farming and agroecology. Kumar during a virtual high-level round-table on 'Agroecology and Regenerative Agriculture' also stressed on the need to make agriculture more knowledge intensive.  He said there is a need to ensure that natural farming is scalable and absorbs innovations. "We can also access green bonds market worth USD 1 trillion," Kumar said, adding that India will have to practice agroecology as an innovative process and broaden the metrix for measuring results. "India can have access to USD 50-60 billion worth of carbon credits if it propagates natural farming and agroecology," the Niti Aayog vice chairman said. "Can't carry on with past practices because that is like driving a car in a dead end street. Need to change direction for saving the environment and improve farmers welfare," he said.          In India, there has been a long history of farming that is based on traditional and environment-friendly practices. The state of Sikkim became the first-ever organic state in the world and was awarded the UN Future Policy Gold Award, 2018. Agricultural production accounts for 40 per cent of global land surface and is responsible for 70 per cent of projected losses in terrestrial biodiversity. Moreover, agricultural activities are one of the main contributors to human emissions of greenhouse gases and responsible for 25 per cent of total emissions due to intensive fertiliser usage and deforestation, negatively impacting well-being of at least 3.2 billion people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-can-access-carbon-credits-worth-usd-50-60-bn-if-propagates-agroecology-niti-aayog-843395.html
29-05-2020||National||More than half of people in Hindi belt not happy with relaxation given in lockdown 4.0: Survey||Close to 60 per cent of people in Hindi speaking states have expressed their displeasure over relaxation given during the fourth phase of the coronavirus lockdown, according to a survey by video sharing platform Public.  The Indian app claims to have surveyed 2.5 lakh people on May 23 and May 24 across eight states -- Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Haryana, Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Bihar.  In response to a question on whether they are happy with the relaxation given during the lockdown, 57.29 per cent respondents replied in the negative.  Close to 66 per cent people in Chhattisgarh expressed displeasure over relaxation given during the lockdown, followed by about 63 per cent in Haryana, around 60 per cent each in Delhi and Bihar, close to 57 per cent each in Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh and about 52 per cent in Rajasthan.  Coronavirus cases in the country have crossed 1.65 lakh. India is now among the top-10 countries in terms of COVID-19 cases. Around 58 per cent respondents said coronavirus cases in India will remain below 5 lakh by June-end, while 11 per cent said it will cross the 5 lakh mark. Despite the rising number of cases, around 51 per cent of the respondents believed that India has won the fight against coronavirus, with Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh leading the poll. However, over 60 per cent respondents in Delhi and Chhattisgarh replied in negative.    Around 87 per cent of respondents in these eight states said they are not socialising, eating food outside or travelling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-half-of-people-in-hindi-belt-not-happy-with-relaxation-given-in-lockdown-40-survey-843396.html
29-05-2020||National||Army Commanders deliberate on existing security challenges at 3-day conference||The apex leadership of the Indian Army deliberated on various aspects related to existing and developing security challenges, the Army said on Friday at the end of a three-day conference of its top commanders here. Issuing a brief statement, the Army did not mention the specific issues discussed at the biannual event.  However, official sources said review of the situation in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a tense standoff was a major focus area of the discussion. The conference also extensively deliberated on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir after its special powers were withdrawn and the state was bifurcated into two union territories, they said. "Over three days, the Indian Army’s apex leadership deliberated upon various aspects related to existing and developing security challenges," the Army said. The sources said the leadership of the Indian Army decided that Indian troops will continue to maintain their aggressive posturing in all disputed areas like Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh and will not wilt under any Chinese pressure. They said India was ready for a long-haul in the sensitive areas and will press for restoration of the status quo along the Line of Actual Control, the de-facto border between the two countries. The Chinese army is learnt to have deployed around 2,500 troops in Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley besides gradually enhancing temporary infrastructure and weaponry. Official sources said satellite images have captured significant ramping up of defence infrastructure by China on its side of the de-facto border including construction activities at a military airbase around 180 km from the Pangong Tso area. India has also been bolstering its presence by sending additional troops and artillery guns, they said.  The Army said other issues discussed at the three-day conference included human resource management issues, studies pertaining to ammunition management, merger of co-located training establishments and merger of Military Training Directorate with headquarters of Army Training Command. The commanders' conference was originally scheduled to be held from April 13-18, but it was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. The biannual army commanders conference is held in April and October every year. The second phase of the conference will take place from June 24-27 and will focus on ambitious reform measures and administrative issues. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat are likely to address the conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-commanders-deliberate-on-existing-security-challenges-at-3-day-conference-843398.html
29-05-2020||National||Aarogya Setu is completely secure: Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||Amid privacy concerns, Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday maintained that Aarogya Setu was completely secure and there was no security or data breach in coronavirus tracking mobile application. Prasad said that Aarogya Setu app is a product of India's digital mind and it traces and cautions individuals against the spread of the virus. "If you come in contact with anybody who is corona positive, Aarogya Setu helps in tracing in most fair and objective manner. It is completely privacy proof. I is completely secure. All the data is encripted except the final data of the affected person which is conveyed to the district administration under no circumstances, the protoicoal which I have finalised, the data shall be retained beyond 180 days. 11.5 crore people have already downloaded the app," the law minister said. Prasad was delivering the concluding speech during the Prof. N.R. Madhava Menon Memorial Lecture Series organized by Akhil Bharatiya Adhivakta Parishad, an organisation affiliated to RSS, on 'Legal & Digital Challenges for India Post Covid'. He also echoed the views of Bar Council of India on the resumption of physical/open court hearings in all courts across India and said he favours e-filing, video-conferencing but was not completely against physical arguments in courts. "We are meeting in very challenging times. The world has changed beyond recognition. Could you believe that man was trying to go to Mars, making scientific inventions and one virus comes and derails the entire world? There is no vaccination until now and the economy has shattered globally.  "Learn e-filing and e-arguments, this is the new world, don't know for how long this will go. Post COVID-19 world is going to be completely different. I advocate e-filing, video-conferencing but I am not completely against physical arguments in courts. What Bar Council of India has said is correct and we will discuss it, keeping safety in mind," Prasad said. The law minister appreciated the leadership and efforts of prime minister Narendra Modi and said that on his call the whole country stood with him and people clapped, lighted diyas to laud the efforts of frontline warriors fighting the battle against the deadly novel coronavirus. He said that excluding China, 15 countries of the world like USA, Spain, Russia etc which are affected by COVID-19, the total population of these countries is 142 crore while the population of India is 137 crore. "The total number of deaths in 15 countries is over 3.53 lakh while in India it is 4,500 approximately – this is what lockdown has done. I would never dispute that lockdown brings inconvenience. My friends cannot wear black coats and go to district courts, enjoy tea in canteen, talk to clients, or argue in High Court of the Supreme Court. You cannot meet your friends, go to markets, children can't attend school. Lockdown was not easy at all but it was needed to save lives and this is where we have succeeded," Prasad said. He said Prime Minister Modi has led very transformative programmes like Digital India, Swachh Bharat, Ujwala Yojna etc. Digital India is designed to empower common people with technology and bring in digital inclusion by bridging the digital divide. Prasad said that 37 crore jan dhan accounts have been opened for poor which have helped them to receive financial aid. "In the last 5 years, 11 lakh crore has been transferred through 'direct benefit transfer' scheme to the poor which has saved one lakh 70 thousand crore which was pocketed by a middleman. This is Digital India in actual operation," the law minister said. He also talked about a Make-In-India video conferencing software and said it was better than ZOOM. Talking about IT industry, he said that work from home has become a new norm. with 85 per cent of the IT professionals working from home in times of pandemic outbreak. Prasad said, at present more than 16,000 courts are properly digitised and they have been given interent connection with 10 mbps speed. The law minister lauded the efforts of the Supreme Court in launching e-filing portal for lawyers and said most of the High Courts are hearing matters through video-conferencing and two lakh e-trials have taken place. "Learn e-filing and e-arguments, this is the new world, don't know for how long this will go. Post COVID-19 world is going to be completely different. I advocate e-filing, video-conferencing but I am not completely against physical arguments in courts," Prasad said. On the issue of fake news, he said, 'kuch logo ka kaam hai negativity failana'. To criticise is a right but some people try to weaken the morale of the country to create discord, divisiveness, separatism, hostility and there is a guard ourselves. Talking about Artificial Intelligence (AI), Prasad said that it is going to play a very big role in coming times. The question is how can we use AI in justice delivery. But one thing we have to keep in mind, a machine cannot take the place of human consciousness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aarogya-setu-is-completely-secure-union-law-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-843415.html
29-05-2020||National||US Defence Secretary talks to Rajnath Singh, says Pentagon||US Defence Secretary Mark Esper has talked to his Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh and reiterated his support for a “strong and enduring” bilateral defence partnership, the Pentagon said Friday. Esper and Singh, during a phone call, discussed a range of regional security issues, it said. The Secretary expressed his firm commitment to India’s leadership across the Indo-Pacific region, the Pentagon said in a statement. “Secretary Esper reiterated his support for a strong and enduring US-India defence partnership and the two leaders discussed ways to advance several important bilateral initiatives,” it said. Esper conveyed his condolences over the loss of lives in the country due to the Cyclone Amphan and the two leaders discussed ongoing the cooperation on the COVID-19 pandemic. The Secretary reiterated his desire to visit India at the earliest, mutually-agreeable opportunity, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-defence-secretary-talks-to-rajnath-singh-says-pentagon-843418.html
29-05-2020||National Politics||Govt must come clean on border standoff with China: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked the government to come clean on the border standoff with China and tell the country what exactly is happening as its silence is fuelling speculation and uncertainty. "The Government's silence about the border situation with China is fuelling massive speculation and uncertainty at a time of crisis," he said on Twitter. "The government of India must come clean and tell India exactly what's happening," Gandhi added. There was a standoff between Indian and Chinese troops at the border in Ladakh early this month. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilt over to the next day before the two sides agreed to "disengage" following a meeting at the level of local commanders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-must-come-clean-on-border-standoff-with-china-rahul-gandhi-843138.html
29-05-2020||National Politics||Narendra Modi govt's silence on China 'fuelling massive speculation and uncertainty during crisis': Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday hit out at the Modi government for its “silence” on the military standoff with China in Ladakh and demanded that it come clean on the issue. “The government’s silence about the border situation with China is fuelling massive speculation and uncertainty at a time of crisis. Government of India must come clean and tell India exactly what's happening,” the Lok Sabha member from Wayanad said. Rahul’s remarks came a day after US President Donald Trump claimed that he had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was not in a “good mood” on what was going on in China. Government sources had dismissed Trump’s claim of having talked to Modi and pointed out that the two leaders had last spoken in April over the supply of hydroxycholorquine to fight COVID-19. On Thursday, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma had voiced serious concern over the “incursion of Chinese forces in Pangong Tso lake an Galwan Valley regions. “The differing accounts in national and international media of escalation and continuing stalemate has caused anxiety among the people of India,” Sharma had said urging the government to take the nation into confidence to address the concerns of the people. Earlier, addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Rahul had reminded the government that “transparency was needed” at this critical juncture. “The government should make it clear to the people of India, what exactly is happening on the border. We are hearing different stories so I don't want to go into conjecture, but it is important that the government of India makes it clear, what is happening on the border so that people can understand and have a proper position,” the former Congress President had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modi-govts-silence-on-china-fuelling-massive-speculation-and-uncertainty-during-crisis-rahul-gandhi-843283.html
29-05-2020||National Politics||Govt reducing income of SBI depositors by reducing interest rates: Congress||The Congress on Friday accused the BJP government of reducing income of State Bank of India (SBI) depositors by bringing down interest rates and demanded that the previous rates be restored. The total combined reduction in income of 30 crore depositors in saving schemes and 44.51 crore account holders of SBI depositors is Rs 44,670 crores annually from reduction in interest rates on savings schemes, and saving and fixed deposits, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala claimed. "We demand that interest rates on all small saving schemes, fixed deposits (FD's) and saving bank deposits be restored immediately at pre March 12, 2020, level," he said in a statement. In the last two and a half months, SBI has reduced interest rates on various schemes. He claimed that the Rs 44,670 crores is 24 per cent of the actual fiscal stimulus measures -- Rs 186,650 crore -- announced by government. So, around one-fourth of whatever is announced is already taken back by the government through reduction of interest rates, Surjewala said. If we include other public sector banks this figure will increase by at least three times, he said. Surjewala said it all started with reduction in interest rates on Public Provident Fund (PPF), National Savings Certificate (NSC), Kisan Vikas Patra (KVP) and other saving instruments, followed by consistent interest rate reduction on fixed deposits and saving bank deposits by banks. Now the latest blow for the middles class, lower middle class, farmers, pensioners and women is discontinuation of 7.75 per cent RBI bonds and further reduction of interest rates by SBI, the Congress leader noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-reducing-income-of-sbi-depositors-by-reducing-interest-rates-congress-843405.html
29-05-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi condoles demise of veteran BJP leader Bhanwar Lal Sharma||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed anguish at the death of veteran BJP leader and former Rajasthan BJP unit president Bhanwar Lal Sharma on Friday. "Anguished by the passing away of Shri Bhanwar Lal Sharma Ji. His role in strengthening the party in Rajasthan was extremely valuable," Modi tweeted. Anguished by the passing away of Shri Bhanwar Lal Sharma Ji. His role in strengthening the Party in Rajasthan was extremely valuable. Simplicity and selflessness came naturally to him. Condolences to his family and well wishers. Om Shanti. He said simplicity and selflessness came naturally to Sharma. "Condolences to his family and well wishers. Om Shanti," the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-condoles-demise-of-veteran-bjp-leader-bhanwar-lal-sharma-843422.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||3 more staff of Delhi LG office test COVID-19 positive||Three more employees of the office of Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal have tested positive for COVID-19, a day after a junior assistant was found infected with the novel coronavirus. Sources said that entire staff members may undergo COVID-19 test in the next few days, since four cases of coronavirus infection have so far emerged at the LG Secretariat. "Two junior assistants and a sanitation worker tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday," a source told PTI. Delhi registered a record single-day spike of 1,024 cases on Thursday which took the COVID-19 tally in the national capital to over 16,000 while the death toll due to the disease mounted to 316, authorities said. This is the first time in Delhi that over 1,000 COVID-19 cases have been reported in a day. In a bulletin issued on Thursday, the Delhi health department said, the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 316, and the total number of cases mounted to 16,281.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-more-staff-of-delhi-lg-office-test-covid-19-positive-843035.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Riots cases: Baijal likely to clear appointment of spl public prosecutors suggested by Delhi Police||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal is likely to approve the appointment of special public prosecutors suggested by the Delhi Police for representing it in cases related to the northeast Delhi riots, sources said on Thursday. The move may set the stage for a fresh confrontation between the AAP government and the L-G office as the Delhi Cabinet on Thursday appeared to have agreed on a list of public prosecutors picked by the government. While the AAP government insisted that it has the power to appoint special public prosecutors, sources said that the lieutenant governor's opinion will prevail upon invoking Article 239AA(4) in case of difference of opinion between the two sides on the issue. Sources said that according to orders by the Delhi High Court in 2016 as well as the Supreme Court in 2018, the L-G is the competent authority to appoint special public prosecutors on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. "If there is difference of opinion between the L-G and ministers, he is, however, not bound by the said aid and advice and can invoke the proviso of Article 239AA(4) of the Constitution," one of the sources said. Both the AAP government and the L-G office did not offer any reaction on the matter. Sources said that in April, the Delhi Police had sent a list of special public prosecutors to represent it in the northeast Delhi communal riots-related cases to the AAP government. However, the Delhi government did not agree with the police's choice and the AAP dispensation sent a new list to the force on April 16, sources said. In his note on May 17, Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain had mentioned that the city government has power to appoint special public prosecutors in accordance with the orders by the high court in 2016 and the apex court in 2018, sources said. Earlier this month, two senior law officers were engaged in a tussle in the Delhi High Court over who would represent the Delhi Police in a case. Appointment of SPPs has always been a contentious issue between the Delhi government and the office of lieutenant governor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/riots-cases-baijal-likely-to-clear-appointment-of-spl-public-prosecutors-suggested-by-delhi-police-843046.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi police bids adieu to manual record keeping; to go digital from June 1||The Delhi Police has decided to abolish the manual record keeping systems and is all set to go digital from June 1, officials said. Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava along with other officers has decided to store all their records on the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS), which comes under the Ministry of Home Affairs, they said. An order has been sent to all deputy commissioners of the city police to put an end to the manual record keeping. In the meetings chaired by Shrivastava on May 7 and May 15 to review the availability of digital records on CCTNS, it has been decided to abolish the manual up-keep of ‘roznamcha’ (police diary), complaint registers, missing persons registers, PCR call registers and ‘kalandra’ (formal complaint lodged in case of non-cognisable offence) registers from June 1. “The details of police registers in digital format are available in CCTNS, therefore, only CCTNS-generated registers shall be used from June 1. All SHOs shall ensure complete data entry in all these modules of CCTNS in order to print these registers,” the order stated. The order added that the online system has automated forms for all the registers. “The personnel will only have to enter the data and save the forms,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-bids-adieu-to-manual-record-keeping-to-go-digital-from-june-1-843053.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Bihar reports 16th COVID-19 casualty; number of cases rises to 3,185||The COVID-19 death toll in Bihar rose to 16 on Thursday with the sample of a migrant worker, who died in Bhojpur district three days ago upon returning from Maharashtra, coming positive, an official said. The number of confirmed cases in the state rose to 3,185 with 149 people testing positive on Thursday. According to Bhojpur District Magistrate Raushan Kumar the deceased, aged 26 years, belonged to Barhara block. He returned from Mumbai on May 25. The migrant worker had been ill. He died at the Sadar hospital in Arrah a few hours after debording a train from Maharashtra, the district headquarters. "In accordance with the ICMR guidelines, his sample was collected before the body was cremated. The report has confirmed that he was COVID-19 positive," Kumar said. Meanwhile, COVID-19 cases continued to rise across the state at a fast rate. Begusarai district reported 19 fresh cases, all but two of them females. Eleven cases were reported from East Champaran, the youngest patient being a two-year-old boy, while 13 people tested positive in Nalanda district. Patna, the worst-affected district, saw its tally jump to 233 from 218 the previous day. Most patients were from Dhanarua block in rural Patna. Purnea, Nawada, Gaya, Bhagalpur, Vaishali and Bhojpur also reported a significant number of fresh cases. All 38 districts in Bihar are affected by the COVID-19 outbreak and a dozen of these have tallies over 100. Sheohar, with seven cases, remains the only district with a single-digit tally. Those who have tested positive in the state include a large number of medical and police personnel besides at least two IAS officers, one of them posted in Nalanda and the other a district magistrate in north Bihar. However, migrants returning to Bihar since the beginning of this month comprise more than half of the total number of COVID 19 patients. According to the state health department, since May 3 -- the day after the first Shramik Special tain reached here -- 2,168 migrant workers have tested positive till date, which is more than 80 per cent of the around 2,700 cases reported during the period. Other than Bhojpur, Patna, Vaishali and Khagaria each reported two cases, while Nalanda, Munger, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Siwan, Saran, Jehanabad, Begusarai and Rohtas reported one death each. Altogether, 1050 patients have recovered while 70,275 samples have been tested across the state so far, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-reports-16th-covid-19-casualty-number-of-cases-rises-to-3185-843091.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir govt takes pre-emptive measures to contain locust invasion||As states in western and central India struggle to contain locust invasion, Jammu and Kashmir government has issued instructions for crop protection and asked the departments concerned to take pre-emptive measures to contain the worst infestation in nearly three decades. Swarms of desert locusts have caused extensive damage to crops in eight states including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. J&K Principal Secretary, Agriculture Production Department, Navin Choudhary said directions have been passed to the officials concerned to be on high alert. “Locust menace is hyperactive currently in the neighbouring countries of Iran and Pakistan and has also entered India in the states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Our own neighbouring State, the Punjab, is on high alert,” he informed. According to an official handout, the Principal Secretary has asked the directors of Agriculture Department Kashmir and Jammu to constitute division-and district-level teams to monitor influx of locust and take immediate necessary protection measures. He has also directed the Agricultural Universities in the Union Territory to constitute dedicated teams of scientists, who will analyse the pattern of influx and guide extension workers and farmers in tackling the locust swarms. Choudhary has also directed both the directorates to stock Malathium and other chemicals generally used to kill the locust immediately. Both the directors were asked to immediately procure the chemicals in reasonable quantities and also get in touch with Hindustan Insecticides Limited, which manufactures Malathium. Locusts, which can cover up to 150 km a day, can eat more than its body weight. One square kilometre of a locust swarm, containing around four crore locusts, can eat as much food as 35,000 people in a day. Experts blame the growing menace of desert locusts on climate change. They say breeding of locusts is directly related to soil moisture and food availability. Meanwhile, representatives of J&K Fire and Emergency Services have conveyed that a maximum number of fire tenders shall be made available for spraying if the situation demands so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-takes-pre-emptive-measures-to-contain-locust-invasion-843114.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Pregnant woman, toddler die at quarantine centres in Chhattisgarh||A one-and-a-half- year-old daughter of a migrant labourer and a pregnant woman died at coronavirus quarantine centres in two districts of Chhattisgarh, officials said on Thursday. While the pregnant woman died in Gariaband district on Thursday morning, the death of the child was reported from Gaurela-Penrda-Marwahi district on Wednesday, they said. Bhagwati Yadav (27), a migrant worker, died in the quarantine centre set up by Dharnighoda village panchayat. She had returned with her parents from Telangana on May 14. She was shifted to the district hospital in Raipur for treatment but brought back to the quarantine centre on May 21, a local official said. "She was under observation but this morning she died. The body was sent for postmortem to Mainpur and the report is awaited," he said. A one-and-a-half-year-old girl died at the quarantine centre at Tikarkala village under Gaurela police station area, a local police official said. Her father had returned to Bilaspur on May 17 from Bhopal by a Shramik special train. He was shifted to a quarantine centre in Pendra from where he escaped on May 18 to his native village, he said. When residents of his village complained about it to local officials, Singh was shifted to the quarantine centre in Tikarakala with his wife and the infant daughter, the police official said. On Wednesday, after breastfeeding the child, the mother went for taking a bath leaving the child behind. When she returned, she found the child was hiccuping and having problem breathing, he said. The girl was rushed to a local Community Health Centre where doctors declared her brought dead, the official said. Her swab sample was sent for coronavirus test. "Prima facie it seems the child choked to death due to air blockage after milk entered her nose. But the exact cause of death will be known after post-mortem report comes," said Dr Abhimanyu Singh, Nodal Officer (COVID-19) of the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pregnant-woman-toddler-die-at-quarantine-centres-in-chhattisgarh-843133.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Pakistani ‘spy’ pigeon set free in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir police have set free alleged Pakistani ‘spy’ pigeon, who was captured along the International Border (IB) in Kathua district on May 25, after finding “nothing suspicious” on him. The pigeon with a “coded message” in its ring was captured by residents of Manyari village in Hiranagar sector of Kathua soon after it flew into this side from Pakistan. After his capture, a man from the neighbouring country had appealed to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the bird’s release. “We did not find anything suspicious on the pigeon which was caught by the locals; hence we set it free on Thursday,” senior superintendent police (SSP) Kathua, Shailendra Mishra, said. He said they got the pigeon medically checked by a veterinary doctor as it was frightened and also fed him during his stay. Habib Ullah, a resident of Shakker Garh in Sialkot, Pakistan, through a video message, claimed that the pigeon belonged to him and on Eid-ul-Fitr, his birds had taken a flight during which one among them had crossed the IB. He claimed that the code was actually his mobile phone number and he owned a dozen pigeons. Meanwhile, after the release of the pigeon, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah asked whether prisoner exchange took place or was it just allowed to fly? I believe the “spy pigeon” has been released. Was there prisoner exchange or was it just allowed to fly? Perhaps it’s a double agent now! “I believe the “spy pigeon” has been released. Was there prisoner exchange or was it just allowed to fly? Perhaps it’s a double agent now!” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-spy-pigeon-set-free-in-jammu-and-kashmir-843139.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Ladakh reports 20 fresh COVID-19 positive cases; Tally rises to 74||In a sudden spurt, 20 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Ladakh on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the Union Territory (UT) to 74. “17 new positive cases of COVID-19 in Kargil,” Ladakh’s Commissioner Secretary, Health Rigzin Samphel tweeted. He said three more positive cases were reported in Leh, adding that most of the new cases had travelled in the same bus from Delhi. As per the media bulletin, the total number of positive cases of COVID-19 has risen to 74 with 43 patients recovered so far. It said the total number of active cases in Ladakh is 31 including 26 in Kargil and five in Leh. On May 3, Ladakh had reported 18 COVID-19 positive cases and today’s 20 is its biggest single-day spike. Kargil district was declared COVID-19 free on May 15 after the last two patients, including a two-year-old boy, were declared cured and subsequently discharged. However, on May 23, three fresh COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Kargil.  The UT, which has a population of 2.74 lakh (2011 census), was one of the first few regions in the country to report a positive coronavirus case. The first two positive cases in the UT were reported on March 7 with both the patients having travel history to Iran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-reports-20-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-tally-rises-to-74-843143.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||2 floors of Parliament Annexe building sealed after official tests positive for COVID-19: Report||A Rajya Sabha Secretariat official tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, the fourth such case in the Parliament complex, sources said here. The director-level officer who attended work on May 28 was found positive for the infection along with his family members, they said. Two floors of the Parliament's Annexe building have been sealed, the sources added. This is the second case of an official posted in the building testing positive for the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-floors-of-parliament-annexe-building-sealed-after-official-tests-positive-for-covid-19-report-843155.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court takes suo motu cognisance of disrespect shown to bodies of COVID-19 victims||A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon termed the situation as "highly dissatisfactory and violative of the rights of the dead". The court decided to take suo moto cognizance of violations of human rights. It issued notice to the Delhi government as well as municipal corporations to pass necessary directions on Friday.  The court has taken note of news reports stating that inside the COVID-19 mortuary of Lok Nayak Hospital in Delhi, there are 108 bodies; all 80 storage racks are full and there are 28 bodies on the floor, piled on top of each other. It also considered that on May 26, eight bodies were returned from Nigam Bodh Ghat, CNG crematorium because the facility was not in a position to accept more bodies, as only two of the six furnaces were working. It was also reported that bodies of those who died five days ago, were yet to be cremated.  The court also considered that the backlog in the disposal of bodies has been caused owing to non-functioning of CNG furnaces at Nigam Bodh and Punjabi Bagh crematoriums. Further, owing to the CNG furnaces not functioning, wood-based cremation, which earlier was not deemed safe, has been permitted. In spite of the same being permitted, the personnel operating the said crematoriums were refusing to take part in wood-based cremations. Moreover, there was unrest at the Nigam Bodh Ghat and the staff and priests working there have stopped functioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-of-disrespect-shown-to-bodies-of-covid-19-victims-843163.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||84 new cases take Indore COVID-19 tally to 3,344; 4 more die||With 84 more persons found infected with coronavirus in Indore district of Madhya Pradesh, the tally went up to 3,344 on Friday, while four patients succumbed to the disease, officials said. The fresh cases in Indore, one of the worst affected districts by the pandemic in the country, were reported in the in the last 24 hours. Indore's Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia said 84 persons tested positive in the past 24 hours, taking the number of COVID-19 cases in the district to 3,344. He informed that four coronavirus patients, including an 80-year-old woman and an 84-year-old man, succumbed during treatment at different hospitals here. Following these deaths, the toll in the district has increased to 126, he said. According to officials, a 62-year-old man among them died on May 20 at a government hospital in the city.  But information about his death was given in the medical department's bulletin only on late Thursday (May 28), they said. Local NGOs have alleged "deliberate" delay by the administration in disclosing COVID-19 fatalities in the district, a charge rejected by Jadia. When asked about this, the CMHO said, "We do not want to hide anything about the COVID-19 status in the district. "Sometimes the hospital concerned informs us late about the death of COVID-19 patients. So there is a slight delay on our part as well." The epidemic outbreak in Indore district was first reported on March 24, when four persons tested positive for the viral infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/84-new-cases-take-indore-covid-19-tally-to-3344-4-more-die-843166.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Nine new COVID-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, tally at 291||Nine more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, taking the number of coronavirus cases in the state to 291, officials said. Of the fresh cases, five were reported from Hamirpur and four from Kangra, they said, adding that all of them had recently returned from other states. Four of them had returned from Maharashtra, two each from Gujarat and Delhi, and one from Rajasthan, the officials added. A 31-year-old man and his 28-year-old wife tested positive for the virus in Hamirpur, Deputy Commissioner Harikesh Meena said. The couple had recently returned from Ahmedabad and was quarantined at a college in Nadaun, the DC said. A 34-year-old man quarantined at a school in Bakarti, a 32-year-old woman quarantined at a Nadaun hotel and a 57-year-old man quarantined at a Laliyar school also tested positive, he said. Their samples were taken on May 26 and their reports arrived on Friday morning, he added. Meena said they were being shifted to district COVID care centres. Hamirpur now has 98 COVID-19 cases, over one-third of the total reported in Himachal Pradesh, a senior district official said, adding that 88 of these are active and one person has died of the disease. In Kangra, three people quarantined in Parour and one person under home quarantine in Thural have tested positive, Kangra Superintendent of Police Vimukt Ranjan said. With this, the count in Kangra district rises to 73. Fifty-two of these are active cases, 20 patients have recovered and one has died. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 208. While 77 COVID-19 patients have recovered, six have died. Hamirpur has the highest number of active cases at 88, followed by 52 in Kangra, 15 in Una, 14 in Solan, 11 in Bilaspur, nine each in Chamba and Mandi, seven in Shimla, two in Sirmaur and one in Kullu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nine-new-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-tally-at-291-843176.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Car used in Pulwama-like attack that was averted belongs to Hizbul militant: Jammu and Kashmir police||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Friday said that the car used for an unsuccessful bomb attack in southern Pulwama district yesterday belongs to an active militant of Hizbul Mujahideen outfit. “The Santro car used for IED belongs to Hidayatullah Malik, an active Hizbul Mujahideen militant who is a resident of Sharatpora, Shopian. He had joined militant ranks in July last year,” a senior police officer was quoted as having said by local news gathering agency GNS. The car was not registered in Kashmir, but in the Jammu division of the J&K union territory, the police said. “The Hizbul militant, who is active in south Kashmir over the last two years and the owner of the car, is still at large, but efforts are on to nab him,” the officer added. On Thursday morning, police averted a major fidayeen attack by detecting and defusing a car bomb in Ayangund village of Pulwama district. The video of the controlled blast captured by a drone camera was shared on media platforms. The blast was so huge that windows, doors and roofs of several houses in the vicinity were damaged. After the recovery of the car, Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir Vijay Kumar said that a major incident of a “vehicle-borne IED blast”, akin to 2019's Pulwama-type attack, was averted by timely detection of the car fitted with explosives. On February 14 last year, a vehicle being driven by a local Kashmiri fidayeen (suicide) militant Adil Ahmed rammed his vehicle packed with explosives into a paramilitary bus on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway in the same district. In the worst casualties suffered by the security forces in peacetime operations, over 40 CRPF personnel were killed and several others wounded. “At least 40 to 45 kgs of explosive material was fitted in private vehicle jointly by Hizbul Mujahideen and Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists in a bid to target security forces. Timely action of security forces averted major tragedy,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/car-used-in-pulwama-like-attack-that-was-averted-belongs-to-hizbul-militant-jammu-and-kashmir-police-843179.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh: COVID-19 cases in Hamirpur near 100-mark as five more test positive||The number of COVID-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh's Hamirpur district neared the 100-mark on Friday as five more returnees tested positive for the infection. The district has reported over one-third of the total confirmed cases in Himachal Pradesh so far. On Friday, the COVID-19 count of Hamirpur reached 98 while the tally in the state rose to 291. Eighty-eight cases are currently active in the district, nine patients have recovered and one person has died of the disease, Deputy Commissioner Harikesh Meena said. Of the fresh cases, two had returned from Gujarat and one each from Delhi, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. The Gujarat returnees are a couple – a 31-year-old man and his 28-year-old wife – from Mahal. They had recently arrived here from Ahmedabad and were placed under institutional quarantine at a college in Nadaun, the DC said. The other three are a 34-year-old man quarantined at a school in Bakarti after returning from Delhi, a 32-year-old woman placed under quarantine in a Nadaun hotel after coming back from Mumbai and a 57-year-old man quarantined at a school in Laliyar after returning from Rajasthan's Kota. Meena said their samples were taken on May 26 and the reports arrived on Friday morning. All of them were being shifted to district COVID care centres, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-covid-19-cases-in-hamirpur-near-100-mark-as-five-more-test-positive-843204.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court orders status quo on appointment of Udupi temple administrator||The Supreme Court has ordered status quo on the appointment of an administrator of Sri Mahatobora Veerabhadreshwara Temple at Hiriyadka, Bommarabettu Village, Udupi. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, R Subhash Reddy and Surya Kant asked the Karnataka government to file a response explaining what action has been taken in a dispute related to the administration of the temple. The High Court had on February 2, 2020, remanded the matter to 'Rajya Dharmika Parishat' for resolution of the dispute. The Parishat had earlier appointed Sunil Hegde as a fit person for the administration of the temple. However, on a plea by the Alva Hegde family, the HC set aside the Parishat's order and remanded the matter back to the body under Section 63A of the Karnataka Hindu Religious Charities and Endowments Act, 1997. Hegde, led by senior advocate Devadatt Kamat and advocate Nishanth Patil, contended before the top court that the petitioner and his family have been conducting the religious affairs of the temple for almost 50 years.  "The temple has gained immense popularity and has become very powerful only due to the constant religious and spiritual effort of the petitioner and his father. It is therefore in the interests of justice that the petitioner be allowed to continue as the ‘fit person’ till the disposal of the present petition," they pleaded. On this, the court issued notice to M Govardhan Das Hegde and others which was accepted by their counsel Shailesh Madiyal. "State of Karnataka is directed to file its counter-affidavit showing the progress made in the matter after remand by the High Court to the Rajya Dharmika Parishat. In the meantime, the status quo, as it exists today, shall be maintained by the parties," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-orders-status-quo-on-appointment-of-udupi-temple-administrator-843205.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi organises awareness camp on desert locust attack||Following directions from Delhi Development Minister Gopal Rai, authorities on Friday organised a campaign to create awareness among farmers to prevent a probable attack of desert locusts in the national capital. Officials said the agriculture unit of the Development Department organised a training-cum-demonstration camp in Daryapur village in North Delhi in coordination with the officers of Krishi Vigyan Kendra. The Delhi government had on Thursday asked authorities concerned to spray insecticides and pesticides on crops and vegetation to prevent a probable desert locust attack, with Rai saying an awareness campaign would be run over the issue. Joint Director, Agriculture Department, A P Saini in the advisory issued on Wednesday asked the authorities to organise awareness programmes for public and farmers to prevent the attack of locusts in the national capital. "As the swarm of locusts flies in daytime, and rests during the night, it should not be allowed to rest at night," the advisory read. It asked the authorities to carry out spraying of pesticides chlorpyrifos and malathion. Also, Delhi's forest department is considering covering the saplings in its nurseries with polythene to protect them against the desert locust attack. "It is not possible to cover the trees. We will at least cover the saplings in the nurseries," Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Ishwar Singh said. "Covering plants with polythene can also counter-productive during this heat. So, we will do this only when we know for sure that the swarm of locusts is headed towards Delhi," the official said. Singh said in a city like Delhi, spraying of chemicals can be detrimental for environment. "If we spray the vegetation, trees and plants with chemical in anticipation of a locust attack, we should also consider how dangerous it will be for the environment," he said. There are 14 lakh saplings in 14 government nurseries across Delhi, Singh said. India is battling the worst desert locust outbreak. The crop-destroying swarms first attacked Rajasthan and have now spread to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. According to experts, broadly four species of locusts are found in India -- desert locust, migratory locust, Bombay locust and tree locust. The desert locust is considered the most destructive. It multiplies very rapidly and is capable of covering 150 kilometers in a day. This insect, a type of a grasshopper, can eat more than its body weight. A one square kilometer of locust swarm containing around 40 million locusts can in a day eat as much food as 35,000 people. Experts blame the growing menace of desert locusts on climate change. They say breeding of locusts is directly related to soil moisture and food availability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-organises-awareness-camp-on-desert-locust-attack-843210.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Bihar: Major showdown between RJD MLAs, cops at Rabri Devi's residence over attack on RJD worker||RJD MLAs had a showdown with the police here on Friday when they were prevented from marching towards Gopalganj district to protest against the recent attack on a party worker in which a ruling JD(U) MLA was allegedly involved. The face off took place at former Bihar chief minister Rabri Devi’s 10, Circular Road residence where her son Tejashwi Yadav, the leader of opposition in the state assembly, had summoned the RJD MLAs. Tejashwi Yadav had threatened that if Pappu Pandey, the JD(U) MLA from Kuchaikote was not arrested by Thursday evening, he along with his supporters would lead a protest march towards Gopalganj district in north Bihar – the home turf of the accused. Tejashwi Yadav’s brother Tej Pratap Yadav too was part of the protest. The younger son of RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, Tejashwi Yadav is the party’s chief ministerial candidate for the assembly elections later this year. Pandey was named in the FIR lodged in connection with Sunday night’s attack at the residence of RJD worker J P Yadav, who sustained grievous injuries while his parents and brother were killed. The police are yet to trace the MLA, though an SIT has been set up to nab him and others who may be involved in the attack, officials said, adding that the JD(U) leader’s brother and nephew named in the FIR have been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-major-showdown-between-rjd-mlas-cops-at-rabri-devis-residence-over-attack-on-rjd-worker-843219.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Migrant worker dies after return from Delhi in UP's Chitrakoot||A 45-year-old migrant worker who returned from Delhi died after reaching his village here, police said on Friday. He was a tuberculosis patient, they said. Peer Ali, who worked as a security guard in Delhi, had hired a vehicle to return to his village along with his son, police said. He fell unconscious as soon as he got down from the vehicle on Thursday evening and died, SHO Pahadi police station, Sushil Chandra Sharma said on Friday. A test for COVID-19 was conducted by a team of the health department, following which his body was handed over to the family for performing the last rites, the SHO added. According to Chief Medical Officer Vinod Kumar, samples of Peer Ali and his son have been sent to Prayagraj for testing. Other members of the family have been directed to remain in quarantine, the CMO said. Kumar added that earlier, two migrant labourers hailing from Sarriya and Pathnaudi villages, had also died and they were later found coronavirus positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-worker-dies-after-return-from-delhi-in-ups-chitrakoot-843228.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Chaos and jams at entry points after satellite cities seal borders with Delhi||The tightening of traffic restrictions put in place to contain the spread of the coronavirus by Gurgaon and Ghaziabad administrations on their borders with Delhi led to chaos and traffic congestion on Friday. This comes a day after the Haryana government issued fresh orders to seal the inter-state border to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Earlier this week, the Ghaziabad district administration too made the inter-city movement stricter after it reported a spike in coronavirus cases. Although Ghaziabad, Nodia, Gurgaon fall under different states, a large number of people stay in these two cities, but work in Delhi or vice versa. "There was a massive chaos this morning with traffic jams as the police were not allowing people to cross the border from either sides,” Ruchir Sharma, who stays in Uttam Nagar in west Delhi but works with a diagnostics laboratory in Gurgaon, said. “The new directive (of tightening the restrictions) came late night, so no one had clarity and instructions were not issued to the police. I am not sure if they are allowing essential services people or not but to get to the check post after clearing the whole queue was a long wait so I decided to come back,” Sharma added. Those travelling to and from Ghaziabad said the checking had become very strict. Rajendra Singh Yadav, who works in a medical store in Ghaziabad and resides in Shahadra in east Delhi, said the checking by police in Ghaziabad led to traffic congestion on the border. Assistant Superintendent of Ghaziabad Police Keshav Kumar told PTI that they are conducting checks on the border. Entry will be allowed for only those involved in essential services. He also acknowledged that there was heavy traffic on the borers due to checking by the police. Haryana's Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday justified strictness on the state's borders with the national capital, saying if the state does not take such measures its coronavirus cases would be at par with Delhi.  Citing a sharp increase in coronavirus cases during the past one week in the Haryana districts adjoining Delhi, Vij had on Thursday issued fresh orders for sealing borders with the national capital. “I regularly monitor and keep a close watch on the situation. Here we are trying to save each life, if we do not maintain strictness on the borders and allow free movement of people, then I can say undoubtedly our cases would be at par with Delhi. I have to stop free movement of people,” said Vij while justifying the strict measures, a day after he issued the fresh orders. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi police alerted commuters taking the route to plan their travel accordingly. “Traffic is moving very slow in the carriageway from Delhi towards Haryana due to checking by Haryana Police at Singhu border,” the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. Similar was the case with Gautam Buddh Nagar. In an open letter to Noida and Greater Noida residents, Suhas L Y on Thursday stressed the need for maintaining the “status quo” on the Noida-Delhi border, citing similar reasons. “These decisions are being taken after looking at the epidemiological (medical) data, prevailing situation in the neighbouring places and contact tracing of previous Covid positive patients. Therefore, the pertinent point to note is, what cost in terms of convenience are we willing to incur for the health of and well-being of the community and vice versa,” he wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chaos-and-jams-at-entry-points-after-satellite-cities-seal-borders-with-delhi-843259.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Migrant worker's body found in Shramik Special train's toilet after four days||In a shocking incident, the body of a migrant worker was found in the toilet of a 'shramik special' train at Jhansi railway station in Uttar Pradesh after four days. According to reports, the migrant worker, identified as Mohan Lal Sharma, a resident of UP's Basti district, about 200 kilometres from here, had boarded the train at Jhansi on May 23 and was supposed to arrive at Gorakhpur, around 75 kilometres from Basti, the next day. A relative of Sharma, who had reached Gorakhpur railway station to receive him, said that he tried to contact him (Sharma) but his mobile phone was switched off.  Reports said that Sharma's partially decomposed body was found inside the toilet on Wednesday evening, when the train was being santised by the railway staff after it returned to Jhansi. Sharma, who worked in Mumbai, was left jobless after the lockdown and had somehow managed to reach Jhansi like lakhs of others of his ilk. From Jhansi, he had boarded the train bound for Gorakhpur. A railway official said in Jhansi that no request for medical help had been received from Sharma between Jhansi and Gorakhpur.  Sources said that sample was taken to ascertain if Sharma had COVID-19. As many as nine people, including women and children, have died on board the shramik specials in the state in the past few days.  The migrant workers had in the past also protested against lack of food and water aboard the special trains, many of which have been running several days behind schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-workers-body-found-in-shramik-special-trains-toilet-after-four-days-843261.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi COVID-19 death toll nears 400; National capital records 1,106 new cases||Delhi added 82 more deaths to COVID-19 toll taking the total to near 400-mark on Friday when the capital recorded 1,106 new cases, highest spike in a single day. Of the 82 deaths, only 13 deaths were recorded in the past 24 hours while rest 69 took place over a period of 34 days prior to that, which were "reported late" by hospitals. The death toll has now climbed to 398. This was disclosed by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia during a digital address with Health Minister Satyender Jain. Usually, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal do these digital addresses but he has avoided it on Thursday too when Delhi crossed the 1,000 mark in cases in a single day to settle at 1,024.  With 1,106 fresh cases, the total number of cases has now touched 17,387. In May alone, 13,868cases have been reported, which is 79.76% of the total cases. Since May 18 when lockdown 4.0 came into effect with more relaxations, there were 7,362 cases or 53.08% of the cases reported this month so far. On the deaths, Sisodia said 52 of the 69 deaths, which were reported during 34 deaths, were from Safdarjung Hospital. As of now, 7,846 people have recovered so far, including 351 who were discharged on Thursday. He said there was no need to panic as Delhi’s rate of recovery was around 50%. "Cases are increasing across the country and there is rise in Delhi too. But there is no need to panic. There is no need to be scared," he said. People need not rush to hospitals unless they show symptoms of virus infection, he said.  "There is this fear that once somebody tests positive, they have to be admitted to a hospital. We get a lot of panic calls too. But if the symptoms are not severe and you are overall asymptomatic, you should confine yourself to an isolated room and quarantine yourself. Other family members should maintain a safe distance and keep their homes sanitized," Sisodia said. Jain said Delhi has more than 5000 beds --1,400 in private hospitals and 3700 in government hospitals -- for COVID-19 treatment. The number of patients currently on the ventilator is 28 while Delhi has more than 300 dedicated ventilators available currently. Delhi Congress president Anil Choudhary said it was "very shocking" that Delhi has jumped to No 3 position in COVID-19 cases in the country. "We have been maintaining that the death figures supplied by the Kejriwal Government were not true, which has been proved to be true as the death toll reported up to May 29 puts at 398 with the rider that 69 death cases were old, thereby substantiating Congress’ charge," he said. "Kejriwal should apologize to the people of Delhi for misguiding and misleading them regarding the actual COVID-19 data, as in the last two days Delhi has reported over 1000 new cases each to jump into the third place in overall COVID-19 cases in the country. The main reason for the spike in cases was that Kejriwal has been taking unilateral decisions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-covid-19-death-toll-nears-400-national-capital-records-1106-new-cases-843265.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Ajit Jogi: Quintessential politician who never gave up||Ajit Pramod Kumar Jogi, the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh, was known in the political circles as someone who never gave up despite defeats, controversies and debilitating health issues.   Jogi, 74, who died at a private hospital here on Friday, was the quintessential politician who enjoyed support among tribal and scheduled caste communities because of his easy accessibility. Born into a family of modest means in Pendra Road area of the then Bilaspur district, Jogi earned his engineering degree with a gold medal from a university in Ujjain in 1964. After that he qualified first for the Indian Police Service and then the Indian Administrative Service. After serving as collector for 12 years in various districts including Indore and Raipur, Jogi resigned in 1986 and joined the Congress. The party sent him to the Rajya Sabha for two terms -- 1986-92 and 1992-98. His rise in politics was meteoric, and he became chief minister of the newly formed Chhattisgarh state in November 2000, trumping rivals such as Congress stalwart Vidyacharan Shukla. As chief minister, he was credited with setting up a state-of-the-art heart hospital in Raipur under the Public-Private-Partnership mode. Jogi focused on improving health infrastructure in the tribal-dominated backward state and also laid the foundation stone of the new capital city near Abhanpur area of Raipur. His ambitious `Jogi Dabri scheme' to develop small water sources won praise, but was later marred by corruption allegations. He was accused for splitting the opposition BJP after 12 of its MLAs joined the ruling Congress in 2002. Jogi succeeded in sidelining Vidyacharan Shukla, who was seeking to become Rajya Sabha MP in 2002. Shukla then joined Sharad Pawar's Nationalist Congress Party. In January 2003, Jogi faced a major political setback when he and his son Amit were named as suspects in the murder of Ram Avtar Jaggi, then treasurer of the state NCP. Amit Jogi was also arrested but was later acquitted by the trial court. The BJP cashed in on the issue during the Assembly elections held towards the end of 2003, in which the Congress suffered a humiliating defeat. After coming to power, the BJP released an audio tape which purportedly suggested that Jogi had tried to bribe BJP MLAs in an attempt to engineer a split. Jogi was suspended from the party, but a few months later the Congress fielded him against Shukla who was contesting on BJP ticket in the 2004 Lok Sabha election from Mahasamund. During the campaign, Jogi met with a road accident near Rajim and was permanently confined to a wheelchair. But he went on to defeat Shukla. During the 15-year-long tenure of Raman Singh that followed 2003 assembly polls, Jogi was often dubbed as `Team B' of the BJP for his perceived closeness to the ruling party. When the Congress lost a third Assembly election in a row in 2013, knives were out for Jogi, and the party then made Bhupesh Baghel the state unit chief despite the fact that he did not share anybonhomie with Jogi. Isolated, Jogi quit the Congress in 2016 after he and his son were accused of involvement in alleged fixing of the by-election to Antagarh Assembly seat in 2014. After the scandal broke in 2015, Baghel expelled Amit Jogi from the Congress. In June 2016, Ajit Jogi formed the Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J). Ahead of the 2018 assembly elections, Jogi sprang a surprise by forming alliance with Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party. It was expected that the alliance will play the role of kingmaker. But the Congress won a landslide by bagging 68 out of 90 seats. Jogi-Mayawati combine won only seven seats. Ajit Jogi himself managed to win his traditional Marwahi seat, banking on his charisma. Jogi's status as the member of a tribal community had been the subject of controversy since he entered politics. After he became chief minister, BJP leader Sant Kumar Netam had complained to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes that his claim of belonging to a Scheduled Tribe was based on forged documents. With the Congress' return to power, he and his family members faced several fresh allegations with regard to Antagarh bypoll and the caste status issue. Though sidelined in the state's politics, the four- time MLA never lost his sharp sense of humor, especially while targeting his opponents. His political legacy is now expected to be carried on by his son and JCC chief Amit Jogi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ajit-jogi-quintessential-politician-who-never-gave-up-843277.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Monkeys steal coronavirus blood samples in India||A troop of monkeys in India attacked a medical official and snatched away blood samples of patients who had tested positive for the novel coronavirus, authorities said on Friday. The attack occurred this week when a laboratory technician was walking in the campus of a state-run medical college in Meerut, 460 km (285 miles) north of Lucknow, capital of Uttar Pradesh state. "Monkeys grabbed and fled with the blood samples of four COVID-19 patients who are undergoing treatment ... we had to take their blood samples again," said Dr S. K. Garg, a top official at the college. Authorities said they were not clear if the monkeys had spilled the blood samples, but people living near the leafy campus feared further spread of the virus if the monkeys carried the samples into residential areas. Garg said it was not clear if the monkeys could contract the coronavirus if they came into contact with infected blood. "No evidence has been found that monkeys can contract the infection," Garg told Reuters. The virus is believed to have jumped from animals into people in a wildlife market in the Chinese city of Wuhan late last year. India has had 165,799 cases of the coronavirus and 4,706 deaths. Monkeys have been increasingly straying into human settlements in India and causing disturbances, even attacking people. Environmentalists say the destruction of natural habitat is the main reason the animals move into urban areas in search of food.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monkeys-steal-coronavirus-blood-samples-in-india-843280.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir: Truck catches fire, multiple LPG cylinder blasts trigger panic in areas along highway||Dozens of LPG cylinders exploded in over 45 minutes after a truck carrying these caught fire on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Udhampur district, triggering panic among locals, officials said. Vehicular movement on the highway was restricted temporarily after the incident rattled the Tikri area, they said. The truck's driver, Ujjal Singh, escaped unhurt and the situation is completely under control, the officials said. The truck, which was carrying over 300 LPG cylinders from Bari Brahamana in Jammu to Sopore in north Kashmir, suddenly caught fire near a temple in Tikri, they said. Dozens of LPG cylinders exploded in over 45 minutes, the officials said, adding that some were thrown over a 100 feet away from the truck due to the blasts. Traffic has been restored on the highway. The cause of the fire is being investigated, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-truck-catches-fire-multiple-lpg-cylinder-blasts-trigger-panic-in-areas-along-highway-843287.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Haryana Chief Secretary directs district administrations to take steps if locust swarms enter state||Haryana Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora on Friday directed the Agriculture department and district administrations to take all necessary precautions in advance to tackle any potential attack of locust swarms in the state. The chief secretary gave the directions while presiding over a review meeting regarding monitoring and control of locusts in Haryana with officers of the Agriculture department and other concerned departments here, an official statement said. During the meeting, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Sanjeev Kaushal shared that Haryana has also been put on high alert after insect attacks have been reported in neighbouring Rajasthan. Special supervision teams have been constituted to tackle the situation and spread the awareness about the same across the state, Kaushal said. Further to control the locust attack, adequate stock of pesticides have been made available through HAFED and Haryana Land Reclamation and Development Corporation and farmers can get the products from these agencies if required, Kaushal said. He added that after locust swarms attacked crops in neighbouring Rajasthan and few other states, nine districts in Haryana where the insect attack is expected have been put on high alert and adequate arrangements have been made in advance to tackle any attack. The official further said that the Agriculture department has stocked enough pesticides and insecticides and has also formed a farmers' group on WhatsApp. The farmers have also been asked to remain vigilant about locusts, he said. He further informed that though the locust swarms have not entered the state till now, all necessary precautions are being taken in advance including activation of tractor mounted spraying facilities and constituting a response team for close monitoring of locust control activities. Along with this, deputy commissioners have been asked to coordinate and hold daily meetings with the response team for quick mobilisation, he said. The chief secretary was apprised that Agriculture department officers are in regular touch with Jodhpur Central Institute for Locust Warning (Locust Warning Organisation) for gathering necessary details about the swarms' movement. Locusts, popularly known as ''tiddi dal'', are short-horned grasshoppers with highly migratory habits and voracious feeding behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-chief-secretary-directs-district-administrations-to-take-steps-if-locust-swarms-enter-state-843295.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Functioning of Delhi High Court, district courts restricted till June 14||The Delhi High Court Friday decided to restrict till June 14 its functioning as also of the district courts to urgent matters only in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The Administrative and General Supervision Committee of the high court, headed by Chief Justice D N Patel, decided that the restriction would be in place till June 14 and the urgent matters would continue to be heard by video conferencing. "...the functioning of the High Court of Delhi shall continue to remain suspended till June 14," the administrative order said. As per earlier directions, all the benches shall take up urgent matters through video conferencing as per roster notified on May 20, it said. The mentioning of urgent matters is being done through the web link which is available from 9 AM to 10.30 AM on all working days. The order said all the cases listed in the high court, including before the registrars and joint registrars, from June 1 to June 12 have been adjourned to corresponding dates between July 3 to August 5 respectively. The matters listed in the district courts during this period will also be adjourned and the information will be uploaded on their website, the order said. Earlier, fewer benches were set up to hear the urgent matters through video conferencing. To ensure more urgent matters are taken up, it was decided that from May 22, all the judges of the high court would sit everyday to take up important cases via video conferencing. The step was taken after the Delhi High Court and the lower courts together took up 20,726 urgent matters during the COVID-19 related lockdown from March 24 to May 19. There are presently seven division benches and 19 single-judge benches in the high court. Earlier, the High Court had on March 25 restricted its and district courts' functioning till April 14. It was then extended to May 3, May 17, May 23 and May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/functioning-of-delhi-high-court-district-courts-restricted-till-june-14-843297.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||With 128 new positive cases, Jammu and Kashmir's coronavirus tally 2164||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 128 new COVID-19 cases on Friday taking the overall tally in the Union Territory to 2164. 94 among the new cases are travellers returning from outside J&K. This was the third consecutive day when the UT reported over a hundred positive cases. J&K recorded 162 and 115 positive cases on Wednesday and Thursday respectively. The number of casualties due to the deadly virus rose to 28 in the region after a 70-year-old man from south Kashmir’s Shopian district tested positive a day after his death. Health officials said the septuagenarian was admitted on May 27 as “pneumonia patient with underlying hypertension and diabetes mellitus.” He died at SMHS hospital last evening, he said. “Today his sample report showed positive for SARS COV-2,” said nodal officer, COVID-19, Dr Salim Khan. 25 of all COVID fatalities in the UT are from Kashmir division and three are from Jammu. Officials said that of the new 128 positive cases, 92 were reported in Kashmir while 36 were in Jammu. Of the 10 districts of Kashmir division, fresh cases were reported in Anantnag, Kulgam, Srinagar, Kupwara, Baramulla, Shopian, and Pulwama districts, taking the total tally in the division to 1728. The highest jump was in Srinagar with 27 new cases, all travelers, while Kulgam recorded 19 new cases including 18 travelers followed by Kupwara with 18 cases, including six travelers. In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in Jammu, Kathua, Udhampur, Samba, Poonch, and Rajouri districts, taking the division tally to 436.  J&K has been witnessing a spike in COVID-19 cases in the past one week. The UT recorded the highest single day spike of 162 new cases on Wednesday with two deaths due to the respiratory disease. J&K crossed the 1000 mark on May 15 and it took just 13 days to add 1000 cases to the total. While the first case was reported on March 9, the first 1000 patients took 80 days to accumulate. J&K government says the rise in cases is due to intensive testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-128-new-positive-cases-jammu-and-kashmirs-coronavirus-tally-2164-843334.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt signs pacts with industry bodies for 11 lakh jobs to migrant workers||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday signed initial agreements with various industry bodies to help in providing 11 lakh jobs to migrant labourers who have returned to the state in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Of this 11 lakh employment opportunities, the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and Indian Industries Association (IIA) accounted for three lakh jobs each, while realtors body NARDECO and the Laghu Udyog Bharati attend to 2.5 lakh jobs each for migrant labourers, state MSME Minister Sidharth Nath Singh told PTI.         All memoranda of understanding (MoUs) were signed in the presence of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, whose promise to provide jobs to migrants returning to the state was fulfilled by the MSME department of the UP government, he said. Commenting on the signing of pacts, Adityanath said it was the "top priority" of his government to provide employment to workers according to their ability, at the local level. "Skill mapping of every worker, returning from other states, is being done by the Skill Development and Revenue Department," he said, noting that small scale industries are the biggest means to provide employment to workers in the state. The government is committed to provide employment to all, the chief minister said, adding that skill mapping of about 18 lakh workers has been completed so far. "Safe and dignified return of other workers is also our commitment," Adityanath said. "I thank you wholeheartedly for the strength with which you all acted on the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the fight against global epidemic Corona," an official release quoted him as addressing to the industry bodies. The chief minister said the government is constantly trying to provide employment to all workers living in the state or coming from outside. "All the workers who are returning are our strength and capital, and now we will use them to build a new Uttar Pradesh. And the process has already started,” he added. Till date, around 28 lakh migrant labourers have returned to UP through various transport modes. According to an official spokesperson, the state government is working on the policy of "job for every hand". Under this policy, the chief minister has appealed to investors to accelerate the production of indigenous goods in the state which will also help many people get employment. The UP MSME minister, Singh, said "To those who had raised questions as to how the state government will carry out the gigantic task of providing 11 lakh jobs to skilled and semi-skilled labourers, the MSME department has given the answer." The minister, who is also a state government spokesperson, pointed out that certain states had considered UP labourers as liability, "but, Adityanath converted them into assets". He said Adityanath has invited investors while emphasising on the production of indigenous goods. The chief minister said that with increasing production of indigenous goods in the state, employment opportunities will also increase and its benefit will be given to workers.     Adityanath earlier this week had directed officials to complete the skill-mapping of migrant labourers in 15 days and get a survey conducted for their adjustment in MSMEs and industrial units.  At a meeting with senior state officials to review the lockdown situation, he had asked for all-out efforts to increase industrial activity and directed that a survey be conducted in different industries, including the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), for adjusting the labourers and workers in accordance with their skills.         Adityanath directed for a continuous communication through the Chief Minister Helpline with migrant workers and reiterated that his government is committed to ensuring a safe and respectable return of the workers, for which the state and central governments have made arrangements of free travel by trains and buses. He instructed the officials to write to different state governments for getting a list of those labourers and workers who are willing to come back to Uttar Pradesh.     Meanwhile, NAREDCO-UP President R K Arora said, "We have signed an MoU with the UP government for providing employment opportunities to 2.5 lakh labourers of UP who have returned from different states because of coronavirus." Around 1.25 lakh workers will be absorbed at Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida in the national capital region, while the remaining 1.25 lakh will be taken for projects across other cities in UP. The association will also provide training to labourers to undertake construction works, he said, adding that implementation of this MoU is expected to start within 15-20 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-signs-pacts-with-industry-bodies-for-11-lakh-jobs-to-migrant-workers-843336.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Jogi's death is big loss for Indian politics: Digvijaya Singh||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday described the death of Chhattisgarh's first chief minister Ajit Jogi as an irreparable loss to Indian politics. Jogi, 74, died at a private hospital in Raipur earlier in the day. "It is an irreparable loss for the Indian politics. He will be always remembered for the work he had done for Dalits, Backward Classes and the deprived sections of society," Singh said in his condolence message. Singh had played an important role in Jogi's elevation as the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh after it was carved out of Madhya Pradesh. Congress leader Kamal Nath and BJP leader Gopal Bhargava also condoled Jogi's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jogis-death-is-big-loss-for-indian-politics-digvijaya-singh-843342.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||3 cops test COVID-19 positive in Gautam Buddh Nagar||Three Uttar Pradesh police personnel posted in Gautam Buddh Nagar have tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Friday. All three are police constables and about 30 people who came in their contact have been quarantined, the officials said. "One of them was posted at the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), while the other two were attached with the Phase III and Sector 49 police stations," a police spokesperson said. "About 30 people who came in contact with the two constables attached with the police stations have been quarantined and their samples taken for COVID-19 testing," the spokesperson added. So far 300 policemen in Gautam Buddh Nagar have undergone test for COVID-19 and all were found negative for it, according to the official. A police constable attached with the 112 emergency service, who had earlier tested positive for the novel coronavirus, has recovered and has been discharged from hospital on May 21, the official said. The district police said it is taking all precautions during the pandemic. "All personnel above the age of 50 and those pregnant are not given posting at sensitive spots where the risk of COVID-19 can be higher. Face masks, gloves and sanitisers are being provided to the personnel in adequate numbers and they are made to follow social distancing norms while on duty," the spokesperson said. Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi in western UP, is one of the worst-hit districts in the state which has reported 387 positive cases of COVID-19, including six deaths so far, according to official figures till Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-cops-test-covid-19-positive-in-gautam-buddh-nagar-843349.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||4.6 magnitude earthquake hits Delhi||Strong tremors were felt across Delhi as a 4.6 magnitude temblor shook the national capital region. According to the National Centre for Seismology, the epicentre of the earthquake was located 14 km southeast of Rohtak in Haryana. The quake struck at 9:08 p.m. and the tremors were felt for a few seconds. This is the third earthquake to strike the national capital region this month. Earlier, a 3.4 magnitude earthquake had shaken Delhi on May 10, followed by a mild 2.2 magnitude quake on May 15. The epicentre of both the quakes were in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/46-magnitude-earthquake-hits-delhi-843363.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court bids virtual farewell to Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal||In first of its kind, the Delhi High Court Friday bid virtual farewell to Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal who will soon join as President of the Delhi State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission. The high court, which is functioning via video conferencing since March 24 due to the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, conducted the farewell using this mode. Justice Sehgal, who was set to retire as the Judge of the high court in June at the age of 62, had tendered her resignation following her appointment to the commission. Her resignation was accepted by the Centre on May 21. An order issued by the Delhi government on January 28 said the appointment of Justice Sehgal as the President of the Delhi State Commission on 'whole time' basis shall be for a term of five years or till she attains the age of 67 years, whichever is earlier. Justice Sehgal obtained her LLB degree from Delhi University in 1981 and completed her LLM in 1983. She subsequently did her Ph.D. from Amity University, Noida in 2012. She was the topper of her batch of 1984 in Delhi Judicial Services and joined the services in July 1985. Justice Sehgal served as the Registrar General of Delhi High Court from April 2013 to December 2014 and also worked as Registrar (Vigilance). She was elevated as an additional judge of the High Court on December 15, 2014, and became a permanent judge on June 2, 2016. During her tenure in the district court, she dealt with cases including 'Jain hawala case', 'match fixing case', 'Lajpat Nagar bomb blast' and 'cash for vote scam'. She was a Presiding Officer of The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. She has also authored various books including 'An Exhaustive Guide to the Slum Area (Improvement & Clearance) Act, 1956', 'Commentary on–The Legal Services Authorities Act' and 'Woman Know Thyself'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-bids-virtual-farewell-to-justice-sangita-dhingra-sehgal-843378.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||Congress, BJP lash out at AAP govt for rising COVID-19 cases in Delhi||The opposition BJP and Congress hit out at the AAP government in Delhi on Friday for a substantial rise in fresh COVID-19 cases and death toll due to the disease in the national capital, saying it lacked a clear strategy to deal with situation. No immediate reaction was available either from the Delhi government or Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).  The speed at which the number of coronavirus cases is rising in Delhi every day has brought the reality of the Arvind Kejriwal government's "imaginary" health system before the people, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said. The city government on Friday said the COVID-19 death toll was 398 so far, including 69 fatalities in the last 34 days that were reported late by the hospitals concerned. The number of fresh COVID-19 cases was 1,126, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and Health Minister Satyendar Jain told a press briefing. Tiwari questioned the government's advertisements in newspapers, saying, "It is clear that apart from spending crores on advertisements, the Kejriwal government has no further strategy to deal with the coronavirus." At a press conference, BJP MLAs also raised the issue of the growing number of coronavirus cases and deaths due to it. They said the patients should have been treated for free in the private hospitals that have come up on land provided by the Delhi government. "There are 62 private hospitals in Delhi, which have been built by taking land from the government for free or at subsidised rates. There was an agreement to reserve 25 per cent of the beds for free treatment of 25 per cent patients of the OPD," Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said. The MLAs asked the Delhi government to tell people how many COVID-19 patients were treated for free at these private hospitals till now.  Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar said it was shocking that Delhi has jumped to the third position in terms of number of coronavirus cases in the country. "Delhi has been witnessing sharp rises in COVID-19 cases with the last two days reporting over 1,000 new cases each," he said. Kumar said his party has been maintaining that the death toll announced by the Kejriwal government is not true, which has been proved correct as the figure reported up to Friday is 398 with the rider that 69 cases are old. "The Kejriwal government has been without any proper strategy to contain the pandemic," the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-bjp-lash-out-at-aap-govt-for-rising-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-843381.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi's stature to be enhanced post COVID-19 era: Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Friday said when the COVID-19 pandemic will be over, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will emerge as a world leader of a stature which no one else from India had been able to achieve in the post-independence era. Singh, the Union Minister for PMO, also said the post COVID-19 era will present India an opportunity to take the lead over the rest of the world and raise its economic status, based on self-sufficiency. Hailing Modi's "visionary steps" in combating COVID-19 challenges, the minister said compared to other countries, India has been successfully fighting against the disease due to several out-of-box decisions taken by the prime minister in the last six years. "In the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will emerge as a world leader of a stature which none else from India had been able to achieve in the post-independence era," Singh told reporters here. The Union minister also referred to the Swachhta campaign initiated by Modi within a few months of taking over as prime minister in 2014 and the ongoing efforts against the coronavirus. Similarly, it was Prime Minister Modi who decided to set up a separate AYUSH ministry, which is now exporting its drugs to several countries in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Referring to Jammu and Kashmir, Singh dared the opposition Congress to publicly declare that it will restore Article 370, which gave special status to the erstwhile state, if ever it comes back to power. Singh, who hails from Jammu and Kashmir, said the Congress party and its allies, particularly the Jammu-based leaders of National Conference and PDP, often criticise the Modi government's decision, but none of them has the courage to openly say that they are against the decision to abrogate Article 370. Such leaders are well aware that if they say anything against this decision, they will instantly invite public displeasure and face electoral losses in the next polls. These are the same leaders, Singh recalled, who just a day before August 5, 2019, when the Centre had announced the abrogation of Article 370, said that nobody can dare to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and if that ever happens, "there will be earthquake, bloodshed etc". "But immediately after the revocation of Article 370, they felt silent and instead started raising collateral issues like for example, the conversion of State into Union Territory which according to them was a degradation and so on. "They have all along evaded the basic question, whether they support the abrogation of Article 370 or not, and if not, will they make it an election issue and tell the public openly that they will fight the election on the promise of restoring back Article 370 if they came to power," he said. On the issue of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the BJP leader said nobody directly raised the basic question whether they support the logic of having the legislation or not which is available in many other countries. "Instead, the opposition tried to manufacture imaginary issues like production of documents in spite of repeated rejoinders by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The result was that the misguided campaign was destined to fizzle out," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modis-stature-to-be-enhanced-post-covid-19-era-jitendra-singh-843383.html
29-05-2020||North and Central||HC asks AAP govt not to take coercive steps against pvt school over fee hike||The Delhi High Court has directed the AAP government not to take any coercive steps against a private school in relation to show cause notices issued to it for allegedly hiking fees and compelling parents to pay that along with arrears. Justice Jayant Nath gave the direction while issuing notice to the Delhi government's Directorate of Education (DoE) on the plea by two branches to the school seeking to keep in abeyance the show cause notices of May 23 till the time Cyber Cell of Delhi Police completes its probe into authenticity of some e-mails allegedly sent by DoE to the school permitting it to hike fees. The court also asked the school's branches in south Delhi to file their reply to the show cause notices within one week from May 27. It said if DoE proceeds with the matter and passes some order, "no coercive steps shall be taken against the petitioners" till the next date of hearing on June 8. The school's application against the show cause notices was filed in the main petition challenging DoE's April 22 finding that its two branches had illegally hiked fees and compelled parents to pay that along with arrears, and its recommendation to lodge an FIR against the management and seal the premises. The main petition is also listed for hearing on June 8. On May 19, while hearing the main petition, the court had directed the school not to collect from students any amount other than the tuition fees that too as per rates prevailing prior to October 31 last year. It had also directed both the branches to pay salaries to staff and teachers at rates presently prevailing. It had also asked the school management or officials to join the police investigation into authenticity of some e-mails sent to the branches allegedly by the DoE allowing them to hike their fees. The DoE has lodged a complaint with police regarding the e-mails, the court noted and had directed the Cyber Cell to file a report with regard to genuineness of the e-mails. The court had further directed the police that, meanwhile, no coercive steps be taken against the schools' management till the next date of hearing on June 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-aap-govt-not-to-take-coercive-steps-against-pvt-school-over-fee-hike-843385.html
29-05-2020||Second Edit||China tightens grip over Hong Kong||The Chinese Parliament’s approval for a controversial new security law for Hong Kong has far-reaching implications for the latter’s democratic freedoms and autonomy. The law is aimed at “splittism, subversion of State power, terrorism or interference by foreign countries or outside influences” in the city. Hong Kong’s pro-democracy activists fear that as in China, this law will be misused to silence their criticism of the Chinese government and to crush dissent. Besides, by bypassing the Hong Kong legislature to enact the new security law, Beijing is violating the “one country, two systems” principle that China and the UK agreed upon in 1997, when the former British colony was handed over to China. That principle guarantees Hong Kong civic freedoms and an independent judiciary, while being a part of China. By imposing a security law on Hong Kong, China has undermined its autonomy. Since March last year, Hong Kong has been roiled in unrest over its government’s plans to enact extradition legislation that would allow suspected criminals to face trial in the Chinese mainland. It triggered massive protests. Although Hon Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam eventually suspended and even withdrew the controversial bill, these gestures failed to quell the protests as they had snowballed by then into a larger mass movement for democratic reform. Protesters refused to be cowed down by the government’s use of violence. The crisis caused immense embarrassment not only to the Carrie Lam government but also to Beijing. Successive governments in Hong Kong had attempted to enact a national security law as per Beijing’s wish, but with little success. Rattled by the massive anti-China sentiment on display during the protests last year, Beijing did not want to take any chances. Hence, the decision that it would enact the law for Hong Kong. China appears to be taking advantage of the world’s preoccupation with the Covid-19 pandemic to press ahead with the controversial legislation. It is perhaps hoping that Western countries, which have usually supported pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, will back off and mute their criticism of Beijing. Besides, Beijing will be hoping that public fears of contracting the coronavirus will keep Hong Kong’s residents from pouring into the streets to protest its imposition of laws on the territory. However, protests have already begun. A stable Hong Kong is important for China, especially for its post-pandemic economic recovery. The city is a global commercial and financial hub, which plays a key role in attracting investment into China. Renewed protests in Hong Kong could make things difficult for Beijing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/china-tightens-grip-over-hong-kong-843072.html
29-05-2020||South||After Bengaluru, Tirupur in TN hears puzzling boom||Days after Bengaluru heard a mysterious boom which later turned out to be sonic reverberations of an IAF aircraft, people here on Thursday encountered a similar experience. People in the city and several neighbouing localities heard a "loud sound," a police official in the district headquarters said here, adding it was suspected to have come from "operation of aircraft by the Air force people of Sulur air base." Sulur Air Force Station is about 35 km from here in the outskirts of Coimbatore. People ran out of their houses in villages including Kangeyam, Palladam, Mangalam and Pongalur after hearing the "deafening sound," according to local police. Tirupur District Collector, Vijayakarthikeyan K on his twitter handle said, "the loud sound that was heard today morning across various parts of Tiruppur was most likely a SonicBoom caused by a Supersonic Aircraft. Kindly do not panic or spread rumours ! Defence authorities in Chennai, however, said "the loud sound heard was not due to operation of any aircraft from the Sulur Air Force Station." The Indian Air Force on Wednesday inducted the first light combat aircraft Tejas FOC (Final Operational Clearance) standard and operationalised its Squadron 18 "Flying Bullets" at the Air Force Station at Sulur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-bengaluru-tirupur-in-tn-hears-puzzling-boom-843041.html
29-05-2020||South||Four more COVID-19 deaths in Telangana; 117 fresh cases, tally now 2256||Four more people succumbed to the coronavirus in Telangana pushing the death toll to 67, while 117 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported on Thursday taking the tally to 2,256, authorities said. According to a bulletin issued by the state government, the new cases included 49 Saudi Arabia deportees and two migrant workers. It said 348 people, including deportees, migrants and foreign returnees, have been cumulatively found positive for COVID-19. The bulletin also said 1,345 people have been discharged from hospitals. The number of people under treatment stood at 844. Talking about deportees, the bulletin said the Centre has airlifted 458 deportees from Saudi Arabia and they have been quarantined in government quarantine in the state. State Health Minister E Rajender, who held a meeting with doctors and other officials, urged them to work with the aim of reducing deaths in the state-run Gandhi hospital where the positive patients are treated, an official release said.  He observed that only those who are suffering from chronic diseases are losing their life (after testing positive for COVID-19) and not just because of the virus, it said. In a separate interaction with medical and health officials, Rajender emphasised on medical surveillance for early identification of people with symptoms. The Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) should check for fever symptoms by visiting the houses allotted to them in the villages everyday, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-more-covid-19-deaths-in-telangana-117-fresh-cases-tally-now-2256-843045.html
29-05-2020||South||M P Veerendra Kumar, MD of Malayalam daily Mathrubhumi and Rajya Sabha MP, passes away||M P Veerendra Kumar, the Managing Director of leading Malayalam daily Mathrubhumi and a member of PTI's Board of Directors, died Thursday at a private hospital following cardiac arrest, family sources said. Veerendra Kumar, a Rajya Sabha MP from Kerala and a former union minister, was 84. "He was admitted to the hospital here due to some health complications. But unfortunately he passed away a little before 11 PM," the sources told PTI. He is survived by his wife, three daughters and a son, M V Shreyams Kumar, who is the Joint Managing Director of Mathrubhumi. Veerendra Kumar was elected to the Kerala Legislative Assembly in 1987 and to the Lok Sabha twice. Veerendra Kumar, the Left Democratic Front-backed Independent candidate, was elected to the Rajya Sabha in the elections held for the lone seat from Kerala in March 2018. His last rites will be held at Wayanad tomorrow. Veerendra Kumar had served thrice as the Chairman of Press Trust of India, and at the time of his death was one of the directors in the news agency's board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-p-veerendra-kumar-md-of-malayalam-daily-mathrubhumi-and-rajya-sabha-mp-passes-away-843095.html
29-05-2020||South||65-year-old Gulf returnee succumbs to COVID-19 in Kerala; death toll rises to 8||One more person, who came down from abroad, died of COVID-19 in Kerala on Friday, taking the total number of novel coronavirus deaths in the state to eight. The deceased is a 68-year-old man, a native of Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta. He came down from UAE on May 11 and was under treatment at Kottayam medical college. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that he was suffering was diabetes and was also having other issues like obesity. Efforts to save his life failed.  Seven persons earlier died of COVID-19 in Kerala, including a Telangana native who wrongly boarded a train to Kerala instead of Telangana from Rajasthan. Though a native of Mahe, which is part of Puducherry, died in Kerala earlier, Kerala was yet to include him in state's COVID-19 tally, even as the centre did.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/65-year-old-gulf-returnee-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-kerala-death-toll-rises-to-8-843124.html
29-05-2020||South||Veerendra Kumar, a minister for hardly 48 hours in Kerala||Rajya Sabha member M P Veerendra Kumar, who died at the age of 84 on Thursday night, had been a minister in Kerala for hardly 48 hours. Kumar was elected to the eighth Kerala Legislative Assembly from Kalpetta in Wayanad, his home town, in 1987. He was sworn in a forest minister on April 2, 1987, in the left ministry led by CPM leader E K Nayanar. But owing to differences from within the party as a faction wanted N M Joseph to become the minister, Veerendrakumar decided to resign the next day. According to Kumar's website, immediately after swearing-in, he decided to ban felling of trees in forests. Following pressure to withdraw the order, he resigned. Veteran political analysts K G Parameswaran Nair recollected that in-fight in the Janatha party was the key reason for Kumar's resignation. "After swearing-in in Thiruvananthapuram, he headed towards his home town for reception. But before the reception was over he had to resign. Some media had then termed him as 'Ek Din Ka Raja' (one day king)," Nair recollects. Kumar was Loktantrik Janata Dal state president in Kerala. He was Lok Sabha member during 1996-98 and 2004-2009 and served as Minister of State, Finance in 1997 and Minister of State for Labour (Independent Charge) in 1997-98. He was Rajya Sabha MP from 2016 to 2017. He was then a JD(U) leader and had resigned from Rajya Sabha after JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar decided to join NDA. He remained with the Sharad Yadav faction and got re-elected to Rajya Sabha in 2018 March. Kumar was also serving as Managing Director and Chairman of a prominent Malayalam media group that brings out the widely-read daily Mathrubhumi. He authored over 20 books and won over 100 awards. Kumar was born on July 26, 1936, at Kalpetta in Wayanad. His father M K Padmaprabha Gowder was a member of Madras Legislative Assembly and mother Marudevi. He is survived by his wife Usha, son Shreyams Kumar, who is a former MLA, and three daughters. Funeral was held near his ancestral home at Kalpetta in Wayanad with state honours by 5 pm on Friday. Owing to lockdown, restrictions were imposed on the number of persons to pay last respects. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and many other prominent leaders condoled Kumar's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/veerendra-kumar-a-minister-for-hardly-48-hours-in-kerala-843150.html
29-05-2020||South||Post-treatment COVID-19 recovery rate highest in Tamil Nadu, says CM; slams opposition||Averring that the rate of recovery after successful treatment for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu stood at 54.4 per cent, the highest in India, Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday slammed opposition parties for faulting his government on containing the lethal virus. He said that ever since the first Coronavirus case was detected (in early March), his government swung into action and launched appropriate measures to contain the spread of the virus, besides taking up screening and treatment on a war footing. "It is wrong to say that our government has failed to contain the virus. From day one we stepped up our vigil and took prompt measures to minimise the loss of lives," Palaniswami said. The recovery rate of the coronavirus infected people following successful treatment at government institutions was 54.4 per cent, the highest in India, he claimed. Also, compared to the developed nations, the death rate was minimal in Tamil Nadu, he said. The Chief Minister detailed the measures taken by the AIADMK government to tackle the contagion since March 24 when he ordered a lockdown in the State, at a press conference here on Friday. He appealed to the public to co-operate with the government in the battle against Coronavirus. Apart from extending relief to various sectors, the Chief Minister said he had issued orders to facilitate hassle-free distribution of essential commodities through fair price shops to all family ration cardholders, for three months till June. Meanwhile, Palaniswami is all set to review the lockdown situation tomorrow with the team of medical experts. The over two-month lockdown will end on May 31. A cross section of doctors favour the lockdown extension, at least in Chennai, in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/post-treatment-covid-19-recovery-rate-highest-in-tamil-nadu-says-cm-slams-opposition-843209.html
29-05-2020||South||Prez Kovind, PM Modi condole Veerendra Kumar's death||A host of leaders led by President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the death of M P Veerendra Kumar, Rajya Sabha member and Managing Director of Malayalam daily 'Mathrubhumi', who passed away late last night. State Ministers, the general public and a slew of journalists paid floral tributes to Kumar's mortal remains at Kozhikode before his body was taken to his native Wayanad district for funeral this evening. Veerendra Kumar had served thrice as the Chairman of Press Trust of India, and at the time of his death was one of the directors in the news agency's board, besides helming the popular Malayalam daily. President Kovind on his twitter handle said, "Sad to hear of the passing of Shri M.P. Veerendra Kumar, Rajya Sabha MP and former Union Minister. A staunch socialist, he enriched the field of journalism and literature by leading the influential Malayalam newspaper, Mathrubhumi. Condolences to his family and well-wishers." Vice President M Venkiah Naidu said, "He was a multifaceted personality. The veteran leader was also an accomplished journalist and a prolific writer." Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, "Anguished by the passing away of Rajya Sabha MP Shri M.P. Veerendra Kumar Ji. He distinguished himself as an effective legislator and Parliamentarian. He believed in giving voice to the poor and underprivileged. Condolences to his family and well wishers. Om Shanti." Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, in his tributes said, "The mark of his versatility & commitment to values are visible in diverse areas like Media management & journalism. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. May his soul rest in peace." Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan described the 83-year-old leader's demise as a big loss to democratic and secular movements. "Until his last breath, he relentlessly fought communalism and divisive politics. Even as he championed development, Veerendra Kumar was a front-line environmentalist as well. I share this moment of deep grief with his relatives and colleagues," Vijayan wrote in a Facebook post. Former Prime Minister Deve Gowda and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi were among the leaders who condoled the death of the member of the Rajya Sabha. A noted socialist leader in Kerala, Veerendra Kumar will be cremated at Kalpetta in the hill district of Kerala this evening. Kerala Transport minister A K Saseendran placed a wreath on behalf of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. State Ministers K Krishnankutty, Kadannappaly Ramachandran, MPs and MLas were among the prominent people who paid respects to Veerendra Kumar following social distancing norms. The mortal remains were later taken to his ancestral home at Kalpetta in Wayanad district where the funeral will be held. A well known environmentalist, Veerendra Kumar resigned 48 hours after being appointed Power minister in the E K Nayanar cabinet in March 1987 after issuing his first order banning cutting of trees in the state's forests. The socialist leader had contested the Lok Sabha election in 1991 from Kozhikode, but was defeated by K Muraleedharan. In 1996 and 2004, he won from the same constituency to the lower house of Parliament. In 2016-17, he was elected as Congress-led UDF's representative to the Rajya Sabha, while in 2018 he was elected to the Upper house as an independent candidate, supported by the Left parties. He was Minister of State for Labour (Independent Charge) with additional charges as Minister of State, Urban Affairs and Employment (Independent Charge) and Parliamentary Affairs between 1997 and 98 in the I K Gujral Cabinet and was Minister of State for Finance in 1997 in the H D Deve Gowda Ministry. Veerendra Kumar was in the forefront of the anti- globalisation and environmental movements and peoples struggle against exploitation of water and pollution,allegedly caused by a beverages company at Plachimada village in Palakkad district. He had headed the Janata Dal(U) in Kerala for a long time before parting ways when its national president and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar became an ally of the BJP-led NDA. He later joined the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) led by Sharad Yadav. Veerendra Kumar was a recipient of various awards for his contributions to society and had also served as president of The Indian Newspaper Society between 2003 and 04. A well known author, he had penned over 15 books, including "Ramante Dhukham", "BuddhanteChiri" and the Kendra Sahitiiya Akademi winning travelogue " Haimavathabhoovil". He is survived by wife Usha, three daughters and son M V Shreyams Kumar, who is the joint Managing Director of The Mathrubhumi Printing and Publishing Company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prez-kovind-pm-modi-condole-veerendra-kumars-death-843285.html
29-05-2020||South||DMK moves SC for implementation of 50 pc OBC quota in TN’s share of All India Medical seats||The DMK party has moved the Supreme Court seeking 50 per cent OBC reservation in seats surrendered by Tamil Nadu in the All India Quota for under graduate, post graduate medical and dental courses in 2020-21. The party said its plea is directed against the Respondents (Centre, Medical Council of India (MCI) and Tamil Nadu government) denying the implementation of 50 per cent OBC policy of the state, other than in central government institutions. It said the MCI regulations clearly contemplate adherence to state reservation laws while filling up of the seats. “That the Director General of Health Services, Medical Counselling Committee and the Medical Council of India and Dental Council of India have grossly failed to provide reservations for Other Backward Classes (OBC) students in admissions to the Under Graduate, Diploma, PG Diploma and Post Graduate medical courses in all medical colleges across the country in the category of‘ state surrendered seats to the All India Quota’ in Government and private medical colleges other than the Central Government institutions,” the plea said. The party said that the All India Quota seats are contributed by States surrendering seats in the Government and private medical and dental colleges as per the MCI regulations. “As per the applicable MCI and DCI regulations, 15 per cent seats are surrendered by State Government and private colleges in under graduate and diploma courses and 50 per cent seats are surrendered to the All India Quota in post graduate courses both in private and government colleges,” the plea said. It said that in Tamil Nadu there is 69 per cent reservations for OBCs, SC and ST and within this, OBC reservations are about 50 per cent. The party sought ad-interim injunction restraining the Respondents from proceeding further with All India Counselling for PG seats pursuant to the NEET-PG 2020 results without following the 50 per cent reservation for OBC quota in Tamil Nadu pending disposal of the plea. It also sought ad-interim injunction restraining them from proceeding with conducting the NEET-UG 2020 or any counselling thereof without following the 50 per cent reservation for OBC quota in Tamil Nadu. The party also sought direction for calling of the records of the Respondent pertaining to the Result of NEET-PG, 2020 published on May 9, 2020 by the National Board of Examinations relating to the filling up of the All India Quota and quashing of the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-moves-sc-for-implementation-of-50-pc-obc-quota-in-tn-s-share-of-all-india-medical-seats-843345.html
29-05-2020||South||Jayalalithaa's nephew and niece entitled to her properties: Madras HC||Two days after it declared the nephew and niece of late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa as her legal heir, the Madras High Court on Friday said the duo was entitled to her properties under the Hindu Sucession Act. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose passed an order in which it stated that Deepak and Deepa, nephew and niece of Jayalalithaa were her legal heir as per section 15(2)(a) of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956. "... Hence, in the order passed on May 27 it has been inadvertently stated that the petitioner (Deepak) and Deepa have become the legal heirs of Late Chief Minister Dr J Jayalalithaa under Entry IV Class II of Hindu Succession Act, 1956," it said. However, in respect of the properties inherited by the former Chief Minister from her mother, the petitioner and the respondent are legal heirs as per Section 15(2)(a) of the Act. With regard to self acquisitions of Jayalalithaa, the petitioner and the respondent are the legal heirs as per Section 15(1)(d) of the Hindu Succession Act,1956. Accordingly, they are entitled to succeed to the estate of their aunt, the court said. Meanwhile, referring to the arrival of Deepa at Jayalalithaa's 'Veda Nilayam' residence here and addressing the media, Advocate General Vijay Narayan made a mention before the bench that she 'made a scene.' The bench then asked the counsel for Deepak and Deepa to instruct their clients to desist from such acts and advised the duo to proceed legally in matters relating to their aunt's assets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jayalalithaas-nephew-and-niece-entitled-to-her-properties-madras-hc-843376.html
29-05-2020||South||30 jail inmates test positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||As many as 30 convicts lodged at the Central Prison in Puzhal near here have tested positive for coronavirus. Those tested positive have been quarantined at a separate block inside the prison.  Two prisoners who were lodged in Cuddalore prison tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this week. Sources said the swab samples of 30 prisoners rendered positive on Friday and symptomatic prisoners inside the complex will be tested.   The largest prison complex in the country, Puzhal Central jail houses 850 inmates at present. There was no clarity on how the prisoners contracted the virus.  As many as 874 persons tested positive in Tamil Nadu on Friday. The tally has now gone beyond 20,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/30-jail-inmates-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu-843391.html
29-05-2020||State||Karnataka State Election Commission postpones gram panchayat polls||The Karnataka State Election Commission on Thursday announced postponement of gram panchayat polls citing the COVID-19 pandemic. Out of 6,025 gram panchayats, the tenure of 5,800 gram panchayats will end by June-August 2020. "After examining the feasibility of conducting general elections to gram panchayats, the State Election Commission, considering the current situation as exceptional circumstance, has decided to temporarily postpone the general elections to the gram panchayats," the SEC said in a release. It said after examining the situation in the days to come, the decision will be taken on holding the general elections to the gram panchayats. The CEC also states that report by Deputy Commissioners of districts on holding the elections was verified and it has been found that district administrations are involved in COVID-19 related work and there will be shortage of staff and transport facilities for the elections. Besides, there would be a problem in maintaining law and order. Last week through a letter to Deputy Commissioners of districts, the commission had sought opinion on holding panchayat polls amid the COVID-19 crisis. It had also pointed out that electoral roll needs to be prepared and reservations had to be allocated as per the new amendments. Stating that the state election commission's decision to postpone gram panchayat elections was against the provisions of the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act 1993, the Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said the Congress will question this "undemocratic act" in the court of law. He accused the commission of playing to the BJP's tune and said the congress will protest the decision at gram panchayat level. Opposition parties in the state, especially congress, have been demanding elections. The government was in favour of postponement of polls and wants to have administrative committees to govern the panchayats, until the polls are held, according to government sources. The Congress, raising apprehension about administrative committees, has accused the government of conspiring to have ruling BJP workers as its members. A congress delegation had last week submitted a petition to State Election Commissioner B Basavaraju and urged the Commission to hold elections. The congress had even suggested continuation of sitting panchayat members until the polls are held, instead of appointing administrative committees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-state-election-commission-postpones-gram-panchayat-polls-843036.html
29-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt relaxes norms to claim relief package||The government relaxed norms to claim one-time relief for artisans, barbers, auto and taxi drivers here Thursday. The Cabinet decision was after complaints of inconvenience caused to the beneficiaries to claim relief from the the Rs 1,610 crore package, due to the set of regulations and documents sought by authorities. Karnataka had announced Rs 5,000 relief to people affected in various sectors by the lockdown on May 6. "The government had sought numbers from Transport Department and was ready to disburse relief for auto and taxi drivers. However, there were cases of one auto having two or three drivers working in shifts," he said. In such cases, government has allowed to relax norms and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed authorities to cover the increase in expenses, Madhuswamy said. Relief of Rs 5,000 to maize farmers was restricted to those who grew the crop in Rabi season alone. However, owing to demands the government will extend the facility to those who grew the crop in Khariff season too. In another one-time relaxation, the Cabinet increased maximum age for those applying for Police Sub-Inspector exams. The age limit was relaxed from 28 to 30 years for the general category and 30 to 32 years for those under reserved categories. In memory of the recently deceased Kannada poet Nissar Ahmed, state government sanctioned 2.2 acre land at Motlaru village of Chikkaballapur district to run an education trust. Cabinet approval was required as it was 'B' Kharab land, Madhuswamy said. MLC seats: CM to nominate candidates  The state Cabinet authorized Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to nominate candidates for the five MLC seats falling vacant in the Legislative Council on June 23. A total of 16 seats will fall vacant in the Council during the month, of which seven will be elected by the Legislative Assembly and four are elected by Teachers' and Graduates' constituencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-relaxes-norms-to-claim-relief-package-843013.html
29-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Monsoon likely to onset over Karnataka by June 1||Karnataka, unlike in the past, is all set to witness the arrival of South-West monsoon just as when the neighbouring Kerala witnesses it on June 1. While Karnataka used to witness the onset of monsoon either five or six days after it had entered Kerala, this time, after several years hiatus, Karnataka will also witness the arrival of monsoon either on June 1 or June 2, according to meteorologists at the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell (KSNDMC). The gradual formation of two low-pressure areas over the Arabian Sea located close to the western peninsular coast and gaining momentum has helped Karnataka mark the start of the four-month-long rainy season expected to revive the back-to-back drought-stricken state. Confirming the changes in the atmospheric pattern to DH, Dr GS Srinivasa Reddy, Director KSNDMC said, “Karnataka will also witness the onset of monsoon on the same time that of Kerala.” The early onset of monsoon over Karnataka coast is attributed to prevailing to weather pattern over the Arabian Sea. “The two low-pressure areas over the Arabian Sea are steadily gaining momentum. They may reach the peak by the weekend and may concentrate further into depression causing widespread rainfall in the peninsular region and thereby advancing the onset of monsoon over the region,” Dr Reddy explained. The KSNDMC, based on the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, stated that due to 'prevailing favourable conditions over the Indian Ocean and Pacific Ocean regions', the monsoon will be normal and above normal over coastal and south-interior Karnataka according to the present scenario. The IMD, which had initially issued a forecast of five-day delay in the onset, had issued a fresh forecast on Wednesday cautioning the states along the West coast about the formation of two intense low-pressure areas in South-East and East-Central Arabian Sea region. Following the forecast, a yellow alert has also been issued in Kerala and coastal areas suggesting significant rainfall starting from this weekend. “Fishermen have also been advised not to venture into deep-sea due to high turbulent conditions,” an IMD official revealed. Will India see yet another cyclone? The Arabian Sea region which has remained relatively calm for over six-months is now witnessing considerable changes especially days after the cyclone Amphan. IMD officials told DH that the existing low-pressure areas are likely to intensify into a depression with wind speed notching up to 50 kmph over Western Coast. If the same system with the arrival of monsoon gains momentum it may intensify further and become a cyclone and move towards Gujarat coast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/monsoon-likely-to-onset-over-karnataka-by-june-1-843015.html
29-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre against Karnataka's move to increase working days: Minister||Karnataka Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy on Thursday said the Centre has objected to the state's decision to increase working days at factories, and the matter would be discussed in the next cabinet meeting. "....the Centre has raise objection to extending working days and has said it should be brought down. We will amend it....I will share the details after the next cabinet meet, the matter did not come up today (Thursday), we have received the letter," Madhuswamy told reporters in response to a question after the cabinet meeting. He noted that a couple of states that had increased the working hours have withdrawn it. The Karnataka government had, on May 22, issued a notification allowing factories to extend working hours upto 10 hours a day and 60 hours a week till August 21. The extension of work hours is from the existing eight hours a day and 48 hours a week. Pointing out that while announcing COVID-19 relief package, the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had announced Rs 5,000 per acre for maize farmers, Madhuswamy said while issuing the circular which mentioned that relief would be applicable to rabi crop, as it would not benefit many farmers. Now, it has now been decided to give Rs 5,000 per acre to all maize farmers, irrespective of rabi or kharif. There were also several rules and regulations for barbers, autorickshaw and taxi drivers among others to claim their one-time compensation of Rs 5,000, the Minister said. "We have decided to relax most of them (rules) other than those essential and give compensation, as regulations wouldn't have benefited many," he said. With five nominated seats of legislative council falling vacant on June 23, the cabinet has authorised the Chief Minister to nominate for 5 seats. The cabinet also gave post-facto approval for Karnataka Repealing of Certain Enactments and Regional Law Bill 2020 that has been passed by the legislature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-against-karnatakas-move-to-increase-working-days-minister-843047.html
29-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Prof M R Doreswamy for digital mode of education||Prof M R Doreswamy, advisor (education reforms) to the Government of Karnataka, has suggested to the Chief Minister to promote a digital mode of education to continue the bonding between teacher and student even during crisis situations like COVID-19 pandemic. In a set of recommendations submitted to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, he urged for the need to set up a dedicated university for specially-abled children. "In Uttar Pradesh, there is a dedicated university for specially-abled children and state needs to follow the path as there are funds available from Union government for development of specially-abled persons," he mentioned.  Other recommendations made by Prof Doreswamy include:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/prof-m-r-doreswamy-for-digital-mode-of-education-843156.html
29-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bajrang Dal leader, 3 others booked for 'assaulting' boy, forcing him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' in Karnataka||A right wing activist who assaulted a minor boy for not chanting 'Jai Shri Ram’, at Kadumata school near Kolnadu in Vittal police station limits, was arrested on Friday by Vittal police. 25 year-old Dinesh Kanyana was arrested for assaulting and committing robbery. His three accomplices who are minors were sent to fit institution in Bondel, sources told DH. Video clippings of Dinesh assaulting the minor for not chanting 'Jai Shri Ram' had gone viral on social media prompting the victim and his parents to file a complaint in Vittal police station.  Senior police officials informed that a case of kidnap, assault and robbery was filed against Dinesh. Dinesh a regular offender has cases of assault registered against him in same police station. Police sources added that the reason behind the assault is being investigated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bajrang-dal-leader-3-others-booked-for-assaulting-boy-forcing-him-to-chant-jai-shri-ram-in-karnataka-843222.html
29-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown likely to extend from June 1: S T Somashekar||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that the lockdown is likely to be relaxed from June 1. The minister said that he will urge Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to impose a temporary ban on entry of migrants to the state.    After inaugurating the multi-village drinking water project at Kanagalu village, Periyapatna taluk on Friday, he expressed hopes on relaxing the lockdown guidelines. The minister said, “The government will decide on opening temples, shopping malls and other business establishments, based on the decision of the Union government.”  He said, “Covid-19 is under control in Mysuru district, but a few cases were reported due to migrants from other states. Now, we are quarantining such migrants, to contain the spread of Covid-19.” The minister appreciated the people’s representatives and officials, led by Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, for their efforts to tackle Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-likely-to-extend-from-june-1-s-t-somashekar-843375.html
29-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Can engineer defections from Congress, claims Jarkiholi||Karnataka Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Friday claimed that 22 Congress MLAs were in touch with him and he could get five of them to defect 'on a trial basis' within a week if the BJP high command gives him the go-ahead. Congress was quick to react, saying his remarks only showed that all was not well within the BJP. "If the BJP high command permits, I can get five Congress MLAs to defect immediately. There are 22 Congress MLAs in touch with me, but on a trial basis I can get five of them to break away in a week," Jarkiholi told reporters in Chamarajnagar. Jarkhiholi's remarks came a day after a section of MLAs from North Karnataka met at the residence of former MP Ramesh Katti at Bellad Bagewadi in Belagavi district in the backdrop of coming elections to four Rajya Sabha seats from the state. Vijayapura BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who was among those who attended the meeting, on Friday expressed dissatisfaction with Yediyurappa's style of functioning, saying some works had not been completed despite the MLAs taking them up with the Chief Minister. He did not elaborate on what the works were. To a question, Jarkiholi said nothing much need be read into the meeting and claimed that things would be 'set right' with the help of seniors in the party. There was no threat to the BJP government in Karnataka and it would complete its term, he said. "Not only is the government safe for the next three years, but also for five years after the current term is over," he said. Reacting to Jarkhiholi's remarks, the Congress said it only made it clear that all was not well in the ruling BJP and it was only an attempt to keep its flock together. "If the government was stable, then there was no need for them to try and engineer defections. It is only to send a message to dissident BJP MLAs that there is no threat to the government even if they leave the party," party spokesperson A N Nataraj Gowda told PTI. Gowda opined that Yediyurappa may be forced to step down within a year. Meanwhile, state Agriculture Minister B C Patil too asserted that there was no threat to the government. Declining to comment on Yatnal's statement, Patil told reporters in Bengaluru that the BJP government is safe. To a question on the alleged interference of Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra in the government, Patil wondered how it was possible to cut off family ties when one holds an important post in the government. "Why should we conclude their participation in the government is interference?" Patil argued. He added that everyone has a democratic right to be in politics, which cannot be taken away. Ramesh Jarkiholi and B C Patil were among the key rebels who had spearheaded the dissidence in Congress. They were elected as Congress MLAs in 2018 until they resigned from the Karnataka assembly in June 2019 to join BJP later. They successfully contested the December 2019 assembly bypolls and became ministers in the Yediyurappa government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/can-engineer-defections-from-congress-claims-jarkiholi-843409.html
29-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Restaurants likely to halve their seating capacity||Reduced seating capacity, a short menu and self-service: this is how your local hotel might function in the coronavirus times. As the state government mulls allowing dine-in services, hotels, like other pandemic-hit sectors, are set to witness a sea-change in the way they operate.  According to the Karnataka Pradesh Hotel and Restaurants Association (KPHRA), seating arrangements are likely to be reduced by 50% and the menu will be cut down to accommodate dishes that can be served quickly. While awaiting guidelines from the government, the association had already begun prep work to equip its members to deal with the crisis, said PC Rao, President, KPHRA. “For instance, in a four-seater table, we will arrange seating for only two. If the hotel has a 50-seat capacity, we will limit it to only 25 to ensure adequate social distancing,” Rao told DH. The association was also looking at ensuring that customers did not have to spend too much time waiting for service. Hence, dishes that can be served quickly will be offered on the menu, according to Rao. Not just this, hotel managements also want to reduce human interface in general. “We are looking at creating separate buffet-like counters, where customers can pick up their respective orders instead of waiters offering service at the customer’s table,” said Madhukar Shetty, secretary, KPHRA. Other measures the KPHRA was mulling to ensure safety and hygiene include fumigating restaurant premises, ensuring CCTVs in all kitchens, checking the temperature of customers and staff and sanitising vegetables and fruits.   Further, members of the association are undergoing online training on how hygiene and safety can be maintained during the pandemic, the members said. The KPHRA has more than one lakh restaurants and hotels under its umbrella. Arun Adiga, who runs the iconic Vidyarthi Bhavan, said cutting down seating arrangement seemed inevitable under the circumstances. They were also mulling the creation of partitions to maintain social distancing between customers. “It will look similar to workstations in offices. However, we will wait for the government guidelines before finalising these decisions,” he said. Meanwhile, under immense pressure to resume dining services, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has written to the Centre seeking guidelines for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-restaurants-likely-to-halve-their-seating-capacity-843412.html
29-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka sees biggest single-day spike of 248 cases||Karnataka on Friday reported 248 Covid-19 cases, the highest spike in a single day, as a large number of people who returned from other states continue to test positive. Out of the 248 cases, 227 (91.5%) are interstate passengers; 208 of them returned from Maharashtra. One international passenger also tested positive on Friday. Maharashtra is one of the five states from which passengers are restricted entry into Karnataka by road.  A 50-year-old woman from Chikkaballapur district died on Friday, taking the state's virus toll to 48, apart from two suicides. The woman was shifted to a Covid-19 hospital in Bengaluru owing to acute kidney injury and pneumonia on Thursday. She tested positive on Thursday and died on Friday.     Majority of Friday's cases were reported from three districts: Raichur (62), Kalaburagi (61) and Yadgir (60). The other districts that reported cases in double digit include Udupi (15) and Bengaluru (12). Bengaluru Urban has seven patients whose contacts are still under tracing, one from Andhra Pradesh, one who returned from Tamil Nadu, and three returnees from Delhi.   A person who suffered from Influenza-like Illness (ILI) in Bengaluru Rural was diagnosed with Covid-19. Chikkaballapur had a contact of a previously diagnosed patient, an ILI case, one patient whose contact is still being traced, and one SARI case. Davangere had three cases who are contacts of previously diagnosed patients and an ILI case. Mysuru had a returnee from Rajasthan who tested positive. Shivamogga and Chitradurga had a returnee each from Delhi who tested positive. Chikkamagaluru had two returnees from Delhi who tested positive. Hassan had three contacts of a previously diagnosed patient and one from a containment zone who tested positive. Tumakuru had a Delhi returnee and Ballari had seven from Rajasthan and one from Gujarat who tested positive.    Sixty patients were discharged on Friday alone. With this, the total number of recoveries in the state is 894. The total number of active cases is 1,837 while the total positive cases is 2,781. There are 15 patients admitted in the ICU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-of-248-cases-843423.html
29-05-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||CM B S Yediyurappa, Kateel will resolve party issues, says Suresh Angadi||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi said that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel will resolve any differences of opinion among party leaders including elected representatives.  If anybody has any issues, they should get them resolved by talking with Yediyurappa and Kateel. Internal matters, if any, should not be discussed in public, he said. Angadi told reporters here on Friday that differences of opinion among party leaders have not come to his notice. A section of party leaders assembling for dinner should not be constituted as a meeting of dissidents. BJP has internal democracy and any differences of opinion if exist will be resolved at the party forum. He added that if MLA Umesh Katti has any issues regarding cabinet berth or regarding assurances given to him by Yediyurappa during the Lok Sabha elections, he should talk with the chief minister. Everyone in politics has aspirations and it's natural. Those aspiring for the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections should talk with the chief minister or the state president, he said. Ramesh Katti was former MP and there was nothing wrong in him being aspirant for Rajya Sabha elections, he said. Angadi said, "Party is supreme. We shall work for the victory of party candidates irrespective of who they were". A state cabinet meeting was held on Thursday. Many of the MLAs too had been to Bengaluru for constituency-related works. As they had been meeting after a long time, all gathered for dinner, he expressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-kateel-will-resolve-party-issues-says-suresh-angadi-843169.html
29-05-2020||West||BJP MLA tests positive for coronavirus in Gujarat||A BJP MLA in Gujarat tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday and was admitted to a private hospital. His condition was stable, said state BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya. Congress MLA Imran Khedawala took a jibe at the MLA for not opting for government-run hospitals. Did the BJP legislator not trust the state government's claim that government hospitals were providing the best treatment, he asked. Khedawala himself had got treated at a government hospital after he contracted virus and recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-mla-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-gujarat-843038.html
29-05-2020||West||369 new coronavirus cases in Pune district, ten deaths||With 369 new coronavirus patients detected, the number of cases in Pune district rose to 7,012 on Thursday, a health official said. Ten COVID-19 patients died during the day, taking the death toll in the district due to the pandemic to 310. Pune city accounted for 320 of the 369 new cases, followed by Pimpri Chinchwad at 31 and cantonment and rural areas with 18 new cases, the official added. "Pune city has reported 5,927 COVID-19 cases so far, Pimpri Chinchwad 467 and rural areas 618," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/369-new-coronavirus-cases-in-pune-district-ten-deaths-843052.html
29-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Mumbai Naval dockyard develops UV disinfection system||The Naval Dockyard (Mumbai) has manufactured a UV sanitisation bay to meet this emerging requirement. The UV bay will be utilised for decontamination of tools, clothes and other miscellaneous items, to control the spread of the novel coronavirus.  The challenging task required ingenuity to convert a large common room into a UV bay by fabrication of aluminium sheets electrical arrangements for UV-C lighting.  The facility utilises UV-C light source for Germicidal Irradiation towards sterilising items. Studies by reputed research agencies have proven the effect of UV-C on respiratory pathogens like SARS, Influenza etc. It has been observed that microbial pathogens become significantly less viable when exposed to UV-C of intensity 1 J/cm2 for 1 min or more, indicating effective sterilisation. A similar facility has also been set up at the Naval Station (Karanja), where in addition to UV-C steriliser, an industrial oven has also been placed, which heats smaller sized belongings to 60°C, a temperature known to kill most microbes. The facility is placed at the entry/exit points where it will help in mitigating COVID-19 transmission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-mumbai-naval-dockyard-develops-uv-disinfection-system-843085.html
29-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Branding migrant workers as COVID-19 spreaders is inappropriate, West Bengal Govenor tells CM Mamata Banerjee||The Governor in a series of tweets said that the returning migrant workers belong to the state, adding that they should be treated as assets and not a liability. He also said that they were forced to leave the state in search of livelihood.  “Migrant labour returning to State are our own. In search of livelihood, they were forced to leave State. Branding them as Covid spreaders is inappropriate-too disappointing, too disheartening. They are our assets and not liability @MamataOfficial,” tweeted Dhankhar. Branding them as Covid spreaders is inappropriate-too disappointing, too disheartening He also urged the chief minister to observe all the protocols related to COVID-19 but be humane in dealing with the issue of migrant workers. “Observe all the protocols that COVID-19 advisories warrant, but be humane @MamataOfficial. We must appreciate the desire of our daughters and sons to return in times of distress to be with their dear ones,” tweeted Dhankhar. We must appreciate desire of our daughters and sons to return in times of distress to be with their dear ones. (2/3) Dhankhar said that the migrant workers deserve to be greeted with warmth upon their return and to be with their families during the ongoing pandemic crisis. “They deserve warmth upon return to their homes and be with their families in this unprecedented pandemic crisis,” tweeted Dhankhar. They deserve warmth upon return to their homes and be with their families in this unprecedented pandemic crisis. (3/3) His comments come as a day after the CM Mamata Banerjee said that she was concerned with the Railways sending 36 Shramik Special trains to Bengal from Maharashtra within a short span of time without prior intimation the state government. She asked would the Centre take responsibility if this causes a major spike in COVID-19 cases in Bengal. Banerjee said that many among those who are coming from other states are infected and how will it be possible for the state administration to screen such a large number of people. She sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-branding-migrant-workers-as-covid-19-spreaders-is-inappropriate-west-bengal-govenor-tells-cm-mamata-banerjee-843088.html
29-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Nagpur man killed with head smashed in||A man was found dead with his head smashed in at Pardi area of Maharashtra's Nagpur city, police said on Friday. The body of an unidentified man in his 20s was found by locals in the area on Thursday morning, following which the police were alerted, deputy commissioner of police (zone 5) Neelotpal said. According to preliminary investigations, the man's head was smashed in with a stone and several injury marks were also found on his private parts, he said. Empty liquor bottles were also found near the victim's body, which has been sent for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of death and possibility of sexual assault, he added. A case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified accused and further probe is underway, the senior official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-nagpur-man-killed-with-head-smashed-in-843118.html
29-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Dharavi among Mumbai's worst COVID-19-affected areas||Mumbai, the commercial capital of India, has so far reported over 35,000 cases and 1,150 deaths. Nearly 25,000 of them are among the active cases. There are 24 wards in the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), that covers two districts Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban. The G-North ward that comprises Dharavi, Mahim and Dadar is the worst affected with 2,728 cases, as per data analysed till May 27.   In fact, Dadar, was the first planned area of Mumbai, the hub of Marathi culture, while the Dharavi area, the biggest slum cluster of Asia, is hub of migrants. This is the only ward in Mumbai that has over 2,500 cases.  Five of the Mumbai wards have positive cases between 2,000 and 2,500,  while nine have cases between 1,500 and 2,000. If one looks at the safest place, it is R-North that comprises Dahisar and parts of Borivli in the far western suburbs,  that has reported 309 cases.  After the Dadar-Dharavi-Mumbai belt, the next worst-affected area is E-Ward that comprises Byculla, Madanpura, Agripada, Nagpada, Dockyard, Reay Road and Mazgaon - totalling 2,438 cases. The F-North area has 2,377 cases and it comprises Matunga, Sion, Antop Hill,  Wadala and Hindu Colony - and the area is a neighbourhood of worst-affected G-North ward. After F-North ward comes L ward,  which comprises Kurla, Sakinaka, Chandivli and Asalpha with 2,321 cases.     Following it is H-East,  that has 2,094 cases and comprises Bandra East,  Santacruz East and Khar East.  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's private bungalow Matoshree is in Bandra East.  With 2,049 cases,  the K-West ward comprising Andheri West, Juhu,  Jogeshwari West, Versova and Oshiwara.  This place is home to several film and TV personalities.   Then comes the G-South area comprising Worli, Prabhadevi, Elphinstone and Lower Parel with 1,905 cases. Originally part of the mill land of Girangaon, here offices of big companies and malls are located.  Then comes the K-East ward with 1,875 cases - and comprises of Vile Parle East,  Andheri East and Jogeshwari East.  The M East ward comprising Govandi, Shivaji Nagar,  Anushakti Nagar, Deonar,  Cheetah Camp and Mankhurd with 1,648 cases is a big area of concern because of mushrooming slums.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-dharavi-among-mumbais-worst-covid-19-affected-areas-843129.html
29-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Door-to-door testing to be done in Nashik, Malegaon||ESDS Software Solution Pvt. Ltd, one of India’s leading IT solutions company, has rolled out its mobile x-ray testing vans that can detect the possibility of COVID-19 in a patient in less than five minutes in Nashik district and Malegaon. This enables suspected patients and hospitals to take a decision quickly and without losing time, which is critical to stop the spread of this virus. These vans will be moving around in Nashik district and Malegaon across all the three zones (Green, Orange and Red). The aim is to provide door-to-door services across the regions. The other existing tests, such as the SWAB test, take between four to five days before the results are out which is very time consuming for everyone. Swab test is recommended only after the fifth day from the time of infection while AA+ software claims to read the x-ray of a person positively within 24 hours of infection.  Speaking on the occasion, Piyush Somani, Founder, CMD & CEO, ESDS, said, “The AA+COVID-19 mobile x-ray vans will help us reach patients at short notice and relieve the pressure on the hospitals in Nashik and Malegaon and our accuracy rate is over 96 per cent giving both the patient and the hospital the confidence to take the next steps immediately and stop the chain of transmission.” He further added, “Both the Nashik and Malegaon municipal corporations are using this technology and we have also partnered with over 50 hospitals and radiologists in the region. People need not be worried about x-ray radiation as we are using new generation digital x-ray machines which have much lesser radiation and in India x-ray machines are very commonly used in hospitals, it’s my firm belief that the only way to break the chain of COVID-19 is x-ray based rapid detection and isolation of the COVID-19 carriers till they test negative.’’ ESDS is also inviting partners, NGOs, hospitals and radiologists to collaborate with them and this will help make the technology available to everyone and help in curbing the spread of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-door-to-door-testing-to-be-done-in-nashik-malegaon-843168.html
29-05-2020||West||COVID-19 reunites West Bengal family||The COVID-19 pandemic has separated many from their loved ones. Some succumbed to the virus and some are stranded far away from their families due to the nationwide lockdown. But things turned out to be a bit different for a family in West Bardhaman district in West Bengal. They were reunited because of the pandemic. It all started 21 years ago when Suresh Prasad from Burnpur suddenly left home and went to Delhi after a tiff with his family. Prasad, a daily wage earner, left behind his aged father, wife, son and two daughters. All these years, apart from one letter, he was not in touch with family. But on Thursday afternoon, his family members got a pleasant surprise. They got a call from the local Hirapur Police Station. They were told that Prasad had returned from Delhi in a special train on Wednesday night.  Soon, they rushed to the government run hospital in Asansol where Prasad have been kept for a checkup. It was an emotional moment when Prasad met with his family after 21 years. According to sources in the district police, despite maintaining social distancing, both sides were able to recognise each other. They said that overwhelmed with emotions both sides remained silent for a while. Then his wife Urmila told Prasad: “After leaving home, you only sent a letter eight years ago saying that you will return soon. But you didn’t.” Prasad remained silent for a while as tears began to trickle down his eyes. Later, he said that he was not getting any work in Delhi due to the lockdown and decided to return home. His family members told him that his two daughters were married by this time and his father was no more. The family was sustained by Prasad’s father all these years. “Everything has changed here but my family has remained the same,” was all Prasad said before tears choked his voice. However, he has to wait for some more days before going home as his swab test result is yet to arrive. Till then he has to remain in quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-reunites-west-bengal-family-843184.html
29-05-2020||West||Gujarat: Infant twins recover from COVID-19 in Mehsana||Twin brother and sister from Mehsana district of Gujarat, who had tested positive for COVID-19 within few days of birth, have recovered from the deadly infection, an official said on Friday. The twins, who were the youngest COVID-19 patients in Gujarat, will be discharged from the hospital by Saturday, Mehsana district development officer Manoj Daxini said. "The paediatrician and physician overseeing the treatment said that the babies have recovered, as they did not show any symptoms of the viral infection since several days. They will be discharged by Saturday," the official said. The mother of the infants, who had tested positive for COVID-19 when she gave birth, has already recovered from the infection. A resident of Molipur village in Mehsana district, the woman gave birth to the twins at Vadnagar Civil Hospital on May 16. While the infant boy tested positive on May 18, the baby girl's reports came on May 22. Gujarat has so far recorded 15,572 COVID-19 cases, of which 960 patients have died of the infection and 8,001 have recovered from it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-infant-twins-recover-from-covid-19-in-mehsana-843226.html
29-05-2020||West||Fire in Ahmedabad building; man jumps off 4th floor||A fire broke out in a building on Ashram Road in Gujarat's Ahmedabad on Friday afternoon in which one person was injured after he jumped off the fourth floor in panic, officials said. As many as 10 persons were rescued using a hydraulic ladder while several residents of Sakar-7 building came out safely by themselves, a fire brigade official said. "One person panicked and jumped off the fourth floor and injured himself on the head. He has been rushed to hospital," he added. The fire was doused a little later, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-in-ahmedabad-building-man-jumps-off-4th-floor-843247.html
29-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Mumbai International Airport handles 191 flights since resumption of domestic air services||Mumbai International Airport has handled 191 scheduled flights, including 50 services on Thursday, catering to around 20,000 passengers since the resumption of domestic passenger air services this week. All commercial passenger services were halted on March 25 when the government imposed a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19. While the domestic routes have been reopened for flying with a curtailed schedule from May 25 (Monday), international services remain suspended. The city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has been allowed to operate a maximum of 50 flights, 25 departures and arrivals each, by the government as part of the highly trimmed operations. Prior to suspension of air services in March, the Mumbai airport had been operating over 1,000 flights per day. "CSMIA, in the last four days since the resumption of operations, has seen a total of 191 scheduled flights which included 96 departures and 95 arrivals," Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said in a statement. During this period, the airport has catered to a total of 19,557 passengers which included 14,814 passengers at departures and 4,743 at arrivals, the private aerodrome operator said. It also said that until Wednesday, the airport was operating to 14 destinations and added two new cities - Kolkata and Rajkot - to its network on Thursday, when it saw 50 flights with 25 departures and arrivals each. All the domestic carriers have been operating out of the CSMIA’s Terminal 2, it said, adding that MIAL is looking forward to welcoming GoAir which will resume operations from June 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-mumbai-international-airport-handles-191-flights-since-resumption-of-domestic-air-services-843248.html
29-05-2020||West||No control over pvt hospitals financial management: BMC to||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday told the Bombay High Court that while it does not have any control or authority over the financial management of private hospitals and nursing homes, it has, however, capped charges on bed and ICU for COVID-19 patients. The BMC filed an affidavit in response to a public interest litigation filed by city resident Sarika Singh claiming private hospitals here were either not admitting COVID-19 patients, or were overcharging them for treatment. The affidavit said the BMC, in coordination with private entities and NGOs, was taking every step and employing all resources available at its disposal to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic and protect and preserve the health and safety of the citizens of Mumbai. "Regarding capping the amounts charged by private hospitals, the corporation does not have any control and/or authority over the financial management of private hospitals," the affidavit said. It said the corporation had permitted private hospitals and nursing homes to provide isolation facilities for COVID-19 patients and was aware of the possibility that such hospitals would charge exorbitant prices from patients. "To address this, a notice has been issued in April to all private nursing homes and hospitals providing isolation facilities for COVID-19 patients asking them to cap their bed charges. However, these hospitals will be allowed to charge medicine, pathology, radiology and other charges in the bill," the corporation said. The affidavit said, as per guidelines, notifications issued by the Central and state governments, there are three types of facilities set up for COVID-19 patients and suspects. "Covid Care Centres (CCC) are set up for mild or asymptomatic or COVID-19 suspect cases. These facilities are set up in hotels, hostels, schools and lodges. Dedicated COVID Health Centres (DCHC) are set up for cases that are clinically assigned as moderate and Dedicated COVID Hospitals (DCH) are for those in the severe category," the affidavit said. According to the affidavit, presently there are 318 CCC facilities with 30,268 beds, 38 DCHC facilities with 11,098 beds and 76 DCH facilities with 10,203 beds. The affidavit further said, as on May 23, there are 6,197 containment zones in the city, which are regularly supervised by the corporation. "In addition to this, mobile medical vans are set up in high risk ward areas daily to provide accessible medical services. There are 13 such mobile medical vans operating in the city. The number of citizens who have availed services through these vans are 23,591," the corporation said in its affidavit. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta posted the petition for hearing on June 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-control-over-pvt-hospitals-financial-management-bmc-to-843286.html
29-05-2020||West||Maharashtra Home Minister congratulates cops who beat COVID-19||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday congratulated the police personnel in the state who have recovered from coronavirus infection and returned to work. The minister shared on Twitter a video clip of an official of Sahkar Nagar Police station in Pune being welcomed by his colleagues and local residents after his recovery. "Congratulations to Prakash Margaze of Dhanakwadi Sahakar Ngr police stn, the personnel from @MumbaiPolice's Twitter Control Room & all the 968 others from #MaharashtraPolice who've beaten #Corona," Deshmukh said. "Your upholding the call of duty is inspiring!" he added. At least 2,211 police personnel in Maharashtra have tested coronavirus positive so far, of whom 25 have lost their lives due to the infection, as per the official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-congratulates-cops-who-beat-covid-19-843318.html
29-05-2020||West||Congress seeks Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil's apology over train fare claim||The Maharashtra Congress on Friday said state BJP president Chandrakant Patil's claim that 85 per cent of the train fare of migrant workers was being borne by the Centre has been found to be hollow and he should apologise. State Congress spokesman Sachin Sawant claimed the central government has told the Supreme Court that travel bill of stranded migrant workers, who are being ferried to their home states in ShramikSpecial trains, is being paid by states. Sawant demanded an apology from Patil for claiming that 85 per cent of the rail fare for transporting migrant workers was being borne by the Centre. "When the state government was bearing the expenses of the trains, BJP leaders were misleading people on the issue. Patil had claimed 85 per cent of the train fare was being provided by the Centre, while states were giving the remaining 15 per cent. "Apart from Patil, Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Nirmala Sitharaman had also made similar claims," Sawant alleged. He said Patil should produce document of the Centre's decision that it will reimburse 85 per cent of the train fare or apologise to people. Sawant claimed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court on Thursday that transport cost of ferrying migrants in trains is being borne by states. The Congress spokesman said the BJP was deliberately trying to malign state governments run by opposition parties on the issue of migrants. "When the state (Maharashtra) government was demanding 80 trains, the Railways was providing only 40. When this was highlighted by the MVA, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal sanctioned 146 trains in one night. "It was not possible to plan time table of so many trains in one night. Hence, many trains had to be cancelled," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-seeks-maharashtra-bjp-chief-chandrakant-patils-apology-over-train-fare-claim-843344.html
29-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Maharashtra to give Rs 50 lakh insurance cover, says Deputy CM Ajit Pawar||The Maharashtra government has decided to offer Rs 50 lakh insurance cover to government, private, contractual and outsourced staffers discharging duties related to prevention of COVID-19 and treatment of patients, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday. According to an official statement, till the time this package is finalised, as an interim decision, Rs 50 lakh ex gratia will be given to the people concerned. Pawar, who is also finance minister, said huge manpower is busy in surveying, tracing, testing, taking preventive measures and providing relief during the pandemic by risking their lives. "The government is serious about the safety of the staffers and their families. Hence, this decision has been taken," Pawar said, according to an official statement.  Those in the health services are already benefiting from a similar Central scheme. The statement said the state government's decision taken on Friday will help staffers attached to the district administrations, police, home guards, anganwadi, food and civil supplies, water supply and sanitation departments and employees deployed to carry out house-to-house surveys.  The statement said district collectors or department heads need to certify a staffer was on duty during the 14 days before being admitted to a hospital or dying due to the disease so that the employee can avail the benefit of the insurance cover. As of now, the scheme will be applicable till September 30, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-to-give-rs-50-lakh-insurance-cover-says-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-843360.html
29-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Wari this year to see changes due to COVID-19 outbreak||The world-renowned "wari" (pilgrimage) will be held this year with the padukas (foot prints) of Saint Dnyaneshwar, Sant Tukaram and others being taken to the temple town of Pandharpur by air or road, and not on foot as is the case traditionally, due to the coronavirus outbreak. The decision was taken in a meeting in Pune of district and police officials, trustees of Alandi, Dehu and Pandharpur temples and others chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. Alandi temple trustee Abhay Tilak said the decision was unanimous, adding the palkhi procession, which sees thousands of "warkaris" make the pilgrimage on foot, would not be held this year due to the outbreak. "The padukas will be carried by air or road on the previous day of Ashadhi Ekadashi, which falls on July 1," he said, adding that wari had not been discontinued, only the form had changed. The route of the traditional wari, on foot, passes through Pune, Satara and Solapur districts, all hit by the coronavirus outbreak this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-wari-this-year-to-see-changes-due-to-covid-19-outbreak-843365.html
29-05-2020||West||COVID-19: 8,000-plus discharged in a day in Maharashtra||In what comes as a good sign, over 8,000  COVID-19 patients were discharged in Maharashtra on Friday even as a new high  of 116 deaths were reported in last 24 hours.  With 116 deaths, the progressive death toll surpassed 2,000 and currently stands at 2,098. Similarly, with 2,682 fresh positive cases, the progressive tally crossed 60,000 and now stands at 62,228.  In the last 24 hours, a total of 8,381 patients have been discharged pushing the total to 26,997 who have been treated and gone home. As far as the lab tests details are concerned,  4,33,557 persons have been tested of which 62,228 have turned positive. Of the 116 deaths, 46 were reported on Friday and the rest between 16-26 May. According to the Public Health department, the patient doubling rate is now 15.7 days form 11 days last week.  The recovery rate has increased to 43.38 per cent,  while the mortality rate is 3.37 per cent. Currently, 5,35,467 persons are in home quarantine and 35,967 people in institution quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-8000-plus-discharged-in-a-day-in-maharashtra-843397.html
