30-05-2020||First Edit||India must stand firm||There is always a temptation among analysts to link China’s border depredations against India to episodic elements in the bilateral relationship. While China has certainly used the ‘un-demarcated’ Line of Actual Control (LAC) as leverage against India in the past, the nature of the latest Chinese intrusions suggest that Zhongnanhai’s actions are driven by a historical tendency – that of expanding in the Himalayan borderlands at times of internal tumult. And despite the overall posturing, China is indeed grappling with internal economic and security problems exacerbated by the pandemic. For India, this means that its traditional policy of pursuing confidence-building measures (CBMs) to dial down tensions will not work sustainably. Not one to look a gift horse in the mouth, China may even signal a temporary pause, only to keep striving to extend its claims wherever the People’s Liberation Army Ground Force (PLAGF) needs to and thinks it can, thereby making the LAC increasingly meaningless. India must read the tea leaves and realise that it will have to pushback hard, howsoever trying its own internal circumstances might be. The nature of the Himalayan watershed dictates that any power to its north must seek to exert influence to its south (or west) and vice versa. Mao Zedong famously articulated this atavistic compulsion with his so-called ‘Five Fingers of Tibet’ formulation, wherein he saw Ladakh, Nepal, Sikkim, Bhutan and Arunachal Pradesh as the five fingers of the right-hand palm that is Tibet. From the Chinese perspective, maintaining a steady hold over the Tibetan plateau ultimately requires being able to project power on the other side of Himalayan watershed, i.e. in the Five Fingers. This stems from the historical geography of the Himalayan region, which allows the generation of bi-directional territorial claims between Tibet and the Five Fingers resulting in a bedrock of tension between the northern and the southern power that is ultimately tempered by a balance of military capability. This a key reason why India and China have not been able to arrive at a boundary settlement and are unlikely to anytime soon. Chinese empires in the past have sought to expand in the Himalayan region while in the throes of internal problems. This was the case with the Qing invasion of Tibet in 1910 that was followed by forays into what is today Eastern Arunachal Pradesh, right at the very death of the empire itself. This was also the case in the run up to the India-China war of 1962, which took place amidst Mao’s tragic ‘Great Leap Forward’. It is almost as if China seeks to ‘settle’ its vulnerable western borderlands while it still can. Naturally, such a policy also conveys a strength of purpose to both internal and international audiences, the latter being important in view of plummeting Sino-US ties. But it requires giving greater operational leeway to the executors of this policy, which in today’s context is the PLAGF. And so circa 2020, the PLAGF has become rather busy along stretches of the LAC that were considered “almost settled”. Take, for instance, the unprecedented stand-off that took place in Naku La in Sikkim in early May. This, after Sikkim had apparently stopped being an issue between India and China, to echo the then Chinese premier Wen Jiabao’s words of 2005. Then there is Ladakh, where the most serious Chinese intrusions since 1962 have taken place this May and that too in sectors where the Chinese had “voluntarily” stopped in 1962, having reached their claim line. One is, of course, referring to the PLAGF intrusion in the Galwan Valley, where it has sought to move closer to the point where the Galwan meets the Shyok, thereby threatening India’s new Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road, a key artery for sustaining India’s posture in Eastern Ladakh. And on the northern shores of the Pangong Tso, which is characterised by eight mountain spurs or ‘fingers’ jutting into the lake, numbered 1-8 in a West-East direction, Chinese troops today are feared to be in occupation of a small Indian observation post on Finger 4 which used to see temporary deployments, according to intelligence sources who spoke to this writer. Till not so long ago, Chinese boat patrols used to patrol mostly between Fingers 5 and 8. Incidentally, India’s claims are till Finger 8, although its hold was limited till Finger 4. So, the PLAGF has now even removed the fig leaf of ‘differing perceptions’ with its latest intrusions, since they have taken place in areas where the Chinese were already sitting on their claim lines of 1962.  The PLAGF focus on Ladakh is hardly surprisingly. It is a particularly important ‘finger’ that has been used in the past to extend claims over Tibet. During 1590-1640, the Ladakhi kingdom controlled the Ngari part of Tibet as far as the Mayum La, which forms the watershed between the Sutlej and Tsangpo river basins. Rudok, Gartok, Guge and the Purang Valley (which is right next to the Lipulekh Pass and is being disputed vehemently by Nepal) were all under the authority of the Gyalpo of Leh till about 1684. Besides being a source of claims, Ladakh has also served as a launchpad for claimants. After all, the narrow valleys abutting the shores of the Pangong Tso, besides being historic trade routes, can also serve as axes for advance into Western Tibet. Especially, the East-West stretch or ‘gap’ lying between the southern shore of Pangong and the northern shores of the much smaller Spanggur Tso, which was the route taken by one part of General Zorawar Singh’s invasion force into Tibet in the 19th Century. So, the PLAGF’s latest moves are aimed at stunting the Indian Army’s growing offensive potential while preserving its own, given that the Chinese have already completed their border works. And the nature of the intrusions shows that they are not designed to merely provide leverage before the next round of Special Representative talks or for India to make concessions in the souring bilateral economic relationship or as a warning to stay away from the American-led Quad. Rather, China is driven by the much more primordial consideration of firming up its Himalayan underbelly while it holds certain advantages, and the PLAGF is clearly digging in and reinforcing their latest encroachments. Delhi must understand that any further CBMs to ‘reassure’ China will only be misused by the latter to render the LAC utterly meaningless. Instead, India must stay the course, since the Chinese are less likely to move on Arunachal Pradesh in the future if India enhances its potential to launch ripostes via Ladakh and Sikkim. The conciliatory noises by Chinese diplomats must be ignored as long the PLAGF squats on what has long been considered Indian territory even if one were to go by China’s 1962 claim line. In any case, it is the PLAGF which is now implementing Chinese frontier policy and not Beijing’s foreign office. Incidentally, Ladakh has also been selected by the PLAGF for its affections because any long India-China stand-off will allow Pakistan to ultimately jump into the fray, something that I am sure New Delhi is aware of. (The writer is Chief Editor,Delhi Defence Review)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/india-must-stand-firm-843477.html
30-05-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||69 migrants leave from Hubballi to Bengaluru in bus to board Shramik train to Jharkhand||A total of 69 persons from Jharkhand, who were working with hotels and food production units in the twin cities, were sent to Bengaluru in three buses on Saturday. As the workers will leave for Jharkhand by a Shramik Special train from Bengaluru, the district administration arranged buses for them to reach Bengaluru.  Breakfast was provided at New Bus Stand on Gokul Road, while medical screening was conducted and masks and sanitiser were also distributed before they boarded three buses of the NWKRTC. "A nodal officer is appointed for each bus, and they will look after the procedures until the migrants board the train to Jharkhand. Drinking water and lunch are also arranged," said Social Welfare Department joint director N R Purushottam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/69-migrants-leave-from-hubballi-to-bengaluru-in-bus-to-board-shramik-train-to-jharkhand-843556.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown: Permission sought for film shooting||A Sandalwood delegation led by Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy chairperson Suneel Puranik met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday and sought permission for film shooting. Yediyurappa assured that them he will make a decision after consulting the Centre, according to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-permission-sought-for-film-shooting-843439.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Universities seek deferring KSET||Several state-run universities have expressed concern over conducting Karnataka State Eligibility Test (KSET), which is scheduled for June 21, considering the spike in Covid-19 cases across the state. The universities have even written to the University of Mysore (UoM), which is the hosting university for KSET in this regard. The test is conducted for the appointment of faculties at state-run varsities. "Looking at the number of containment zones and fluctuation in the same, it would be difficult for us to finalise test centres," said an official of Bangalore University. Over 20,000 candidates have registered for KSET under Bangalore University. "The hosting university is saying it got clearance from the government. But what about candidates appearing for the test? Is the university going to conduct re-test if any candidate fails to appear due to logistics and other health issues? All this needs to be considered before taking a final decision," the official mentioned. More than 50,000 candidates have registered for the KSET and the test will be conducted across the state. Each university has to identify the test centre and appoint a coordinator. "This year, we are worried about safety and social distancing. We conveyed to UoM that it would be better to postpone the test," said an official of another state-run varsity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/universities-seek-deferring-kset-843443.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||B S Yediyurappa seeks to auction iron ore of C-category mines||In an apparent endeavour to raise revenue for the cash-strapped state in the wake of the Covid pandemic, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday directed officials to speed up the process of auctioning of iron ore belonging to 'C'category mines. After the Supreme Court directed cancellation of 'C' category licences, an amount of 800 million tonne of ore has been lying without use. The 'C' category are mines where operations illegally extended their lease boundaries by more than 15%.  In a review meeting with officials of the Mines and Geology department, Yediyurappa asked officials to resolve technical issues posing as a hurdle for the auction.  Meanwhile, the state government had collected about Rs 28 crore through royalty from mining companies, meant for development of mining-affected regions in the state. This fund was now being used for Covid-19 relief measures, Mines and Geology Minister C C Patil informed the CM during the review meeting. Further, the government also hoped to raise revenue through the new sand policy, recently cleared by the Cabinet, Patil added. The new policy allows for sand mining in ponds and tanks, relaxing norms which was earlier restricted to river basins.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-s-yediyurappa-seeks-to-auction-iron-ore-of-c-category-mines-843446.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||South Western Railway restricts time for ticket refunds||To reduce the chances of social contact during at its , reservation counters, the South Western Railway (SWR) has restricted the timings in Bengaluru division for a refund of tickets for trains cancelled during the lockdown period. In a press release, the SWR said that the reservation for tickets for the resumed trains started on May 22. However, this has led to intermingling of passengers waiting for reservation with those seeking refunds, resulting in crowd formation. “In order to ensure social distancing, the refund of cancelled tickets will be entertained from 12 pm to 6 pm on all working days and 11 pm hrs to 2 pm on Sundays and public holidays,” the release said. The new timings will be applicable for reservation counters in KSR Bengaluru City, Bengaluru Cantonment, Yelahanka, , Kengeri, Mandya, Tumakuru, Krishnarajapuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/south-western-railway-restricts-time-for-ticket-refunds-843449.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: U T Khader urges CM BSY to release salaries of doctors, nurses under National Health Mission||Mangaluru MLA U T Khader has urged the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to take immediate steps to release salaries of doctors, lab technicians and nurses hired under the National Health Mission. If the government fails to release the amount, the Congress will be forced to launch an agitation, he said.  There are 600 personnel hired under the National Health Mission in Dakshina Kannada and 23,000 in Karnataka, who are waiting for their monthly salary for the last two months. “Even Asha workers were also partially paid for the month of April. If the government had concern towards COVID-19 warriors, they would have paid extra for the doctors, nurses, and other workers who are working tirelessly in the fight against COVID-19 at the grassroots level,” he added. Stating that it was not right on the part of the State government to impose restrictions on inter-state travel from Maharashtra, Gujarat and other areas, the MLA said “it is the duty of the State government to take care of the Kannadigas and Tuluvas stranded outside the state. The railway bogies that were converted to isolation wards in Mangaluru should be utilised for quarantining those who have come from other states and Gulf countries.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-u-t-khader-urges-cm-bsy-to-release-salaries-of-doctors-nurses-under-national-health-mission-843550.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||45 COVID-19 patients discharged from TMA Pai Hospital in Udupi||Udupi DC G Jagadeesh handed over chocolates, toys and painting kits to all the discharged 18 children. Majority of the discharged had come from Maharashtra along with Dubai, Telangana and Pune.  The district has registered a total of 164 COVID-19 cases and 50 have been discharged so far. Speaking to media persons, the DC said the public need not panic over COVID-19. But should remain cautious and maintain social distance while in a public place and wear a mask compulsorily. He warned of imposing fine on those fail to wear a mask in public places. As per the guidelines of the government, if the patient is asymptomatic, he/she will be discharged after seven days if the test is found to be negative, said DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/45-covid-19-patients-discharged-from-tma-pai-hospital-in-udupi-843580.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Maharashtra returnee tests COVID-19 positive in Belagavi||A woman, who had returned from Maharashtra, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday taking the total tally of positive cases in Belagavi to 140. Identified as P-2806, the 30-year-old woman has been admitted to Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/maharashtra-returnee-tests-covid-19-positive-in-belagavi-843638.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||13 new coronavirus cases reported in Udupi||UDUPI, DHNS: As many as 13 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday. With the new cases, the total number of infected patients has increased to 177. As many as 45 patients, including four policemen who recovered from the Covid-19, were discharged from TMA Pai hospital.  Of the 45, 18 are children, who received chocolates and drawing books from Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha. The results of 5,920 swab samples are awaited, sources added. The IGP Western Range Debajyoti Roy was in Udupi to greet the policemen discharged from the hospital. He said the department was worried as police personnel were vulnerable to contracting the virus as they are constantly interacting with the public.  Roy added that the police stations under the Western Range would be sanitised in a phased manner. The policemen discharged will remain in 14 days home quarantine. As many as 113 policemen, who were primary and secondary contacts of the discharged cops, have been quarantined, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/13-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-udupi-843699.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mumbai-Karnataka region's share in state's COVID-19 load comes down||Mumbai-Karnataka region having seven districts including three districts sharing border with neighbouring States, had 28.78% of total Covid-19 cases reported in Karnataka till May 2, the last day of the lockdown 2.0. Just a day prior to the end of lockdown 4.0, the region's share in State's Covid-19 load stood at 16.80% on Saturday evening, with total 491 cases in seven districts out of 2,922 cases in the State. Like elsewhere, the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing here also, mainly due to those returning from other States including Maharashtra, but not as fast as in some districts in other regions. When Karnataka recorded its highest single-day spike of 248 cases on Friday, it included only five from two districts in the region. However, the region reported 20 cases out of 141 cases recorded in the State on Saturday, including 11 cases in Vijayapur. Belagavi district has been in top position with respect to maximum number of Covid-19 cases recorded in the region. The total number of cases in the district in the initial days of this month stood at 71, and it jumped to 147 by Saturday. Haveri district, which was a green zone a month back, now has 14 cases. The increase in Covid-19 cases from May 3 to May 30 is 5 to 35 in Gadag district, 6 to 45 in Dharwad, 11 to 77 in Uttara Kannada, 22 to 77 in Bagalkot, and from 29 to 96 in Vijayapur district.  In the first week of May, Belagavi district was in third position in the State, with regard to number of Covid-19 cases, while Vijayapur, and Bagalkot were in fifth and sixth places, respectively. Just a day before the end of this month (on Saturday), Belagavi was in the eighth position, while no other district in the region was in top 10 list, as per the data of the Health & Family Welfare Department. Recovery rate improves Among seven districts in the region, the best recovery rate at present is in Bagalkot district (85.71%), while the rate of patients discharged from hospital was 62.58% in Belagavi, 56.25% in Vijayapur, 55.84% in Uttara Kannada, 24.44% in Dharwad, 34.28% in Ggadag, and 21.42% in Haveri. Out of 173 cases reported in the region till May 3, 56 recovered patients were discharged (32.36%). When the number of positive cases increased, the recovery rate has also improved, and it stood at 57.23% on Saturday. The State's recovery rate was 34.12%. Among 49 Covid-19 deaths in the State, eight deaths are from this region. Five deaths are reported in Vijayapur district alone, while Dharwad, Uttara Kannada, and Haveri did not record any death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mumbai-karnataka-regions-share-in-states-covid-19-load-comes-down-843702.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Locust attack causes trouble for Mangaluru farmers||Panic gripped farmers, as swarms of locusts raided a farm in Noojibalthila Gram Panchayat limits in Kadaba taluk. A farmer, Renjilady Vishwanath Yera, who alerted other farmers about the Locust attack said for past two days, swarms of locusts were seen since Friday evening, voraciously devouring the leaves of trees. Vishwanath, an elderly farmer, says he is witnessing the Locust attack for the first time in his farm., located about 55 kms from Mangaluru. He said none of the officials had visited his farm to study the locust attack. Swarms of locusts also attacked farms in Beltangady taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/locust-attack-causes-trouble-for-mangaluru-farmers-843705.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||14 fresh coronavirus cases reported in Dakshina Kannada||Mangaluru, DHNS: Fourteen persons, including an 11-year old girl child, tested positive for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada (DK) on Saturday. Of the 14, 13 have inter-state travel history to Maharashtra. While the 17-year-old boy is the secondary contact of P-947 of Darandaagilu in Someshwara TMC limits. All the 14 are being treated at the designated Covid Wenlock hospital in Mangaluru. The district has 68 active cases and total number of cases registered in DK is 113. The condition of 66 Covid-19 patients are satisfactory. While P-1008, a 76 year- old man who is suffering from diabetes, BP, heart-related ailment, and infection in leg continues to be on ICU for treatment. P-1437, a 40 -year- old woman is also suffering from diabetes, urinary infection, breathlessness and is being treated at ICU. Five discharged Meanwhile, five patients, P-1094, a 31- year -old man, P-1233, a 33-year -old man, P-1234, a 55- year -old woman, P-1480, a 35- year -old man and P-1481, a 29- year- old man had recovered and were discharged from hospital on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/14-fresh-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-dakshina-kannada-843738.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Release salaries of NHM doctors, para medical staff: U T Khader||Mangaluru MLA U T Khader urged the chief minister to take immediate steps to release the salaries of doctors, lab technicians and nurses appointed under National Health Mission (NHM). If the government fails to release the amount, then the Congress will be forced to launch an agitation, he warned. "If the government had any concern for covid warriors, they would have released the salaries of doctors and paramedical staff, serving on contract basis for two months," he told reporters on Saturday. "As many as 600 personnel appointed under NHM in Dakshina Kannada and 23,000 across Karnataka were waiting for their monthly salary for the past two months," said Khader. Khader also objected to the state government's decision on imposing restrictions on interstate travel. “It is the duty of the government to take care of Kannadigas and Tuluvas stranded outside the state. The railway bogies converted to isolation wards in Mangaluru should be utilised for quarantining those who have come from other states and Gulf countries,” he said. “The Kannadigas working outside the state and country had always lent financial assistance to those in distress. Now, they are in distress and it is the duty of the government to lend a helping hand. The state government should elaborate on their plan on how they will lift the restrictions on interstate travel,” he insisted. When there are more tests for Covid-19 cases, the death will be less as precautionary measures can be taken to treat the infection in the beginning stages. The government should upgrade the facilities at Covid-19 testing laboratory at Wenlock Hospital, to test more samples by installing more machines and deploying staff for the purpose. The MLA said about 20% of the people from border areas in Dakshina Kannada are working in Kerala and vice versa. With the ban on movement of vehicles to Kerala, people are afraid of losing their jobs. DK and Kasaragod district administrations should list people working in Kasaragod and Mangaluru and make arrangements on issuing a special pass for them in order to help them travel daily to their workplace and back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/release-salaries-of-nhm-doctors-para-medical-staff-u-t-khader-843760.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP MLAs' lunch gives Karnataka CM BSY food for thought||Political circles in Karnataka were agog with talk of dissidence within the saffron party after a dozen BJP legislators met at senior leader Umesh Katti's residence to savour north Karnataka's staple 'rotti oota' on Thursday. The lunch meeting came at a time when the Yediyurappa administration, busy battling the Covid-19 pandemic, is headed towards completing its first year in office. Katti, an eight-time MLA, has been sulking for not being made a minister. There are also calls for his brother Ramesh Katti to be picked for the Rajya Sabha seat from Karnataka that falls vacant this year. However, Katti on Friday dismissed talk of being disgruntled, or that attempts were being made to unseat the aging Yediyurappa. "We're responsible MLAs. I believe such politics is not right during the pandemic," Katti said, denying any rebellion. He said this was the second lunch he hosted in a span of two weeks.  Senior MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, too, attended the lunch. Katti, Yatnal and former minister Murugesh Nirani are ministerial aspirants and unhappy with Yediyurappa. Several other MLAs are also said to be disgruntled that works related to their constituencies were not happening.  On Friday, Yediyurappa kept himself busy with back-to-back meetings. His only reaction was a clarification: “It is being said that I have convened an emergency meeting with some party MLAs. This is far from the truth. I haven’t convened any meeting.” Yatnal, who has been vocal about his dissatisfaction with the government, said he cannot discuss some issues publicly. “Are we disgruntled or not is something we'll discuss within the party,” the former Union minister told reporters, adding that he will not be part of anything to "topple or trouble" the government. "It had been a long time since we got together for rotti oota, and since hotels are closed, we went to Katti’s house where it was arranged." But Yatnal's own equation with Yediyurappa seems to have deteriorated. “Yediyurappa had called me for a meeting Saturday last, but I didn’t go,” he said. “I will never go to the CM again. Why should I, when my constituency works won’t get done? He’s busy with corona, so I let him be.” He also vowed that he will not be a minister in the Yediyurappa Cabinet. "I'm not so incapable to beg for it." "Our leader is PM Modi, Amit Shah and J P Nadda. Yediyurappa is our CM," Yatnal said, evading questions on who from the state BJP he considered as their leader. According to MLA G H Thippareddy, MLAs being dissatisfied had been a topic of discussion even before the Covid-19 pandemic struck. "I am also unhappy about the state of affairs in the government," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-mlas-lunch-gives-karnataka-cm-bsy-food-for-thought-843428.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Ramesh Jarkiholi downplays BJP MLAs’ meet, says all’s well||Seeking to downplay the speculations over the meeting of sulking MLAs at senior leader Umesh Katti's house in Bengaluru, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Friday said that there was infighting or dissent within the party. Jarkiholi told reporters at Kollegal, "The party MLAs participated in a puja at Umesh Katti's house. They are my friends. I will speak to them. It is not right to conclude that there are differences among the party leaders."  "I am Yediyurappa's supporter. The government is safe and will complete the remaining three-year tenure ," he said. To a query on a few party MLAs meeting Congress leader Siddaramaiah, the minister said, "They are all seniors, seven or eight time MLAs. They are not fools to join the Congress, which is a sinking ship." He said as many as 22 Congress MLAs were in touch with him and if the BJP leadership gives a go-ahead he would make at least five Congress legislators resign and join the BJP in a week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ramesh-jarkiholi-downplays-bjp-mlas-meet-says-all-s-well-843437.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Won’t talk about critics, will prove my mettle through work: Ramesh Jarkiholi||Much was read between the lines when the eldest of the Jarkiholi brothers, Ramesh Jarkiholi, was appointed as the Water Resources Minister in the BS Yediyurappa government. Completing 100 days in office, he talks to Shruthi HM Sastry about speculations over his appointment, various ongoing projects and the roadmap for the future. Excerpts: Much of the government’s works have reached a standstill due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Will you have to cut down on projects this year?  I don’t think any of the department’s projects will take a backseat. We are confident that the funds coming into the water resources department will not be cut, as the chief minister is very keen on developing irrigation in the state. Not just this, we will also try to convince the Centre on giving us funds as and when needed. The first phase of the much-delayed Yettinahole project was planned to be commissioned this year. It has now been put off till next year. Will the project actually see the light of the day in the scheduled time?   The work took a hit because of the ongoing situation with COVID-19. It will one hundred percent be completed by next year. The target is to complete the first phase of lift component and canal (a stretch of 37 km) work by March next. This will give us ample time to commission it by the lifting period next year, which is June to September. We are committed to complete this as it is important for Kolar and Chikkaballapur regions. Post that, we have kept a two-year window to complete the project. The Mahadayi project was another big announcement that came from the state government this year. Given the situation, do you think you will be able to commence work this year at all? Despite the prevalent situation, from our end, we have begun the process. The gazette notification for both Kalasa and Bandura canals is already done. The related proposals have been sent to both the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change and the Central Water Commission. Whatever issues remain with regard to clearance of the project, I have discussed it with the officials concerned at the Centre. We will try our best to commence the work by the next working season, that is, after September. We cannot take up any work during the monsoon season and will have to wait until after that. The state government has recently given an in-principle approval for the Navali balancing reservoir, also seeking a Detailed Project Report (DPR). What is the timeline for completion of the DPR? The DPR will take about six or seven months to be completed. I have already visited the site to understand the ground-level issues. The project also requires us to resolve interstate issues with Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. We will contact the officials concerned and resolve those issues. Construction of the balancing reservoir comes as a solution to the issue of silt deposition in Tungabhadra dam. The total storage of the dam is 133 TMC of water, but silt accumulation over the years has reduced its capacity by 32 TMC of water. Construction of this reservoir will help us optimise water usage, benefitting in Ballari, Raichur and Koppal regions.   Land acquisition issue has been a major problem for the department, slowing down projects. How do you propose to resolve the issue? In all, about Rs 3,000 crore is required for land acquisition for the projects in the pipeline. The department is looking to mobilise the funds by creating a separate head of accounts. The focus is on speeding up the land acquisition process while ensuring that the farmers do not suffer losses. In the 2020-21 state budget, the government has announced that irrigation facilities will be provided to one lakh acres of land. Can you elaborate on this? There is a total of 11.5 lakh hectares of land that have the potential to be irrigated in the state. This year, we have targeted one lakh hectares. We have planned accordingly and will begin work soon. I have toured the entire state in the last couple of months to closely study the irrigation requirements. You were hellbent on getting the water resources portfolio. This was seen as an attempt to prove a point to your political rival DK Shivakumar, who held the same portfolio before you took charge.  I don’t want to talk about criticism. Whatever I want to prove, I will prove it through my work. What are the targets you have set for yourself during your tenure as the water resources minister? I don’t want to limit myself to one or two projects. I want to ensure that all the ongoing projects are completed. As a minister, I represent the interests of the entire state and hence, I want to ensure equitable development across the state. All my efforts will be focused in this direction. What do you think are your achievements over the past hundred days? The main focus of the department is irrigation, but the attention of the department was diverted towards other issues over the past few years. We are now bringing back the focus to irrigation. We are also working towards a comprehensive farmer-centric micro irrigation policy and a policy for lift irrigation, which will help the state evolve guidelines for maintenance of equipment and infrastructure required for lift irrigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/won-t-talk-about-critics-will-prove-my-mettle-through-work-ramesh-jarkiholi-843440.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka PAC mulls privilege motion against Speaker||The PAC headed by senior Congress legislator HK Patil had sought a report from the Health Department over complaints of corruption in the procurement of various devices and protective equipment to fight the COVID-19 crisis.   On May 28, the Committee was also slated to visit various quarantine shelters, COVID-19 hospitals and the Health Department to verify the facilities and safety measures provided to front line staff. However, Kageri issued an order May 27 barring house committees from taking up any field visits or meetings with officials in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. This, Patil charged, obstructed the Constitutional duty of the PAC to look into complaints on misuse of public money. “The question is, should we or should we not move a privilege motion. This will be decided in the (PAC) meeting on June 2,” Patil told reporters. Objecting to the Speaker’s notice, Patil pointed out there had not been any obstruction to the PAC’s functioning till now. “But this is the first time there’s an obstruction.”  The Speaker’s order came in the way of duties that the legislature is supposed to perform. “The PAC has not been allowed to take up inspection in connection with alleged irregularities. This amounts to a breach of our duty and freedom,” Patil said.  The equipment in question was procured by Karnataka Drug Logistics and Warehousing Corporation over the past couple of months when India was under lockdown. Complaints received by the PAC claim that some safety equipment were procured at triple the cost in the market, while others say that the equipment procured was of low quality.  “How much money has been spent on ventilators? At what cost were masks and sanitisers purchased? This must be made public,” Patil said, daring Health & Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu.  When asked about Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi’s statement that there were no irregularities in procuring Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, Patil said the PAC wanted to examine complaints about this. “This wasn’t a Congress investigation. It’s the PAC.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-pac-mulls-privilege-motion-against-speaker-843582.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||There is no difference of opinion in Karnataka BJP, says party state president||BJP State President and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said that there is no difference of opinion in the state BJP. “A few MLAs have discussed on the development of North Karnataka. There is nothing wrong in discussion on development keeping in mind organisation of the party," speaking to reporters in Mangaluru he said "Indiscipline within the party will not be tolerated. Strict action will be initiated by the party High Command against those who indulge in wrong activities", he warned.   "The state government led by Yediyurappa has carried out good works in the state. All the MLAs are supporting the Chief Minister. All the MLAs are in contact with me," said Kateel. "KPCC President D K Shivakumar is day dreaming of dissidence in the BJP.  The BJP government will complete its tenure with BS Yediyurappa as chief minister," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/there-is-no-difference-of-opinion-in-karnataka-bjp-says-party-state-president-843617.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP govt will fall due to infighting: Siddaramaiah||The “infighting” in the ruling BJP will lead to the government’s downfall, leader of the Opposition, Siddaramaiah claimed on Saturday.  He was commenting on rumblings within the ruling party after over a dozen BJP legislators, including former minister Umesh Katti, huddled earlier this week in what was seen as an attempt to mount pressure on Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to expand his Cabinet.  “No Congress MLA will resign as is being claimed. The BJP government will fall due to infighting,” Siddaramaiah said.  He also branded the BS Yediyurappa government as “extremely corrupt” and said that it is in the interest of the people of the state if the government falls.  Dismissing Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi's claim that he could get some Congress MLAs to resign, Siddaramaiah said such statements were being made to "cover up the secret meetings being held in the BJP."  Siddaramaiah also latched on to senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal's statements. "The BJP is on fire. Yatnal says Yediyurappa is not their leader and that he's just the CM. What message does this convey? The Congress will not interfere in the BJP's internal matter. If the government falls due to their internal rifts, we will not be responsible."  Gag order With rumblings in the BJP out in the open, the Congress has imposed a gag order on its leaders from commenting on the ruling party’s affairs.  “Only Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah and I are authorised to comment on matters related to the BJP,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar told reporters.  “No other party worker or legislator, including my own brother (DK Suresh) should make public statements,” he said. “We should just focus on building our party and serving people. Let’s look after our house. We have nothing to do with the BJP’s internal matters and we need not interfere.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-govt-will-fall-due-to-infighting-siddaramaiah-843684.html
30-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||No dissidence in BJP, says Nalin Kumar Kateel||BJP state president and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said there was no differences of opinion within the state BJP. "The BJP-led government will complete its term under the leadership of B S Yediyurappa," Kateel told mediapersons in the city on Saturday. “A few MLAs had met and discussed the developments in North Karnataka. There is nothing wrong in discussing development keeping in mind the party's interests.” Indiscipline within the party will not be tolerated. Strict action will be initiated against those who indulge in such activities by the party High Command, he warned. The government, led by Yediyurappa, has carried out good works in the state. All the MLAs are supporting the chief minister. All the MLAs are in contact with me, claimed Kateel. KPCC President D K Shivakumar is day dreaming of dissidence in the BJP. To a query, Kateel said few more flights will be ferrying stranded people from various countries to Mangaluru. All the necessary preparations had been made to quarantine the people arriving from foreign countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-dissidence-in-bjp-says-nalin-kumar-kateel-843696.html
30-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 30, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-30-2020-edition-843479.html
30-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 30||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,81,623 as of May 30.     States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 5,149 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 67692 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-30-843480.html
30-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: India on path of victory against COVID-19 but urge citizens to continue to be patient, says PM Modi||The letter, which came on the occasion of NDA completing one year on May 30 in his second term, also highlighted the achievements of his dispensation, saying this day last year began a "golden chapter" in the history of Indian democracy as it voted back a government with a full majority for the first time in decades. Emphasising that people's "affection, goodwill and active cooperation have given new energy, and inspiration", he said people voted for "substantive transformation" in 2014 when he won the first time and by the time he went in for re-election, the country witnessed the administrative apparatus breaking itself "free of status quo and from the swamp of corruption as well as misgovernance".  Noting that India's stature rose "significantly" during his first tenure, proved its mettle through surgical and airstrikes and enhanced the dignity of the poor through financial inclusion, he said people voted in 2019 "not merely for continuity but also with a dream to take the country to new heights and a global leader. He also highlighted various measures taken by his government, which included the abrogation of special status for Jammu and Kashmir, ending the "barbaric practice" of Triple Talaq and displaying a spirit of compassion and inclusiveness by amending the Citizenship Act. Modi said would have been in their midst on Saturday but COVID-19 situation was not permitting him to do so. "As we were moving ahead at a fast pace in the fulfilment of hopes and aspirations of our countrymen, the COVID-19 global pandemic engulfed our country as well...Many feared that India will become a problem for the world when COVID-19 hits India. But today, through sheer confidence and resilience, you have transformed the way the world looks at us," he said. In a crisis of this magnitude, he said it cannot be claimed that no one suffered any inconvenience or discomfort and acknowledged several sections like migrant workers, hawkers and artisans underwent "tremendous suffering". "However, we have to take care to ensure that inconveniences that we are facing do not turn into disasters. Hence, it is very important for every Indian to follow all rules and guidelines. We have displayed patience so far and we should continue to do so. This is one of the important reasons for India being safer and in a better state than many other countries. This is a long battle but we have started traversing on the path of victory, and victory is our collective resolve," he said.  With COVID-19's devastating impact on the economy, he said there has been debate about how will countries recover. "However, given the way India has surprised the world with its unity and resolve in the fight against COVID-19, there is a firm belief that we will also set an example in economic revival. It is the need of the hour that we must become self-reliant," he said adding the Rs 20 lakh crore 'Atma-Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' was a major step in this direction. "There are many challenges and problems that our country faces. I am working day and night. There could be deficiencies in me but there is nothing that our country lacks. So, I believe in you, your strength and your abilities even more than I believe in myself," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-on-path-of-victory-against-covid-19-but-urge-citizens-to-continue-to-be-patient-says-pm-modi-843488.html
30-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Rs 20 lakh crore package major step in making India 'atmanirbhar', says PM Modi||The package for Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan would usher in a new era of opportunities for every Indian, be it farmers, workers, small entrepreneurs or youth associated with startups, the Prime Minister said in a letter to citizens on the occasion of completion of the first year of the Modi 2.0 government.  In his address to the nation on May 12, the prime minister had announced massive financial incentives on the top of previously announced packages for a combined stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore or 10 percent of the GDP, saying the coronavirus crisis has provided India with an opportunity to become self-reliant and emerge as the best in the world. Modi in the letter said there is also a widespread debate on how the economies of various countries, including India’s, will recover. “…given the way India has surprised the world with its unity and resolve in the fight against coronavirus, there is a firm belief that we will also set an example in economic revival. In the economic domain, through their strength, 130 crore Indians can not only surprise the world but also inspire it," the prime minister said. The need of the hour is to become self-reliant, Modi said, stressing that "we must become self-reliant". "We have to move forward based on our own abilities, in our own way, and there is only one way to do it – Atma Nirbhar Bharat or self-reliant India," he said. The recent Rs 20 lakh crore package given for Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan is a major step that will open up new opportunities for all sections including farmers, workers and entrepreneurs. This initiative, he said, will usher in a new era of opportunities for every Indian, be it our farmers, workers, small entrepreneurs or youth associated with startups.  "The fragrance of Indian soil along with the sweat, hard work and talent of our workers will create products that will reduce India’s dependence on imports and will move towards self-reliance," he said. Modi said in the last one year, some of the decisions taken by his government were widely discussed and remain etched in public discourse. "Empowering the poor, farmers, women and youth has remained our priority," he said, and cited initiatives, like PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. In just one year, more than Rs 72,000 crore has been deposited in the accounts of over 9 crores 50 lakh farmers. For the first time in the country’s history, farmers, farm labourers, small shopkeepers and workers in unorganised sector are assured the provision of regular monthly pension of Rs 3,000 after the age of 60 years, he said. "Besides the facility of availing bank loans, a separate department has also been created for fishermen. Several other decisions have been taken to strengthen the fisheries sector. This will boost the blue economy," the prime minister said. Modi also said the higher quantum of financial assistance is being provided to more than 7 crore women attached to self-help groups. "The list of such historic actions and decisions taken in the national interest would be too long to detail in this letter. But I must say that every day of this year, my government has worked round the clock with full vigour, taking and implementing these decisions," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-rs-20-lakh-crore-package-major-step-in-making-india-atmanirbhar-says-pm-modi-843489.html
30-05-2020||National||Night curfew to continue beyond May 31 in Rajasthan: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has directed for the continuation and strict enforcement of night curfew in the state even after May 31 to minimise the risk of a spurt in coronavirus infection.  Gehlot asked his officials to ensure that there should be no laxity in the night curfew in the state. The chief minister directed authorities to reschedule prohibited area as per the number of active infected cases, so that curfew is continued only in the affected area. Gehlot gave these directions during a high-level review meeting at his residence on Friday on the situation of coronavirus spread in the state. He said the health protocol should be strictly maintained, even if they relate to VIPs. He said there should be no laxity in provisions of penalty under the Rajasthan Pandemic Ordinance. It is very important for protecting people's lives and public health, he said. Gehlot also asked private hospitals to fulfil their moral responsibility by adopting a humanitarian approach to provide free treatment to corona-infected patients. He instructed that proper availability of maternal and child health services should be ensured in state hospitals. Due to lockdown or corona epidemic, the common man should not face any problem in medical treatment. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said that Rajasthan's condition is better than those of other states due to corona infection. The number of active infected patients is stable and recovery rate has increased in last 6 days in the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/night-curfew-to-continue-beyond-may-31-in-rajasthan-gehlot-843490.html
30-05-2020||National||US President Donald Trump keeps putting PM Modi in tight spots, notwithstanding bromance they often put on display   ||His claim that he had discussed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi the tension along the disputed boundary between India and China in eastern Ladakh was not the only one from the United States President Donald Trump that New Delhi had to dismiss. It was just the latest in a series of typical “Trump Talks” that put New Delhi in a tight spot and embarrassed the prime minister, notwithstanding the “bromance” the two leaders of late displayed in public – be it at the “Howdy! Modi” conclave in Houston on September 22 or at its sequel, the “Namaste Trump” conclave, in Ahmedabad on February 24. New Delhi on Friday quickly contradicted Trump’s claim about his talks with Modi, because what the American President said could have fuelled speculation about India discussing with the US its boundary dispute with China and seeking its help to de-escalate the situation. His claim came a day after he offered to mediate between India and China – an offer, which got a cold shoulder from New Delhi. The claim and the offer together, however, could have built a narrative that India had sought the US support to manage its dispute with China – a narrative that would have gone against the long-standing policy of the successive governments in New Delhi to avoid soliciting, at least publicly, intervention by third countries in settling disputes with neighbours.   The US President’s offer, however, indicated that he was now aware of the fact that India shared a border with China. Philip Rucker and Carol Leonnig, both journalists of the Washington Post, had claimed in a book – “A Very Stable Genius: Donald J.Trump’s Testing of America” – published earlier this year that the US President had not been aware of the fact that India and China had shared a border. They had quoted Trump telling Modi in a meeting: “It’s not as though you have China right on your border.” Trump had in July 2019 claimed that Modi had requested him to mediate between India and Pakistan to help them settle the dispute of Kashmir. He had said that the Prime Minister had requested him to play the role of a mediator when they had a meeting on the sideline of the G20 summit at Osaka in Japan the previous month. He had made the claim while talking to journalists just before a meeting with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan at the White House in Washington D.C. New Delhi had immediately refuted the claim, with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar telling Parliament that the Prime Minister had made no such request during his meeting with the US President in Osaka. Trump, however, had continued to offer his service as a mediator between India and Pakistan. New Delhi too had been underlining that the 1972 Simla Agreement between India and Pakistan and the 1999 Lahore Declaration by the leaders of the two nations had left no scope for any third party to play any role in settling outstanding disputes between the two South Asian neighbours. Trump had earlier publicly ridiculed Modi for the high tariff India had imposed on Harley Davidson motorcycles imported from the US. “When they (Harley Davidson) send a motorcycle to India, as an example, they have to pay 100 percent tax, 100 percent,” he had said in February 2018. “Now, the Prime Minister (Modi), who I think is a fantastic man, called me the other day and said we are lowering it to 50 percent. I said okay, but so far we’re getting nothing. So we get nothing. He gets 50 (percent), and they think we’re doing like they’re doing us a favour. That’s not a favour." The US President had also mocked at India's role in Afghanistan. India has since long been keeping its role in Afghanistan limited to funding development projects in the conflict-ravaged country without sending troops to join the war against Taliban or Islamic State. “I could give you an example where I get along very well with India and Prime Minister Modi. But he is constantly telling me, he built a library in Afghanistan. Library! That's like five hours of what we spend (in Afghanistan),” Trump had said in January 2019. He was trying to draw a comparison between the amount of money the US and other countries are spending in Afghanistan. “And, he (Modi) tells me. He is very smart. We are supposed to say, 'Oh! Thank you for the library!' Don't know who's using it (the library) in Afghanistan. But it's one of those things. I don't like being taken advantage of.” India had by then spent $3 billion to finance a number of development projects in Afghanistan, including road, power transmission network and hydro-electric-cum-irrigation projects. It had not yet funded construction of a library though. But the American President had apparently mistaken the new Afghan Parliament building, which the Government of India had constructed at a cost of $ 90 million, as “a library”. The Prime Minister and the Afghan President Ashraf Ghani had inaugurated the new building in Kabul on December 25, 2015. Trump had rubbed New Delhi the wrong way on Afghanistan again in August 2019 too, saying it had not been fair that India had not fought the Islamic State terrorists in Afghanistan. “Look, India is right there. They are not fighting it (IS). We (the US) are fighting it,” Trump had told journalists in Washington D.C.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-president-donald-trump-keeps-putting-pm-modi-in-tight-spots-notwithstanding-bromance-they-often-put-on-display-843492.html
30-05-2020||National||Move over James Bond; India returns alleged bird spy to Pakistan||Indian police have released a pigeon belonging to a Pakistani fisherman after a probe found that the bird, which had flown across the contentious border between the nuclear-armed nations, was not a spy, two officials said on Friday. "The pigeon was set free yesterday (May 28) after nothing suspicious was found," said Shailendra Mishra, a senior police official in Indian-administered Kashmir. It was unclear where the bird was released and whether it flew back to its owner. The Pakistani owner of the pigeon had urged India to return his bird, which Indian villagers turned over to police after discovering it. "It's just an innocent bird," Habibullah, the owner of the bird, who goes by just one name, told Reuters on Friday. He rejected allegations that the numbers inscribed on a ring on the pigeon's leg were codes meant for militant groups operating in the disputed region of Kashmir. Habibullah, who lives in a village near the Kashmir border, one of the most militarised zones in the world, said the bird had participated in a pigeon racing contest and the digits on the bird's leg were his mobile phone number. The sport is especially popular in the border villages, said Yasir Khalid of the Shakar Garh Pigeon Club, adding such races are held in India too, and it is not unusual to lose a bird on either side. Owners identify their birds with stamps on the wings, paint and rings on the feet. "We had to take the bird into our custody to probe if it was being using for spying," a senior Indian border security officer said requesting anonymity, while explaining this was part of the drill given border sensitivities. In 2016, a pigeon was taken into Indian custody after it was found with a note threatening Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/move-over-james-bond-india-returns-alleged-bird-spy-to-pakistan-843496.html
30-05-2020||National||West Bengal shifting to Sweden model to contain coronavirus: Mamata Banerjee||With West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announcing the easing of lockdown restrictions in the state, a renowned doctor said that following ramping up of COVID-19 tests, the government seems to be gradually shifting towards the Sweden or Taiwan model to contain the pandemic. Dr Diptendra Sarkar of the state-run SSKM Hospital said that with the countrywide lockdown having been in force for nearly 70 days and the government, both at the Centre and the state, having shored up resources during the period to deal with the disease, it was time for a gradual easing of restrictions. "I feel that they are shifting the model, they were till now going by the hammer and the tongs model which is a lockdown," he said. Referring to the 72-day lockdown in Wuhan, he said that a lockdown of 60 to 70 days brings down the number of cases of infection. "The Sweden model or that in Taiwan or South Korea, where instead of lockdown they stressed on testing and segregating high-risk population, they have got equal success," Sarkar said. He opined that the government had enforced a strict lockdown in the beginning owing to lack of testing facilities, but now with a countrywide testing capacity of around one lakh per day, the government is shifting towards the Sweden or South Korea or Taiwan model from the lockdown model. He said that according to a study by the Imperial College of London, if 60 per cent of the population wear ordinary masks, then it can prevent 90 per cent spread of infections. "As an epidemic progresses, a virus in order to survive reduces fatality among its host and gradually loses its vigour," Sarkar said.  While agreeing that the lockdown has to be lifted at some point of time, the Association of Health Service Doctors secretary Dr Manas Gumta expressed his reservations on the manner in which it was being eased in the state. He said that it is not about one-upmanship with the central government over bringing of thousands of people by trains from other states, including the most affected Maharashtra and Gujarat, but there has to be a scientific basis on the way the lockdown is lifted. "Lockdown is simply for buying time by which the health infrastructure can be readied to deal with the pandemic effectively as also for non-COVID patients," he said, adding that it has to be lifted but in a phased manner. "The way the lockdown is being practically lifted without any preparation, it may lead to a catastrophe," he said. Gumta said the government needs revenue and people also require livelihood and as such lockdown has to be lifted gradually. "But what is the purpose of opening up religious places, at this juncture, where people may congregate in large numbers," he questioned. He said that with work from home becoming common in various sectors, there was no need to open up all sectors with full workforce. Gumta also opined that the government should introduce shift systems in offices so as to ease the crowding of many people at a time, in workplaces as well as in public transport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-shifting-to-sweden-model-to-contain-coronavirus-mamata-banerjee-843507.html
30-05-2020||National||COVID-19: India records highest single-day spike of 265 deaths, 7,964 cases||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,971 and the number of cases climbed to 1,73,763 in the country registering a record single day spike of 265 deaths and 7,964 cases till Saturday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry.  The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 86,422 while 82,369 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. In the last 24 hours, 11,264 patients have recovered.   "Thus, around 47.40 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total confirmed cases includes foreigners.    Of the 265 deaths reported since Friday morning, 116 were in Maharashtra, 82 in Delhi, 20 in Gujarat, 13 in Madhya Pradesh, nine in Tamil Nadu, seven in West Bengal, four each in Telangana and Rajasthan, two in Punjab and one each in Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Of the total 4,971 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 2,098 deaths followed by Gujarat (980), Delhi (398,) Madhya Pradesh (334), West Bengal (302), Uttar Pradesh (198), Rajasthan (184), Tamil Nadu (154), Telangana (71) and Andhra Pradesh (60).   The death toll reached 48 in Karnataka, 42 in Punjab, 28 in Jammu and Kashmir, 19 in Haryana, 15 in Bihar, eight in Kerala, and seven in Odisha.  Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand have registered five COVID-19 fatalities while Chandigarh and Assam have recorded four deaths each so far. Meghalaya  and Chhattisgarh have reported one COVID-19 fatality each, according to the ministry data.  According to the ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-265-deaths-7964-cases-843526.html
30-05-2020||National||7 hurt as bus carrying migrants from Kerala to Bengal overturns in Odisha||At least seven people were injured when a bus carrying West Bengal-bound migrants, who were stuck in Kerala due to the nationwide lockdown, overturned in Odishas Balasore district on Saturday, police said. The bus carrying 38 passengers was on its way to Kolkata when it skidded off the National Highway 16 and overturned near Balasore town, causing injuries to seven persons, a police official said. Police and fire service personnel rushed to the spot and rescued the passengers with the help of locals, while the injured persons were sent to the district headquarters hospital here, he said. The passengers, who were engaged in various establishments in Kerala were returning homes in different places in West Bengal after remaining stranded in the southern state since March due to the lockdown, the official said. The condition of the injured persons was stated to be stable, he said.  The rest of the passengers were kept in a temporary camp by strictly adhering to social distance guidelines. Arrangements are being made to send the migrant returnees to their destinations in another bus, the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-hurt-as-bus-carrying-migrants-from-kerala-to-bengal-overturns-in-odisha-843527.html
30-05-2020||National||HC refuses to quash order banning over-the-counter liquor sale||The Bombay High Court refused to quash the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) order prohibiting over-the-counter sale of liquor in the city, stating that it was the civic body's policy decision to do so amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The court on Friday refused to quash a notification issued by the civic body on May 22, prohibiting over-the- counter sale of liquor and permitting the use of e-commerce platforms for home delivery of alcohol. A division bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and N R Borkar was hearing a petition filed by the Maharashtra Wine Merchants Association seeking a direction to the state government to permit sale of liquor at wine shops in Mumbai, which is a COVID-19 red zone. The petition contended that in cities like Pune and Nashik, where the COVID-19 situation was similar to Mumbai, regular counter sale of retail liquor was being permitted. The association's advocate Charanjeet Chanderpal argued that the system of online orders and home delivery of liquor was fraught with difficulties and could have an adverse social impact and was also not safe.  The bench, however, said it would be appropriate for the petition to be placed before the city municipal commissioner as a representation. The municipal commissioner will be able to take an appropriate decision after considering all the factors, the court said. "This decision is in the nature of policy. Such a decision entails evaluation of various competing factors. The situation may differ from place to place. The relevant factors can also undergo a change with passage of time," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-refuses-to-quash-order-banning-over-the-counter-liquor-sale-843528.html
30-05-2020||National||State-run Bengal varsities recommend continued suspension of classes till June 30||Vice-chancellors of state universities in West Bengal have recommended that the government continues the suspension of classes till June 30 in view of the situation brought about by the COVID-19 outbreak and Cyclone Amphan. The vice-chancellors took a resolution in this regard during a meeting held on Friday. "Academic activities on campuses will remain suspended till June 30. This is the recommendation of the Upacharya Parishad (Bengal Vice-chancellors' Council) to the West Bengal government," Subiresh Bhattacharya, general secretary of the body and vice-chancellor of the North Bengal University, told PTI. Issues like maintenance of academic calendar in the wake of the suspension of classes and campus activities since March 16, ways to conduct final semester exams, how to follow the choice-based-credit-system (CBCS) module and efficacy of holding online classes were also discussed in the meeting, another vice-chancellor said. Education Minister Partha Chatterjee had said the state government will let the universities decide on the possible date of reopening of the campuses and wait for the recommendations of the VC council to the Higher Education Department in this regard. "The varsities will also decide the date of holding final year semester exams and apprise the Higher Education Department accordingly," Chatterjee had said.  The state government had on May 27 announced that the state-run schools will remain closed till June 30 due to damages caused to the school buildings by the cyclone and also because some educational institutes are being used as quarantine centres. The minister had left it to the authorities of the colleges and universities to decide on the possible date of resumption of campus activities. The VC council consists of representatives of all the 20 state universities in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-run-bengal-varsities-recommend-continued-suspension-of-classes-till-june-30-843531.html
30-05-2020||National||More ‘bold’ decisions to follow in next four years of Modi 2.0 government: BJP||On Saturday when Modi 2.0 government completed its one year of the second term, BJP dropped broad indications that the thrust on ‘bold’ decisions taken by the party regarding its core issues like abolition of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir will continue even in the remaining term as political culture of delaying decisions has been given a go-by by the current dispensation. “Government will definitely decide at appropriate times about all the issues we have mentioned in the manifesto and vision document. We will fulfil the promises made in the vision document,” Party President J P Nadda said when replying to a question on whether the BJP will make any forward movement on its core agenda like Uniform Civil Code after having completed two promises on abrogation of Article 370 and Ram Temple.   Addressing the media through a video conference, Nadda hit out at Congress for ‘putting obstacles in arriving at a court decision on Ram temple” and said the dream of people pending for centuries was released in the first year of Modi 2.0 government when the Supreme Court decided in favour of Ram temple on the disputed site. “With the dispute settled, all sides can now work in a united manner. A grand temple will soon be built at the site, and a mosque too shall be built in the land allocated for it,” he said. Earlier in a letter and voice message to people, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India demonstrated its mettle through the surgical strike and air strike while Article 370 furthered the spirit of national unity and integration. He said the Ram Mandir judgment brought an amicable end to a debate persisting for centuries and the barbaric practice of Triple Talaq has been confined to the dustbin of history. Home Minister Amit Shah said the Modi government in these six years rectified mistakes of the last six decades. Government also released an account of the Modi government’s functioning as ‘Vikas Yatra’. In his briefing Nadda said he drew a parallel of six years of Modi-rule versus seventy years of Congress rule, claiming that the Modi government has changed the culture of governance and politics in his tenure. “For decades, under previous governments, the difficult decisions were kept for later, kept hanging, kept pushing forward for a later date, with an attitude that we can keep important issues for later, keep diverting the issues. that attitude has now changed. These decisions are now taken and dealt with in a time-bound manner and taking everyone along. We are not a government that has the attitude of "Atkaana, latkaana, bhatkaana". He said when Modi took the mantle of the nation in 2014, the entire system of the country was paralysed. It was on a standstill. “Modi gave momentum to the system in the first five years. Government is in full momentum in Modi 2.0. Many bold decisions have been taken in the first year and will be so in future. In the first five years, the focus of the Modi government was on major economic and social reforms. The first year of the second term has been about strengthening the nation and ensuring its sovereignty is not compromised,” Nadda said. Dismissing Rahul Gandhi’s questions on lockdown he said the former Congress President does not have the intelligence to understand the issue. “Rahul Gandhi says these things as he lacks the in-depth knowledge of these subjects. His knowledge, his study is limited. His statements are aimed at politicking not fighting pandemic.” He insisted that during this Coronavirus crisis, the timely decision of lockdown and subsequent steps has saved the nation from a great disaster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-bold-decisions-to-follow-in-next-four-years-of-modi-20-government-bjp-843541.html
30-05-2020||National||96 more test positive for COVID-19 in Odisha; count rises to 1,819||As many as 96 more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Odisha on Saturday, taking the state's tally to 1,819, a health department official said. The fresh cases were reported from 18 districts and the new patients had returned from worst-hit states and were placed under institutional quarantine, he said. Of the new cases, 10 each were reported from Kendrapara and Gajapati districts, nine from Khurda, seven each from Bhadrak, Bolangir and Sundergarh, six each from Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Ganjam and Jajpur, five from Kalahandi, four each from Deogarh, Nuapada and Balasore, two from Dhenkanal and one each from Puri, Nayagarh and Keonjhar. The number of active cases now stands at 833 while 977 patients have recovered. Seven people have died of the disease, the official said.  The state has so far tested 1,47,490 samples, of which 3,920 were tested on Friday, he said. The districts which have reported more than 100 COVID-19 cases are Ganjam (404), Jajpur (259), Balasore (146), Khurda (122) and Bhadrak (131).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/96-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-odisha-count-rises-to-1819-843544.html
30-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: How has COVID-19 affected children from marginalised communities?||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-how-has-covid-19-affected-children-from-marginalised-communities-843547.html
30-05-2020||National||4 steps ahead, more than prepared to tackle COVID-19: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that his government was "four steps ahead" of the novel coronavirus and was over prepared to deal with the situation. "I want to assure Delhi residents that your government is four steps ahead of the coronavirus," Kejriwal said at an online press conference. "We are making of plenty arrangements that are much more than the requirements. We are more than prepared to tackle it," he said. The chief minister underlined that the aim of the government was to ensure that the number of deaths from the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) should not rise even if the count of patients were rising. According to Kejriwal, cases of the pathogen went up by 8,500 in the past 15 days, but only 500 people were admitted in hospitals and most were recovering at home. "We have arranged for enough beds," he said. "More beds are being arranged." Kejriwal added that the government was also developing an app to give people information about the availability of beds in hospitals. Referring to allegedly fake videos being circulated on social media, the chief minister said: "We have to leave politics behind. The country going through a bad time."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-steps-ahead-more-than-prepared-to-tackle-covid-19-arvind-kejriwal-843562.html
30-05-2020||National||10 including 8 Bangladesh returnees test COVID-19 positive in Tripura, tally reaches 254||Ten people, including eight who returned from Bangladesh recently, have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tripura, taking the total number of cases in the state to 254, Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb said. The eight had returned on Thursday through the Akhaura Integrated Check Post (ICP). The others who tested positive are a Border Security Force (BSF) personnel from its 86th battalion and a person who returned from Gurugram recently. However, none of the 166 passengers who flew from Kolkata on Friday in the first flight operated since the imposition of the lockdown were found to be infected. The government is taking all precautionary measures to keep everyone secure, Deb said in a tweet on Friday. Law Minister Ratan Lal Nath said that out of 29,359 persons who were placed under surveillance, 18,078 have completed their 14-day observation period and were discharged.  At present, 11,281 people are under surveillance, including 510 housed in quarantine centres and the rest in home quarantine. Nath, who is also the cabinet spokesperson, said, "6,355 persons have been tested per million population. This is one of the highest testing rates in the country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-including-8-bangladesh-returnees-test-covid-19-positive-in-tripura-tally-reaches-254-843565.html
30-05-2020||National||SC to decide on divorced daughter's right on pension||Is a divorced woman entitled to her freedom fighter father's family pension like an unmarried or widowed daughter? A high court said "yes", while another ruled: "No. It is not a bounty." The Supreme Court has now agreed to settle the question. The matter was brought before the top court by Himachal Pradesh-resident Tulsi Devi (56), who has challenged a high court verdict of last year dismissing her plea for grant of freedom fighter family pension on the ground that there was no provision made in the rules. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, M M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Sharan, which has taken up the matter through video-conferencing, issued notice to the Centre and sought its response by July-end. During the hearing, advocate Dushyant Parashar, appearing for Tulsi Devi, said the Himachal Pradesh High Court had committed serious illegality by not considering that petitioner being a divorced daughter was also dependent on Swatantrata Sainik Samman Pension being given to her late mother after the death of her father. He said that an identical case has come forward before the Punjab and Haryana High Court which in 2016 in a case of Khajani Devi held that freedom fighter pension scheme shall also be applicable to the divorced daughter and she shall be considered as eligible dependent at par with unmarried or widowed daughter. Parashar said that the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2016 case held that Swatantrata Sainik Samman Pension Scheme is intended to honour the valour of the uniformed people who laid down their lives or suffered for the cause of the country. He said that when the Centre challenged the Punjab and Haryana High Court order, the top court on September 27, 2019 dismissed the appeal and refused to interfere with the 2016 verdict. Parashar said that the top court has then agreed with the view of the Punjab and Haryana High Court saying that its 2016 verdict adopts a progressive and socially constructive approach to give benefits to daughter who was divorced treating her at parity with the unmarried daughter. The bench noted the submission in the order and asked Parashar to file within three weeks instructions issued by the Ministry of Defence on December 14, 2012, which includes a divorced daughter in the category of eligible dependents for grant of liberalised/special family pension beyond 25 years. “Learned counsel for the petitioner invited our attention to the order dated July 29, 2016 passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh at… which in terms referred to Instructions dated December 14, 2012. Let copy of said instructions dated December 14, 2012 be placed on record within three weeks from today. Issue notice, returnable in the last week of July, 2020,” the bench said, in its order which was uploaded recently. Under the eligibility criteria for dependents for Swatantarta Sainik Samman Pension Scheme, 1980, family include (if the freedom fighter is not alive), mother, father, widower/widow if he/she has not since remarried, unmarried daughters. Tulsi Devi was married in 1980 but after five years of marriage she was turned out of her matrimonial home and her husband married another woman. Since then she has been staying in her parental home dependent on pension received by her father, who was a freedom fighter. Her father Gopal Ram, passed away in 2007 and her mother started receiving family pension. On death bed, her mother Kaushalya Devi wrote a letter to the Prime Minister's Office in January 2018, that after her death, the family pension should be given to her daughter as she had no earning of her own and no one to look after her. The request was denied by the Prime Minister's Office on September 5, 2018. A month later, her mother expired. Aggrieved by the decision of denial of family pension, Tulsi Devi approached the Himachal Pradesh High Court for grant of family pension. The High Court last year dismissed her plea and made the distinction between pension granted to dependents of freedom fighters and armed forces personnel and central government employee. It held, “In the cases of ‘Armed Forces Personnel’ or for that matter Central/ State Government Pensioners, their divorced daughters are entitled to the pension, however, when in the ‘Swatantrata Sainik Samman Yojana’, there is no such provision and rightly so, because the ‘Swatantrata Sainik Samman Yojana’ has been launched ‘as a mark of respect’ to the Freedom Fighters, whereas in the case of Armed Forces Personnel or the Central/State Government Pensioners/Employees, the pension is not a 'bounty', but it is the 'property', they earned during their service career, therefore, the petitioner under ‘Swatantrata Sainik Samman Yojana’ cannot claim the grant of pension."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-decide-on-divorced-daughters-right-on-pension-843571.html
30-05-2020||National||131 fresh COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh; tally touches 3,461||Andhra Pradesh reported 131 new cases of COVID-19, including 61 from other states, on Saturday, taking the gross to 3,461. According to the government bulletin, COVID-19 cases in AP were only 2,944 while the remaining 517 were foreign returnees and those from other states. In the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Saturday, 70 cases were added within the state while another 61 came from other states, the bulletin said. Of the 2,944 cases reported in the state, only 792 were active as 2,092 patients got cured and discharged and another 60 died. In the last 24 hours, 55 patients got discharged while no fresh deaths were reported. Three new cases reported in Chittoor district on Saturday were returnees from the Koyambedu market in Chennai. While all the 111 foreign returnee cases were active, 217 out of 406 from other states were also active, the bulletin added. Thus the total number of active cases stood at 1,120.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/131-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-touches-3461-843575.html
30-05-2020||National||India posts record jump in COVID-19 cases, Modi says 'long battle' ahead||India reported a record daily jump of 7,964 new COVID-19 infections on Saturday, with a recent surge in cases as lockdown restrictions start to ease raising the possibility that Prime Minister Narendra Modi could extend curbs beyond May 31. In an open letter marking one year into his second term, Modi appealed to the country's population of 1.3 billion to follow all lockdown rules to stop the spread of the pandemic. The prime minister said there was a "long battle" ahead against the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19. "Our country (is) besieged with problems amidst a vast population and limited resources," Modi said, adding that labourers and migrant workers had "undergone tremendous suffering" due to restrictions. The government could extend the lockdown beyond May 31, a home ministry official said on Saturday. The home ministry did not immediately respond to a request for further comment. India has recorded a total of 173,763 COVID-19 cases and 4,971 deaths, making it the ninth most-affected country globally, Reuters data showed. While fatality rates in India have been lower than in worse-hit countries, experts warned that its peak has not been reached due to mounting cases of new infections. Officials are also nervous about the pandemic spreading through villages as millions of jobless migrant workers return home from cities. Rights activists and the opposition have criticised Modi's handling of the pandemic, accusing him of announcing an abrupt lockdown that left the poor in the lurch and forced thousands to walk or jostle for space on buses and special trains to reach home amid the fear of getting infected. Over 100 migrant workers have died either in accidents or due to starvation as they desperately tried to head back to their villages, the home ministry official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-posts-record-jump-in-covid-19-cases-modi-says-long-battle-ahead-843578.html
30-05-2020||National||513 domestic flights carrying 39,969 passengers flew in India on Friday: Puri||A total of 513 domestic flights carrying 39,969 passengers were operated in India on Friday, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday.  Puri said on Twitter on Saturday: "Day 5. 29th May till 2359 hrs. Departures 513. 39,969 passengers handled. Arrivals 512. 39,972 passengers handled." A departure is counted as a flight during the day. During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said. In February, when the lockdown was not imposed, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data.     Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases. While domestic services resumed in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, they restarted in West Bengal on Thursday.  Though domestic flight operations across the country began on May 25, they could not be restarted in Kolkata and Bagdogra as the West Bengal machinery was involved in relief and restoration work after cyclone Amphan's devastation. A total of 16 asymptomatic passengers on seven different flights, including 13 who travelled by IndiGo, have tested positive for COVID-19 since the resumption of domestic air services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/513-domestic-flights-carrying-39969-passengers-flew-in-india-on-friday-puri-843579.html
30-05-2020||National||28% of COVID-19 cases in India till April 30 are asymptomatic: Study||At least 28 per cent of 40,184 people who had tested positive for COVID-19 between January 22 and April 30 in India were asymptomatic, a study found, raising concerns about the novel coronavirus being spread by those who show mild or no symptoms. A large proportion of both those tested and those positive were asymptomatic contacts, according to the study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientists along with other collaborators Healthcare workers constituted about 5.2 per cent of the total infections, said the study published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR).  According to the study, of the 28.1 per cent asymptomatic patients, 25.3 per cent were direct and high-risk contacts of the cases, while 2.8 per cent were healthcare workers in contact with confirmed the case without adequate protection. "However, the proportion of the asymptomatic infected people could be much more than the 28.1 per cent and this is a cause of concern for us," Manoj Murhekar, director of the ICMR's National Institute of Epidemiology and one of the authors of the study, said. The findings stated that the proportion of confirmed cases was highest among asymptomatic contacts, two-three-fold higher than among those with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), those with an international travel history or healthcare workers, Murhekar said. Between January 22 and April 30, a total of 10,21,518 people were tested for severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). Testing increased from about 250 individuals per day in the beginning of March to 50,000 by the end of April. Overall, 40,184 (3.9 per cent) tested positive for the novel coronavirus. In this study, an analysis of the laboratory surveillance data was done to describe the testing performance and descriptive epidemiology of COVID-19 cases by time, place and person. The attack rate (per million) by age was highest among those aged 50-69 years (63.3) and was lowest among those under 10 years (6.1). The attack rate was higher among men as 41.6 of them tested positive, while 24.3 of the women contracted the infection.  Coronavirus cases were reported from 523 of the 736 (71.1 per cent) districts in the country. States with the highest proportion of districts reporting positive cases included Delhi, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. States/UTs with the highest test positivity are Maharashtra (10.6%), Delhi (7.8%), Gujarat (6.3%), Madhya Pradesh (6.1%) and West Bengal (5.8%). Among the 12,810 cases with reported symptoms at the time of specimen collection, cough and fever were the most commonly-reported symptoms, while around one-third of cases reported sore throat and breathlessness. Gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea were reported by less than five per cent of cases, the study stated. With implementation of the ICMR's laboratory-based surveillance for the coronavirus, testing was available and accessible, and thus contributed to improved case detection throughout the country, the study underlined. The network of COVID-19 testing laboratories and testing capacity continues to expand. "While the cumulative number of cases continues to increase, the growth rate of reported cases has slowed," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/28-of-covid-19-cases-in-india-till-april-30-are-asymptomatic-study-843583.html
30-05-2020||National||Delhi violence: Court grants ex-Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan 10 days interim bail to get married||A Delhi court on Saturday granted interim bail for 10 days to former municipal councillor from the Congress Ishrat Jahan, who has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, to get married. She has been booked under the anti-terror law in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana granted the interim relief from June 10 to June 19 to Jahan on furnishing two sureties of Rs 1 lakh. The court directed her not to tamper with any evidence or influence the witnesses in the case. According to the interim bail plea, filed through advocates S K Sharma and Lalit Valeecha, Jahan's marriage was fixed in 2018 for June 12, 2020. The plea further said that Jahan would not tamper with any evidence or influence the witnesses if granted bail. The petition, also filed through advocates Tushar Anand and Manu Prabhakar, claimed that Jahan has been falsely implicated in the case. It alleged that upon bare perusal of the contents of the FIR, no incident of violence can be attributed to her and the wild and baseless allegations made against her were not only irresponsible and false, but also caused serious harm to her reputation. Jahan, who is also an advocate, was only a supporter of ongoing peaceful protests and it was one of the fundamental rights of the citizens to protest and register their dissent against any unreasonable measure of the government, the plea said. Besides Jahan, Jamia Millia Islamia University students Asif Iqbal Tanha, Gulfisha Khatoon, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, president of Jamia Alumni Association Shifa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, activist Khalid Safi, JNU student Natasha Narwal and former student leader Umar Khalid have also been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. The police had claimed in the FIR that Khalid and his associates had instigated people to start riots in the area and it was a "premeditated conspiracy". Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. PTI URD UK SNE||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-violence-court-grants-ex-congress-councillor-ishrat-jahan-10-days-interim-bail-to-get-married-843591.html
30-05-2020||National||BSF jawan himhangs self to death in Jammu||A Border Security Force jawan allegedly killed himself inside his camp in Jammu, police said on Saturday. Constable Rajeev Lohan, a resident of Sivasagar district of Assam, was found hanging in the bathroom of his residence at Paloura camp on Friday, a police official said. He said a preliminary investigation suggested the jawan posted with the 98th battalion committed suicide. Police officials are trying to ascertain why he took the step, the official said adding the body has been handed over to his unit after completion of legal formalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-jawan-himhangs-self-to-death-in-jammu-843599.html
30-05-2020||National||Voice Over Internet Protocol exchange racket busted in Mumbai, one held||The Mumbai Police has busted a racket involved in operating an illegal Voice Over Internet Protocol (VoIP) exchange in suburban Govandi here and arrested one person in this connection, an official said on Saturday. Based on a specific tip-off received by the military intelligence, the Mumbai crime branch and Jammu and Kashmir Police jointly conducted a raid on the exchange, the official said. "Through the exchange, calls were being to various defence establishments in Kashmir," he said. "One person has been arrested in this connection and over 190 SIM cards have been recovered," he said, adding that a probe is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/voice-over-internet-protocol-exchange-racket-busted-in-mumbai-one-held-843607.html
30-05-2020||National||Yogi Adityanath asks officials to provide financial help to those left destitute by coronavirus lockdown||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed officials to provide an interim assistance of Rs2,000 to those left destitute by the coronavirus lockdown and Rs 1,000 to those who do not have ration cards to get foodgrains. He also asked officials to provide Rs 5,000 for the last rites of a destitute person. During a meeting to review the lockdown, he directed officials to ensure immediate treatment to destitute people having serious illness even if they are not covered under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana or the Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Yojana, an official spokesman said. A help of Rs2,000 should be extended as interim assistance besides making proper arrangement for their treatment, the chief minister told the officials. In the event of death of a destitute person, he directed them to provide Rs5,000 as assistance for performing the last rites, the spokesman said. Those not having foodgrains should be given Rs 1,000 and their ration cards should be made so that they can get foodgrains regularly. It should be ensured that no one goes hungry in the state, Adityanath said. He also asked for making food and drinking water arrangements for workers and labourers going to other states from UP. All those coming to the state should be properly screened and those found healthy should be sent for home quarantine with ration kits. Saying that monitoring committees set up in rural and urban areas were helping in checking the spread of the coronavirus infection, the CM stressed on a regular dialogue with their members for collecting feedback of their surveillance work. Asking the police to ensure regular and continued patrolling to ensure a strict lockdown, he said people should not be allowed to gather and supply chains should be maintained properly. He also said insecticides should be regularly sprayed to end the locust attack. Directing for taking up digging of ponds before the start of monsoon, he said this could be done through MNREGS and added that the mud retrieved from ponds could be provided to potters free of cost by coordinating with Mati Kala Board. He said digging of pits for planting saplings under the plantation drive should be started with the help of labourers under the MNREGS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-adityanath-asks-officials-to-provide-financial-help-to-those-left-destitute-by-coronavirus-lockdown-843608.html
30-05-2020||National||Man kills self in Uttar Pradesh after losing job in lockdown, Priyanka Gandhi slams Modi govt 2.0 anniversary celebrations||Unable to take care of his family of eight, that included his sick old mother and five children, after losing his job owing to the lockdown, a man allegedly killed himself by jumping before a speeding train in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur-Kheri district on Saturday. In a suicide note, which was recovered from the deceased, the man said that though he had been getting wheat and rice from the ration shop, he did not have any money to buy other food items like sugar, milk, tea and spices. ''The local grocery store owner does not give anything on credit....my sick mother is dying owing to lack of medicines....I am not getting any job,'' the man said in the suicide note, according to the police sources. The man, who worked at a hotel in the neighbouring Shahajahanpur district, lost his job after the hotel closed down in the lockdown. ''The lockdown is being extended every time,'' he said in the note. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took to the Twitter to slam the Narendra Modi government for celebrating its first anniversary of its second term saying that ''many people in the country are in pain''. ''My message may not reach you (people) the way the letter on the first anniversary of the government (Modi's letter to the people)....but do read it...many people in this country are in pain,'' Priyanka said. Barely a few days back, two migrant workers had committed suicide in UP's Banda district owing to financial woes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-kills-self-in-uttar-pradesh-after-losing-job-in-lockdown-priyanka-gandhi-slams-modi-govt-20-anniversary-celebrations-843621.html
30-05-2020||National||COVID-19: CRPF forms committee to plan better distancing in barracks, toilets used by jawans||The Central Reserve Police Force has constituted a committee of its senior officers to find better ways of ensuring physical distancing in barracks and toilets used by jawans to check the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in its camps, officials said on Saturday.  Almost all personnel living in the 31st battalion have recovered now and as per the latest data, only about 170 personnel, out of over 400, are under treatment for COVID-19 in the CRPF. Officials said the committee is headed by an Additional Director General posted in the CRPF headquarters and all the zonal commanders have been asked to send in their ideas and inputs on better management of barracks and common toilets space after talking to the actual users -- jawans and junior-rank officials -- and sanitary experts.  "The committee has been created on the directions of CRPF Director General A P Maheshwari and he has sought a time-bound report so that better ways can be found to ensure social distancing and personal hygiene in barracks and toilets used by jawans," a senior officer told PTI. He said the committee will also find ways to better sanitise these two areas in the camp so that jawans who have to live in shared spaces do not contract COVID-19 infection. These measures will go a long way in ensuring the overall health of our troops and their personal hygiene even when coronavirus goes away from our lives, another officer said. The second officer said living, sleeping and performing daily ablutions in small and shared spaces is a concern in certain camps, including temporary ones, where there is no land space to expand. "New locations where a battalion or company camp is made have better space when it comes to barracks and toilets for jawans and sub-officers. The coronavirus pandemic has magnified this issue and hence solutions are being looked into," he said. As part of measures to combat the disease, the CRPF has also decided that all those personnel who have an exposure to COVID-19 patients or surroundings, those who are joining back after leave or those who are returning to camp after lockdown will now be put in 17 days quarantine. Officials said the measure has been declared by the CRPF chief in order to cut the coronavirus infection chain in the camps and units of the force where troops and their families ranging from a varied strength of 1,000-3,000 people reside. When the issue of infection to so many troops living in the 31st battalion came to light it was found that the medical wing of the force had issued "dichotomous" order of quarantining a returning medical staff for 5 days rather than the stipulated 14 days time period and that possibly led to the spike in the number and the camp virtually becoming a hotspot, they said. Officials suspect that as jawans live in closed spaces like barracks, mess and toilets, the infection quickly spread from one person to the other in this camp and few others from where the coronavirus cases were reported. Hence, it has been directed by the DG that the quarantine period will now be 17 days in CRPF, they said. The 3.25-lakh-personnel-strong force, the mainstay for anti-Naxal operations and counter-terrorist combat in the Kashmir valley, has also ordered that officials above 50 years of age will not be deployed for "hotspot or active duty," they said. "Also, men and women troops suffering from medical conditions like hypertension, diabetes among others will not be sent to hard duties as the health ministry guidelines for COVID-19 state such people fall in high-risk category when it comes to contracting coronavirus infection," a senior official said. The DG, during a recent address to troops, has also asked the personnel to increase intake of immunity boosting food items, shun junk food, be stress free and adopt a healthy and positive-thinking lifestyle.  He also said that it has been decided that the troops who could not join duty due to restrictions of travel during the nationwide lockdown will be "considered on duty" and their personal leaves will be intact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crpf-forms-committee-to-plan-better-distancing-in-barracks-toilets-used-by-jawans-843622.html
30-05-2020||National||57% worried of high-priced COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals: Survey||Around 57 per cent of respondents expressed concern about exorbitant charges for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals, while 46 per cent fear of contracting a secondary infection in a government facility, a survey said. The survey conducted by LocalCircles, a community social media platform, received around 40,000 responses on five questions related to public perception of government and private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment. It also said that 61 per cent of respondents want the government to fix a price cap or standardise coronavirus treatment related room charges in private hospitals. Follow live updates on coronavirus here According to the survey, 46 per cent of people expressed concern over catching secondary infection due to crowd and poor adherence to infection prevention control standards in hospitals, while 32 per cent highlighted the lack of adequate medical infrastructure, as their topmost concern regarding COVID-19 treatment available in the country. It said 16 per cent of people pointed at long waiting time and inefficiencies as major issues. On being asked where would they prefer to go for treatment if they contracted the disease, 32 per cent of respondents said they would prefer a private hospital. While, 22 per cent said they would want to go to a government hospital, 32 per cent of respondents did not want to go to a hospital, the survey said, adding 14 per cent were unsure about it. When the country started reporting a surge in COVID-19 cases, government hospitals were initially designated to treat such cases. The treatment for the same was made available in private hospitals later. According to the survey, in Red Zones, especially the high virus load districts, many people expressed concern over limited capacity in private hospitals and long waiting time for admission in government facilities for COVID-19 treatment. "That explains why 32 per cent citizens say they would rather stay home and take treatment at home and not go to the hospitals unless it is an emergency situation," Akshay Gupta, General Manager, LocalCircles said. On the COVID-19 treatment available in private hospitals, 57 per cent of the respondents said exorbitant charges in such facilities was their topmost concern. Additionally, unnecessary tests, lack of knowledge of COVID-19 treatment protocols and difficulty in getting admission were other major concerns expressed by 26 per cent of respondents. “Even today, many private hospitals, especially in smaller towns, do not break up the charges of rooms, consumables and services, and it is offered as a single package. "According to the respondents (of the survey), given that COVID-19 is already having a major economic impact on people's lives, most cannot sustain the high cost of treatment. Therefore, need of the hour is for the central and state governments to cap the treatment charges or at least standardise them based on hospital categories or ratings," Gupta said. He added that the findings of the survey would be submitted to the Union health ministry so that action can be taken against the concerns raised by people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/57-worried-of-high-priced-covid-19-treatment-in-private-hospitals-survey-843623.html
30-05-2020||National||Zaira Wasim back on social media day after quitting it over locust attack post backlash||Former actor Zaira Wasim's post about floods and locust attacks was met with a huge backlash, forcing her to deactivate Twitter and Instagram accounts, but the "Dangal" star has now made a comeback on social media. Zaira had caused a social media storm after she tweeted a verse from the Quran that many people said justifies the locust attacks in various states across the country. "So We sent upon them the flood and locusts and lice and frogs and blood: Signs openly self-explained: but they were steeped in arrogance- a people given to sin -Qur’an 7:133 (sic)," Zaira had said in a now-deleted post. The same post is, however, still visible on her Instagram page, where she had also shared a video. Zaira was criticised by social media users for her insensitivity towards those affected by the locust attacks, which led her to deactivate both her Twitter and Instagram accounts. But on Saturday, she resumed her accounts and in a post, explained why she had exited the social media platforms. "Because I am just a human, like everyone else, who’s allowed to take a break from everything whenever the noise inside my head or around me reaches it peak," Zaira, 19, said in response to a query by one of the users. However, she has since deleted the new post. Last year, the National Award-winning actor was in a centre of a debate after she announced her "disassociation" from acting, saying she was not happy with the line of work as it interfered with her faith and religion. She had said that it felt like she had struggled to become someone else for a very long time. The actor, who was in her early teens when she appeared in “Dangal” opposite Aamir Khan, also worked in his 2017 production venture “Secret Superstar”. Her last film was "The Sky Is Pink", opposite Priyanka Chopra and Farhan Akhtar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zaira-wasim-back-on-social-media-day-after-quitting-it-over-locust-attack-post-backlash-843624.html
30-05-2020||National||Parliament sanitised after latest case of coronavirus||Government agencies undertook a massive drive on Saturday to sanitise all buildings in the Parliament House Complex after a fourth case of COVID-19 was reported from the complex, officials said. Of the four cases, three had contracted the infection after Parliament resumed on May 3, when Lockdown 2.0 ended. A Rajya Sabha Secretariat official tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, they said. The Lok Sabha Secretariat said in a statement the comprehensive drive included sanitisation of all indoor and outdoor areas, individual offices, restrooms and common areas. It previously conducted a similar exercise on March 21. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla then said awareness and restraint are key to prevent COVID-19 spread. Thereafter, several such exercises were undertaken. "In the exercise held today, CPWD, NDMC and other allied agencies, working within Parliament, used specialized equipment and strong chemical disinfectants like sodium hydrochloride in order to ensure sanitation in and around Parliament House Complex," the lower house secretariat said. According to the orders issued by the secretariat, a certain number of staffers are required to work from home and employees are allowed to enter Parliament only after proper screening. All vehicles are sanitised before entering the complex.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-sanitised-after-latest-case-of-coronavirus-843633.html
30-05-2020||National||Astrologers predict not much respite from coronavirus until September ||The country has been under a lockdown since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. But it has infected over 1.7 lakh people as on Saturday and killed nearly 5,000. "Though the impact of COVID-19 will start reducing by the last week of August 2020, it would take time for the pandemic to completely disappear," said Divya Bhojak, a noted astrologerfrom Toronto, holding command in Tarot reading and Graphotology. Bhojak, an NRI, came to India before the lockdown was enforced and is stuck due to the travel restrictions  "This is a result of our own karma. The nature is giving us a lesson as we completely forgot to protect our mother earth," she said. Explaining the planetary position, she said, the year 2020 is witnessing six eclipses including three visible in India. Many planets are turning retrograde, meaning an adverse effect for individuals, businesses and other aspects of life, she said. Kedar Sharma, a senior astrologer from Jaipur, predicts a change to the existing situation after June. "The position of Saturn and Jupiter would change, without making adverse impact on the economy of country," he said. Young astrologer Pawan Nishant, and his sister-in-law Shalini Dwivedi from Mathura have earned good reputation for their political predictions. "Don’t expect any respite from coronavirus until September, since Jupiter, now, is not in a position to shower its grace," Nishant predicted. The country would witness a sharp increase in COVID-19 cases from June 10, he predicted. He also predicted mass scale damages due to accidents, flood, diseases etc. in coming months.  The noted astrologer of Dwarkadhish temple, Mathura, Ajai Tailang, predicted some relief from COVID-19 after September 23, including invention of a vaccine against the virus. People are suffering, since the noted six stars Saturn, Jupiter. Mars, Venus, Rahu and Mercury are on the common trajectory, full of adversaries, he said. According to astrologer Ramesh Dwivedi of Jodhpur, the impact of pandemic would decrease after June 30th, and the death rate may not be higher. A drug or vaccine against the coronavirus may be invented after July when Jupiter would change its trajectory, Dwivedi added. A former officer of the National Museum, Delhi, and young astrologer from Vrindaban, who is known for his novel way of Bhagwatam discourse presentation, predicted a steep rise in the coronavirus cases in the month of June. He, however, added that the mortality rate would not be high. According to Anjali Girdhar, an astrologer from Delhi, the pandemic and the associated adverse environment are outcome of an assembly of Saturn, Jupiter and Ketu since "Ketu helps the growth of virus". She predicted some relief by mid-September. An astrologer from Mumbai, Shreyans Bhojak, also a Tarot Reader and Graphologist, said its impact will gradually decrease after August 2020. However, according to astrology, there is a possibility of a second outbreak if the precautions against the virus are not followed, he said. He said as per the current planetary position, the world may face different challenges till 2021, including on economic front, natural disaster and crisis in individual lives. Some medicine or vaccine may be available by the end of this year, he predicted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/astrologers-predict-not-much-respite-from-coronavirus-until-september-843635.html
30-05-2020||National||Storm damages Taj Mahal's marble railing,claims three lives||The marble railing of the Taj Mahal, a world heritage monument, was extensively damaged, in the storm, that hit Agra, about 350km from here, on Friday (May 29) night. According to the officials the storm during which wind speed touched 125km per hour, also claimed lives of three people and left more than two dozen people injured. Sources said that the marble railing of the main dome of the monument was extensively damaged in the storm. ''The red sandstone railing on the Chameli floor has also been damaged,'' said an official in Agra. He said that several trees were uprooted inside the Taj Mahal complex. ''We are assessing the damage...the officials of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) are doing that,'' the official said. The Monument of Love had suffered damage twice by storms two years back also.  Sources said that three persons, including a six-year-old girl, were killed in incidents of house collapse in different parts of the town. Over two dozen people were injured in such incidents and were admitted to the hospital. Parts of UP were lashed by rains and thunderstorm on Saturday also, according to the reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/storm-damages-taj-mahals-marble-railingclaims-three-lives-843639.html
30-05-2020||National||Rs 15L from 'Bharat Ke Veer' fund to kin of CAPF coronavirus casualties||They said the Union home ministry has recently approved the decision and the amount will be "in addition" to the ex gratia of about Rs 1 crore provided by the respective Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) to troops who lay down their lives in the line of duty.  Till now, eight CAPFs personnel have succumbed to the disease. The maximum of four fatalities were reported in the CISF and two each in the CRPF and BSF. The CAPFs or central paramilitary forces -- the Central Reserve Police Force, the Border Security Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Central Industrial Security Force and the Sashastra Seema Bal -- have a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel deployed for rendering a variety of internal security duties and border guarding. The Union home ministry, under whose command the paramilitary forces function, launched the 'Bharat Ke Veer' (BKV) fund in April 2017. It was created with an aim that common people who wish to pay tributes and make monetary contributions for CAPF men and women can do so in a streamlined manner. "A decision has been made by the home ministry that the family of a CAPF corona warrior who dies due to COVID-19 in the line of duty will be provided an amount of Rs 15 lakh in addition to the regular ex-gratia service amount." "Their personal details and bank account links are being uploaded on the BKV website and the mobile app," a senior official said. Contributions to the fund can be made through the BKV mobile app or through its official website www.bharatkeveer.gov.in. All contributions to this fund are exempt from income tax as per government rules.  Earlier this month, PTI had reported that the CRPF had proposed to the government that a special grant of Rs 50 lakh could be provided to central paramilitary personnel who die due to COVID-19 while on duty.  Two cases of the infection have been reported in the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the federal contingency force said, adding that the patients are under treatment at the CAPFs referral hospital in Greater Noida.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-15l-from-bharat-ke-veer-fund-to-kin-of-capf-coronavirus-casualties-843640.html
30-05-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh to extend coronavirus lockdown till June 15: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Saturday that the lockdown in the state to contain coronavirus will be extended till June 15. He was speaking to students from ten districts through video-conference. "Schools would reopen after June 13. But the final decision on this would be taken after some days because we are going to extend lockdown till June 15," he said. "(Because) We also have to deal with coronavirus," Chouhan said while telling the children about the precautions they need to take to protect themselves from the virus. The chief minister informed that the government has transferred a total of Rs 145.92 crore into the accounts of 66.27 lakh students. The money is in lieu of mid-day meals for students which at present can not be served due to lockdown and closure of schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-to-extend-coronavirus-lockdown-till-june-15-shivraj-singh-chouhan-843655.html
30-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: 26 from Gujarat stranded in Pakistan seek MEA help to return||Twenty-six people from Godhra in Gujarat, stranded in Pakistan due to the lockdown, have sought help of the Ministry of External Affairs to cross the Attari-Wagah border on June 4. They had gone to Karachi in February-March to attend weddings and meet relatives but were forced to stay after lockdown for coronavirus came into force in India, trains and flights were canceled and the Attari border point was sealed. In a letter to the Indian High Commission, the group requested that the MEA ensure that they were allowed to cross the Attari-Wagah border on June 4 for boarding train for Godhra. "Kindly let us know immediately so that we can leave Karachi on June 2, and reach Wagah-Attari border on time on June 4. Hopefully, you will make every possible effort to make proper arrangements for us," the letter said. "Crossing the border is the only impediment for us now," said Ishaq Bokda, one of the stranded Indians, in a video message from Karachi, shared by his son back in Godhra. "On May 21, we gave undertaking as per the direction of the High Commission of India in Islamabad that we will follow Indian government's rules and regulations regarding lockdown and will remain in self-quarantine after reaching home. "But despite that, we have not yet received any reply from them," Ishaq Bokda said. "As train services in India resume from June 1, my six family members and twenty others from Godhra currently stuck in Karachi have booked confirmed tickets on Golden Temple Mail for June 4," said Arman Bokda, Ishaq's son, while sharing the letter and video message. "They will board the train from Amritsar. But they are still uncertain about crossing the border," he said. "There are around 300 Indians stuck in Pakistan due to the lockdown. They had earlier appealed to the government to bring them back on special flights under Vande Bharat Mission. However, no such arrangement was made. We hope the government will ensure their return home this time by allowing them to cross the Wagah border," Bokda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-26-from-gujarat-stranded-in-pakistan-seek-mea-help-to-return-843656.html
30-05-2020||National||Lockdown needs to have a defined tenure: Anand Mahindra||Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra on Saturday mooted moving away from the term 'lockdown', saying it needs to have a defined tenure. A day ahead of the fourth phase of nationwide lockdown to end, Mahindra suggested 'Unlock 1.0' for the way forward. "A lockdown, by definition needs to have a defined tenure and perhaps the word itself needs to have a limited shelf life," he said in a tweet. Mahindra further said, "Maybe we now need to move away from the term and find an alternate for the way forward..'Unlock 1.0??'”. Earlier this week, he had stated that lockdown extensions are not just economically disastrous but also create another medical crisis due to its psychological effects. Mahindra had earlier proposed comprehensive lifting after 49 days of lockdown, while acknowledging that the choices are not easy for policy makers but a lockdown extension won't help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-needs-to-have-a-defined-tenure-anand-mahindra-843661.html
30-05-2020||National||Coronavirus outbreak: 'Unlock India' begins on June 8||The government on Saturday announced a three-phased “unlocking” of India from COVID-19 restrictions with the reopening of religious places, hotels and malls from June 8 while keeping containment zones under strict Lockdown 5.0 till next month-end. A decision on reopening educational institutions will be taken in July while a call on international air travel and opening up of metro services and cinema halls will be taken later after an “assessment of the situation”. With Lockdown 4.0 coming to end on Sunday, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said it has extended restrictions till June 30, mainly in containment zones, but with a graded exit plan that also allows inter-state and intra-state movement of people without restrictions. Large gatherings continue to be banned while wearing of masks and maintaining social distance in public places will remain in place. India on Sunday will be completing 68 days in COVID-19 lockdown, which was first announced on March 24 night and relaxed over the past two months. Lockdown 4.0, which came into effect on May 18, had given considerable relaxations. In the first phase of the relaxations in Lockdown 5.0, according to the ‘Guidelines for Phased Reopening (Unlock-1)’ that is part of the lockdown order, religious places like temples, churches and mosques, hotels restaurants and other hospitality services and shopping malls will be allowed to function from June 8. The second phase could see educational institutions opening up in July “after consultations” between the Centre and the states. “State governments and Union Territory administrations may hold consultations at the institution level with parents and other stakeholders. Based on the feedback, a decision on reopening of these institutions will be taken in the month of July,” the guidelines said. For both phase 1 and phase 2 exit strategy, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will issue Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in consultation with states and other stakeholders. In phase 3, the schedule for restarting international air travel, metro services, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and bars will be taken after an “assessment of the situation”. However, no specific timetable has been given for this. Night curfew will continue across the country during Lockdown 5.0 but the government has tweaked its timing to 9 pm to 5 am. Earlier, the night curfew was between 7 pm to 7 am and several states had raised objections over the timings. Containment zones will continue to be fortresses and only essential activities will be allowed. The guidelines also ask the states to identify buffer zones outside the containment zones, where new cases are more likely to occur and restrictions should be put in place by district authorities. While the Centre is allowing considerable relaxations, it has allowed the states to prohibit activities outside containment zones or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary based on their assessment. The Centre has also allowed inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods and there is no need for any special permission or e-pass for such movements. Goods movement will also continue to be unrestricted. However, states could regulate the movement of people based on “reasons of public health and its assessment of the situation” but it should give wide publicity in advance regarding the restrictions and procedures to be followed. The new guidelines have also omitted the mandatory clause on the movement of people above 65 years, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years but still “advised” them to stay indoors, except for essential and health purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-outbreak-unlock-india-begins-on-june-8-843662.html
30-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: India enters 'unlocking' mode; malls, religious places, hotels to open from June 8||Government on Saturday announced a three-phased "unlocking" of India from COVID-19 restrictions with the reopening of religious places, hotels and shopping malls from June 8 while keeping containment zones under strict lockdown till next month-end. A decision on reopening educational institutions will be taken in July while a call on international air travel and opening up of metro and cinema halls will be taken later after an “assessment of the situation”. With the lockdown 4.0 coming to an end on Sunday, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said it has extended the restrictions till June 30, mainly in containment zones, but with a graded exit plan that also allows inter-state and intra-state movement of people without restrictions. Large gatherings continue to be banned while wearing of masks and maintaining social distance in public places will remain in place across the country. India on Sunday will be completing 68 days of COVD-19 lockdown, which was first announced on March 24 night and relaxed over the past two months. The lockdown 4.0, which came into effect on May 18, had given considerable relaxations. In the first phase of the relaxations in lockdown 5.0, according to the 'Guidelines for Phased Re-opening (Unlock-1)' that is part of the lockdown order, religious places like temples, churches and mosques, hotels restaurants and other hospitality services and shopping malls will be allowed to function from June 8. The second phase could see educational institutions opening up in July “after consultations” between the Centre and states. “State governments and Union territory administrations may hold consultations at the institution level with parents and other stake holders. Based on the feedback, a decision on reopening of these institutions will be taken in the month of July," the guidelines said. For both phase 1 and phase 2 exit strategy, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will issue Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in consultations with states and other stakeholders.  In phase 3, the schedule for re-starting international air travel, Metro services, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and bars will be taken after an "assessment of the situation". However, no specific time-table has been given for this. The night curfew will continue across the country during lockdown 5.0 but the government has tweaked its timing to 9 PM to 5 AM. Earlier, the night curfew was between 7 PM to 7 AM, which several states have objected to. Containment zones will continue to be a fortress and only essential activities will be allowed. The guidelines also ask the states to identify buffer zones outside the containment zones, where new cases are more likely to occur and restrictions as necessary should be put in place by district authorities. While the Centre is allowing considerable relaxations, it has allowed the states to prohibit activities outside containment zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary based on their assessment. Centre has also allowed inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods and there was no need for any special permission or e-pass for such movements. Goods movement will also continue to be unrestricted. However, states could regulate the movement of people based on "reasons of public health and its assessment of the situation" but it should give wide publicity in advance regarding the restrictions and procedures to be followed. The new guidelines also have omitted the mandatory clause on the movement of people above 65 years, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years but still "advised" them to stay indoors, except for essential and health purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-india-enters-unlocking-mode-malls-religious-places-hotels-to-open-from-june-8-843665.html
30-05-2020||National||COVID-19 cases doubling time improves to 15.4 days, says Health Ministry||The doubling time of coronavirus cases in India has improved to 15.4 days from 13.3 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday, as the country's COVID-19 death toll climbed to 4,971 and the total cases rose to 1,73,763. The doubling time improved during the past three days, it said. As many as 11,264 COVID-19 patients have been cured in the last 24 hours till Saturday 8 am, the highest number of recoveries recorded in one day, pushing India's recovery rate to 47.40 per cent, it said.  However, the country registered a record single-day spike of 265 deaths and 7,964 cases till Saturday 8 am, according to the ministry. India is the now the ninth worst-hit nation by the pandemic. While the number of active COVID-19 cases stood to 86,422, a total of 82,369 coronavirus infected patients have recovered so far. "During the last 24 hours, a total of 11,264 COVID-19 patients have been cured. This is the highest number of recoveries recorded in a day.   "This has resulted in a recovery rate of 47.40 pc amongst COVID-19 patients, an increase of 4.51 per cent, from the previous day's recovery rate of 42.89 per cent," the health ministry said. Owing to the high number of recovered patients, the number of active patients has also declined from 89,987 patients on May 29 to 86,422 active cases presently, the ministry said in a statement adding all the patients are under active medical supervision. "As on May 30, the doubling time in the past 14 days was 13.3, it has improved to 15.4 days in the last three days. The fatality rate stands at 2.86 per cent," the statement said. As on May 29, 2.55 per cent of the active COVID-19 patients are in the ICU, 0.48 per cent on ventilators and 1.96 per cent are on oxygen support.  The testing capacity has increased in the country through 462 government laboratories and 200 private laboratories. Cumulatively, 36,12,242 tests have been done so far for COVID-19, whereas, 1,26,842 samples were tested yesterday, the ministry said. As far as the health infrastructure in the country for management of COVID-19 is concerned, 942 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,58,908 isolation beds, 20,608 ICU beds and 69,384 oxygen supported beds are available as of now.  Also, 2,380 dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,33,678 Isolation beds; 10,916 ICU beds and 45,750 oxygen supported beds have been operationalised.  Besides,10,541 quarantine centres and 7,304 COVID Care Centres with 6,64,330 beds are presently available to combat COVID-19 in the country.  The Centre has also provided 119.88 lakh N95 masks and 96.14 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to the states, UTs and central Institutions. The ministry reiterated that all precautions must be taken while "living with the new normal" of COVID-19.  It is imperative that all guidelines on physical distancing are followed at public places and workplaces, hand hygiene including frequent hand washing and respiratory hygiene is maintained, mask or face covers are used in public places and coughing/respiratory etiquettes are followed, it said. "It is highlighted that the management of COVID-19 is only possible when all the due care is taken by everyone without being complacent about the situation and by not taking the relaxations during the lockdown situation for granted," the ministry underlined. PTI PLB ABH ABH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-doubling-time-improves-to-154-days-says-health-ministry-843667.html
30-05-2020||National||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta quotes false WhatsApp forward in SC while calling critics of the Centre 'prophets of doom'||On May 28, the Supreme Court heard the Suo Moto case regarding the plight of migrant labourers stranded in different parts of the country due to the lockdown. During the hearing, Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta presented the steps that the government had taken so far to tackle the issue. He argued that the Centre is doing a lot but there are “Prophets of Doom” who spread negativity. He also said that these “armchair intellectuals” do not recognize the nation’s effort. SG:"All these people writing on social media, giving interviews cannot even acknowledge what is being done.state governments and ministers are working over night. They don’t even have the patriotism to acknowledge that.Human race is facing most difficult challenge" The SG then went on to narrate the story of the vulture and the child photographed by Pulitzer prize-winning journalist Kevin Carter during the famine in Sudan — “There was a photographer who went to Sudan in 1983. There was a panic-stricken child. A vulture was waiting for the child to die. He photographed it and the photo was published in NYT and the photographer was awarded the Pulitzer Prize. He committed suicide after 4 months. A journalist had asked him – what happened to the child? He said I don’t know, I had to return home. Then the reporter asked him – how many vultures were there? He said one. The reporter said – no. There were two. One was holding the camera…”   SG conitnues:"... a journalist had asked him - what happened to the child? He said I don’t know, I had to return home. Then the reporter asked him - how many vultures were there? He said one. The reporter said - no. There were two. One was holding the camera...." It turns out that the story narrated by the Solicitor General was doing the rounds on WhatsApp among supporters of Prime Minister Modi since at least a week before. In an attempt to silence any criticism of the government, the message draws parallels with Kevin Carter’s story and compares those highlighting the misery of the migrant workers to vultures. Tushar Mehta got the year of the famine wrong but narrated the rest of the story almost verbatim.  It is shocking that Solicitor General of India quoted word to word from a viral WhatsApp message in the top court of the country. The photograph of the starving child and the vulture is regarded as one of the most iconic images that came out of the 1993 famine in Sudan. Kevin Carter, the South African photojournalist, had committed suicide a few months after being awarded the Pulitzer prize for the image. The photograph first appeared in the New York Times on March 26, 1993. When flooded with queries about the fate of the child, in an editor’s note on March 30, 1993, New York Times clarified, “Many readers have asked about the fate of the girl. The photographer reports that she recovered enough to resume her trek after the vulture was chased away. It is not known whether she reached the center.” Therefore, as it seems, Carter chased away the scavenger to help the child. He could not lift the child because journalists were advised to not touch victims of famine because of disease. There is no literature claiming that the vulture and the child photograph was the reason for his death. His work, overall, was emotionally demanding and he often experienced existential lucidity that came with surviving violence again and again. He often used drugs to cope with his miseries. “Carter had bounced from romance to romance, fathering a daughter out of wedlock,” reads the TIME piece hinting at an unstable personal life. Carter’s suicide note mentioned in TIME talked of financial troubles. He wrote: “…depressed … without phone … money for rent … money for child support … money for debts … money!!! … I am haunted by the vivid memories of killings & corpses & anger & pain … of starving or wounded children, of trigger-happy madmen, often police, of killer executioners … I have gone to join Ken if I am that lucky.” Ken was one of Carter’s closest friends who had died of a bullet wound covering violence in South Africa’s Tokoza in 1994, close to a month before Carter committed suicide. His death had devastated Carter who told his friends that he, and not Ken, should have taken the bullet. His work assignments covering violence and misery took a toll on his mental health. “Every photographer who has been involved in these stories has been affected. You become changed forever. Nobody does this kind of work to make themselves feel good. It is very hard to continue,” he was quoted telling his friends. His work was not going well on the days leading up to his death. According to his friends, he had begun to openly talk about suicide. He committed suicide on July 27, 1994.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/solicitor-general-tushar-mehta-quotes-false-whatsapp-forward-in-sc-while-calling-critics-of-the-centre-prophets-of-doom-843671.html
30-05-2020||National||DH Deciphers | What's this border dispute between India and Nepal? Why is Kathmandu so angry? ||The India-Nepal border dispute was revived after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-kilometre-long blacktop road in Uttarakhand earlier this month. It's one of the four strategic roads New Delhi decided to expeditiously build to make it easier to move troops to high-altitude mountain passes along the Line of Actual Control — the de facto boundary between India and China — after the 2017 stand-off between Indian and Chinese armies at Doklam Plateau in Bhutan. Nepal was incensed at the move as it claims that 19 kilometres of the road fall in its territory. It even published a revised map, showing the area as part of its territory, for the first time ever. Ordinary Nepalese staged protests against the road and the prime minister of Nepal made some rather offensive remarks about India. The border dispute has threatened to cast a shadow on India’s friendly relations with Nepal. Let’s find out its origins and see if India needs to worry about it:    How come India has a border dispute with Nepal, its friendly neighbour? India and Nepal have border disputes in two different parts of their 1,800-km-long porous border: Kalapani (comprising Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh) — in the easternmost corner of Uttarakhand — and Susta, in Bihar's West Champaran district. The Kalapani region is an especially sore point because of its strategic importance. Nepal claims that Kalapani lies in its Darchula district, Sudurpashchim Pradesh.      Kalapani (black water) is a collection of springs near the Kalapani village. It represents the basin of Kalapani River, one of the headwaters of River Mahakali. Lipulekh is a Himalayan pass while Limpiyadhura is the tri-junction point where the territories of India, Nepal and China meet. The dispute has its origin in the 1816 Treaty of Sugauli, which Nepal had signed with the East India Company. Both New Delhi and Kathmandu are still committed to the treaty, which identified the Mahakali River as the India-Nepal border in the region. They, however, could not resolve differences in perception over the source of the river. Kathmandu claims the river originates in Limpiyadhura and that is why Kalapani and Lipulekh on the eastern side of the stream are part of its territory. But New Delhi argues that what Kathmandu identifies as Kali River is a rivulet called Lipu Gad which joins the main river. It maintains that the Mahakali River begins where the Lipu Gad meets the stream from the springs of Kalapani and thus Lipulekh Pass, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura belong to India.  How did India get to control the Kalapani territory? Indian armed forces occupied Kalapani in the 1950s after China took control of Tibet. Nepal did not object and effectively ignored the dispute until 1996 when the two countries began talks to resolve all of their border disputes. Both India and Nepal claim to have records — old administrative documents, tax collection receipts and maps — to support their respective positions on the dispute. What triggered Nepal’s outbursts? In 2015, Nepal protested when India and China agreed to include Lipulekh Pass as a point for border trade. It was angry that neither side consulted it before reaching the agreement. The second flashpoint occurred in November 2019 when India issued a new political map following the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir. Nepal alleged the new map shows Kalapani and Lipulekh pass as part of India.  The biggest outburst came on May 9, a day after India inaugurated the Ghatiabgarh-Lipulekh Pass road. Nepal says the road's construction runs against the understanding reached between the two nations that they would resolve the boundary dispute through talks. Nepal then issued a map showing in its territory Lipulekh pass, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura.  The territories are under Indian control and Nepal is unlikely to get them back. So why did it ratchet up the tensions? A combination of Nepalese domestic politics and China’s geopolitical ambitions explains this. New Delhi’s spat with Kathmandu over the new Nepalese constitution and a blockade that choked the supplies of essentials from India to Nepal in 2015 whipped up sentiments against India and helped China spread its influence. China played a key role in giving birth to the Nepal Communist Party, which now runs the government in Kathmandu. When a rift between the party’s two chairpersons — Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and Maoist leader Pushpa Kamal Dahal — came to the fore earlier this month, China’s envoy to Nepal, Hou Yanqi, brokered peace. With India’s road to Lipulekh pass whipping up nationalist sentiments in Nepal, almost all politicians issued statements criticising New Delhi – much to the delight of China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-whats-this-border-dispute-between-india-and-nepal-why-is-kathmandu-so-angry-843672.html
30-05-2020||National||DH Deciphers | What are locust attacks? Why should we worry about them?||Swarms of desert locusts have been hurtling towards Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra for several weeks now, destroying crops and vegetation. This is the biggest locust attack in India since 1993, which means a majority of millennials and members of the generation Z have no idea what locust attacks are and how they disrupt human lives. Here's the lowdown on everything you need to know about these pesky pests: What are locusts and their different types? Locusts are grasshoppers with short horns and short antennas. They usually fly off together (=in swarms) in search of food and to start new colonies. The most common locust species      found in India are desert locust (schistocerca gregaria), migratory locust (locusta migratoria), Bombay locust (nomadacris succincta) and tree locust (Anacridium sp.). It is the desert locust that is found in large numbers in India. The UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation describes the desert locust as the most destructive migratory pest in the world. Why are they dangerous? Locusts are harmless during the solitary phase of their 90-day life cycle. But as they grow, the presence of a brain chemical called serotonin turns their reclusiveness into attraction, leading to the formation of gregarious swarms. It is this gregarious phase in their life cycle that is the most dangerous.The immature swarms of locusts are ravenous eaters who target food crops, trees or anything green. A one square-kilometre swarm will have a staggering 80 million locusts that are capable of eating food consumed by 35,000 people in a single day. Do locusts attack and harm humans? Mostly no. Unlike mosquitoes or honeybees, locusts do not bite humans. They may just nibble on or pinch someone without breaking the skin. They may do this only to defend themselves. Do locust attacks occur every year? Desert locusts breed during the summer in India, primarily in western Rajasthan along the Pakistan border in June-July, coinciding with the arrival of the southwest monsoon. In Pakistan, locusts also breed during the spring season. However, unseasonal heavy rains in March-April this year in the breeding areas of eastern Africa, eastern Yemen, southern Iran and Balochistan aided the breeding process while the strong westerly winds coinciding with the Amphan cyclone brought these passive fliers to India. They usually ride the wind and travel 150 km in a day. So instead of arriving in India in May, the locusts arrived early, in April. The lockdown hampered the control operations, leading to their free run and making them far more dangerous. Did big locust attacks occur earlier, too? India witnessed multiple locust attacks over the past decades with the insects almost always flying into Rajasthan or Gujarat from Iran, Afghanistan or Pakistan, usually in the summer. The Centre’s Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) recorded 13 locust upsurges between 1964 and 1997, the biggest in 1993 when scientists documented 172 swarms, compared with 15 swarms in 1989, 26 in 1983 and 20 in 1978. The LWO also observed localised locust-breeding in 1998, 2002, 2005 and 2010, each of which had been controlled. Why have locusts travelled beyond Rajasthan this time? In most places in Rajasthan, the rabi crop had been harvested and the fields were empty, reducing the damage and forcing the locusts to move to greener areas. Aided by favourable winds, they travelled as far as Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Will there be a locust attack on Karnataka? Authorities earlier feared the locusts could reach parts of North Karnataka from southern Maharashtra as the wind was blowing in the north-south direction. But Agriculture Minister B C Patil later said there was a "99.99%" chance the locusts will not move to Karnataka because the wind isn't blowing towards the state. What is being done to stop locust attacks? The ministry of agriculture carries out locust control operations by spraying pesticides such as Malathion in small concentrated doses using vehicle-mounted and aerial sprayers. Drones are also used for spraying pesticides over areas that are inaccessible by tractors and fire brigade vehicles. The spraying operations take place late afternoon/night or early morning when the locust swarms settle down to rest and munch on food.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-what-are-locust-attacks-why-should-we-worry-about-them-843673.html
30-05-2020||National||COVID-19 fear: Nearly a lakh migrants from Northeast reach home by trains||Nearly one lakh people, including migrant workers and students, have reached their homes in the Northeastern states by 63 Shramik Special trains so far. The Northeast Frontier Railways (NFR), which covers parts of Bihar, Bengal, and the Northeast on Saturday said another 20 such trains will arrive soon with people stranded in the rest of the country. "Another 22 Shramik Special trains have originated from various Northeastern states under the jurisdiction of NFR to carry stranded people from these states to their native places," NFR chief public relations officer, Subhanan Chanda said in a statement. More than 320 trains arrived in Bihar areas under NFR till today and about 10 such trains will be arriving in various stations of North Bengal by today. All these Shramik Special trains helped about five lakhs stranded people to reach their home states during the lock-down period till today," he said.  In NFR areas under Katihar division of Bihar, trains arrived at stations like Katihar, Purnea, Araria, and Kishanganj. About 20 more Shramik Special trains will be arriving in these stations in the next two days by carrying stranded people of Bihar from various locations of our country.  Most of these trains originated from stations in Maharastra, Gujarat, and Punjab.  He said Indian Railways has run more than 3,840 Shramik Special trains so far, carrying over 52 lakh passengers. "Nearly 60% of the trains originated from Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Punjab, and nearly 80% of trains are mainly going towards various districts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Most of the destinations in Uttar Pradesh are around Lucknow - Gorakhpur sector and in Bihar around Patna," said the statement.  Assam had earlier send those not showing any symptom to home quarantine but the Cabinet recently decided to put all into institutional quarantine keeping in mind the spike in COVID-19 positive cases. Assam's COVID-19 positive cases touched 1,100 with the detection of 43 cases on Saturday. Other states in the Northeast have also decided to put all those coming from the rest of the country into home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-fear-nearly-a-lakh-migrants-from-northeast-reach-home-by-trains-843685.html
30-05-2020||National||80 passengers of Shramik Special trains die between May 9 and 27||As many as 80 passengers of Shramik Special trains died on board or at railway hospitals between May 9 and  27, says data compiled by Railway Protection Force ( RPF). The Shramik Special trains were started on May 1 to ferry stranded migrant labourers and students to their home states. The Indian Railways operated 3,840 Shramik Special trains till May 27 and ferried over 50 lakh passengers to their home states. As per data compiled by RPF, of the total death, 11 passengers died due to comorbidites,  one person died due to suspected COVID-19 and three died while trying to jump from running trains. For remaining passengers' death, the railways is waiting for post mortem reports to find out the exact reason, said the official. The railways official also said that all did not die on board Shramik Special trains. Some died at railway hospitals and few persons died at railway stations due to sickness, he said.  The railway faced a lot of criticism after several passengers travelling in Shramik Special trains complained of exhaustion due to lack of water and food during journey. Several political parties alleged that passengers died due to exhaustation, heat and hunger. However, railways refused to comment on the list of 80 passengers' death.   "In case of deaths, the local zones investigate the reason and without an investigation, there are allegations that they died of hunger when there was no shortage of food. Some deaths occurred and we are compiling the figures... we will issue the figures in a few days," Railway Board Chairman, VK Yadav told media on Friday. He also said that "Indian Railways has a control system whereby a train is immediately stopped if someone is found ill and they are sent to the nearest hospital." Those died in trains are aged between 4 to 85 years. Maximum of 18 persons' death have been reported in North East Central Zone followed by North Central Zone with 13 deaths.  Railway Minister Piyush Goyal earlier also appealed public with pre-existing health problems, pregnant women, persons over 65 years of age and children below 10 years to avoid unnecessary journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-passengers-of-shramik-special-trains-die-between-may-9-and-27-843689.html
30-05-2020||National||Centre to arrange for special trains to facilitate return of labourers to workplaces||The Centre on Saturday said it would arrange special trains to facilitate the return of labourers to their workplaces, following concerns raised by industries regarding shortage of labour hitting production and logistics. Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Singh Thakur, after listening to the problem of labour shortage from the industries, assured that special trains would be arranged so that labourers can return to their workplaces, Bharat Chamber of Commerce said in a statement. Thakur interacted with the members of the chamber through video conference. The minister urged the industries to get in touch with their workers, who have returned home during the lockdown. According to the Railway Board, 3,840 'Shramik Special' trains have been operated till May 28 since the services commenced from May 1. Responding to other suggestions by the chamber, Thakur said an ordinance will soon be passed on the new rules of Tax deduction at source (TDS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-arrange-for-special-trains-to-facilitate-return-of-labourers-to-workplaces-843691.html
30-05-2020||National||Govt blocks Dutch file-sharing website WeTransfer||The government has ordered internet service providers to block the computer file-sharing website WeTransfer due to security reasons. The order issued by the Department of Telecom on May 18 directed all ISP to block two download links on the Dutch website WeTransfer and also the entire website www.wetransfer.com. "The compliance be submitted immediately failing which shall inter-alia invite initiation of actions under licence conditions," the DoT order -- e-mailed to several ISPs -- said. According to sources, the DoT has received directions from the Ministry of Electronics and IT to block the website and two download links immediately. The exact reason for the blocking of the website could not be ascertained. However, an official on condition of anonymity said "most probably due to security reasons". Query sent to the DoT elicited no response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-blocks-dutch-file-sharing-website-wetransfer-843693.html
30-05-2020||National||Gadkari launches e-course on 'good governance'||Union minister and senior BJP leader Nitin Gadkari on Saturday inaugurated a certificate e-course 'Understanding Good Governance'. The course, jointly organised by Public Policy Research Centre and Ram Bhau Mhalgi centre, will be packed into interactive sessions spanning over five days, a statement said. In his remarks, Gadkari said the course will help students discover the "annals of good governance' from those who have been instrumental in executing the policies and implementing change. He added that one of the fundamental characteristics of good governance is an empowered and informed citizenry, and this initiative only emboldens the philosophy by providing a platform for healthy debate and discussion on the government's performance over the last six years. Gadkari said the Narendra Modi government's second term has been a year of landmark decisions, bold initiatives and political grit. "The government helped India unshackle from historical wrongs and set on progressive path," he said.  Public Policy Research Centre director and BJP MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe said the course has been designed by keeping in mind all the key features of governance that have well been identified by people and have had an identifiable impact on their lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gadkari-launches-e-course-on-good-governance-843695.html
30-05-2020||National||Indian man flees on repatriation flight after conning UAE biz men of USD 1.6 million||An Indian man has allegedly duped nearly 50 businessmen in the UAE of USD 1.6 million and fled the country in the most unlikeliest way -- on a repatriation flight to Hyderabad, according to a media report on Saturday. Yogesh Ashok Yariava, the prime accused in the fraud, flew from Abu Dhabi to Hyderabad on a Vande Bharat repatriation flight on May 11 with around 170 evacuees, the Gulf News reported. Yariava, the 36-year-old owner of the fraudulent Royal Luck Foodstuff Trading, made bulk purchases worth 6 million dirhams (USD 1.6 million) against post-dated cheques from unsuspecting traders before fleeing to India, the daily said. The bought goods included facemasks, hand sanitisers, medical gloves (worth nearly 5,00,000 dirhams), rice and nuts (3,93,000 dirhams), tuna, pistachios and saffron (3,00,725 dirhams), French fries and mozzarella cheese (2,29,000 dirhams), frozen Indian beef (2,07,000 dirhams) and halwa and tahina (52,812 dirhams). The list of items and defrauded persons keeps getting longer as more and more victims come forward, the report said. The aggrieved traders have filed a case with the Bur Dubai police station. The traders said when the dud cheques started bouncing they rushed to the Royal Luck's office in Dubai but the shutters were down, even the fraudulent company's warehouses were empty. Reacting to the report, India's Consul-General in Dubai Vipul assured all possible help to the victims. "We will get in touch with people who have apparently been duped by an Indian conman and extend all possible help," Vipul told PTI on Saturday. Vipul said that he hasn’t yet received a request for a meeting regarding this case so far. He also said that those who have fallen victim to the fraud “should have also approached local authorities earlier and taken preemptive action to stop the person from travelling out of UAE”. The Indian Consulate in Dubai has repeatedly urged Indian exporters to exercise caution and not fall victim to scams. Advocate Salam Pappinisseri, who is representing five of the cheated firms, said, “Yariava, originally from Mumbai, absconded from the UAE with large amounts of money on an emergency evacuation flight. It's strange that the fraudster got a seat in the flight which was meant to bring stranded Indian citizens who had registered with the Indian embassy and consulate requesting repatriation on urgent grounds." Skydent Medical Equipment Trading LLC, one of the companies allegedly duped by Yariava, has lost all its earnings as a result of this fraud. The co-owner of the business, Neetu Chandrashekharan, told PTI that the company was asked to supply masks on May 6 and was given a post-dated cheque worth 175,857 dirhams that was to be encashed on May 19. “We supplied 2,500 boxes of face masks at a cost of 67 dirhams per box as ordered. But when we deposited the cheque for encashment, we were told that the bank account doesn’t have sufficient cash,” Chandrashekharan said. According to her, the company found out that they had been duped when her husband went to the warehouse and found others with similar complaints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-man-flees-on-repatriation-flight-after-conning-uae-biz-men-of-usd-16-million-843700.html
30-05-2020||National||Centre's push to accept river erosion as a natural calamity in Assam||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-push-to-accept-river-erosion-as-a-natural-calamity-in-assam-843707.html
30-05-2020||National||New coronavirus guidelines emphasise ‘unlocking’ India, not ‘lockdown’||The Centre has preferred not to emphasise the term “lockdown” in its new COVID-19 guidelines, which is more of a graded exit plan from the restrictions imposed since March 25 to contain the pandemic. The guidelines have been described as a plan for 'Phased Reopening (Unlock 1)' and it came after Home Minister Amit Shah held talks with chief ministers and two rounds of discussions with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. According to the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the National Disaster Management Authority has directed Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla "to issue an order to extend the lockdown in containment zones up to June 30 and to reopen prohibited activities in a phased manner in areas outside containment zones". The new guidelines practically opens up the country in June, except for educational institutions, international air travel, metro rail services and entertainment avenues like cinema halls. The MHA has kept in mind the demands from various states to open shopping malls and religious places. While the government will take a call on the functioning of educational institutions in July, no timeline has been fixed for reopening of normal international air travel and metro rail services. Officials expect a decision on international air travel to come in July-end or August but would hugely depend on the COVID-19 situation in other countries, especially in Europe and the United States. They indicate that it would also be grade-wise opening as the country is still not prepared to allow unrestricted entry of passengers from abroad. According to the guidelines, people must maintain a minimum distance of six feet in public places while wearing of face masks will be compulsory in public places, workplaces and during transport. Though all shops will be allowed to open from June 8, no more than five persons would be allowed inside a shop at one time.  With the opening of shopping malls, one of the most crowded places, it remains to be seen how this will be implemented. States will be waiting for the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for this. Large gatherings are also banned but the new guidelines allow the opening of barber shops, salons and spas, which were prohibited till May 31. While offices are allowed to function, the guidelines reiterate that work from home should be encouraged as far as possible. Staggered working and business hours have been re-emphasised as per the National COVID-19 Management. As earlier, marriages can have a maximum of 50 guests, while funerals should not exceed 20 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-coronavirus-guidelines-emphasise-unlocking-india-not-lockdown-843712.html
30-05-2020||National||Current India-China tension in eastern Ladakh 'different' from past transgressions, says Defence Minister Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that the current situation along the disputed boundary between India and China in eastern Ladakh was “a bit different” from normal transgressions of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) by the soldiers of the two nations. He, however, added that efforts were on to resolve the situation, with military officials and diplomats of India and China being in touch. The Defence Minister told a news-channel that since the two sides had differences in perception about the alignment of the LAC; the Indian and Chinese soldiers had been transgressing into each other’s side while patrolling along the disputed boundary. “This time however the situation is a bit different, but our talks are on with China,” he said, expressing hope that the situation would be resolved soon. “We want to resolve the crisis through dialogue. Discussions are on at the military and diplomatic level. China also expressed its desire to resolve it,” the Defence Minister said in an interview to another TV channel. In response to a question on the United States President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate between India and China, Singh said that he had conveyed to American Secretary of Defence Mark Esper that India and China had existing mechanisms to resolve any situation that might arise along the disputed boundary between the two nations. Singh and Esper spoke to each other over the phone on Friday. This is the first time a minister of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government made a statement on the tension between India and China along the LAC on the north bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh. His statement came after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi demanded that the Government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre must let people of the country know what was happening along the disputed boundary between India and China. “The nation should be rest assured that we will not allow its dignity to be hurt under any circumstances,” the Defence Minister said.   Though the LAC at present separates India and China in the absence of a mutually agreed boundary, differences in perceptions about the alignment of the line are often blamed for its transgressions and consequent tension and stand-offs. In the November 1996 Agreement on the CBMs in the border areas, India and China recognized the differences in perception over the LAC and sought to speed up exchange of maps for clarification and confirmation of its alignment. Beijing, however, subsequently took it off the table in its engagements with New Delhi, ostensibly out of apprehensions that New Delhi might insist on turning the LAC, if clarified and confirmed, into de jure boundary. The tension along the disputed boundary between India and China started on May 5 when the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) personnel attacked Indian Army soldiers with sticks and stones in an area perceived in New Delhi to be well within the LAC’s Indian side. They also demolished on May 6 some makeshift structures built by Indian Army soldiers. The Chinese PLA followed up by building a bunker in order to restrict the access to an area where Indian Army soldiers regularly patrolled. The PLA later deployed nearly 5000 soldiers in a large camp set up recently at Galwan Valley within the territory claimed by China – obviously to support the smaller number of troops, who transgressed the LAC in several locations and entered into the areas claimed by India. The Indian Army also rushed additional troops “in adequate numbers” in response to the deployment by the Chinese PLA. The build-ups by both sides escalated tension along the LAC and the military officials and diplomats of both sides are now holding discussions to defuse the situation. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that the current situation along the disputed boundary between India and China in eastern Ladakh was “a bit different” from normal transgressions of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) by the soldiers of the two nations. He, however, added that efforts were on to resolve the situation, with military officials and diplomats of India and China being in touch. The Defence Minister told a news-channel that since the two sides had differences in perception about the alignment of the LAC; the Indian and Chinese soldiers had been transgressing into each other’s side while patrolling along the disputed boundary. “This time however the situation is a bit different, but our talks are on with China,” he said, expressing hope that the situation would be resolved soon. “We want to resolve the crisis through dialogue. Discussions are on at the military and diplomatic level. China also expressed its desire to resolve it,” the Defence Minister said in an interview to another TV channel. In response to a question on the United States President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate between India and China, Singh said that he had conveyed to American Secretary of Defence Mark Esper that India and China had existing mechanisms to resolve any situation that might arise along the disputed boundary between the two nations. Singh and Esper spoke to each other over the phone on Friday. This is the first time a minister of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government made a statement on the tension between India and China along the LAC on the north bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh. His statement came after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi demanded that the Government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre must let people of the country know what was happening along the disputed boundary between India and China. “The nation should be rest assured that we will not allow its dignity to be hurt under any circumstances,” the Defence Minister said.   Though the LAC at present separates India and China in the absence of a mutually agreed boundary, differences in perceptions about the alignment of the line are often blamed for its transgressions and consequent tension and stand-offs. In the November 1996 Agreement on the CBMs in the border areas, India and China recognized the differences in perception over the LAC and sought to speed up the exchange of maps for clarification and confirmation of its alignment. Beijing, however, subsequently took it off the table in its engagements with New Delhi, ostensibly out of apprehensions that New Delhi might insist on turning the LAC, if clarified and confirmed, into de jure boundary. The tension along the disputed boundary between India and China started on May 5 when the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) personnel attacked Indian Army soldiers with sticks and stones in an area perceived in New Delhi to be well within the LAC’s Indian side. They also demolished on May 6 some makeshift structures built by Indian Army soldiers. The Chinese PLA followed up by building a bunker in order to restrict the access to an area where Indian Army soldiers regularly patrolled. The PLA later deployed nearly 5000 soldiers in a large camp set up recently at Galwan Valley within the territory claimed by China – obviously to support the smaller number of troops, who transgressed the LAC in several locations and entered into the areas claimed by India. The Indian Army also rushed additional troops “in adequate numbers” in response to the deployment by the Chinese PLA. The build-ups by both sides escalated tension along the LAC and the military officials and diplomats of both sides are now holding discussions to defuse the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/current-india-china-tension-in-eastern-ladakh-different-from-past-transgressions-says-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-843717.html
30-05-2020||National||Coronavirus is a challenge, but a big opportunity: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Coronavirus is a big challenge but also presents an opportunity in the technology space that Indians can leverage to make the country a great nation, IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Saturday.  The minister launched a national artificial intelligence portal, which will share all developments and resources available for the development of the emerging technology in India. He also launched a nationwide programme 'Responsible AI for Youth' in collaboration with US electronic chip maker Intel. "I think COVID is a big challenge, is a pain also but COVID is a big opportunity and I have not the slightest doubt inept technological and entrepreneurial ability of Indians - both individuals and groups - will come to the fore to make India a great success," Prasad said. The minister said that he is very keen that India should become a huge software product nation as well as excel in the field of IT services. Technology has played a key role during the lockdown by "keeping the country alive and connected".  These are very turbulent times for the country but India has been able to save many lives due to the lockdown, he added. "The total population of these 15 countries is 142 crore. Total population of India is currently 137 crore. How many people have died on account of corona in these 15 countries.. 3,57,736 as per WHO yesterday evening. India's population is 137 crore and death is 4,971 till yesterday. This could happen because of lockdown," the minister said. Prasad said Rs 53,000 crore have been transferred online to the account of the poor from PM relief fund. "This brings some satisfaction as to how during tough times technology can be of great help and the great vision that the Prime Minister has when he insisted on empowerment of ordinary Indian with the use of technology. "I am glad that we are launching these two initiatives on the 1st anniversary of the second tenure of the Narendra Modi government. After a long time a government has been re-elected on the basis of performance," Prasad said. The minister said that the last government re-elected due to performance was at the time of Jawaharlal Nehru. The national AI portal will work as a one stop digital platform for AI related developments in India. It will share resources such as articles, startups, investment funds in AI, resources, companies and educational institutions. The portal will also share documents, case studies, research reports etc. It has a section about learning and new job roles related to AI. The 'Responsible AI for Youth' programme aims to give the young students in the country a platform and empower them with appropriate new age tech mind-set, relevant AI skill-sets and access to required AI tool-sets to make them digitally ready for the future. This programme will be open for government schools across all the states. The Department of School Education and Literacy (DoSE&L) will help reach-out to state education departments to nominate teachers as per eligibility criteria. "I must tell you no technology has failed in India. I would like my friends to note that when Rajiv Gandhi came with computers there was so much opposition, including from my party, including from Mr Rajeev Gandhi's party that what will happen to the poor, jobs will go away. Computers empowered and also created opportunities," Prasad said. The minister said that the post-COVID world will not remain the same and there has to be wider use of technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-is-a-challenge-but-a-big-opportunity-ravi-shankar-prasad-843718.html
30-05-2020||National||Delhi's tally of active coronavirus cases crosses 10,000-mark||Bad news rained on Delhi on Saturday as the capital recorded more than 1,000 COVID-19 cases for third consecutive day and the number of people under treatment crossed the 10,000-mark for the first time. The city reported 1,163 cases, the highest spike for a single day, taking the total to 18,549 cases. Of this, 15,031 or 81.03 per cent of total cases reported in May alone. Since May 18 when lockdown 4.0 came into effect with more relaxations, there have been 8,525 cases or 56.71 per cent of the cases reported this month so far. The latest medical bulletin also added 18 more deaths to the toll taking the total to 416. For the first time since the first case was reported on March 2, the capital has more than 10,000 active patients at a time -- 10,058 out of which 5,139 are in home isolation. According to the bulletin, 229 new patients have recovered, taking the total to 8,075. So far, Delhi has tested 2.06 lakh samples, which includes 7,113 new samples. An order has been issued for designating three additional Delhi government hospitals -- Deep Chand Bandhu hospital, Satyavadi Raja HarishChander hospital and GTB hospital -- as COVID-19 hospitals with an additional bed capacity of 900 beds. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the government has issued orders to ensure that there are around 9,500 beds for COVID-19 patients by June 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-tally-of-active-coronavirus-cases-crosses-10000-mark-843721.html
30-05-2020||National||Indian Navy to start next phase of Operation Samudra Setu from June 1||The Indian Navy will start the next phase of Operation Samudra Setu from June 1 to repatriate Indians who are stranded overseas amid the coronavirus pandemic, an official release said on Saturday. "In this phase, Indian Navy Ship Jalashwa will repatriate 700 personnel from Colombo, Republic of Sri Lanka to Tuticorin, Tamil Nadu and subsequently repatriate another 700 personnel from Malè, Republic of Maldives to Tuticorin," the Navy said in its press release. The Indian Navy has already repatriated 1,488 Indian nationals from Malè to Kochi during the previous phases of the operation.  On Saturday, the Indian Navy said, "Indian Missions in Sri Lanka and Maldives are preparing a list of Indian nationals to be evacuated and will facilitate their embarkation after requisite medical screening." COVID-related social distancing norms have been catered onboard and evacuees would be provided basic amenities and medical facilities during the sea-passage, it stated.   After disembarkation at Tuticorin, the evacuated personnel will be entrusted to the care of the state authorities, the Navy said. "This operation is being progressed in close coordination with Ministries of External Affairs, Home Affairs, Health and various other agencies of the Government of India and State governments," the Navy noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-to-start-next-phase-of-operation-samudra-setu-from-june-1-843722.html
30-05-2020||National||Unspecified coronavirus cases recorded by ICMR indicates community transmission||The Indian Council of Medical Research has reported that it does not know the source of infection for 44 per cent of the patients tested positive for COVID-19 till April 30. In an analysis of more than one million tests (1,021,518 to be exact) carried out till April 30, the ICMR team found 40,184 positive cases, out of which as many as 17,759 cases (44%) belong to the “Not Specified” category. Majority of such cases were reported between April 15 and April 30 when lockdown 2.0 was in place. While analysing the results, the ICMR scientists categorised the positive cases in seven groups – (1) symptomatic international travelers in the last 14 days (2) symptomatic contacts of laboratory confirmed cases (3) symptomatic healthcare workers (4) hospitalised SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) patients (5) asymptomatic direct and high risk contacts of laboratory confirmed case – family members (6) asymptomatic healthcare workers in contact with confirmed case and (7) ILI (influenza like illness) identified in hot zones. But as these 17,759 cases did not fall in any such category, they were grouped under “Not Specified” category about which ICMR scientists did not offer any explanation in the paper published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research.   They, however, admitted that “the surveillance data had a large proportion of tests with missing information on exposure history". “Also cases were reported from all over India, and travel was no longer the primary means of exposure,” they reported. The medical researchers also noted that they were “uncertain about the transmission among unlinked individuals in the community.” “There could be multiple reasons behind such cases ranging from people not belonging to any of these categories to community transmissions,” ICMR scientist Tarun Bhatnagar, one of the members of the team, told DH. Furthermore, the analysis found 4,204 cases of SARI (10.5%) and 1,199 (3%) cases of ILI that are also indicative of the COVID-19’s silent spread into the community. Looking for COVID-19 positives among SARI and ILI cases is part of ICMR’s strategy to look for the signatures of community transmission in India. While the government has not admitted the pandemic virus’s community transmissions in India, doctors and health department officials were categorical in admitting that the pandemic has moved from local transmission to community transmission. Asked why the government was silent on the community transmissions, eminent virologist T Jacob John said it could be due to the officials' lack of epidemiological understanding of epidemics. “Perhaps the need to assert that government knows 'all sources of infection' - an obviously untenable claim - may have made them (the Govt) deny community transmission defined as 'unknown person(s) transmitting infection'. Such claim also shows lack of deep understanding of the dynamics of introduced epidemics,” said John, a retired professor of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unspecified-coronavirus-cases-recorded-by-icmr-indicates-community-transmission-843740.html
30-05-2020||National||Spike in COVID-19 cases could have been avoided if migrants allowed to go before lockdown: Report||The current spike in coronavirus cases in the country could have been avoided if migrants had been allowed to go home before the imposition of the lockdown when the disease spread was very low, a group of public health experts said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 4,971 and the number of cases climbed to 1,73,763 in the country, the Union health ministry said. “The returning migrants are now taking the infection to each and every corner of the country, mostly to rural and peri-urban areas, in districts which had minimal cases and have relatively weak public health systems (including clinical care),” said a report by a COVID-19 Task Force comprising public health experts from AIIMS, JNU, BHU among others.  The report compiled by experts from the Indian Public Health Association (IPHA), Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine (IAPSM) and the Indian Association of Epidemiologists (IAE) has been sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India's nationwide lockdown from March 25 till May 30 has been one of the most "stringent" and yet COVID-19 cases have increased exponentially through this phase, that is, from 606 cases on March 25 to 138,845 on May 24, they said. "This draconian lockdown is presumably in response to a modeling exercise from an influential institution which presented a 'worst‐case simulation'. The model had come up with an estimated 2.2 million deaths globally. "Subsequent events have proved that the predictions of this model were way off the mark. Had the Government of India consulted epidemiologists who had better grasp of disease transmission dynamics compared to modelers, it would have perhaps been better served," the report stated. From limited information available in the public domain, the experts said it seems the government was primarily advised by clinicians and academic epidemiologists with "limited field training and skills". "Policy makers apparently relied overwhelmingly on general administrative bureaucrats. The engagement with expert technocrats in the areas of epidemiology, public health, preventive medicine and social scientists was limited," they said in the report.  "The incoherent and often rapidly shifting strategies and policies, especially at the national level, are more a reflection of afterthought and catching up phenomenon on part of the policy makers rather than a well thought cogent strategy with an epidemiologic basis," they said. The experts have recommended constituting a panel of inter-disciplinary public health and preventive health experts and social scientists at central, state and district levels to address both public health and humanitarian crises. It has suggested that all data, including test results, should be made available in public domain for the research community (clinical, laboratory, public health and social sciences) to access, analyse and provide real-time context-specific solutions to control the pandemic. “A Public Health Commission with task-specific Working Groups may be urgently constituted to provide real-time technical inputs to the government,” it suggested. Highlighting that physical distancing norms need to be practiced to slow down the spread of infection, the experts said at the same time, enhanced social bonding measures need to be promoted to address mental health concerns of anxiety and lockdown. They further recommended extensive surveillance for patients with Influenza like Illnesses (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) through clinical institutions (including private hospitals) and testing, tracing, tracking, and isolating with marked scaling up of diagnostic facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spike-in-covid-19-cases-could-have-been-avoided-if-migrants-allowed-to-go-before-lockdown-report-843746.html
30-05-2020||National||BCI chief depcrecates imputing motives to SC by lawyers and judges||Bar Council of India Chairman Manan Kumar Mishra on Saturday deprecated a move by some senior advocates and former judges to impute "derogatory and defamatory allegations" against the Supreme Court of India. "The sustained and synchronized attack on the Supreme Court by some senior advocates and former judges is a conspiracy to weaken and browbeat the institution.  Never before in the history of the country has such a concerted attack by some disgruntled members of the bar and some unhappy and disappointed former judges has been witnessed," a statement issued by Mishra said. He said some people were using social media, electronic and print media to castigate and scandalize judiciary by imputing baseless motives on the Supreme Court judges.   "They are in virtual competition with each other in hurling choicest of derogatory and indecent words to denigrate the Supreme Court.  They know that Supreme Court Judges are under compulsion to remain within the Lakshman Rekha and are unable to come out to defend themselves," he said.  Mishra maintained that it is the duty of the Bar to protect the Institution and to ensure that no unscrupulous attack succeeded in weakening our Judiciary. "It is painful to see that only a few days after two advocates made unfair and unhealthy remarks against our apex court, Justice Madan B Lokur, a former judge of Supreme Court has also joined this bandwagon fully knowing that such idle talk lead to undermine the authority of judiciary as a whole," he said. Some senior advocate and a few former judges have criticised the top court in failing to question the executive in improving the lot of migrant workers, facing distress situation after the nationwide lockdown was imposed since March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19.  "This is more reprehensible because the Supreme Court is currently seized of the issues of migrant workers. The kind of brazen attack these purported intellectuals are making is nothing but an attempt to influence the Supreme Court to toe a particular line in this matter which would fulfill their agenda to defame the government which is grappling to ameliorate the sufferings of common man," he said. Mishra said the indulgence of former judges was really very unfortunate.  "What the people have started to believe is that some former chief justices of High Courts or some former judges of Supreme Court, who could not get a suitable berth after their superannuation, become disgruntled and start going in media and malign the system of which they were an integral part for a quite long period.  Such people should join politics and go in public directly and face the common mass of this country. The people will deal with them properly," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bci-chief-depcrecates-imputing-motives-to-sc-by-lawyers-and-judges-843766.html
30-05-2020||National Politics||Modi 2.0 first year full of historic achievements, says Amit Shah||The first year of the Modi government's second term is full of historic achievements, top BJP leaders said on Saturday, with party president J P Nadda asserting that it would be known for its tough and big decisions that have "changed" the country's face. Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in its six years of tenure had corrected many "historic wrongs" and laid the foundation of a self-reliant India, which is on the road to development. "I heartily congratulate the country's popular Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the successful one year of Modi 2.0. It has been full of historic achievements," Shah tweeted. Nadda said Modi had given a new direction to the country's democracy with his far-sighted policies, dedication and the spirit of team India, and people's welfare and the country's interest were reflected in every decision of the government. "I congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other members of the government on the completion of the successful one year of its second term," the BJP president said. "This year of the Modi government is full of many achievements." "This first year of the Modi government's second term will be known for its tough and big decisions and converting challenges into opportunities," he said. "Modi implemented decisions which were awaited for decades. These decisions have changed the country's face." Modi and his cabinet had taken oath on this day last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-20-first-year-full-of-historic-achievements-says-amit-shah-843499.html
30-05-2020||National Politics||Year of accomplishments: Nadda on 1 year of Modi 2.0||BJP president J P Nadda said on Saturday that the one year of the Modi government's second term had been a year of accomplishments and unimaginable challenges that it faced with bold and timely decisions. "While many big, powerful countries found themselves helpless against COVID-19, situation is under control in India," Nadda said at a press conference here on the first year of the Modi 2.0.  Hailing the Centre's decision of the lockdown as timely, the BJP leader said the move helped in checking the spread of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19).  Citing the Citizenship Amendment (Act) scrapping of Article 370, strengthening of anti-terror laws, bank mergers among the key successes, Nadda said these bold decisions helped in strengthening the country and realising the objective of 'one nation, one constitution'. Nadda said the Congress worked for long to delay decision on the Ayodhya case, adding that a grand Ram temple would to be built now as the government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had formed a trust to construct the temple. He announced that the party will held digital rallies across the country to mark the first anniversary of the Modi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/year-of-accomplishments-nadda-on-1-year-of-modi-20-843552.html
30-05-2020||National Politics||Lives of poor much more painful than before: Mayawati||BSP president Mayawati on Saturday advised the Modi government to review its policies and working style with an open mind, and remove the shortcomings. "On the completion of one year of BJP government at the Centre today, many claims have been made, but it would be better if they are not far from the ground reality and public perception/understanding," Mayawati tweeted. The Bahujan Samaj Party leader said the tenure had been surrounded by a lot of controversies in most cases, adding that the government must seriously think in the interest of the country and the people. "The lives of most of the poor, unemployed, farmers, migrant labourers and women of the 130 crore population of the country have remained much more painful than before, which is very sad and which cannot be forgotten soon," she said. In such a situation, Mayawati added, the Centre needed to review is policies and working style with an open mind, and wherever there had been any shortcomings, they should remove them instead of covering it up. This is the advice of the BSP to them in the interest of the country and public, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lives-of-poor-much-more-painful-than-before-mayawati-843566.html
30-05-2020||National Politics||Modi inflicting wounds on India instead of healing them: Congress||Congress on Saturday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s sixth year in office as full of disappointment, disastrous management and pain. The main Opposition party said India stands at crossroads in the seventh year of the Modi government and the people are already exhausted by the “weight of the government’s sins”. “Citizens are exhausted by the weight of this government's sins, ineptitude and callous insensitivity to the widespread suffering,” AICC general secretary KC Venugopal told reporters. He said the last six years under Modi, India had witnessed a steady increase in the politics of distraction and false noise, to the point that it has become a defining mainstay of the government's administrative style. He said while it served the political interests of the BJP, it came at an "unprecedented economic and social cost" to the nation. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said at the end of six years, it appeared the Modi government was at war with its people and was inflicting wounds on them, instead of healing them. “It is inflicting wounds on Mother India,” he said. The Congress leaders reminded Modi of the tall promises he had made on the election trail. “But as we shall see, even the most ordinary and mundane expectations of keeping the country running were beyond the capabilities of this government which promised so much and delivered so very little,” Venugopal said. He said under the Modi government, the GDP has become synonymous with ‘Grossly Declining Performance’. “Most international and national rating agencies have predicted negative GDP growth in Financial Year 2020-21. The economy had been mismanaged to the point of ruin long before Covid-19,” he said, adding the GDP growth has been sliding continuously for the last 21 months. The Congress also demanded that a “virtual session” of Parliament be convened immediately to discuss pressing issues and the due process should be set in motion for holding meetings of various parliamentary committees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-inflicting-wounds-on-india-instead-of-healing-them-congress-843572.html
30-05-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi has 'limited' understanding: Nadda on his COVID-19 comments||Slamming Rahul Gandhi for his criticism of the Modi government's handling of the COVID-19 situation, BJP president J P Nadda said on Saturday that the Congress leader's understanding of these issues is limited and that his statements are not aimed at addressing the crisis but are all about politics. Addressing a press conference on the first anniversary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government's second term, Nadda said the last one year will be known for many bold decisions and its timely actions to deal with coronavirus have ensured that the situation remains in control in India when many big and powerful countries have found themselves "helpless". The first year of the Modi government's second term has been full of accomplishments and unimaginable challenges with the prime minister leading from the front and taking "bold and timely" decisions to combat COVID-19 crisis. Asked about Gandhi's remark that the nation-wide lockdown has failed in its purpose, Nadda said, "Rahul Gandhi doesn't understand these issues deeply. His understanding and study of issues is limited. That is why he makes confusing remarks by sometimes questioning the lockdown and sometimes demanding why it was not being extended." His statements are for political ends and all about politics, and they have got nothing to do with addressing coronavirus issues, the BJP president said. He blamed the Congress for politicising the issue, and claimed that the BJP worked towards serving people during the crisis. Answering a question, Nadda asserted the government's pitch for a self-reliant India is about encouraging Indian industrialists, and is not about going back or the subject of license quota, a reference to protectionist and control economy India practiced before the 1991 reforms. "Our ethos will be progressive, not regressive," he said. He noted that the coronavirus testing in India has reached 1.6 lakh per day from 10,000 earlier, and the country is manufacturing over 4.5 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) kits daily as well. The BJP president cited the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, annulment of Article 370, strengthening of anti-terror laws and those against crimes against children and bank mergers among the government's key successes. He said Union Home Minister Amit Shah played a key role in many of these decisions. Nadda said the Congress worked for long to delay a decision on the Ayodhya case and added that a grand Ram temple would now be built following a Supreme Court verdict. Modi since taking over as prime minister in 2014 changed the "political culture" of governance and infused it with momentum, he said. The coronavirus situation will have an impact on political campaigns during elections, he said, adding that his party has been using technological tools to organise its activities. The first major election in the coming months is the Bihar Assembly polls, slated for October-November. He announced that the party will hold over 2,000 digital rallies across the country to mark the first anniversary of 'Modi govt 2.0'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-has-limited-understanding-nadda-on-his-covid-19-comments-843584.html
30-05-2020||National Politics||Narendra Modi a hardworking, dynamic and foresighted leader: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday heaped praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, calling him a hardworking, dynamic, inspiring and foresighted leader. In a series of tweets on the first year of the Modi government's second term in office, Chouhan also explained what according him every letter in the PM's surname stood for. "The mantra named MODI is enshrined in the heart of every citizen of India. Wherever you go, whether in the country or abroad, everywhere you hear chanting of Modi-Modi. This mantra fills our hearts with a new energy," he said. It is said that those who work, also achieve a name. The entire world believes in the work of our celebrated Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but a very important message is hidden in his name, he said. Chouhan said that the letter M in Modi's name stands for motivational and mehanati (hardworking). "Modi ji is motivational, he works tirelessly. He always motivates all of us to take this great country to a new height," Chouhan said. The second letter 'O' stands for ojasvi (powerful) and opportunity, Chouhan said, adding, "Modi ji is our powerful leader, who identifies hidden opportunities in India and continuously tries to polish it. He turned the coronavirus challenge into an opportunity." He said that the third letter 'D' stands for doordarshita (foresight), dynamic leadership, development. "Modi's foresight is a testimony to the dynamic leadership that is pushing India forward on the path of development. The whole world recognise him as 'Vikas Purush', Chouhan said. He said the fourth and the last letter in the name 'I' stands for India, inspire and ichhashakti (will power), he said. "Modi ji is our leader who inspires India to make the country self-reliant with his strong will," he added. In a blog on Friday evening, Chouhan also drawn the parallel between the Narendra Modi government and 'Ram rajya'. Modi and his cabinet had taken oath on this day last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modi-a-hardworking-dynamic-and-foresighted-leader-shivraj-singh-chouhan-843585.html
30-05-2020||National Politics||Congress accuses Gujarat govt of hiding actual COVID-19 figures||The Gujarat Congress accused the state government of hiding the actual figures of COVID-19 cases by earlier reducing the number of tests and now by not sharing proper information with the public to portray a rosy picture that infections had reduced in the state. The Congress alleged that the BJP-led government had removed certain information from its coronavirus dashboard, stopped daily briefings and has not shared district-wise figures with people of the state. Instead of containing the spread of coronavirus, the BJP government was busy hiding the real figures of infected people, Gujarat Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi alleged. "The state government has stopped daily briefings by principal secretary health Jayanti Ravi, it has removed crucial information from its coronavirus dashboard, which it used to update daily and it has stopped disseminating details like city-wise cases," Doshi said. After its miserable failure in combating the pandemic, the state Health Department had now decided to sweep the matter under the carpet, he claimed, adding that the state authorities were playing with public health. "This is being done to portray a rosy picture that number of cases have come down in Gujarat," he alleged. The state government had earlier reduced the number of tests conducted on a daily basis to detect COVID-19 cases, the Congress leader said. The COVID-19 dashboard at gujcovid19.gujarat.gov.in now contains number of active cases, total samples tested, patients recovered, people under quarantine and total deaths, but nowhere does it have total number of confirmed cases either in the state or districts, he said. Even the daily press release issued by the state health department regarding coronavirus cases no longer contain district-wise break-up of cases, with the focus shifting on recovery of patients, Doshi claimed. Gujarat ranks fourth in the country after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and New Delhi in the number of infections reported so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-accuses-gujarat-govt-of-hiding-actual-covid-19-figures-843595.html
30-05-2020||National Politics||PM Modi shares 'vikas yatra' of his second term after one year in office||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday shared a document with the people detailing the "vikas yatra" or glimpses of development, empowerment and service during his government's second term. The document, shared by the prime minister on the occasion of the first anniversary of his second term on his Twitter account and web portal, detailed the steps taken by his government for the progress and development of the country. "Have a look at the Vikas Yatra, that gives glimpses of our collective journey of development, empowerment and service," Modi tweeted along with the document. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi won the elections of 2019 and came back with a bigger mandate and greater support of people. This mandate with a larger majority, which is a rare phenomenon in democratic societies, was won on delivery of earlier promises along with support for the future roadmap that PM Modi's vision of New India presented to the people," the introduction to the document said. The expectations from Modi 2.0 are even bigger than they were from the first term, it said. "Responding to this massive support from the people, PM Modi and the government have started delivering on big reforms, big decisions and big ideas from day one," the document said. "From ensuring a new dawn for Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh to historic corporate tax cuts, from empowering farmers and traders with pensions to aiding a peaceful resolution to the Ayodhya issue, Modi 2.0 has begun on a high note," it said. Vikas Yatra module is part of the Narendra Modi website and has been updated with fresh details, the introduction said. Under the head of ease of doing business, the document said India’s historic rise in ease of doing business is based on policies that have replaced the red tape with a red carpet. On the country's fight against the coronavirus pandemic, the document said early steps against the virus, decisive lockdown, ramping up medical infra, making India one of the world's largest PPE makers, a slew of pro-poor measures and deep structural reforms is how the Modi government led the battle against coronavirus. The Modi government's reforms and bold decisions have enabled India to become the fastest growing major economy, the document said. Be it foreign policy or in national security, Modi always believes in putting India first, it said. The work of the Modi government in ensuring health for all has seen some historic steps being taken, the document said. The document has a separate section on "eliminating corruption" which states that Modi has led a historic battle against graft and now honesty is honoured and transparency is the norm. Modi also marked the first anniversary of his second term by writing an open letter to his countrymen, asserting that India has started traversing on the path to "victory" in its long battle against COVID-19 while acknowledging "tremendous suffering" of migrant workers among others. He said his government has taken "historic" decisions and the nation progressed rapidly in the last one year, even as he acknowledged that there is a lot that needs to be done and many challenges and problems face the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-shares-vikas-yatra-of-his-second-term-after-one-year-in-office-843619.html
30-05-2020||National Politics||People suffered most, faced unbearable hardships under Narendra Modi rule, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday claimed that people suffered the most and faced unbearable hardships during the last six years of the Modi government. He said the first year of “Modi 2.0” has been the worst for a majority of people in India. "The last six hours of Modi government at the Centre would be remembered as one of those periods in Indian history, when people suffered most and faced unbearable hardships," Gehlot tweeted. “Even after 6 years of trial and error on economic front, we still see no silver lining how the government is going to revive the economy, provide jobs and look after the people, who have no money, no work. A thriving economy under UPA has been completely destroyed by NDA,” he said. Gehlot, in his reaction to the completion of six years of the NDA government, said that under the rule of Prime Minister Modi, the democratic, liberal ethos of the country as an inclusive society has been completely undermined. “NDA is tampering with autonomy of institutions, PSUs are being sold and communal harmony is being disrupted with a divisive agenda. Instead of taking nation forward, NDA government is taking it backwards,” he alleged. He said Modi 2.0 would be remembered as the time when lakhs of people lost everything and faced unbearable hardships during lockdown. “Government remained a mute spectator to the suffering of people. The nation saw a most insensitive Govt least bothered about lives or livelihood of crores of Indians,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-suffered-most-faced-unbearable-hardships-under-narendra-modi-rule-says-ashok-gehlot-843632.html
30-05-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi tweets video of woman being beaten up by men||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday shared a video of a woman being mercilessly beaten up by a group of men and said such violence is sustained by a culture that treats women with total contempt and disrespect. He, however, did not elaborate or name anyone in his tweet. "The violence in this video is not isolated. It's an expression of what many Indian women have always faced," he said. "The violence comes in many forms and is sustained by a culture that glorifies symbols of womanhood while simultaneously treating women with total contempt and disrespect," Gandhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-tweets-video-of-woman-being-beaten-up-by-men-843687.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Two Hizbul militants killed in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Two militants of Hizbul Mujahideen outfit were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Saturday. The gunfight erupted during wee hours of Saturday after army’s 1-Rashtriya Rifles and Jammu and Kashmir police launched a cordon-and-search operation at Wanpora in Qaimoh area of Kulgam, 65 km from here, following an input about the presence of militants in the area, reports said. An official said that as militants got trapped, security forces asked them to surrender. However, they opened fire, which was retaliated triggering an encounter, he said and added two militants were killed in the operation. Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar while confirming the killing of two militants in the encounter said the identities of the slain were yet to be ascertained. Since the beginning of this year, 77 militants have been killed across Kashmir in dozens of encounters with security forces. In 2019, 154 militants were killed in gun battles across Kashmir in the first seven months. In the next five months, only 20 militants were neutralized by the security forces as anti-insurgency operations almost came to a halt as security and communication clampdown was imposed to prevent civilian protests in the wake of revocation of Article 370 on August 5. Last week, J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh had said that less than 240 militants were active in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-hizbul-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-843520.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Police station sealed in Jammu and Kashmir after cop tests COVID-19 positive||Senior Superintendent Police (SSP) Kathua, Shailendra Mishra said the cop posted in police station Kathua was tested positive for COVD-19 although he is asymptomatic. “The police station shall remain out of bounds for all till the rest of the policemen deployed there are tested for coronavirus,” he said. The SSP notified that Women Police Station, Kathua has been authorized to take complaints till the normal functioning of the police station is restored. Over 100 policemen have tested positive for the infection in Jammu and Kashmir so far, which constitutes 5% of the total cases detected so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-station-sealed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-after-cop-tests-covid-19-positive-843530.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||32-yr-old woman allegedly gangraped by four drug addicts in UP village||A 32-year-old woman was allegedly gangraped by four drug addicts in a village under Gopiganj Police Station area, police said on Saturday. According to Circle Officer (CO) Gyanpur, Kalu Singh, the woman in her complaint said that when she had gone to collect wood on May 10 when Sonu Bind, Deepak Singh,  Acche Lal and Madhav Yadav gangraped her and also made a video of the act on their phone. The youth threatened to kill her and her husband if she told anyone about the incident before fleeing, the CO said, adding that she decided to approach the police only on her husband's insistence. An FIR in this connection was filed on Friday when the woman along with her husband reached the police station Singh said, adding that efforts are on to arrest the accused. The woman has been sent for medical examination, the CO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/32-yr-old-woman-allegedly-gangraped-by-four-drug-addicts-in-up-village-843534.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Indore's COVID-19 count rises to 3,431; death toll reaches 129||As three more persons succumbed to the infection in the district, the number of victims rose to 129, the official said. Indore is one of the worst-affected districts in the country in terms of the coronavirus outbreak. Indore's Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia said that 87 people tested coronavirus positive in the last 24 hours, due to which the number of patients grew to 3,431 from 3,344. Three COVID-19 patients, including a 54-year-old woman, died during treatment at different hospitals here, he said. "These fatalities took the number of dead due to the infection to 129 in the district," he said. Of them, a 50-year-old man had died at a private hospital in the city on April 19, but the information about his death was mentioned in the medical department's bulletin issued late on Friday, officials said. Thus, it came to light 40 days after the death. When asked about this delay, Jadia said, "We got information about the 50-year-old COVID-19 patient's death from the private hospital on Friday. We will issue a notice to the hospital seeking reply as to why there was a delay in giving the information."  Questions are being raised about the delay in the disclosure of the details of COVID-19 patients' deaths in the district with some NGOs accusing the department of revealing information "as per its convenience".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indores-covid-19-count-rises-to-3431-death-toll-reaches-129-843542.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus outbreak: India's active COVID-19 cases report first-ever dip||According to the Health Ministry, India had 86,422 active COVID-19 cases as on Saturday morning as against the 89,987 reported on Friday morning. The number of persons discharged from the hospital also witnessed a steep increase by 11,264 as the total number of recoveries settled at 82,370. The total number of cases also witnessed a sharp increase – 7,964 in a single day – to touch 1,73,763 and was galloping to the two lakh cases mark.  For health authorities, it is the number of active cases that matter as it refers to the patients in hospital who require treatment. Maharashtra continues to be the worst-hit state with 62,228 COVID-19 cases, followed by Tamil Nadu (20,246), Delhi (17,386), Gujarat (15,934) and Rajasthan (8,365). Maharashtra has reported 2,098 deaths, an increase of 116 over Friday, while Delhi has seen 398 cases, a spike of 82 cases in a single day, which is attributed to the state making a course correction in reporting data. Gujarat has fewer number of COVID-19 cases at 15,934 but with 980 fatalities the state’s death toll is nearly double of that of Tamil Nadu and Delhi. The Lockdown 4.0 comes to an end on Sunday, with several states asking the Centre to continue restrictions in some form or the other to prevent a further spread of infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-outbreak-indias-active-covid-19-cases-report-first-ever-dip-843543.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM orders analysis of each COVID-19 death in state||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has directed the health department and doctors to conduct an analysis of each death caused by COVID- 19 in the state so far. He gave this direction on Friday during a meeting held to review the coronavirus situation in the state. "The chief minister directed the doctors and administrative officials to analyse each death caused by COVID-19," an official statement said. During the meeting, State's Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Mohammad Suleman, revealed that the COVID- 19 mortality rate of Madhya Pradesh stands at 4.3 per cent, which is more than the national average. The national level death rate was 2.8 per cent, he said. "The death rate has to be reduced by ensuring the best system of COVID-19 treatment in the state. Every life is precious to us," the chief minister told the medical teams and officials from the administration during the meeting. During this meeting, Chouhan started a review of COVID-19 deaths in Indore, the worst-hit district in the state. Till Saturday morning, 129 deaths were reported in Indore. Suleman also said that there has been a decrease in active cases in the state. On Friday, as many as 192 new COVID-19 patients were found in the state, while 219 patients were discharged the hospitals after the recovery. The number of active cases in the state is 3,042. During the meeting, Suleman said that the state's COVID-19 recovery rate has gone up to 56 per cent, while the country's recovery rate stands at 42.8 per cent. The number of coronavirus patients in the state till Friday night was 7,645.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cm-orders-analysis-of-each-covid-19-death-in-state-843548.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||At least two employees of Ministry of External Affairs test positive for coronavirus||At least two employees serving at the headquarters of the Ministry of External Affairs here have tested positive for the novel coronavirus following which all the staffers who came in contact with them were asked to go for self-quarantine for 14 days, people familiar with the development said on Saturday. An officer working at the legal wing of the ministry and a consultant with the Central Europe Division tested positive for the infection earlier this week, they said. Official sources said the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has been proactive in handling any COVID-19 positive cases among its employees or consultants in accordance with the health protocol laid down by the government. It is learnt that an elaborate sanitisation exercise was carried out in the legal and the Central Europe (CE) divisions. Almost all employees in the CE division as well as a sizable number of staffers in the legal wing are undergoing self-quarantine at present. Following the two positive cases, the MEA sent two internal communications to all its employees apprising them about the infection and asked them to follow all laid down protocols and precautionary measure, according to people cited above. The MEA has been at the forefront of the government's Vande Bharat mission under which close to 50,000 stranded Indians have already been evacuated from various parts of the world. The MEA is coordinating efforts to bring back another lot of 1,00,000 Indians by June 13. In view of the massive exercise, a large number of employees in the MEA headquarters have been working for long hours and they have been advised to follow all precautionary measures after detection of the two positive cases. The MEA's coronavirus control room is working round the clock since March 16. The control room has received more than 22,500 calls and 60,000 e-mails till May 28. Several employees working in various ministries having offices around Raisina Hills at the heart of the national capital tested positive for the coronavirus in the last few weeks. According to official data, India has recorded 1,73,763 cases of COVID-19 and 4,971 people died of the infection till Saturday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/at-least-two-employees-of-ministry-of-external-affairs-test-positive-for-coronavirus-843559.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Jammu, Srinagar to have CAT benches; Personnel Ministry modifies its order||The benches of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), that adjudicates central government employees' service matters, will function from Jammu and Srinagar, the Personnel Ministry has said, modifying its earlier order that had created confusion and resentment among many over the jurisdiction of tribunals. The move comes nearly a month after the ministry in its April 29 order had extended the CAT's Chandigarh bench's jurisdiction to the states of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab and union territories of Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. This order had created resentment and confusion among many employees of the newly created union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Following which, the central government had on May 1 clarified that neither the petitioner nor the lawyer need to go to Chandigarh for filling petition or appearing before the tribunal related to service matters of employees. "The term Chandigarh circuit is being misinterpreted to mean that the petitioner/lawyer would have to go to Chandigarh, which is not so. All service matters of central government and UT employees of J&K and Ladakh will be heard and disposed off in CAT bench in J&K itself,” it had said. However, on Thursday, the Personnel Ministry came out with a notification that said, “The central government hereby specifies Jammu and Srinagar as the places at which the benches of the Central Administrative Tribunal shall ordinarily sit for the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and union territory of Ladakh.” It removed the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh out of the ambit of Chandigarh bench. It has now amended its last month's order by inserting “Jammu bench” and to specifically say that the bench will have jurisdiction over the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. With the creation of new bench, over 31,000 matters of the employees of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, which were heard by the Jammu and Kashmir High Court, will now be transferred to the CAT, officials said. The erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir has been reorganised into two union territories — Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh — with effect from October 31, 2019. The Personnel Ministry's earlier order had evoked shared reactions from all concerned in the state. Jammu and Kashmir Chief Justice Gita Mittal has shot off a letter to Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh, a move resulting in sharp reaction from CAT chairman L Narasimha Reddy. “The establishment of benches at various places and to ensure disposal of the cases is the responsibility of the tribunal and the high court need not be so apprehensive. Wherever necessary, the guidance and help of the high court would certainly be taken,” the CAT chairman had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-srinagar-to-have-cat-benches-personnel-ministry-modifies-its-order-843561.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi-Moscow AI flight returns after pilot found COVID-19 positive||A Mocow-bound Air India flight had to return mid-way while overflying Uzbekistan after the airline realised that one of the pilots of the aircraft had tested COVID-19 positive, prompting an investigation by the aviation regulator. An Airbus320 Neo aircraft had departed at 7:30 a.m. for Moscow without any passengers (ferry flight) to bring back stranded Indian nationals as part of the Vande Bharat Mission. The airline officials realised that a mix-up by the team handling the pre-flight checks had mistakenly read one of the pilot’s COVID-19 test reports as negative and cleared him for the flight. The lapse was detected and the flight, which was overflying Uzbekistan, was called back to Delhi and it landed around 12:30 p.m. at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. “Air India this (Saturday) morning recalled its aircraft operating Delhi-Moscow without passengers immediately when it was noticed that one of the cockpit crew had tested positive in the pre-flight Covid test,” an airline official said. The cockpit and the cabin crew of the aircraft was tested and quarantined as per laid down procedure to ensure their health and safety, the official said. Another aircraft was dispatched to Moscow at 5:00 p.m. on Saturday. Airline officials termed the incident as a “genuine oversight” owing to the huge number of mandatory tests being carried out on the Air India crew daily for the Vande Bharat mission. Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has ordered a probe into the incident. “Prima facie it appears to be a lapse. We will investigate the incident,” a DGCA official said. According to standard operating procedure, pilots and other crew members of any flight are required to undergo mandatory testing for COVID-19 and are assigned duties if the laboratory results are negative. Air India has been operating Vande Bharat flights to bring back Indians stranded in foreign countries since May 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-moscow-ai-flight-returns-after-pilot-found-covid-19-positive-843574.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Continuous spraying of insecticides prevented new wave of locusts in Jhansi: Official||Rigorous spraying of insecticides has helped the Jhansi administration in containing the threat to crops from locusts as the swarms have scattered to other areas, an agriculture department official said Saturday. The locusts had invaded the district thrice in the past one week, but they have now scattered and their density shrinked due to continuous spraying of insecticides, said District Deputy Director, Agriculture, Kamal Katiyar. They have now moved to the neighbouring areas of Madhya Pradesh and going by the wind direction, it is less likely they would enter Jhansi district on Saturday, Katiyar said. Because of moisture in the air and wind speed, the swarm could further scatter from Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh to Lalitpur in Uttar Pradesh, he said. Last night, a swarm of 1.5 km was in Rajasthan's Alwar and it can move towards Bhangarh, Tonk, Sawai Madhopur. "We are keeping a close eye," Katiyar added. India is battling its worst locust invasion in more than 20 years. The crop-destroying swarms, flying in from Iran and Pakistan, first attacked Rajasthan and then spread to Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/continuous-spraying-of-insecticides-prevented-new-wave-of-locusts-in-jhansi-official-843588.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Monuments run by Rajasthan govt to be open from June 1: Official||Monuments coming under the archaeology and museum department of Rajasthan will reopen for tourists across the state from June 1 in areas that do not fall under containment zones and curfew areas, an official said on Saturday. The monuments, except for the ones falling in containment zones and curfew areas, will be opened four days a week (Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday) for the first two weeks with social distancing protocols to be properly followed, Director of the archaeology and museum department, Prakash Chandra Sharma, said. The monuments will be open from 9 am to 2 pm in the first week and from 9 am to 1 pm and 3 pm to 5 pm in the second week. From the third week onwards, the monuments will be open to tourists daily. Entry to 32 monuments out of the total 342 monuments under the department's functioning is ticketed but it will be free in the first and second week while 50 per cent of the ticket amount will be charged from the third week onwards, he added. “The decision was taken to restart tourism activities in the state. Social distancing, sanitisation and other arrangements in view of the coronavirus pandemic will be ensured,” Sharma said. Apart from reopening the monuments, it was also decided to restart performances by folk artists inside the monuments and all the officials have been issued instructions for making the arrangements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monuments-run-by-rajasthan-govt-to-be-open-from-june-1-official-843594.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Jamia violence: Court extends interim bail of local leader Ashu Khan by 45 days||A Delhi court on Saturday extended by 45 days the interim bail of local leader Ashu Khan who was arrested for allegedly rioting and instigating a mob during anti-CAA protests here on December 15 last year. Additional District Judge Vipin Kumar Rai granted the interim relief to Khan in two cases related to the violent protests at Jamia Nagar and New Friends Colony on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 2 lakh. The court directed him not to tamper with evidence or leave the country without its permission. Khan was earlier granted interim bail in the case in April. The court had taken note of the decision of a high-powered committee that undertrial prisoners involved in offences punishable with up to 10 years of imprisonment be granted interim bail in an effort to decongest overcrowded prisons in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Advocates Asghar Khan and Tahir Khan, appearing for Khan, had told the court that he has been falsely implicated in the case and should be granted interim bail because of the possible threat of coronavirus in congested prisons. "There is also a possible threat of transmission and fatal consequences of coronavirus and it is very necessary that prisons must ensure maximum possible distancing amongst the prisoners, including undertrials. Social distancing is practically not possible as the prisons are overcrowded and hence accused (Ashu Khan) be released on bail," the counsel had said. Advocate Tariq Nasir, also appearing for the local leader, said Khan was exercising his fundamental right and criticising the newly passed Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the proposed National Register of Citizens (NRC) as they are against the spirit of Constitution. On December 15 last year, a protest against the CAA near Jamia turned violent, with demonstrators pelting stones at police and setting public buses and private vehicles on fire. Later, police entered Jamia and allegedly fired tear gas shells and baton-charged students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamia-violence-court-extends-interim-bail-of-local-leader-ashu-khan-by-45-days-843609.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Ibis bird collapses due to heat, rescued from PM Narendra Modi's residence||A Glossy Ibis bird was rescued from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's residence after it collapsed due to severe heat exhaustion and dehydration, a non-profit wildlife organisation said on Saturday. Security personnel found the bird near the reception area of the PM House at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg on Friday, a statement from the NGO, Wildlife SOS, said. The Glossy Ibis is a wading bird belonging to the ibis family and is a migratory species. They are widely distributed across the world and inhabit wetlands, marshes and agriculture lands. "Suffering from heat exhaustion and dehydration, the bird was unable to fly. The officials contacted Wildlife SOS which rushed a two-member rescue team to the bird's aid,” the NGO said. The bird was given oral rehydration solution and it is currently under observation. As the mercury continues to rise, a large number of animals, especially birds, are falling ill due to dehydration, heat exhaustion and lack of shade. Kartik Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, "We are thankful to the staff and security personnel at the PM house for their support, and for alerting Wildlife SOS." Ibises have a distinctive curved, sickle-shaped beak. These birds measure 45 to 65 cm in length and their wingspan is 80 to 90 cm, he said. Wasim Akram, manager Wildlife SOS Special Projects, said, "At times like this, we must remain compassionate and consider the welfare of birds and animals that share our surroundings." "We can do our bit by putting out earthen water bowls and food in our balconies, window sills, outside residential complexes and shops. Creating green cover by planting more trees and keeping potted plants also provide reprieve to these animals," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ibis-bird-collapses-due-to-heat-rescued-from-pm-narendra-modis-residence-843658.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Several youths detained for trying to stage protest in Jammu||At least four youths were detained on Saturday after they tried to hold a protest demonstration at the exhibition ground here in violation of lockdown rules, officials said. The youths, under the banner of Ambedkar Yuva Sangathan, were wearing face masks but were whisked away by police in a vehicle soon after they gathered near the Press Club for the demonstration, the officials said. R D Thappa, who was leading the protesters, said they had taken to the streets to lodge their protest against the alleged disrespect shown to the statue of Guru Ravidas in Haridwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/several-youths-detained-for-trying-to-stage-protest-in-jammu-843683.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh warns China against any attempt to intrude into Indian territory||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday warned China against any attempt to intrude into the Indian territory, saying New Delhi will not back off in the face of Beijing's intimidation. However, he also underscored the need for a diplomatic solution to the escalating border tension. "While we do not want war, we will not tolerate any bullying by Beijing," said the chief minister, warning the neighbouring country against taking India lightly. “This is not 1962,” he said, making it clear that if China did not stop indulging in intimidating behaviour, it would have to pay the price. “The Indian Army is ready to give a befitting reply and China should not take any chances,” he said, in response to a Kolkata resident's question, during his Facebook Live session. “We do not want war with any nation and want the situation to improve, but if they keep behaving like this we won't have any other option left,” he said, urging China to mend its ways and talk to India to resolve the issue. Singh said China cannot stop India from building any infrastructure on its side of the border. “They (the Chinese) don't listen to us when we object to them making roads inside our area in Aksai Chin, but when we make one road inside our area they react with aggression,” he said in a government statement here. Singh was equally stern in warning Pakistan, which had been trying to foment trouble in Punjab and other parts of India by pushing terrorists, weapons and drugs from across the border through use of drones and other means. A robust three-tier security structure, comprising BSF, Punjab police and Indian Army, was monitoring and securing the border with Pakistan round the clock, he said, adding that Punjab police, in recent months, busted 32 terror modules and seized more than 200 weapons. On attempts by Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of the secessionist Sikhs for Justice outfit to instigate people and foment trouble in Punjab, the chief minister said he will not let Punjab's hard-earned peace be disturbed at any cost by any foreign elements. He warned Pannu of dire consequences if he did not stop trying to destabilise the state. Asserting that he knows how to handle people like Pannu, Singh dared him to try to enter Punjab, saying the state was fully prepared to tackle any threat from him and his banned outfit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-warns-china-against-any-attempt-to-intrude-into-indian-territory-843708.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||No new COVID-19 case in Chandigarh, 10 patients discharged||No fresh case of COVID-19 was recorded in Chandigarh on Saturday, while 10 patients were discharged from hospital, a medical bulletin said. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the union territory stands at 289, it said. With the recovery of 10 more patients, the total number of cured persons has risen to 199, according to the bulletin. A total of 4,654 samples have been tested for COVID-19 so far. Of these, 4,342 samples have tested negative and reports of 22 are awaited, it said. There are 86 active cases in the union territory, it added. So far, four people have died due to COVID-19 in Chandigarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-new-covid-19-case-in-chandigarh-10-patients-discharged-843715.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Five-star hotels, houseboats among paid quarantine facilities for those flying into Srinagar||The Srinagar administration has roped in five-star hotels The Lalit and Taj Vivanta overlooking the picturesque Dal Lake and other luxury lodges as paid quarantine facilities to ensure a relaxed and hassle-free stay for those flying into the city from other parts of the country and abroad amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The administration has enlisted around 40 luxury lodges for the purpose and capped the tariffs at a “fair and reasonable” level so as not to burden those returning home under such a difficult scenario, a top official said. Several houseboats have also been designated as paid quarantine facilities, Srinagar Deputy Commissioner Shahid Choudhary said.  The administration's initiative to enlist luxury hotels has received a warm response with nearly 48 per cent of those arriving in the city from outside opting for them, he said. The remaining 52 per cent of the flyers opted for institutional quarantine established by the government. The number of arrivals at the Srinagar airport has been growing since the domestic air travel was partially resumed on May 25 after two months of suspension due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. In addition to domestic flyers, a large number of residents of Jammu and Kashmir are being brought back from abroad in special flights under the government's 'Vande Bharat Mission'. Giving details of the paid accommodations, Choudhary said the hotels have been made available in three categories with prices ranging from Rs 1,200 to Rs 600 per day on single occupancy and Rs 900 to Rs 400 per day on double occupancy. The administration has also capped the cost of three meals at Rs 500 at the paid quarantine centres, he said. Quarantine at hotels like Taj Vivanta and Lalit Grand Palace, a hotel which is known for its scenic surrounding and where several Hindi films have been shot, is available on demand with around 50 per cent discount in tariffs. After initial hesitation, the number of air travellers has increased and only 25 of them have tested positive for COVID-19 so far. Choudhary said the air operations at the Srinagar International Airport, which started on May 25, has been functioning with a perfect management of arrivals, testing and quarantine of travellers. "International flights from Riyadh, Dammam, Doha, Muscat and Jeddah have already started arriving in addition to the Dubai flight received last week and earlier flights from Bangladesh. One flight carrying 148 passengers from Riyadh landed in Srinagar on May 29 while one flight each from Dammam and Doha with 147 and 88 passengers respectively is scheduled to arrive on Sunday. Another flight from Muscat is scheduled for June 2 and one from Jeddah on June 4," he said. Besides the paid quarantine, 3,000-bedded institutional quarantine facilities have been kept in readiness. The Jammu and Kashmir administration had earlier notified its air arrival policy mandating up to 14 days of quarantine unless tested negative for COVID-19. The arriving passengers are getting their test reports within 24 hours of arrival and being relieved from quarantine centres on testing negative, the deputy commissioner said. Choudhary said a total of 2,462 passengers were received in Srinagar, including 382 on Saturday. So far, Choudhary said, 25 air travellers have tested COVID-19 positive in Srinagar at quarantine centres and shifted to hospitals. "Their contacts in flights have also been put under quarantine," he said. Before May 25, he said Srinagar received 4 flights from Bangladesh with medical students on board and one from Dubai. For international flights, one week quarantine is mandatory even with a negative test. More than 80 data entry operators and medical staff from Srinagar have been deployed at the airport for hassle-free, smooth and quick registration, screening and sampling on arrival, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-star-hotels-houseboats-among-paid-quarantine-facilities-for-those-flying-into-srinagar-843720.html
30-05-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire in two sectors in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||Pakistani troops on Saturday violated ceasefire by resorting to intense firing and shelling on forward areas in two sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, a defence spokesperson said. The intense firing from small arms across the border started around 10 am in Kirni sector, drawing befitting retaliation by the Indian Army, the spokesperson said. The unprovoked ceasefire violation was initiated by Pakistan and the cross-border firing between the two sides continued intermittently throughout the day, he said. Later in the day, the spokesperson said the Pakistani troops also initiated unprovoked firing and mortar shelling in Khari Karmara sector around 7.45 pm. There was a strong retaliation by the Indian Army, he said, adding that there was no report of any casualty on the Indian side.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-two-sectors-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-843730.html
30-05-2020||Opinion||We must buy India’s growth numbers with a pinch of salt||India’s economy is estimated to grow at 4.2 per cent in FY20, recording its slowest growth since the 2008-09 global financial crisis. The quarterly GDP growth was estimated at 3.1 per cent for Q4-FY20, the lowest since March 2009. The slowdown has links to the nationwide lockdown and limited economic activity in the second fortnight of March 2020 owing to the COVID-19 pandemic coupled with the lingering domestic and global concerns prior to the COVID-19 obstacle. The economy in FY20 has been largely driven by the agriculture sector and government spending while manufacturing, construction and the services segment have been the laggards.  The data for the quarter and FY20 needs to be read with caution as the press release highlights the paucity of data during compilation amidst the global pandemic, consequent lockdown and extension of regulatory compliance. This entails revisions in these numbers with the current data based on some degree of extrapolation.  However, what is interesting is not the expected decline in GDP growth in Q4-FY20 but the revisions in the quarterly growth numbers released yesterday vis-à-vis the ones released earlier for the same quarters. These revisions can be on account of latest data used in compilation across the previous quarters leading to the “base effect phenomenon”, which simply means increase in the current growth due to downward revision in the growth of previous period. It is important to note that when quarterly data is not available across the sectors of GDP, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation computes the growth for the entire year based on past trends and then apportions quarterly. For example, in case of construction activity, the value added for the referenced quarter (say Q1-FY20) is estimated by extrapolation of the estimate value of the same quarter for the previous year (Q1-FY19) with observed growth in the production of key construction materials like cement, iron and steel among others. Similarly for unaccounted construction, the value is computed for the full year using past trends and apportioned equally into 4 quarters. Similar methodology is used for other sectors as well.  Also, the data for listed companies for a given year is available on quarterly basis but private companies file their regulatory accounts with a lag of around six months from the end of the previous year.  As fresh data is compiled after regulatory filings by private companies, there are revisions in GDP numbers of the previous years as well.  A common trend seen during FY19-FY20 is that utilisation of fresh data in previous quarters manifested base effect revisions in current year quarters. A downward revision in GDP growth by 80-100 bps in Q1, Q2, Q3 of FY19 resulted in an increase of nearly 60 bps in the quarterly estimates of FY20 as per the February release. To illustrate, in Q2-FY20, there was upward revision in agriculture (100 bps), manufacturing (60 bps), and financial services (130 bps) partly on account of downward revision of 240 bps, 130 bps and 50 bps respectively in growth numbers in Q2-FY19.  A similar revision was recorded in June numbers as well. Contrary to the February release, data from yesterday (May 29) showed a downward revision in Q1, Q2, Q3 numbers of 35-70 bps largely owing to new data/changes in extrapolation assumptions for the current year as the last year quarterly growth numbers remained unchanged.  The revision in estimates owing to fresh data is acceptable till the deviation is nominal. Wide upward and downward revisions in estimates build uncertainty for market participants and policymakers, hampering future forecasts as well. Former Chief Statistician, Pronob Sen has raised a red flag that the GDP numbers for Q4-FY20 could be overestimated by around Rs 2 lakh crs. Therefore, till further revisions, we will have to buy the growth numbers with a pinch of salt.  (Sushant Hede is an associate economist with CARE Ratings. Views are personal)   Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/we-must-buy-india-s-growth-numbers-with-a-pinch-of-salt-843681.html
30-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu announces further easing of lockdown for shooting TV serials||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced further relaxation in curbs for shooting of TV serials, allowing more professionals to be employed on the sets. Chief Minister K Palaniswami recalled he had earlier allowed filming of TV serials on May 21 with a maximum of 20 actors and technicians but said the industry had pleaded to enhance the number. Two industry bodies had informed the government that it was not possible to shoot serials with the said cap of 20 professionals, he said in a statement. "Heeding their request, a maximum of 60 actors and technicians can be employed for the shoots from May 31," he said. A one-time approval should be obtained from Chennai Corporation Commissioner or District Collector, based upon the jurisdiction, before the commencement of the shooting, he said. Those involved in the making of the serials should follow all "restrictions" imposed by the Central and state governments "without fail" and the producers should ensure that, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-announces-further-easing-of-lockdown-for-shooting-tv-serials-843596.html
30-05-2020||South||Skymet announces arrival of monsoon over Kerala, IMD differs||The southwest monsoon has arrived in Kerala before its onset schedule, private agency Skymet Weather announced on Saturday, but India's official forecaster IMD said conditions are not yet ripe for the declaration. Skymet Weather CEO Jatin Singh said all conditions such as rainfall, Outwave Longwave Radiation (OLR) value and wind speed have been met to declare the arrival of the southwest monsoon over Kerala. "#JUSTIN Southwest #Monsoon2020 finally arrived on the mainland of India, #Monsoon arrived on Kerala before the actual onset date. All the onset conditions including rainfall, OLR value, wind speed, are met. Finally, the 4-month long festival begins for Indian. #HappyMonsoon (sic),” the private forecaster tweeted. The onset of monsoon over Kerala marks the commencement of four-month rainy season in the country. The country receives 75 per cent of the rainfall from June to September.   Skymet had predicted that monsoon will hit Kerala on May 28 with an error margin of plus or minus 2 days. Whereas, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said the monsoon will make an onset over Kerala on June 5, four days after its normal onset date.  However, earlier this week, it said a cyclonic circulation in the Bay of Bengal will help in advancement of the monsoon and it could reach Kerala on June 1, its normal onset date.   IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said conditions are still not right to declare onset of monsoon over Kerala. According to the IMD, there are three major conditions to declare the onset of monsoon. The first is if, after May 10, 60 per cent of the 14 weather stations -- Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Allapuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore -- report rainfall of 2.5 millimetres or more for two consecutive days, the onset over Kerala will be declared on the second day. The second is the depth of westerlies should be maintained up to 600 hectopascals (hPa) and the third is the Outwave Longwave Radiation should be below 200 watt per square metre (wm-2).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/skymet-announces-arrival-of-monsoon-over-kerala-imd-differs-843597.html
30-05-2020||South||Quiet birthday for Puducherry CM as he turns 73; PM Narendra Modi, Nitin Gadkari extend greetings||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy turned 73 on Saturday, but it was a quiet birthday in view of the currrent situation due to the coronavirus pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, Congress leaders from Delhi and Tamil Nadu greeted Narayanasamy. In his greetings, Modi wished for a long and healthy life to the Puducherry chief minister. "Best wishes to the Chief Minister of Puducherry, Shri @VNarayanasami Ji on his birthday. I pray that he lives a long and healthy life," Modi tweeted. The birthday was a low key affair as Narayanasamy had already made an appeal to the Congress functionaries not to celebrate his birthday in view of the COVID-19 situation. Member of Lok Sabha from Puducherry V Vaithilingam also greeted the senior Congress leader on his birthday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/quiet-birthday-for-puducherry-cm-as-he-turns-73-pm-narendra-modi-nitin-gadkari-extend-greetings-843601.html
30-05-2020||South||Varavara Rao admitted to hospital in Mumbai; Family seeks bail for him||Activist Varavara Rao, who has been arrested and in jail in Maharashtra in the Elgar Parishad case, was admitted to a hospital in Mumbai, police said, while his family members on Saturday demanded his immediate release on bail. "It is learnt that Sri Varavar Rao has been admitted to JJ Hospital at Mumbai while in judicial custody.The matter is being informed to family members and necessary passes are being issued by DCP CZ for family to travel to Mumbai. We are coordinating with agencies at Mumbai," Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar tweeted. The 80-year-old Rao is currently lodged at the Taloja jail at Navi Mumbai. Varavara Rao's wife Hemalatha in a statement on Saturday expressed serious concern over his health condition. The family came to know from police in Hyderabad on Friday night that he was admitted to hospital, she said. The information available to the family about his health and the sequence of events preceding his admission to hospital in Mumbai is unclear, she said. ".. meanwhile, the statement by Telangana police officials that they would make arrangements for the family to visit Mumbai, is much more worrying," she said. On her part, she is not in a position to travel to Mumbai right now as she is 72 and not in good health. A legal attempt to get permission for the family to meet him is being undertaken in Mumbai, she said. "It is enough if the government gives permission needed in the context of COVID-19 and we take care of our travel arrangements." She requested the Centre and the governments of Maharashtra and Telangana to arrange a video conference with him immediately to enable the family members to know the actual status of his health condition. As Varavara Rao has already undergone 18 months of incarceration on "fabricated charges and without any trial," he should be released immediately on bail, Hemalatha said. Saying that Rao had pre-existing health issues like coronary artery disease and hypertension, she said a thorough medical examination should be done by an expert team of doctors to ascertain what led to the "present emergency." The Union Home Ministry should direct the NIA to give up the "vindictive" attitude towards Rao and other co-accused. Union MoS (Home) G Kishan Reddy, a Telugu person, should take this responsibility, she said. "It is the responsibility of the Telangana government to take care of Varavara Rao's health and security as he took part in the separate Telangana agitation since 1969 as a worthy son of Telangana," she added. Expressing concern over Varavara Rao's health, former CPI General Secretary S Sudhakar Reddy sought his release and shifting him to a hospital in Hyderabad. Meanwhile, Union MoS (Home) Kishan Reddy, who addressed a video press conference from Delhi, said he would act as per law. "Definitely, we want the health of all to be good.We will think as to what help we can do as per law.It is not a matter to be stated openly. We always have a humanitarian approach. We will think accordingly," he said. Reddy was asked about an appeal reportedly made by Varavara Raos daughter that Kishan Reddy and Telangana government should help him in getting bail as the Maharashtra government was allegedly opposing it. Eleven people including Rao have been arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case which was transferred to the National Investigation Agency by the Cengtre in January. The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune in December 31,2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial. The Pune police also claimed that the conclave was backed by Maoists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/varavara-rao-admitted-to-hospital-in-mumbai-family-seeks-bail-for-him-843610.html
30-05-2020||South||Curbs should not be eased in Chennai, 3 other high-COVID-19 prevalence districts in TN: medical panel||The fourth leg of the COVID-19 induced lockdown is scheduled to end on Sunday. Dr Prabhdeep Kaur from the National Institute of Epidemiology (ICMR) and a panel member, said while the state government has already given some relaxations, the curbs should, however, continue in the four most affected districts. "What the committee feels is we have to be more careful in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur (where the) cases are increasing. So restrictions should continue (in these places), all kinds of relaxations cannot be given," she told reporters after the panel's meeting with Chief Minister K Palaniswami and other government officials. "Rather than applying the same rule across Tamil Nadu (on easing curbs), the situation in the respective districts can be assessed and some relaxations given (there) accordingly," she added.  Earlier too, the panel had favoured a graded exit from the lockdown in Tamil Nadu, saying the curbs should not be lifted across the state uniformly. Tamil Nadu's total virus count stands at 20,246, one of the highest in the country, with Chennai having more than 13,000 cases. Neighbouring Chengalpattu (1000), Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur, with 366 and 877 cases, respectively, are the other high-prevalence districts in the state.  On the virus, Kaur said it was a "new" one and that a lot of research was happening all over the world which was discussed on Saturday. It has affected more cities due to higher population, as was the case with Chennai, she said. However, the pandemic was under control in the rest of the state, even as Tamil Nadu's fatality rate was also low, she said. She called for stricter "mask compliance," as part of precautions, saying this adherence had greatly helped in controlling the contagion in many countries. Dr Guganandam, an epidemiologist and another committee member, said resumption of Metro rail services and reopening of places of worship was not possible as of now. He also indicated there was no community spread of the virus, saying it would lead to many deaths, which was not happening. "We have a low fatality rate," he said. Death toll from Coronavirus in the state is 154. Soumya Swaminathan, WHO Chief Scientist, joined the meeting from Geneva.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/curbs-should-not-be-eased-in-chennai-3-other-high-covid-19-prevalence-districts-in-tn-medical-panel-843625.html
30-05-2020||South||Swarm of locust species attack crops in Tamil Nadu;agri dept to tackle menace||A swarm of locust species have attacked banana, rubber and other crops in parts of plantation dominated districts of Tamil Nadu, causing concern among farmers over the possible destruction of their crops, but the government assured them that the agriculture department has been instructed to tackle the "menace." Since the last few days, spotted coffee grasshopper, Bombay locust and the Crytacanthacris Tartarica, a type of grasshopper, have been mistaken for the swarm of desert locusts which has been ravaging the crops in north-west India. According to a member of the Grasshopper Specialist Group of the Species Survival Commission of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, none of the three species noticed in the Nilgiris and in the vicinity, are of the immediate threat. Farmers in Poovankodu and Viyanur in Kanyakumari district bordering Kerala have claimed that the 'locust' have ravaged the banana and rubber crops to a large extent. State Revenue Minister R B Udayakumar on Saturday assured farmers that the agriculture department has been instructed to tackle the "menace." Maintaining that the 'vettukili' (grasshopper) attack should not cause apprehension, Udayakumar said the agriculture department officials have been asked to protect the crops. Earlier, a farmer in Khandal near Udhagamandalam who noticed a swarm on Friday, managed to capture some of the species, and informed the district administration. Nilgiris collector Innocent Divya, who verified with experts, assured the farmers that the species captured in her district was not the desert locust. Nevertheless, experts from the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University would soon undertake an inspection and ascertain the facts. Meanwhile, DMK President M K Stalin urged that the state government should act on the matter immediately. "Instead of continuing to be apathetic, as it had been in managing the coronavirus spread, the state government should immediately launch steps to protect the crops," he said in a statement here. His party legislator from Kanyakumari district T Manothangaraj urged the authorities to save the crops without resorting to the use of chemical sprays to eliminate the 'locust'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/swarm-of-locust-species-attack-crops-in-tamil-naduagri-dept-to-tackle-menace-843654.html
30-05-2020||South||COVID-19: Six more people die,Tamil Nadu see fresh spike of 938 cases||Tamil Nadu witnessed the biggest single-day spike of 938 new coronavirus cases on Saturday taking the infection count to 21,184, while four men and two women died of COVID-19 pushing the death toll to 160. Of the 938 new cases, 82 were returnees from other states and a foreign country. While three people had arrived from Kuwait, 46 were from Maharashtra, a health department bulletin said. As on date, the active cases stood at 9,021 and as many as 687 were discharged today alone and cumulatively 12,000 have recovered. The youngest among the dead was a 37-year-old woman who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here and others, including a 70-year old man, had co-morbidities like hypertension, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-six-more-people-dietamil-nadu-see-fresh-spike-of-938-cases-843675.html
30-05-2020||South||Seven more Air India staff test COVID-19 positive in Kerala; Kannur under grip of local spread||Seven more staff of Air India are among the 58 who tested COVID-19 positive in Kerala on Saturday, while Kannur district in North Kerala is witnessing a spike in coronavirus infection through local contacts. A person hailing from Alappuzha, who died at a COVID-19 observation centre on Friday, was later tested positive, while ten persons in the state under treatment recovered. Two Air India cabin crew tested COVID-19 positive on Friday. Apart from that, seven more AI staff tested positive on Saturday. All were learnt to be cabin crew members of flights under Vande Bharat mission. Of the present COVID-19 infections in the state, only around 10 per cent got infection through local contact. However, in Kannur district alone it is around 20 percent. Out of the 101 COVID-19 active cases in the district as on Saturday, 19 got infected through local contact. According to sources, 13 members of a joint family got infected while many got infected through a fish vendor. Rampant violation of lockdown norms were reported in the district. In view of the situation, lockdown norms were being strictly enforced. Of the 100 odd hotspots in the state, around 25 are in Kannur district. Out of the 1,208 COVID-19 positive cases reported in Kerala so far, 624 are active as on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/seven-more-air-india-staff-test-covid-19-positive-in-kerala-kannur-under-grip-of-local-spread-843719.html
30-05-2020||South||Seeking investments, Tamil Nadu CM reaches out to Apple, Amazon, Samsung||Having decided to convert the COVID-19 crisis into an opportunity to garner investments from abroad, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has reached out to global business giants like Apple, Amazon, and Samsung asking them to set up outlets in the state by offering “customized incentive packages”. Palaniswami has written to CEOs of 13 business giants like Amazon’s Jeff Bezos, Tim Cook of Apple, Samsung CEO Kim Hyun Suk, and HP’s Enrique Lores. The state expects several technology giants, who have their units in China, to move out of the country due to the COVID-19 crisis and set their shops in India. Since India is expected to be the favourite destination for firms moving out of China, sources said, the Tamil Nadu government wants to woo the technology companies to come to the state and build their manufacturing facilities. “We feel firms that manufacture electronic items like smartphones, computers and laptops would be the first to move out of China. And that is the reason, those at the helm decided to first woo those companies and negotiate with them with the motive to bring them to Tamil Nadu,” a top source in the government told DH. The letters outline the investment attractiveness and inherent advantages of the state of Tamil Nadu and offers excellent support for “business and industry to further their growth and promises a customized incentive package as per their requirement,” an official release said. The source added that the letter mentions about the land bank that the state government possess and Chennai’s “excellent” accessibility to the sea which has three ports in and around the city. “When companies want to come to India, we want them to land in Tamil Nadu. We have been the leaders in attracting maximum FDI that comes into the country and we want to continue to house more industries in the state. We have one of the best infrastructure in the country and all these points are part of the letter,” the source added. The state government has already constituted a high-powered committee headed by Chief Secretary K Shanmugham to garner investments from firms that are planning to shift out of “certain countries” due to the pandemic. Palaniswami’s letter to the heads of global companies come at a time the state government, even in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, signed MoUs with 17 companies worth over Rs 15,000 crore for setting up their units in the state. One of the leading destinations for Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) into the country, the state has attracted USD 29,848 million in FDI from April 2000 to March 2019. According to figures released by the government, Tamil Nadu had retained its position by attracting USD 2,613 million during 2018-19. It is also the third largest exporter of goods in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/seeking-investments-tamil-nadu-cm-reaches-out-to-apple-amazon-samsung-843723.html
30-05-2020||State||‘People who came from other states should pay for Covid-19 test’||District Health Officer Dr S N Umesh said that all those who came from outside the state and country should get tested for Covid-19 at their own expense. He was participating in the phone-in programme, organised by Prajavani, at PV-DH office in Chikkamagaluru on Saturday The government has issued a circular in this regard. The samples should be tested in government-approved laboratories only, he said while answering to a query.     "Only those who have arrived from outside the state to the district have tested positive for Covid-19 in Chikkamagaluru. None from the district have tested positive. There is enough stock of PPE kits, mask and other necessary equipment. Necessary measures have been taken to dispose bio medical waste in the district," he added. On vacant posts in district hospital, he said, "Walk in interview will be held to fill the vacancies. Priority will be given for those who have completed MBBS."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/people-who-came-from-other-states-should-pay-for-covid-19-test-843710.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Once makers of apparels, garment factories now pump out PPEs||Resuming operations after 45 days of lockdown and desperately cash-strapped, the city’s garment factories are making Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) for those at the frontline of the fight against coronavirus. The factories that usually make shirts, casual wear, and other apparel said they are acceding to the demand for PPEs, as the country at large is struggling to contain the pandemic. “It is a matter of survival. We have no option,” explained Rangaraj K S, head of HR and compliance at a garment manufacturer in the Peenya industrial area. He said factories are struggling without cash flow and must function with the residual labour force. “Our workforce numbered over 3,000 before the lockdown,” Rangaraj said. “Since the relaxations to allow industrial production from April 23, we could bring back only 1,200 workers. The situation is dire. Workers depend on factory wages, but international orders have dried up.” Srinivas Asranna, president of the Peenya Industrial Association, said garment factories in the area produce nearly 1.25 lakh PPEs of the 4.5 lakh manufactured in the country daily. “We have about 300 garment factories in the industrial area,” Asranna said. “Before the lockdown, we did not have a single factory engaged in PPE manufacturing. Now, about 50% of the companies here do that. They are the primary source of the city’s contribution to the nationwide manufacturing figures.” But Asranna felt PPE making will not be a permanent solution for the industry. “There needs to be innovation,” he added. Rajeev Krishna, founder of ATechTron in Bommasandra, which has orders from the Central government for PPE manufacturing as per an April 24 notification, cautioned that increased manufacturing would result in a glut. “The existing nationwide demand is two lakh kits, but we are producing in excess. The demand has come down sharply,” he said. The cost of ASTM F 1670 (equivalent to ISO 16603 Class 5) PPE kits, which had initially been fixed at a price of Rs 725, has already dropped to between Rs 630 to Rs 400 per kit. Krishna said blocking exports has also exacerbated things. While ASTM F 1670 PPE kits are design-standardised by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), a manufacturer pointed out that nearly 45 to 50% of kits made in the city are of lesser grade. “They can only be used by people for general protection,” a manufacturer said. Rangaraj saw a silver lining in the cloud. “Before the pandemic struck, India had virtually no manufacturing of N95 masks or PPE kits. Now, look at how things have changed,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/once-makers-of-apparels-garment-factories-now-pump-out-ppes-843430.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC orders status quo on appointment of Udupi temple administrator ||The Supreme Court has ordered status quo on appointment of an administrator of Sri Mahatobora Veerabhadreshwara Temple at Hiriyadka, Bommarabettu Village, Udupi. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, R Subhash Reddy and Surya Kant asked the Karnataka government to file a response explaining what action has been taken in a dispute related to administration of the temple. The High Court had on February 2, 2020, remanded the matter to ‘Rajya Dharmika Parishat’ for resolution of the dispute. The Parishat had earlier appointed Sunil Hegde as a fit person for administration of the temple. However, on a plea by the Alva Hegde family, the HC set aside the Parishat’s order and remanded the matter back to the body under Section 63A of the Karnataka Hindu Religious Charities and Endowments Act, 1997. Hegde, led by senior advocate Devadatt Kamat and advocate Nishanth Patil, contended before the top court that the petitioner and his family have been conducting the religious affairs of the temple for almost 50 years. “The temple has gained immense popularity and has become very powerful only due to the constant religious and spiritual effort of the petitioner and his father. It is therefore in the interests of justice that the petitioner be allowed to continue as the ‘fit person’ till the disposal of the present petition,” they pleaded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-orders-status-quo-on-appointment-of-udupi-temple-administrator-843433.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||20 Congress MLAs keen to join BJP, claims Laxman Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi claimed on Friday that 15 to 20 Congress legislators were ready to join the BJP and that the central leadership would decide whether to accommodate them into party fold. Speaking to reporters here, Savadi said that no BJP MLA was on sale. Later in the day, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi strengthened Savadi's claims on several Congress legislators showing interest in joining the BJP. Speaking to reporters in Kollegal, Jarkiholi said. "As many as 22 Congress MLAs are in touch with him and if the BJP leadership gives a go-ahead he would make at least five Congress legislators resign and join the BJP in a week." Both Savadi and Jarkiholi rubbished the talks of a rift in the party. They told reporters that a few party MLAs from north Karnataka had gathered at Umesh Katti's house for Jolada Rotti oota (lunch) and there was no need to read much into the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/20-congress-mlas-keen-to-join-bjp-claims-laxman-savadi-843435.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Taking cue from Maha, state mulls agri tours||In a bid to boost tourism and help farmers at the same time, the state government is mulling ‘agri-tourism’ that will be piloted soon in two districts. Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Horticulture Minister Narayana Gowda and Tourism Minister C T Ravi huddled Friday with officials to discuss this.  Patil told DH they wanted to frame the guidelines at the earliest and initiate the programme. “Today (May 29) was the preliminary meeting. We want to begin with one district in northern part of the state and another in the south. We will finalise it soon,” he said.  The basic idea was to get people acquainted with agriculture, rural culture, arts and sports. According to Ravi, who is also minister for sports and Kannada & Culture, the government was looking at a similar initiative in Maharashtra. “Maharashtra tried something similar, which was successful. We are keeping that as the model while developing guidelines,” Ravi said.  The initiative will be taken up in coordination with tourism, horticulture and agriculture departments. Apart from highlighting rural culture, the guidelines will be designed in a way to benefit farmers. “We want the farmers to be stakeholders in this initiative,” he said.  During the meeting, the ministers also considered coordinating with agriculture and horticulture universities in the state. Coming up with a tourism package where tourists would visit these universities, interact with scientists, visit nearby tourist spots and spend time on farms learning about agriculture were among the ideas discussed. “Roping in school students is another option as it will be an educative experience for children,” Patil added. The government was also open to inviting private agencies to coordinate the initiative, according to the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/taking-cue-from-maha-state-mulls-agri-tours-843441.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Online classes not kind to kindergarten children: Experts||The government is likely to restrict schools from conducting online classes for LKG and UKG students, while officials feel children up to Class 3 should be exempted from the same. A report submitted by the director of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans) had clearly said that online classes should not be conducted for children up to the age of 6 years. The department of public instructions is now framing guidelines for the same. Exemption till class 3 The issue was also discussed during a meeting conducted by Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar where officials said, it is not advisable to allow online education for children from pre-primary to Class 3. The department is issuing a detailed circular about the same along with guidelines to conduct online classes by Monday. Dr K G Jagadeesha, commissioner, department of public instruction, said, “The matter was discussed and no decision has been taken yet about online classes. Regarding online classes for LKG and UKG, we will issue a circular by Monday.” However, several parents have communicated to the schools their opposition to conduct online classes for their wards studying in kindergarten. “We brought this to the notice of the department also. How can the schools expect a four- or five-year-old to sit in front of the screen and concentrate?” a parent questioned. “In my daughter’s school, they are conducting a practice session by providing online karate and art classes, but she is not showing interest. I am going to ask the school authorities not to conduct the online class for her,” another parent said. Many parents have responded to Suresh Kumar’s message on social media and urged him not to entertain online classes for pre-primary children. “Children watching television and playing games on mobile phones is different from attending the online class. The schools must understand this. Conducting regular classes for kindergarten kids after things return to normalcy will not make a big difference,” says another parent, who is also a teacher.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/online-classes-not-kind-to-kindergarten-children-experts-843452.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Karnataka to not observe complete lockdown on May 31||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has announced that on May 31 (Sunday) there will not be a total lockdown and all activities will be permitted and continue like the rest of the week.  The decision was taken in view of demands from citizens and “keeping their interests in mind,” said a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).    There will be no complete lockdown on Sunday (tomorrow) in the interest of the general public of the state. Normal day to day life will continue tomorrow: Karnataka Chief Minister's Office (CMO) This means that public transport services - buses, autos and cabs - shops, commercial establishments and others will be open on May 31.  Under a Lockdown 4.0, Karnataka had decided to throw open public transport, except metro, shops and commercial establishments, except Metro, on all six days between 7 am and 7 pm. However, May 24 and May 31 - Sundays - were exempted from the relaxation and a curfew was to be imposed throughout the day.  The Lockdown 4.0 ends May 31 and the government's decision to keep Sunday free comes ahead of the Lockdown 5.0 that the Centre is expected to announce soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-to-not-observe-complete-lockdown-on-may-31-843537.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: KSRTC to continue bus services on May 31||The KSRTC and BMTC will continue their bus services for weekend commuters on Sunday in view of lifting of the lockdown restrictions.  Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) said in a statement that bus services will continue from 7 am to 7 pm on Sunday. The last service will depart from Bengaluru by 7 pm as the night curfew restrictions will prevail.  Close to 29,000 buses have been operated since commencing passenger services on May 19.  Nearly 90,000 people have traveled in the buses in which ridership has been restricted to enforce social distancing rules. Both the corporations have been scaling up operations gradually. The BMTC had deployed 30,00 of its 65,00 buses on week days, which are usually reduced during the weekends. The KSRTC had started with less than 1,000 buses when it resumed the services and has increased it to 3,500 buses over the last few days.  The KSRTC is also providing causal contract buses for people travelling out of state.  For more information on hiring buses, contact: 7760990100, 7760990560.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-ksrtc-to-continue-bus-services-on-may-31-843535.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC refuses to restrain CBI from coercive action in murder of BJP leader||The Supreme Court has refused to grant any immediate relief to the accused in BJP leader Yogeshgouda Goudar murder case in Karnataka's Dharwad on their plea to restrain the CBI from taking any coercive action against them during the "re-investigation" of the matter due to present COVID-19 pandemic. With this, the CBI can go ahead with its probe into the killing of the district Panchayat member, Dharwad on June 15, 2016. The victim's family members suspected the role of former Minister and Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni into the murder. The CBI had in March nabbed six 'supari' killers. In May, the accused, Basavaraj Shivappa Muttagi, and another filed an application in the top court saying the CBI should not proceed with re-investigation and take any coercive action during the present situation of nationwide lockdown. They also contended the CBI's plea against the stay on its probe by the Karnataka High Court could not be heard on the last date of March 24 on account of the spread of COVID-19. On Friday, a bench of Justices R Banumathi, Indu Malhotra, and Aniruddha Bose, however, said, "Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the issue involved, we are of the view that the matter requires a regular hearing."  The court put it for consideration in the last week of July 2020. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj and advocate Sanjay K Tyagi appeared for the CBI. Muttagi and another were represented by senior advocate Shashikiran Shetty and advocate Mahesh Thakur. On a petition by the CBI, the top court had earlier on February 21 stayed the High Court's order of November 21, 2019, that suspended the probe by the central agency into the matter. The Karnataka government also separately challenged the HC's order. The CBI came into the picture with an order issued by the BS Yeddyurappa government on September 6, 2019, within a couple of months of assuming of charge. The accused claimed, the order for the CBI to probe the case and subsequent FIR by it on September 24, 2019, was "highly arbitrary, and illegal" and was issued "to wreak political vengeance" against them. They further contended that on the strength of the apex court's stay, the CBI was trying to arrest the accused in grave injustice to them, despite the fact that they have been on bail and faced the substantial part of a trial in the case probed by the Karnataka CID. Goudar, 26, was hacked to death on June 15, 2016, at his gym in Saptapur in Dharwad on being immobilised with chilli powder, thrown on his face.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-refuses-to-restrain-cbi-from-coercive-action-in-murder-of-bjp-leader-843652.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||141 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka; Tally rises to 2,922, toll now 49||The state continued to witness 100-plus Covid-19 cases streak. On Saturday, it recorded 141 new infections with southern districts accounting for 53, followed by Kalyana Karnataka districts 30 and coastal districts 29. Bidar district reported one Covid-19 fatality on Saturday. A 47-year-old woman (P-2783), who was presented with influenza-like illness (ILI), died on May 28 at the designated Covid hospital in Bidar. She had complaints of hypertension and convulsions. She’d suffered paralysis eight years ago and was bedridden since then. Her throat swab samples returned positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday. Bidar also saw seven Maharashtra returnees and two with a travel history to Delhi test positive for Covid-19. The infected include two girls aged 5 and 7. The district’s tally shot up to 130. Of which, 99 are active cases. Yadgir district on Saturday witnessed 18 more fresh cases, taking its case count to 241. All 18 cases have a travel history to Maharashtra Four children below 10 years and three in the age bracket of 11 to 17 years are among the infected. Two from Kalaburagi district with Maharashtra link tested positive for the virus. On the bright side, as many as 43 patients were discharged, post recovery in Kalaburagi district on Saturday. Interestingly, coronavirus drew a blank in Raichur district on Saturday. The district had recorded 62 cases on Friday.  Vijayapura district reported 11 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Maradagi in Nidagundi taluk alone accounted for 10. All 10, Maharashtra returnees, were undergoing institutional quarantine. Three children in the age-group of 11 to 15 and a teenage boy from Tumminakatte in Haveri district have contracted virus. Patient 2856, aged 19, used to do petty business at Pundawad in Thane district while the other three children had returned from Thane, Maharashtra, along with their parents. Meanwhile, 12 Maharashtra returnees tested positive in Hassan district on Saturday. The district also saw a Patient 2848 contract virus from Patient 1996. Two women from Mysuru, both with a travel history to Maharashtra, tested positive for virus. The district now has five active cases.  Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts recorded 14 and 13 fresh infections respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/141-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-karnataka-tally-rises-to-2922-toll-now-49-843670.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Border district’s measures border on perfection: New book||The story of how Chamarajanagar has remained Karnataka’s lone coronavirus-free district is now available in the form of a book called ‘Yashogathe’. This book, which has chronicled in detail all measures by the district administration, will be circulated across the state for emulation, according to Chamarajanagar district minister S Suresh Kumar.   The district, which shares borders with Tamil Nadu and Kerala, was a risk-prone region. According to Chamarajanagar DC M R Ravi, early screening, strict quarantine, stringent monitoring at checkposts along with involving people at the gram panchayat level helped them secure the region. District health officials were alert about Covid-19 as early as January 30, foreseeing risks across the interstate borders. The administration began screening travellers much before the pandemic spread. While other districts had begun home quarantine of residents with recent travel history, the district had already begun institutional quarantine. When it was found that 53 people from the district were employed in Jubilant Life Sciences in neighbouring Nanjangud, the district immediately quarantined all of them, Ravi said.  When the lockdown was partially lifted allowing restricted inter-district movement, Chamarajanagar officials did not immediately permit travel into the district. They received several applications for it, but only those with an emergency were permitted to travel, he said. “We conducted two surveys to identify people with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and Influenza-like Illness (ILI) cases. All of them tested negative for the virus, which indicated that there was no infection within the district. We immediately put in stringent measures at checkposts conducting thorough screening,” he explained. The awareness at gram panchayat-level was a big help, Ravi said. “Even now, when I visit villages, there is 99% lockdown. People’s co-operation was a boon,” he said. The administration ensured that the quarantine facility did not seem prison-like, by being sensitive to people’s food preferences and by encouraging recreational activities there, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/border-district-s-measures-border-on-perfection-new-book-843745.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Maharashtra returnees continue to bother districts||The state continued to witness 100-plus Covid-19 cases streak. On Saturday, it recorded 141 new infections with southern districts accounting for 53, followed by Kalyana Karnataka districts 30 and coastal districts 29. Bidar district reported one Covid-19 fatality on Saturday. A 47-year-old woman (P-2783), who was presented with influenza-like illness (ILI), died on May 28 at the designated Covid hospital in Bidar. She had complaints of hypertension and convulsions. She’d suffered paralysis eight years ago and was bedridden since then. Her throat swab samples returned positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday. Bidar also saw seven Maharashtra returnees and two with a travel history to Delhi test positive for Covid-19. The infected include two girls aged 5 and 7. The district’s tally shot up to 130. Of which, 99 are active cases. Yadgir district on Saturday witnessed 18 more fresh cases, taking its case count to 241. All 18 cases have a travel history to Maharashtra Four children below 10 years and three in the age bracket of 11 to 17 years are among the infected. Two from Kalaburagi district with Maharashtra link tested positive for the virus. On the bright side, as many as 43 patients were discharged, post recovery in Kalaburagi district on Saturday. Interestingly, coronavirus drew a blank in Raichur district on Saturday. The district had recorded 62 cases on Friday.  Vijayapura district reported 11 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Maradagi in Nidagundi taluk alone accounted for 10. All 10, Maharashtra returnees, were undergoing institutional quarantine. Three children in the age-group of 11 to 15 and a teenage boy from Tumminakatte in Haveri district have contracted virus. Patient 2856, aged 19, used to do petty business at Pundawad in Thane district while the other three children had returned from Thane, Maharashtra, along with their parents. Meanwhile, 12 Maharashtra returnees tested positive in Hassan district on Saturday. The district also saw a Patient 2848 contract virus from Patient 1996. Two women from Mysuru, both with a travel history to Maharashtra, tested positive for virus. The district now has five active cases.  Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts recorded 14 and 13 fresh infections respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/maharashtra-returnees-continue-to-bother-districts-843747.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre’s help sought to bring back 12 officials from New Zealand||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has written to the Central government seeking help to airlift a team of engineers from the department, who were deputed on work to Christchurch, New Zealand and are stuck in the country for two months, owing to the coronavirus lockdown.  As many as 12 engineers from the Water Resources department were sent on an official trip to the National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research (NIWA), New Zealand. While their trip was expected to end on March 20, they have been unable to travel because of the global crisis following the Covid-19 pandemic. A flight is scheduled to depart Auckland on June 7 in which these engineers should be treated as priority passengers, the minister has urged External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-s-help-sought-to-bring-back-12-officials-from-new-zealand-843750.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP government will fall due to infighting, says Siddaramaiah||The “infighting” in the ruling BJP will lead to the government’s downfall, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah claimed on Saturday.  He was commenting on rumblings within the ruling party after over a dozen BJP legislators, including former minister Umesh Katti, huddled earlier this week in what was seen as an attempt to mount pressure on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to expand his Cabinet.  “No Congress MLA will resign as is being claimed. The BJP government will fall due to infighting,” Siddaramaiah said.  He also branded the B S Yediyurappa government as “extremely corrupt” and that it was in the interest of the people of the state if the government fell.  Dismissing Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi’s claim that he could get some Congress MLAs to resign, Siddaramaiah said such statements were being made to “cover up the secret meetings being held in the BJP.”  Siddaramaiah also latched on to senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s statements. “The BJP is on fire. Yatnal says Yediyurappa is not their leader and that he’s just the CM. What message does this convey? The Congress will not interfere in the BJP’s internal matter. If the government falls due to their internal rifts, we will not be responsible.”  Congress’s gag order With rumblings in the BJP out in the open, the Congress has imposed a gag order on its leaders from commenting on the ruling party’s affairs.  “Only Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah and I are authorized to comment on matters related to the BJP,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar told reporters.  “No other party worker or legislator, including my own brother (D K Suresh) should make public statements,” he said. “We should just focus on building our party and serving people. Let’s look after our house. We have nothing to do with the BJP’s internal matters and we needn’t interfere.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-government-will-fall-due-to-infighting-says-siddaramaiah-843751.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa has promised me Rajya Sabha ticket: Ramesh Katti||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had promised me a Rajya Sabha seat when I was denied Lok Sabha ticket from Chikkodi last year. Let him (BSY) stay true to his words, said Ramesh Katti, a BJP ticket aspirant for Rajya Sabha. Speaking to reporters at his Bellada Bagewadi residence in Hukkeri taluk, Ramesh Katti said, “Rajya Sabha seats will fall vacant and the election for the same will be held soon. I have urged the chief minister to fulfill his promise made to me last year when I was denied Lok Sabha ticket from Chikkodi. “My brother Umesh Katti is like a diamond. He has capable and will get a ministerial berth soon. But what about my political future?. I still don’t know why I was denied the Lok Sabha ticket,” he said. Replying to a query on his next move if he was denied Rajya Sabha ticket, Ramesh Katti said, “I am a disciplined soldier of the party. I will accept the decision of party leadership.” When asked about the party MLAs’ meeting at Umesh Katti’s residence two days back, he said, “We could not meet the party legislators from north Karnataka for long due to coronavirus-induced lockdown. Hence my brother hosted a lunch for the legislators of the region. We’d also invited chief minister for Jolada Rotti oota.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappa-has-promised-me-rajya-sabha-ticket-ramesh-katti-843754.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||H D Kumaraswamy opposes mandatory evaluation duty for PU lecturers||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy has condemned the mandatory evaluation work assigned for pre-university college lecturers. Kumaraswamy wrote a letter to Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar and took to social media demanding him to withdraw the scheduled evaluation work. "When everyone is living with the risk of getting infected from the Covid-19 virus, the department of pre-university Education is putting the lives of teachers to risk by asking them to go on evaluation duty," said Kumaraswamy. He even highlighted about the non-availability of hotels, proper transportation facilities for teachers to attend evaluation work scheduled in other districts. "Before making evaluation work mandatory, the department should put decentralisation in place, and action should be initiated against officials threatening teachers of sending them on leave without pay," said Kumaraswamy. Even the Karnataka State Pre-University College Teachers' Association has warned of boycotting the evaluation work if the department tries to put pressure on teachers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/h-d-kumaraswamy-opposes-mandatory-evaluation-duty-for-pu-lecturers-843755.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY aide N R Santosh made political secretary||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has appointed his estranged aide N R Santosh as a political secretary, marking his return to the mainstream after a hiatus.  Santosh, who was Yediyurappa’s PA and played a key role in toppling the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition, had kept a low profile ever since the BJP came to power last year.  The protocol wing of the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) issued an order appointing Santosh as the CM’s political secretary. Yediyurappa already had two political secretaries - MLAs M P Renukacharya and S R Vishwanath.  An engineering graduate, Santosh hails from Nonavinakere in Tumakuru. He is the grandson of Yediyurappa’s sister. He became Yediyurappa’s PA in 2015 and was seen as a trusted lieutenant.  After the BJP came to power, Santosh fell out with Yediyurappa and maintained distance. It is said that Yediyurappa had sought some time with Santosh to bring him into the administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsy-aide-n-r-santosh-made-political-secretary-843761.html
30-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PAC chief H K Patil mulls privilege motion against Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri||In what could be an unprecedented crisis in the Karnataka Legislature, the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) is considering moving a privilege motion against Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri for “stalling” an inquiry into alleged corruption in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment.  The PAC headed by senior Congress legislator H K Patil had sought a report from the Health Department over complaints of corruption in the procurement of various devices and protective equipment to fight the Covid-19 crisis.  On May 28, the Committee was also slated to visit various quarantine shelters, Covid-19 hospitals and the Health Department to verify the facilities and safety measures provided to frontline staff. However, Kageri’s office issued an order May 27 barring House committees from taking up any field visits or meetings with officials in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. This, Patil charged, obstructed the Constitutional duty of the PAC to look into complaints on misuse of public money. “The question is, should we or should we not move a privilege motion. This will be decided in the (PAC) meeting on June 2,” Patil told reporters. Objecting to the Speaker’s notice, Patil pointed out there had not been any obstruction to the PAC’s functioning till now. “But this is the first time there’s an obstruction.”  The Speaker’s order came in the way of duties that the legislature is supposed to perform. “The PAC has not been allowed to take up inspection in connection with alleged irregularities. This amounts to breach of our duty and freedom,” Patil said.  The equipment in question were procured by Karnataka Drug Logistics and Warehousing Corporation over the past couple of months, when India was under lockdown. Complaints received by the PAC claim that some safety equipment were procured at triple the cost in the market, while others say that the quality of procurement was low.  “How much money has been spent on ventilators? At what cost were masks and sanitisers purchased? This must be made public,” Patil said, daring Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu.  Assembly Secretary M K Vishalakshi issued a clarification that all House committees had been restricted keeping the Covid-19 pandemic in mind. “Keeping the central and state guidelines in mind, House committee meetings were suspended temporarily. Likewise, all field inspections were also restricted from a health point of view. There’s no ulterior motive behind this. The restrictions will be revised based on further lockdown guidelines issued by the government,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pac-chief-h-k-patil-mulls-privilege-motion-against-speaker-vishweshwar-hegde-kageri-843762.html
30-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Spitting, smoking in public in Maharashtra may land you in jail||Spitting and smoking in public in Maharashtra may land you in jail for a period of six months! The Maharashtra government's Public Health department has decided to strictly implement the provisions of the Indian Penal Code and Bombay Police Act.  "Spitting and smoking in public are not good habits. Spitting in public spreads coronavirus," Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said.   According to him, the first-time violators will have to pay a fine of Rs 1,000 and perform public service for one day, second-time violators will have to pay of fine Rs 3,000 and perform public service for three days and third-time violators will have to pay a fine of Rs 5,000 and perform public service of five days. Violators may also face imprisonment of six months to two years and/or fine. The government has used the provisions of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005, to prohibit smoking and consumption of gutka,  tobacco, scented supari and pan masala in public. The Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003, also prohibits smoking in public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-spitting-smoking-in-public-in-maharashtra-may-land-you-in-jail-843481.html
30-05-2020||West||Maharashtra govt puts in place massive plan for monsoon||With the southwest monsoon around the corner, the Maharashtra government has put in place a comprehensive plan that includes hospitals' bed strength of close to three lakh. Nearly five lakh PPE kits and 10 lakh N95 masks have been made available. For control of vector-borne diseases like malaria, dengue and chikungunya and water-borne diseases like gastrointestinal infection, jaundice and leptospirosis among others, massive preventive measures are being undertaken across the state, Mumbai, the larger Mumbai metropolitan region and urban centres like Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad and Nagpur.  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked all departments and local bodies to gear up for the monsoon in the state, particularly in Mumbai. "Considering the increasing number of cases in the state,  the bed capacity is being increased," a statement from the Public Health Department said. For Mumbai, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has held review meetings with officials of Central Railway and Western Railway. IMD's Deputy Director General of Meteorology has given a briefing to the Maharashtra government. Preparation in figures: N95 masks - 9,74,717 PPE kits - 4,78,444 Ventilators - 3,067 Total ICU beds - 8,501 Total isolation beds - 2,78,459||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-puts-in-place-massive-plan-for-monsoon-843504.html
30-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Bombay High Court seeks report from Maharashtra on steps taken for migrant workers||Taking note of the congregation of migrant workers at railway stations and bus stands in Maharashtra as they wait for their return to the home states, the Bombay High Court has sought a report from the Maharashtra government on how it was addressing the issue. According to the petitioner, the migrant workers who have submitted applications for leaving Maharashtra availing the Shramik special trains and buses, have been left in the dark about the status of their applications.  The plea said that till the time they are to board the train or bus for their native place, they are made to stay in cramped and unhygienic shelters without being provided with food and other essentials. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh on Friday told the court that the Supreme Court is already seized of a matter pertaining to all issues faced by the migrant workers. The court took note of this, but said it would still require the state government to file a report by June 2. "With regard to the peculiar local conditions, we consider it fit and proper to call upon the state to file a report indicating how the plight of the migrant workers, who have been assembling at the railways stations, bus stands in Mumbai and places around it are being addressed," the court said. The bench noted that it has come across photographs in newspapers showing congregation of migrant workers not only at railway stations, but also on the nearby streets. "Such congregation, if allowed, would run counter to the objective, for which the lockdown has been imposed," the court said. "The report shall indicate the whole procedure that a migrant worker is required to follow in order to be eligible for leaving this state, the likely time within which he could board a bus or train, the nature of shelter he is provided with during the waiting period as well as provisions made available to him for his sustenance," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-bombay-high-court-seeks-report-from-maharashtra-on-steps-taken-for-migrant-workers-843519.html
30-05-2020||West||Leopard enters residential area in Nashik, attacks two||Two persons were attacked by a leopard in Indira Nagar area of Maharashtra's Nashik city in the early hours of Saturday, police said. The incident took place at around 5.30 am when the leopard entered Rajsarathi Housing Society in Indira Nagar, an official said. The animal attacked a senior citizen on the building's staircase and when he raised an alarm, it ran outside and proceeded to attack a passerby, the official said. Both police and forest officials were alerted immediately, but the leopard could not be traced, he said. The victims sustained minor injuries, the official said, adding that the incident was captured by CCTV cameras in the area. According to some reports, prior to Indira Nagar, the leopard was spotted in Mumbai Naka area and at Tidke Colony in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/leopard-enters-residential-area-in-nashik-attacks-two-843533.html
30-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: 15 new COVID-19 cases detected in Nashik; tally at 1,166||According to a statement issued by the district administration, reports of 15 suspected patients came out positive late on Friday night. The district's COVID-19 tally now stands at 1,166, of which Malegaon has recorded 763 cases, followed Nashik city at 179 and 168 reported from other parts of the region, the release stated. As many as 56 infected persons from outside the district were also treated at hospitals here. Among the 61 COVID-19 deaths reported in the district, 48 patients were from Malegaon, eight from Nashik city, three from other parts of the district and two from outside the district. A total of 786 persons have recovered from the infection in the district so far, the data stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-15-new-covid-19-cases-detected-in-nashik-tally-at-1166-843538.html
30-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: More COVID-19 patients discharged in Maharashtra after Centre revises policy, says Rajesh Tope||On Friday, 8,381 patients were discharged taking the total to 26,997. On Thursday, the figures were 698 and 18,616, respectively. As far as Mumbai was concerned, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) put Friday's discharge figure as 715 and the cumulative total as 16,008.  Describing it as a good sign, Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said that mainly it was because of the large number of patients who are asymptomatic and the Centre's revised discharge policy. "The discharge rate of patients was massive.....We have a total of 62,228 patients, of which 26,997 have been discharged....the active patients are 33,124," Tope said, pointing out that the total active patients is around 50 per cent of the progressive total. The speedy discharge of patients is because of the change in discharge policy and a large number of asymptomatic patients plus the updation of records. As per the latest data collated by the state government, 83 percent of the patients are asymptomatic, around 15 to 16 per cent show mild to moderate symptoms. Only 1.5 percent need ventilators.   "The recovery rate has increased manifold and we are almost at the level of the national average," he said, adding that there is nothing to fear and panic. Health officials said that after the new guidelines of May 10 , a lot of patients were discharged but the sudden rise is because of updation of records. A senior doctor, who is associated with the IMA-Maharashtra as well as the state government, noted that the new policy is well thought out. "First of all, Mumbai is the worst affected city, the BMC is putting up a dashboard on bed's availability and records are being updated so that we get data on a real-time basis. Besides, we will also have to consider that in June-July,  there will be a big spike. The beds have to be judiciously used," he said, adding that Friday's data have discharge figures of previous days and weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-more-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-maharashtra-after-centre-revises-policy-says-rajesh-tope-843564.html
30-05-2020||West||Boy kills self after parents take away his mobile phone||A 13-year-old boy allegedly committed suicide at his Mira Road residence in the district after his parents snatched away his mobile phone, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Tuesday morning, a police official said. "The boy, who studied in a local school, used to constantly play on his mobile phone while being at home. However, his parents used to rebuke him for being glued to the mobile all the time," inspector Prakash Birajdar of Navghar Police Station said. "Recently they took away his mobile phone and the boy was upset ever since. On May 26, he allegedly ended his life by hanging himself from the ceiling fan at his residence," he said. A case of accidental death was registered in this connection, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/boy-kills-self-after-parents-take-away-his-mobile-phone-843589.html
30-05-2020||West||Rajasthan: BJP’s Rajendra Rathore booked for ‘violating lockdown’ at police station||Senior BJP lawmaker Rajendra Rathore and former BSP MLA Manoj Nyangli have been booked along with over 150 others for allegedly violating lockdown and social-distancing norms while registering their protest over the alleged suicide by a police officer. They had gathered at the Rajgarh Police Station, Churu, on May 23 after it was reported that the Station House Officer, Vishnu Dutt Vishnoi, had allegedly killed himself. “The FIR was registered against them on May 24 for violating lockdown and social-distancing norms. It has been referred to the CID (CB) for investigation,” the state police said on Saturday.  The police have named some leaders including Churu MLA Rathore, who is also the Deputy Leader of Opposition in Rajasthan Assembly, and “150-200” others in the FIR. Vishnoi had allegedly hanged himself to death at his official residence and the matter came to light on May 23 morning. After the news spread, BJP leaders had gathered at the police station to demand a CBI inquiry in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-bjp-s-rajendra-rathore-booked-for-violating-lockdown-at-police-station-843593.html
30-05-2020||West||Rajasthan: Head constable commits suicide||A head constable allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling in his quarter in Dausa district of Rajasthan, police said. The incident came to light on Friday, police said. “No suicide note was recovered from the quarter of head constable who hanged himself and committed suicide,” additional SP Dausa Anil Singh Chauhan said. He said that the body of the head constable, Girraj, was handed over to family members after postmortem and the matter was under investigation. The head constable was posted in Sainthal Police Station in Dausa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-head-constable-commits-suicide-843598.html
30-05-2020||West||Spitting, smoking in public now punishable offences in Maharashtra||State Health Minister Rajesh Tope made this announcement in a statement.  The first-time violators will have to pay Rs 1,000 fine and perform public service for one day, he said. The second-time offenders will have to pay Rs 3,000 fine and perform public service for three days, the minister added. "After that the punishment would be Rs 5000 fine and five days of public service," he said. Apart from this, as per various sections of the Bombay Police Act andthe Indian Penal Code (IPC), the punishment will range from six months to two years of jail or fine, Tope said in the statement.  Till Friday night, Maharashtra had recorded 62,228 coronavirus positive cases, while the total number of deaths till then was 2,098.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/spitting-smoking-in-public-now-punishable-offences-in-maharashtra-843618.html
30-05-2020||West||Hold exams while ensuring coronavirus infection doesn't spread: Maharashtra CM||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday spoke with vice-chancellors of various universities and said that examinations should be held while ensuring that it doesn't lead to the spread of coronavirus. An official statement quoted the chief minister as saying that "it is becoming clear that examinations cannot be held in July", but the uncertainty in this regard should be ended and all options should be explored. Technical and Higher Education Minister Uday Samant, Minister of State Prajakt Tanpure, chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and senior officials also took part in the video conference. "University examinations should be held ensuring not a single student gets infected by novel coronavirus....The worries of students and parents should be ended by determining the exact method of examination and (finalizing) the schedule," Thackeray said, as per the statement. The pandemic situation in Mumbai, Pune and Aurangabad, which are hotspots of infection, is changing constantly, the chief minister noted. It should be seen if the crisis can be turned into an opportunity with the use of technology, he added. As examinations were postponed after the outbreak of virus, students are worried, he noted. Thackeray also said that universities should find out how teaching is being conducted at foreign varsities. "Coronavirus should be dubbed an eye-opener. Healthcare facilities need to be prioritized. Similarly, education needs to be seen as essential," Thackeray said, according to the statement. The chief minister, during the interaction, also called for ensuring that the quality of education is the same across the state and there is no "regional disparity". Alternatives such as e-learning and digital classrooms should be explored, he added. Samant said all options for holding examinations were being explored. Tanpure said the government was in touch with students and parents and taking efforts to ensure that examinations were held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hold-exams-while-ensuring-coronavirus-infection-doesnt-spread-maharashtra-cm-843628.html
30-05-2020||West||Illegal telephone exchange busted in Mumbai||In a major swoop, the Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai police busted an illegal telephone exchange from the Gowandi suburbs of India's financial capital on Saturday. The coordinated raid was carried out based on inputs that the Mumbai Police received from Military Intelligence.  "It was a coordinated operation based on the information that we received from Jammu & Kashmir of MI," said Akbar Pathan, Deputy Commissioner of Police of Crime Branch-CID. A 38-year man, who was running the network, has been arrested. SIM cards and SIM boxes have been seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/illegal-telephone-exchange-busted-in-mumbai-843659.html
30-05-2020||West||Coronavirus death toll crosses 1,000 in Gujarat; state tells HC situation better than 'Italy, France'||The death toll from coronavirus in Gujarat crossed 1,000-mark on Saturday as 27 more patients died in the last 24 hours. The total casualty is now at 1,007 in the state. In terms of sheer number, this is the second-highest after neighbouring state Maharashtra where over 2000 infected persons have died. However, the virus continues to be most fatal in Gujarat with over 6% of death rate that is said to be the highest in the country, while in the neighbouring state it is little over 3%. Out of 1007 deaths, Ahmedabad alone has lion's share with 822 deaths as a city, only second to Mumbai where over 1100 have succumbed to the infection. The statistics show that Mumbai, which has recorded around 37,000 positive cases, has a mortality rate of about 3% while in Ahmedabad it is over 7%. Out of total deaths in Ahmedabad, more than 50% patients have died in the civil hospital, Asarwa which the Gujarat High Court last week called a "dungeon" and criticised bureaucrats and health minister Nitin Patel for mismanagement. The state government has been defending itself ever since in the court while producing reports after reports on its actions taken to manage the pandemic in civil hospital and elsewhere. On Friday, the state government filed a 94-page report in the high court and compared Gujarat with countries like Italy and France only to prove that the number of cases and deaths in the state are substantially lesser than these developed countries. The report stated, "While comparing the state of Gujarat with countries like Italy and France, the population of which is similar and where the available medical facilities are very much superior to that available in the state, yet the rise in number of covid-19 cases has been substantially slow in the state as compared to the said countries. Similarly, the number of death has been substantially less in Gujarat as compared to Italy and France." Interestingly, Gujarat government compares its discharge rate of covid-19 patients in everyday news update with other states. Even on Saturday, the release stated: "On 16.05.2020, the state had 39.20% discharge rate which has increased to 56.43% today that is much better than the average of 47.40% of other states in the country." The release remains silent on comparison with other states in terms of the number of daily testings, positive cases and mortality rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-death-toll-crosses-1000-in-gujarat-state-tells-hc-situation-better-than-italy-france-843725.html
30-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Thane civic staff dies on day he was to retire||A civic employee deployed to give food and water to inmates of a quarantine centre in Bhayander Pada in Thane district in Maharashtra died of COVID-19 on his retirement day on Saturday, an official said. The man had tested positive on May 18, and was under treatment, and died at around 1:30 pm, hours before he would have superannuated at the end of his shift under normal circumstances, said Thane Municipal Corporation spokesperson Sandeep Malavi. In another development, a five-day old girl tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday, a Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation official said.  She was among 18 who tested positive for the virus in MBMC limits, he added. TMC cases rose by 151 to reach 2,901, while five deaths took the toll in the city to 84, an official said. Meanwhile, the TMC launched a website that would give details of beds available at hospitals to combat the outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-thane-civic-staff-dies-on-day-he-was-to-retire-843731.html
30-05-2020||West||Gehlot wants Centre to double employment days under MNREGA to 200||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday insisted that the Centre should double the number of days of employment under the rural job guarantee scheme, saying the UPA-era law MGNREGA has proved its worth in providing livelihood to the poor. The Centre should increase the limit of days for providing employment to the rural poor from the present 100 days to 200 under Mahatama Gnadhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, said Gehlot. He made the remark while interacting with sarpanches, gram sevaks, patwaris and other gram panchayat functionaries through a video conference on the issue of corona pandemic. “The significance of MGNREGA, introduced by the previous UPA government, has been proved during the corona pandemic. At a time when people lost their jobs, MGNREGA gave them work,” he said, adding millions of people got job opportunities under MGNREGA in the country. Gehlot also said Rajasthan has been successful in tackling the corona crisis because of the cooperation of common people in following the government's advisories. He said a good work has been done in rural areas of the state where large number of migrants returned from other states and adequate arrangements of quarantine facilities were made. “Now it is our endeavour to bring economic activities back on track so that normalcy could be restored while protecting lives,” he said. The chief minister said villagers and public representatives gave their cooperation and support in taking care of migrants who returned to rural areas of the state. Gram panchayat functionaries also worked like a team to handle the situation in rural areas, he said. Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot said Rajasthan is the leading state in providing job opportunities under the MGNREGA. “MNREGA scheme is proving to be a boon for the workers who returned to Rajasthan due to lack of employment in other states, besides for those deprived of employment at the local level,” he said. He said 42.80 lakh workers have been provided job opportunities in the state this year. He said where almost all other employment opportunities were shut during the lockdown, the MNREGA scheme has proved to be a lifeline for the poor and backward people in rural areas. “Job cards of 1.77 lakh migrant labourers returned from various states have also been issued to provide employment under the MNREGA scheme,” he said. Pilot also said that in view of the scorching summer, the central government should reduce the working time under MNREGA. During the video meet, sarpanches and other functionaries apprised the chief minister of arrangements in their area for handling corona pandemic, distribution of food to the needy and quarantine arrangements. The officials too apprised Gehlot of various activities carried out in quarantine centers, including yoga, plantation etc. The issues of locust invasion and water scarcity too were discussed in the video meet. In the meeting, the officials informed the CM that 96,000 hectare of area in 20 districts of the state are affected with the menace of locust and the situation was controlled in 73,000 hectare. In present, there are some swarms of locusts in Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Dausa, Bikaner, Barmer and Jodhpur and locust control activities were being carried out through resources like sprayer machines, fire brigades etc. PHED Minister B D Kalla, Agriculture Minister Lalchand Kataria, Health Minister Raghu Sharma, Chief Secretary D B Gupta and other senior officials were also present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gehlot-wants-centre-to-double-employment-days-under-mnrega-to-200-843735.html
