31-05-2020||First Edit||Migrants denied basic dignity, respect||The notices issued by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to the Union Home Ministry, the Railway Board and some state governments over the death of some migrant labourers on Shramik Special trains and the treatment they have received on these trains, may be replied to with much solicitude by all of them, detailing the many steps taken to help the workers. The Central government has told the Supreme Court that the migrants are well taken care of and those who criticise the government on their plight are spreading negativity and not showing courtesy to the nation. The court still ordered that the workers should be allowed free travel and given food and water in the trains. The NHRC issued its notices taking suo motu cognisance of the reports of distress though it is not known why the body took over two months’ time to notice the distress.  The most abiding image of the lockdown in the county is the sight of poor and famished men, women and children walking hundreds of kilometres to their villages, carrying their meagre belongings or cycling their way or travelling in overcrowded trucks. Then, responding to public concern and criticism, special trains were introduced to take them home, without preparations, planning or a consideration for the workers’ minimum needs. Journeys took many days, some trains reached wrong destinations and many workers did not get food and water. At least nine of them died, the country saw the heart-rending sight of a child trying to wake up her dead mother on a railway platform, and some committed suicide. The crowded trains violated Covid-19 protocols, raising the chances of the spread of the disease to the villages. The Centre claimed the Railways paid 85% of the fare but told the Supreme Court that the states have to pay the fare. The poor migrants had to pay for their passage, and even after the court’s order, there are reports that they are being asked to pay.   The migrants still want to return because they hope to get the security of home which they lacked in their workplace. The government is duty-bound to provide safe travel to them but it has failed to do so, and has even denied them the basic dignity and respect due to human beings. The Prime Minister has talked about their tremendous suffering, but has not offered a solution. The NHRC noted that the Railways’ treatment of migrant workers was barbaric but expects replies to its notices within a month. Yes, one month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/migrants-denied-basic-dignity-respect-844032.html
31-05-2020||In Perspective||The economic game plan is changing||Unfortunately, we are not yet able to predict exactly when we will come out of this virus situation. As far as the industry and business are concerned, it has left us in a quandary. There is no doubt that individuals, institutions, small and big businesses will all take a hit and in the immediate future, there will be a lot of pain.  Many businesses may have to rebuild from the scratch and rethink how they function – they cannot sit back and operate how they used to. Certain markets that are important – like tourism, aviation and textile – will not bounce back so soon. In case what they are doing collapses, industry and business leaders should not go into a depressive mode but see how to recalibrate and seek out new possibilities which could open up for them to flourish. This is definitely a disruption but disruption always has hidden opportunities. The question is whether we are agile, brave and competent enough to seize the opportunity. What looks like a destructive tsunami is a dream come true for a good surfer. The world’s economic dynamics will change.  Particularly in Asia, we must ride that change. Several governments that are behind large economies are looking at shifting their industry out of China to other nations in Asia like Vietnam, Cambodia and Malaysia, but India is currently standing as a first option. As we have been largely left out of the economic development in Asia, the way I see our prospects, this is the time for us to catch up. We have to get our act together. Like the way the central and state governments have become very agile and effective in dealing with the pandemic, the industry, businesses and entrepreneurs must all get ready for the economic game. The Union government will take steps to recharge the economic process in terms of loans, interest and EMIs, and businesses must participate to ensure these incentives are substantial.  As new opportunities present themselves, businesses should remember that the human potential that they carry in their organisation is very vital. If people are laid off just because of a few weeks of lockdown, building back business will become a serious challenge. It is very important that organisations keep in touch and hold on to their human capital, negotiate their pay and nurture them to whatever extent their finances allow.  Even post-lockdown, it may take months for the markets to come back. During these times, you will need people who will work for your business like their life depends on it; otherwise businesses will fail. If you want them to work like this, you first have to show them that you are committed to their life and wellbeing. Only then will you get their reciprocal response of commitment to the wellbeing of your business.  Youthful country The greatest wealth we have in this country right now is human resource. We are the most youthful country in the world, with more than half our population below 25 years of age. The advantage of this demographic dividend will remain with us for only 15 years.  With the disruption caused by the virus, this is the time to unleash this vast human potential. For this, we need human beings who are inspired, focused, balanced and disciplined towards a certain purpose. Businesses should play an important role in nurturing and harnessing this talent, because after all, industries need various skills.  For generations, it was the institution of the family which delivered skills to people. That process has been broken now and cannot be rebuilt. But the new family of private enterprise should invest in training individuals from a very young age. When it came to the virus, the leadership at the national and state levels, across the board, responded in a very resolute manner. It is an incredible effort. We must learn from this situation – by coming together how effectively we managed the crisis as compared to many other nations that have much better medical infrastructure than us. It has been our nation's history that we all come together and act resolutely only when there is a mortal threat to us.  Otherwise, we function like we are 10 different nations at a time. We must cross this problem now. If we can maintain this sense of determination in the years to come, I do not think we have to fear anything. We will bounce back with great resilience. This has been the land of entrepreneurs, a millennia-old culture; we will not be obliterated in 12 months’ time. If we can ensure that our fatalities due to the virus are contained, this is an opportunity of a lifetime for our generation. As a nation, our businesses must gear up and position themselves into the right place. If everyone in this country moves from personal ambition to a larger vision, then our genius will express itself and we will do things that we have not imagined possible. We could be the greatest miracle in the coming century.  (The writer is Founder, Isha Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-economic-game-plan-is-changing-844033.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka bans chewing tobacco in public||Health Minister B Sriramulu banned the consumption of chewing tobacco in public places on Saturday, which is marked as World Tobacco Day. The ban would include chewing paan masala and spitting in public places. In June 2013, the state banned the manufacture, storage, sale, or distribution of gutka and paan masala containing tobacco or nicotine as ingredients to reduce the prevalence of tobacco use. On October 26, 2016, the state proscribed all kinds of chewing tobacco, containing tobacco or nicotine or both in accordance with the Supreme Court order. Karnataka is the second state in India to ban e-cigarettes. The state also prohibited single cigarettes. Until September 2019, the state counselled 15,698 patients in tobacco cessation centres set up in private dental colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-bans-chewing-tobacco-in-public-843779.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: 14 including 3 children discharged in Udupi||Fourteen people including three children who tested positive for COVID -19 recovered and discharged from Government Hospital in Kundapura, in Udupi district, where they were undergoing treatment on Sunday, said DHO Dr Sudhirchandra Sooda. Kundapura AC Raju, DHO Dr Sudhirchandra Sooda, taluk medical officer Dr Nagabhushan Udupa handed over a rose to all the discharged. With this, a total of 64 persons have been recovered and discharged in the district. The district has registered a total of 177 positive cases so far. Majority of the positive cases in Udupi district have inter-state travel history to Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-14-including-3-children-discharged-in-udupi-843902.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||17 COVID-19 patients discharged from hospital||As many as 17 COVID-19 patients were discharged from McGann hospital after they recovered on Sunday.  District Surgeon Raghunandan told DH that of the 17, five are from Shivamogga, six from Thirthahalli, three from Hosanagar, two from Sorab, one from Sagar. As many as 17 persons are still undergoing treatment in McGann hospital in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/17-covid-19-patients-discharged-from-hospital-843919.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Qatar returnee baby tests positive for COVID-19 in Shivamogga||A six-year-old baby girl tested positive for COVID-19 at Shivamogga on Sunday.  District Health officer Rajesh Suragihalli told DH that the mother, who is pregnant, returned to Shivamogga from Qatar. They were  put under home quarantine for 14 days. Throat swab of the child tested positive but the mother tested negative. The maid and father-in-law of the woman are primary contacts of the child. The health department is trying to find out how the child was infected by COVID-19.  With this, number of COVID-19 cases rose to 42. Of it, 18 are active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/qatar-returnee-baby-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-shivamogga-844017.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Maharashtra returnees continue to rattle Kalyana Karnataka region||Maharashtra returnees continue to rattle Kalyana Karnataka region of the state. A total of 188 people from the region tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday.  Coronavirus has exploded in Raichur district which saw the biggest single-day spike with 83 cases. Except one who returned from Bengaluru urban, others are Maharashtra returnees. They are now undergoing treatment at OPEC hospital.  Maharashtra returnees continue to give nightmares to Yadgir as a total of 44 people tested positive for the virus.  In Bidar, as many as 33 people, several of them are Maharashtra returnees, caught the virus.  A total of 28 Maharashtra returnees tested positive in Kalaburagi district. They are now undergoing treatment at the designated hospital in Kalaburagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-maharashtra-returnees-continue-to-rattle-kalyana-karnataka-region-844023.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Runaway son returns after 10 years, parents send him to quarantine ||The coronavirus-induced lockdown has proved to be a blessing in disguise for a family in Kunigal taluk of Tumakuru district. Krishnappa of Gunnagere village reunited with his long-lost son Ranganath, who returned home due to shutdown, on Saturday. But the reunion was short-lived. No, Ranganath did not vanish again. Krishnappa couple informed the authorities about their son and his travel history and made sure he was placed in institutional quarantine. Ranganath had ran away from home in 2011. He left home to school and went missing since then. His parents lodged a missing complaint with the jurisdictional police. They also made several efforts in vain to trace their son. After failed efforts, they left him to his fate. Having lost his job at Bhalki in Bidar district due to the lockdown, Ranganath decided to return to his home. On Friday night (May 29), he returned to his grandmother's house in Shettigeri and introduced himself to his granny, who promptly passed on the information to his parents. After an emotional reunion with their son, Krishnappa couple sent him to institutional quarantine as he'd arrived from Bidar, a virus hotspot. Ranganath has been placed under institutional quarantine at a residential school at Hemagiribetta near Huliyurudurga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-runaway-son-returns-after-10-years-parents-send-him-to-quarantine-844030.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||RGUHS to become research hub in medicine||If it was not a pandemic, the silver jubilee function of a university would have gone unnoticed by the public who, otherwise, would have been busy in their mundane life. It is more so with Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences which is kick-starting its Silver Jubilee celebrations today because it is a specialized one.  At a time when thousands of doctors passed out from the RGUHS together with those who are studying now, treating patients with Covid-19 infection inside and outside the state, the Silver Jubilee function seems more meaningful.  It is gratifying to note that doctors, nurses and paramedics, who got degrees from RGUHS, along with others, have become ‘Corona warriors’ and helping the humanity to fight this deadly virus. In this context, the Silver Jubilee of RGUHS is a moment of celebration for people of Karnataka as one of their universities started on June 1, 1996, has produced noble doctors, nurses and paramedics and genuinely helping the humanity at large.  It’s all the more important as the year-long Silver Jubilee celebrations are being inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 1 through video-conferencing. A glance at the break-up of students pursuing different courses will answer the question as to why RGUHS has become the biggest health university in the country.  As many as 6,200 students are pursuing MBBS course besides over 40,000 students who are into undergraduate courses of Indian System of Medicines and paramedical courses. Over 11,000 students are in PG courses including 220 doctors who are pursuing super-specialty courses and another 202 who are doing research in different medical streams. The University has given thrust on research activity and now, this has been extended to the entire teaching faculty. The RGUHS has been partnering with other premier institutes such as IISc, NCBS, JNCASR and CHG to conduct research activities. With the help IISc, residential training programmes are being taken up in the field of Nanotechnology and Molecular Biology. A university is a fountainhead of knowledge and will be a guiding spirit for the society at large. Whereas for a health university, saving lives is a primary motto. In the inter-connected world, it is quite natural for any health university to aspire for finding a place among the top health universities in the world. It may take some time but very soon, the RGUHS will not only become one the top-rated universities in the world, rather, it becomes a hub of research activity in the field of medicine. (The writer is Karnataka’s Medical Education Minister)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rguhs-to-become-research-hub-in-medicine-844040.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown: Temples in Karnataka to open from June 8||Muzari Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that all the temples coming under the Muzrai department will open on June 8. Initially, the state government had decided to open the temples on June 1. As per the Centre’s new guidelines, it has been decided to open on June 8. As per the directions of the Central government, devotees should wear mask and maintain social distance while entering inside the temples. Postponed The proposed ‘Dhanvantari homa’ and ‘Shatha Siyalabhisheka’ at Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple in Mangaluru on June 1 has been postponed, following the guidelines of the Central government on opening of the temples. The temple will be opened only after June 8, a press release stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-temples-in-karnataka-to-open-from-june-8-844050.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Additional restrictions on travellers from Maharashtra||Karnataka on Sunday issued new guidelines for interstate travellers, mandating quarantine norms for asymptomatic and symptomatic, with additional restrictions for travellers from Maharashtra. According to the order signed by Pankaj Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, interstate travellers from any state with symptoms of Covid-19 be immediately tested upon arrival and subsequently sent for seven days of institutional quarantine, followed by seven days of home quarantine.  Except for Maharashtra, asymptomatic individuals from all other states face different norms in the form of 14-day home quarantine. Those from Maharashtra will have to undergo mandatory seven-day of institutional quarantine following which they are subjected to seven days of home quarantine. A test will be done if they develop symptoms during the quarantine period. Meantime, existing exemptions for people in the asymptomatic category continue unchanged. These include people who have suffered a death in the family, pregnant women, children below the age of 10, elderly above the age of 60, those with a serious (non-Covid-19) illness and those who qualify under "human distress." Travellers from Maharashtra who come with a Covid-negative certificate from ICMR - not more than two days old - can ask to go into 14-day home quarantine. The order reiterates that it is mandatory for all travellers coming into Karnataka to register on the Seva Sindhu website. All those who develop symptoms during home quarantine should call the Apthamitra helpline 14410.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/additional-restrictions-on-travellers-from-maharashtra-844051.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gram Panchayat polls: Congress plans legal recourse||The Congress will take the legal route to challenge the decision to postpone gram panchayat elections in Karnataka citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking to reporters, former Rural Development and Panchayat Raj minister H K Patil contended that the decision was against the Panchayat Raj Act. "We will approach the court against this unconstitutional and illegal decision," he said. Karnataka government had recommended the state election commission to put off polls for grama panchayats and appoint interim administrators for the civic bodies, attracting opposition from several quarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gram-panchayat-polls-congress-plans-legal-recourse-844055.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown: Discharged returnees in dilemma on going home||Anand Bandiwaddar, a 26-year-old civil services examination aspirant who returned from Delhi to Gokak in Belagavi district in a Shramik Express, is a worried person. He is scared to enter his house, as even after completing 14-days of institutional-quarantine he has not received test reports of the swab samples collected eight days ago. Not just him, more than 3,000 people in Belagavi, who have returned from other high-risk States, are awaiting their medical reports and yet many of them (600 according to former minister Satish Jarkiholi) have been sent home by the district administration, citing the new guidelines by the State government. This has led to fear among people and elected representatives of community spread as those sent for home quarantine can still spread the disease.  “I have completed 14-days of institutional-quarantine and my swab sample was collected after eight days of institutional-quarantine. I don’t have any symptoms, however, one of my co-passengers who travelled in the same bus from Hubballi to Belagavi on May 16 has turned positive now. I am scared to go home as I may spread the disease to others. The report could have helped us make a decision,” said Anand. Shivaraj Kumar, who was in institutional-quarantine at Gokak BMC hostel, says many of the returnees from Maharashtra were tested on the sixth or seventh day and were sent home before the results were out. “Twenty five of us were kept in the same hostel and we don’t know if anyone of us had contracted the disease,” he said. KPCC Working President Satish Jarkiholi on Saturday raised concerns over the move of the Health Department, which has ‘discharged’ 600 persons who were under institutional-quarantine across Belagavi district before reports of their Covid-19 tests were out. Sources in district administration told DH that more than 7,000 people have come from high-risk states, including Maharashtra. Testing all of them is a time-consuming process. Speaking to DH, Belagavi Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli said medical reports of more than 3,000 people are awaited and the ‘discharges’ from institutional quarantine are as per the circular issued by state government on May 27. The circular says: ‘A person who has completed 7-days of institutional quarantine and is asymptomatic can be sent to home-quarantine without a Covid-19 test (RT-PCR)...’ Bommanahalli said the large-scale backlog of test results is because of the high influx.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-discharged-returnees-in-dilemma-on-going-home-844059.html
31-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||It’s ‘minor aspiration’ not disgruntlement in BJP: Karnataka Deputy CM Ashwath Narayan||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan decried the “meetings” by legislators of the Katti faction on Sunday, even as reports of the disgruntled legislators meeting again in the coming week emerged. Speaking to reporters, Ashwath Narayan said that the B S Yediyurappa-led government had nothing to worry about. “However, the manner (in which the meeting was held) was not right. Party leaders will discuss this and address all concerns,” he said. The recent developments, according to the DyCM were due to the “minor aspirations” of a few leaders. “In our party, there is no room for disgruntlement. If they have demands, they can speak to the CM,” he said. Meanwhile, reports emerged that one more meeting of the Katti faction to unsettle Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is likely next week. The group’s show of strength came with demands for Cabinet reshuffle, Rajya Sabha nomination for Katti’s brother Ramesh Katti and others. While the ruling party has played down the recurring “disgruntlement” of few leaders over the past 10 months of BJP rule, insiders say that it was part of a deeper ploy to replace the chief minister. It can be noted that while Katti had denied any dissident activity following the recent “lunch meeting” by North Karnataka MLAs, another dissident Basangouda Patil Yatnal made it clear that his equation with the CM had deteriorated. There are also indications of a divide within the Katti faction, as few MLAs of the group were left unhappy saying that the meeting ended up buttressing Umesh Katti’s demand to be a minister and his brother Ramesh Katti’s demand of Rajya Sabha nomination. Ramesh told reporters in Belagavi that they were still awaiting the “good news” that chief minister B S Yediyurappa had promised the Kattis. “People are watching this. They had promised to make me Rajya Sabha MP. I am just asking them to fulfill the promise,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/it-s-minor-aspiration-not-disgruntlement-in-bjp-karnataka-deputy-cm-ashwath-narayan-844028.html
31-05-2020||Main Article||A caveat is in order||The issue of bread and butter is inextricably linked to how we resume our livelihood on the basis of the lessons learnt during the lockdown. The first lesson obviously is that our consumption and all the economic activities governed by it were unsustainable in character and therefore, we cannot carry on with the sustained despoiling of Nature around us as we did in pre-Corona days.  But our GDP-obsessed economic chieftains rule the roost. Our political leadership should be governed by a granular understanding of the need of the people to make major changes in their relationship to natural resources. The major worry is that once the lockdown gets finally withdrawn, people might feel too tempted to get back to the default mode.   The economic imperative to start afresh at the backdrop of the gruelling lockdown notwithstanding, the second lesson that follows is that if we persist with our old, greedy, ravenous self, there might be another catastrophe, be it some superbug or some natural disaster like the recent cyclone Amphan that struck parts of south Bengal. The incubation of a deadly tropical cyclone is the direct outcome of global warming and climate change triggered by human activities and the emergence of old and new pathogens is often the outcome of destroyed ecosystems. The sight of non-human creatures coming out in the open conjures up the image of a pre-lapsarian world made possible by a lull in economic activities and human movement. Somehow, we get an idea that the world very much belongs as much to humans as to the non-human species. With fewer humans out on the street, they are somehow coming forward to reclaim their lost territories.   The Bombay Natural History Society estimated that the number of flamingos is 25% more than in 2019 in the Talawe wetlands and other areas of Mumbai. Hundreds of monkeys have taken over streets around the presidential palace in New Delhi during the country’s lockdown. Images of wildlife – jackals, coyotes, pumas, mountain goats, the European roe deer, dolphins, leatherback turtles – coming out in the open across the world serve as a stark reminder of how we colonised their habitats.                Since a global existential threat in the shape of epidemics threaten us all,  we are now inclined to take notice of the fact that environmental degradation to a great extent accounts for the sixth mass extinction of species in the history of life on Earth and the first one caused by humans.  While the role of cyclical swings in the earth’s climate is responsible for this, the spread of humans and their activities are no less liable. Many scientists believe that we are in the middle of a mass extinction right now, caused by the human undermining of the earth’s complex systems that support life. Even if we are dimply aware of the need for biodiversity conservation, especially in its scientific and legal dimensions, it is shaped by cultural assumptions about what is valuable in nature and what is not.  Given the widespread concern over the worldwide loss of biodiversity and popular crusades to “save” endangered species and habitats, professionals in conservation biology, public policy, environmental law and environmental organisations are rarely seen to mobilise public action.  But the epidemic did prove once again that human activities are the major reason for the incredible harm dealt to the environment and for all the excesses that we have committed in the last century, this is a tipping point.   Environmental scientists, therefore, envisage cleaning up the damage already done to earth, changing current uses of natural resources, and developing new technologies to conserve earth’s remaining natural resources as part of the green movement that can no longer be cast aside as a fad that runs counter to the economic imperative.  The lesson that the coronavirus epidemic taught us is that an increasing rate of environmental disasters, hazardous waste spills and wholesale destruction of forests, clean water and other resources have brought us to an edge and we can go no further.  Carbon footprints Why so? The continued growth of ecological and carbon footprints puts animals and plants in danger because earth’s biota can no longer sustain the current number of people since from about 1988 the ecological footprint of earth’s human population has exceeded the planet’s capacity (known as ‘biocapacity’)  to support it.  If humans continue to stress biocapacity, other species will lose hold on their natural habitats as is evident when animals such as elephants or cheetahs or troops of monkeys are seen to invade thickly populated localities in increasing numbers. The high level of consumerism must be made to taper off along with an ecological footprint and carbon footprint on the planet. An ecological footprint is the amount of land and water needed to support one person and absorb that person’s wastes. The amount of cropland, grazing land, forests and fishing grounds plus carbon-based fuel and nuclear fuel consumption factors into a single ecological footprint.  The amount of forestland needed to remove from the atmosphere the end-products of burning a unit of fossil fuel is a measure to calculate carbon footprint.  As of 2013, the world’s population would need 1.7 Earths to support its demands on renewable natural resources, according to Global Footprint Network, a nonprofit organisation that calculates human demands on the planet’s ecosystems. Yet another study estimates it would take five Earths to support the human population if everyone’s consumption patterns were similar to the average American.  The gruelling effect of the lockdown and the economic cost to the nation are too unbearable. The emptied streets worldwide point to an apocalypse. However much we feel the need for the economic engines go revving again, a caveat is in order. If the sight of the natural world disappearing everywhere right before our eyes, mangled and twisted out of shape or replaced by human artefacts long crying for our attention does not move us in a post-corona world, the economic cost would be far greater than the gains we have posted so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-caveat-is-in-order-844034.html
31-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Tweaked rules lead to spike in recoveries||India on Saturday witnessed a steep increase in the number of discharged patients as 11,264 people were released from hospitals, even as Covid-19 cases saw spiked by nearly 8,000 in a single day. In a boost to the country's battle against the coronavirus, active cases also registered a dip on Saturday for the first time compared with the previous day. The total number of recoveries now stands at 82,370, which the health ministry said has "resulted in a recovery rate of 47.40% amongst Covid-19 patients, an increase of 4.51% in the recovery rate from the previous day’s recovery rate of 42.89%”.  The rise in discharges amid a record surge in positive cases is due to the Health Ministry's revised guidelines. The ministry tweaked its discharge policy on May 9 to allow early release of patients depending on the severity of their illness. “The discharge rate has accelerated after the change in the policy. It is also important to note that patients have anyway recovered, but we were taking more time in their discharge,” V K Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog, had told reporters. He said the large number of recoveries also helped free up hospital beds for new patients. Prior to the revision in discharge policy, India was reporting an average of 1,500 recoveries every day. That number almost doubled after the new discharge policy was announced and implemented. India had reported 11,264 recoveries on Saturday morning as against the 3,414 on Friday, 3,265 on Thursday and 3,936 on Wednesday. Dip in active cases Active Covid-19 cases also witnessed a dip for the first time on Saturday when compared to the previous day.  According to the health ministry, India had 86,422 active Covid-19 cases as on Saturday morning as against the 89,987 reported on Friday morning.  The total number of cases also witnessed a sharp increase — 7,964 in a single day — to touch 1,73,763. “As total cases rise, India's ACTIVE cases have declined for the first time compared to the previous day. Have we begun to bend the curve? Need a few more days to establish this,” economist Shamika Ravi said. For health authorities, it is the number of active cases that matter as it refers to the patients in hospital who require treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-tweaked-rules-lead-to-spike-in-recoveries-843775.html
31-05-2020||National||Hyper-local strategies key to contain COVID-19: Amitabh Kant||Hyper-localisation and targeted interventions appear to be the government mantra to contain the spread of Covid-19 as it moves towards Lockdown 5.0, but with substantial relaxations. A glimpse into the government thinking was given by NITI Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant who pointed out that five of the 15 worst-hit districts have been reporting deaths more than the national average, while nine districts have better recovery rates than the national average. “Here, recovery rate, Case Fatality Rate & moving average needs monitoring & used to drive decision making. Hyper-localization & targeted interventions will help improve outcomes,” Kant said don Twitter. He said 30 districts account for 70% of the total cases of which 15 have more than 1,000 cases, while Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Thane account for 52% cases. “Here, hotspots need to be quickly identified with aggressive testing, contact tracing & timely treatment is a must,” he said. Kant noted that India's recovery rate has touched 47.6% whereas the case fatality rate (CFR) has remained consistently low at 3% as compared to over 14% in France, Italy and UK. “Focus on hyper-localized containment strategies with timely testing, contact tracing, isolation & treatment are key,” he said. Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has advised states to conduct sero-survey to assess the proportion of population including asymptomatic individuals exposed to Covid-19 infection. Depending upon the level of sero-prevalence of infection, appropriate public health interventions can be planned and implemented for prevention and control of the disease, the ICMR said in a communication to state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyper-local-strategies-key-to-contain-covid-19-amitabh-kant-843795.html
31-05-2020||National||International flight operations to remain suspended till June 30: DGCA||Indian aviation regulator DGCA on Saturday said the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger flights will continue till midnight on June 30, hours after the Home Ministry announced fresh guidelines pertaining to the countrywide lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic. "It is once again reiterated that foreign airlines shall be suitably informed about the opening of their operations to or from India in due course," the circular issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said.  Domestic passenger flight services resumed in the country from Monday after a hiatus of two months since the lockdown was announced on March 25, when all scheduled commercial passenger flights were suspended in India. International flights continue to remain suspended even now. The Home Ministry on Saturday said 'Unlock-1' will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide lockdown effectuated on March 25 will be relaxed to a great extent, including the opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country's worst pandemic-hit areas. International air travel shall remain suspended, the MHA order said, adding that a decision on when to resume it would be taken after making an assessment of the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/international-flight-operations-to-remain-suspended-till-june-30-dgca-843798.html
31-05-2020||National||Pained by migrants' sufferings, made arrangements for their travel: Home Minister Amit Shah||The government was pained by the suffering of migrant workers and tried its best to ensure that they do not face any problem either in commuting or after reaching their respective states, Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday and noted that one crore people have been able to return home so far. Shah's remarks came amid criticism of the Modi government over the handling of the migrants issue as tens of thousands of people have been forced to walk for days or take unsafe modes of transport to their native places during the coronavirus lockdown. Without naming any leader or political party, Shah claimed that the opposition leaders who had termed the lockdown as “unplanned” have a biased view, and maintained that elaborate arrangements have been made both by the Centre and state governments to check the coronavirus pandemic. “We are also pained by their sufferings (Un sabko jo takleef hui uska dard hame bhi hai). It doesn’t mean no arrangements were made,” he told Aaj Tak news channel on the plight of migrant workers. Shah said over one crore migrants labourers have reached home so far -- about 54 lakh through trains and 41 lakh through buses. He said the government has made all arrangements for the safe travel of labourers. Shah said the railways provided food to 1.5 crore people and water bottles to 2.25 crore people. “I don’t want to say that nobody faced any problem. But whosoever has faced problems, the prime minister, I and all my party leaders sympathise with them,” the home minister said. To a question on the spike in coronavirus cases particularly in Maharashtra, Shah said all state governments are trying their best to check the pandemic.  “We are fighting this pandemic together. All of us are united against it and we will overcome it soon,” he said. When asked about BJP leader Narayan Rane’s demand of imposing the President's rule in Maharashtra, Shah said that it was his individual opinion and not of the party. To a question on assembly polls in Bihar and West Bengal, he exuded confidence that the BJP will emerge victorious. “We are in a good condition in Bihar. We are definitely going to win in West Bengal. The BJP is set to form a government there,” Shah said. He said violence has become an "etiquette" in the politics of West Bengal and “it is time for a change" in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pained-by-migrants-sufferings-made-arrangements-for-their-travel-home-minister-amit-shah-843800.html
31-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 31||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,89,273 as of May 31.     States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 5,384 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 8,6983 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-31-843801.html
31-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 31, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-31-2020-edition-843808.html
31-05-2020||National||DH Toon: Coronavirus Lockdown - To fly, or not to fly?||Coronavirus Lockdown: Flying in turbulent conditions Troubled Wings: Airlines need passengers, and govt help. Neither seems forthcoming anytime soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-coronavirus-lockdown-to-fly-or-not-to-fly-843812.html
31-05-2020||National||DH Toon: Migrant woes - uncovering govt's apathy||India's migrant crisis revealed in disturbing video of child trying to wake dead mother at Bihar railway station A toddler's vain attempt to wake up his dead mother from eternal sleep on a railway platform in Bihar's Muzaffarpur on Wednesday presented the most poignant picture of the massive migrant tragedy unfolding across several states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-migrant-woes-uncovering-govts-apathy-843813.html
31-05-2020||National||18 test positive after attending COVID-19 patient's funeral in Maharashtra||At least 18 mourners, who attended the funeral of a COVID-19 patient, have tested positive for the infection in Ulhasnagar town of Maharashtra's Thane district, a civic official said on Saturday. Defying prohibitory orders, at least 70 persons had attended the funeral of a 40-year-old woman, who had tested positive for the virus post her death, a spokesperson of the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation said. The woman's body was handed over to her family with specific instructions to not open the bag, but they opened the wrapped body to perform the last rites on May 25, the official said. The police were first alerted about the funeral, following which the civic authorities were notified, he said. When the 70 mourners, including close relatives, were tested for the infection, reports of 18 came out positive on Friday, he said.  A case has been registered against the deceased's family for violating provisions of the Epidemic Act, the official added. In a similar incident earlier this month, when a 50 -year-old patient died of the infection, the deceased's family unwrapped the body to perform last rites and at least 20 people contracted the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18-test-positive-after-attending-covid-19-patients-funeral-in-maharashtra-843814.html
31-05-2020||National||Maharashtra's Daulatabad Fort puts cannons in perspective||Cannons have changed the course of global history, and of course, India's past as well. But, where to look for cannons of the medieval era? The cannons in the Daulatabad Fort forms is one of the perfect places to study cannons and its relevance in the sub-continent, particularly in the Deccan region. The conical-shape hill fort of Daulatabad, earlier known as Devagiri or Deogiri, is located in the Aurangabad district of Maharashtra. "There are 288 cannons in Daulatabad Fort," said Dr Tejas Garge, Director, Directorate of Archaeology & Museums, Government of Maharashtra. In the sixth century, Daulatabad was part of the caravan routes. Deogiri, also known as the 'Hill of Gods' to Daulatabad and the 'Abode of Wealth', has changed hands multiple times. At a webinar 'History of Gunnery in India',  hosted by the Sadhana Education Society's L S Raheja College of Arts & Commerce, Santacruz, Dr Garge said that Deccan was ruled by many dynasties that shaped the Indian history. These include Mauryans, Satvahanas, Vakatakas, Chalukyas, Pallavas, Rashtrakutas, Cholas, Kakatiyas, Vijayanagara, Khiljis, Tuglaqs, Bahmanis, Nizamshahis, Mughals and Marathas. Impregnable by military standards and an example of strategic planning, the fort falls between Aurangabad city and Ellora Caves, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, featuring Buddhist, Jain and Hindu monuments. "The cannons here are unique. There are various types of cannons,  size and shapes," said Dr Garge. One of the famous cannons is the Mendha Tope. "The Qila Shikan or Breaker of Forts or Mendha tope was made by Muhammed Hussain Arab. Aurangazeb’s name is engraved as ‘Abul Zafar Muhiuddin Muhammad Aurangzeb Bahadur Alamgir Badshah Gazi’. It’s a composite cannon. This too was one of the most effective cannons. The cascabel is in form of a ram and hence the name Mendha tope," he said, adding that it has a barrel of wrought iron and casing of bronze. "In fact, Emperor Aurangazeb had used such cannons," he pointed out. Another cannon bears three inscriptions in Persian,  one being the title 'Dara Shukoh Shah-I-Baland-Iqbal'.  "This was Emperor Shah Jahan' son and Aurangzeb's brother Darah Shukoh. The name of manufacturer Muhhmad Hussain is also seen," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtras-daulatabad-fort-puts-cannons-in-perspective-843831.html
31-05-2020||National||Uttarakhand minister's wife tests positive for coronavirus||Uttarakhand Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj's wife and former minister Amrita Rawat has tested positive for COVID-19. Her swab sample report confirming that she has contracted the virus came on Saturday evening, the minister's OSD Abhishek Sharma said.         She is being hospitalised, he said.             Amrita Rawat was a minister in the Harish Rawat government. The minister and the rest of the family have been home quarantined at their residence in the city, he said.       On Friday, Maharaj had attended a meeting of the state cabinet. The number of COVID-19 cases in Uttarakhand has risen to 749, with 33 more testing positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-ministers-wife-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-843832.html
31-05-2020||National||COVID-19: India records highest single-day spike of 8,380 cases; death toll crosses 5,000-mark||COVID-19 count registered its first ever spike by more than 8,000 new infections as the total confirmed cases touched 1,82,143 on Sunday, while death toll crossed the 5,000 mark, as the government moved to ease the lockdown conditions. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) also moved to check prevalence of the infection and asked state governments to expand the sero survey among wider population groups. The survey is in addition to a similar exercise carried out in 69 districts to assess the spread of COVID-19 in the community. In a communication to the state governments, the ICMR has advised sero tests on groups including immuno-compromised patients, healthworkers, security personnel, media persons, rural and tribal population after reverse migration, prisoners, vegetable vendors in large markets. According to the Health Ministry, confirmed cases of COVID-19 increased by 8,380 on Sunday morning, while 4,614 persons had recovered as against the 11,264 reported on Saturday, indicating that the sharp spike was more on account of Maharashtra updating data from pending records. As on Sunday, India has 89,995 active cases of COVID-19, while 86,984 persons have recovered and discharged from hospitals taking the recovery rate to 47.75 per cent. The death toll also spiked by 193 taking the total to 5,164 across the country. Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of fatalities at 2,197, followed by Gujarat (1,007) and Delhi (416). According to a separate DH COVID-19 Tracker, the total number of confirmed cases is 1,84,677 and the death toll has touched 5,249 at 7:00 p.m. on Sunday. As of Sunday, India has tested 37.37 lakh samples for COVID-19 through its network of 462 government laboratories and 200 private laboratories. India has 942 dedicated Covid hospitals with 1,58,908 isolation beds, 20,608 ICU beds and 69,384 oxygen supported beds are available. The health authorities have also set up 2,380 dedicated Covid Health Centres with 1,33,678 Isolation beds; 10,916 ICU beds and 45,750 oxygen supported beds have been operationalised. India has 10,541 quarantine centres and 7,304 Covid Care Centres with 6,64,330 beds are now available to combat the infectious disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-8380-cases-death-toll-crosses-5000-mark-843833.html
31-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Bodies to be sent to mortuaries within 2 hrs||The Delhi government's health department has announced additional guidelines for disposal of bodies of those who die of COVID-19 or suspected to have died of it at hospitals, directing that such bodies be sent to mortuaries within two hours. The directions were issued on Saturday. If the family or relatives of the deceased themselves contact mortuary authorities within 12 hours of death, the hospital shall schedule cremation or burial within 24 hours in consultation with the family and the area's municipal corporation, the order said. If the family or relatives do not contact within 12 hours, an intimation be sent out to them informing about the place and time of the cremation or burial, authorities said. In case of unidentified or abandoned bodies of persons who died of COVID-19 or suspected to have died of it, the Delhi police shall complete all legal formalities within 72 hours of death and dispose the body in next 24 hours as per the protocol, it said. If the address of the deceased happened to be outside Delhi, medical director of hospitals must send a notice to resident commissioner of the respective state or Union territory, seeking communication from the other side in 48 hours, according to the order. If no response is received, the body is to be cremated by the hospital in the next 24 hours, it said. In view of the rising number of coronavirus cases in Delhi, the three civic bodies had recently doubled their capacity to dispose bodies of COVID-19 victims and have also allowed cremating such bodies on pyres made of wood. "Keeping in view increasing number of coronavirus cases, a decision was taken by the three corporations to allow cremation on wood pyres at Punjabi Bagh, Nigambodh Ghat, Panchkuian Road, Karkardooma cremation grounds and electric cremation at Lodhi Road Crematorium," the SDMC had said in a statement. The civic bodies were earlier using only CNG furnaces to dispose of bodies of COVID-19 patients. The three CNG-operated furnaces are available at Nigambodh Ghat crematorium that can dispose 18 bodies per day. Four CNG furnaces are available at Punjabi Bagh cremation ground that could dispose 24 bodies per day. In addition to these facilities, bodies of coronavirus patients are also being buried at the cemeteries at Bahadurshah Zafar Marg, Mangolpuri, Madanpur Khadar and the Mangolpuri Christian burial ground. Cremation facilities are available between 7 am and 10 pm and due to more facilities, the corporations have increased the disposal capacity to 95-100 bodies per day from earlier capacity of 45 bodies per day, it claimed. This is apart from the facilities available at four cemeteries and one Christian burial ground under the jurisdiction of the municipal corporations. The capacity can further be increased if situation arises so, it said.  India registered its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases on Sunday with 8,380 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, taking the country's tally to 1,82,143, while the death toll rose to 5,164, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-bodies-to-be-sent-to-mortuaries-within-2-hrs-843835.html
31-05-2020||National||India's 'pride' will be defended in new China border flareup: Rajnath Singh||India will not let its "pride be hurt" in its latest border flareups with China but is determined to settle the dispute through talks between the giant neighbours, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has said. Singh also said in a television interview late Saturday that India has turned down an offer to mediate made by US President Donald Trump. Hundreds of Indian and Chinese troops are involved in the latest face-off concentrated in India's Ladakh region just opposite Tibet. The two countries have several disputes along their 3,500-kilometre (2,175-mile) border. They fought a frontier war in 1962 and there have been regular spats since, though no shot has been fired since the 1970s. The latest tensions blew up on May 9 when dozens of Chinese and Indian soldiers were injured in fistfights and stone-throwing in Sikkim state. Many of the Indian soldiers are still in hospital. The main showdown is now in Ladakh centred around the Galwan valley which controls access to several strategic points on their Himalayan border. The two sides have blamed each other but analysts say that India's building of new roads in the region may have been the fuse for the dispute. Both sides have sent reinforcements and heavy equipment to the zone. "I want to assure the country that we will not let India's pride be hurt in any circumstances," the defence minister told the Aaj Tak television channel. He referred to a similar 2017 showdown on the Doklam Plateau which he said was "very tense" but "we did not step back". "India has been following a clear policy of maintaining good relationship with neighbouring countries. It is not a new approach," he added. "At times, situations arise with China. It has happened before," Singh said while insisting that India was striving to make sure "tension does not escalate". "Negotiations are ongoing between the two countries at the military and diplomatic levels," he said. The US president this week tweeted an offer to mediate in what he called a "raging" dispute. Singh said he spoke to US Defence Secretary Mark Esper on Friday to emphasise that India and China have mechanisms to resolve "problems" through talks at diplomatic and military levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-pride-will-be-defended-in-new-china-border-flareup-rajnath-singh-843837.html
31-05-2020||National||Pain of the poor and labourers hit hard by coronavirus crisis cannot be explained in words: PM Modi||Reaching to migrant population from Eastern India including Poorvanchal, which faced massive problems in movement to their home states during the lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said no words can express their pain and agony and dropped indications of plans for bringing eastern India on the map of economic development. “There is no stratum in our country unaffected by the difficulties caused by the affliction-the most gravely affected by the crisis are the underprivileged labourers and workers. Their agony, their pain, their ordeal cannot be expressed in words. Who amongst us cannot understand and feel what they and their families are going through! All of us are trying to share their distress; the torment,” Modi said in his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat”. The remarks came in the wake of the massive migrant crisis during Covid-19 laying bare open the wounds of joblessness and poverty in states falling in the region—three of which Bihar, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh goe to polls in 2020, 2021 and 2022. Modi appreciated states making commendable efforts in helping those, who are most vulnerable and took note of skill mapping being done of migrants and setting up of migrant commission.  While Nitish Kumar ruled Bihar, where polls are due in October this year, have gone for massive skill mapping of migrants who came home and promised them the state will arrange work for them in the state, Yogi Adityanath led Uttar Pradesh not only set a migrant commission for their welfare but also raised an emotive pitch saying other states employing workers from UP will now have to take the state’s permission, Modi noted had our villages, districts, states been self-dependent, many problems would not have been present before use in the shape and size that they are today and dubbed the current scenario an eye opener. Noting that the nation’s balanced economic development is possible only through the development of Eastern India, Modi said ever since the country offered him the opportunity to serve, “we have accorded priority to the development of eastern India.. And now, considering the migrant labourers, the need of the hour is devising a new solution - paradigm….we are ceaselessly taking steps in that direction..” “In the pain of our labour, we can see the pain of Eastern India, which has the potential to become the growth engine of the country, whose labour power has the capacity to take the nation to new heights. The development of that eastern region is very important. Today, the distress our workforce is undergoing is representative of that of the country’s eastern region. The very region which possesses the capacity to be the country’s growth engine, whose workforce possesses the capability and the might to take the country to greater heights…the eastern region needs development. It is only the development of the eastern region that can lead to a balanced economic development of the country,” the Prime Minister said. Linking the development in the region to his recent ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ pitch, Modi also referred to communications from one person each from Bihar and Assam regarding self reliance in small scale businesses and said his campaign will take the country to greater heights in this decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pain-of-the-poor-and-labourers-hit-hard-by-coronavirus-crisis-cannot-be-explained-in-words-pm-modi-843853.html
31-05-2020||National||Odisha reports highest single-day spike with 129 new COVID-19 cases||Odisha on Sunday reported its highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases, with 129 more people testing positive for the infection, a health department official said. The total number of coronavirus cases in the state rose to 1,948, he said. Of the new patients, 119 had recently returned to the state from various parts of the country and were in different quarantine centres across districts, while 10 others were detected with the infection as a result of contact-tracing exercises, he said. The new cases were reported from 19 districts. The maximum of 18 fresh cases were found in Kendrapara, followed by 16 in Gajapati, 12 in Nuapada, 11 in Bolangir, 10 each in Ganjam and Jajpur districts. Seven new cases were reported in Khurda, six each in Balasore, Sundergarh, Mayurbhanj, Bargarh, five in Cuttack, four in Puri and Deogarh, three in Keonjhar, two in Jagatsinghpur and one each in Malkangiri, Dhenkanal and Sambalpur. With these fresh ones, the number of active COVID-19 cases increased to 889 in Odisha, while 1,050 patients have recovered so far. Seven persons died of the disease. The state health department has so far tested 1,52,131 samples, he said.  A total of 4,641 samples were tested on Saturday, he said, adding the government has created 16,648 temporary medical centres or camps in 6,798-gram panchayats for people returning to the state. The districts which have reported more than 100 COVID-19 cases are Ganjam (414), Jajpur (269), Balasore (152), Khurda (138) and Bhadrak (113).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-reports-highest-single-day-spike-with-129-new-covid-19-cases-843858.html
31-05-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan warns of action if lapses found in COVID-19 treatment||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has warned of strict action against the medical staff if any lapses were found in the treatment of COVID-19 patients in the state. He also asked senior doctors to visit the COVID-19 wards in hospitals on a daily basis to ensure that the patients are being treated well. Chouhan gave this direction during a meeting held via video-conference on Saturday to review the coronavirus situation in the state. "The chief minister said that even the slightest negligence and lapses in treatment will not be tolerated and strict action will be taken against the medical staff," a public relations department official said. "The CM said that the state-run Hamidia Hospital (in Bhopal) should play the role of an ideal hospital and efforts should be made to reduce the mortality rate there," he said. According to the official, Chouhan also instructed Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Health, to give him daily report of treatment in Hamidia Hospital and also asked him to ensure that senior doctors visit the COVID-19 wards daily. During the meeting, the chief minister also said that there was no need for e-passes for movement of people within MP and they are required only for travel outside the state. State Chief Secretary Iqbal Singh Bains said that e- passes will henceforth be auto-generated. Chouhan said that as the number of coronavirus cases in Neemuch district was rising, special attention should be paid there. The health officials said that there were 199 COVID-19 cases in that district. The number of coronavirus cases in the state till Saturday night was 7,891, of which 3,104 were active cases. The virus has so far claimed 343 lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-warns-of-action-if-lapses-found-in-covid-19-treatment-843862.html
31-05-2020||National||529 domestic flights carrying 45,646 passengers operated on Saturday: Puri||A total of 529 flights carrying 45,646 passengers operated on Saturday, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Sunday. Indian carriers operated a total of 2,340 flights till Friday -- 428 on Monday, 445 on Tuesday, 460 on Wednesday, 494 on Thursday and 513 on Friday. Puri said on Twitter on Sunday: "Domestic operations on 30th May 2020 (Day 6) till 2359 hrs. Departures 529. 45,646 passengers handled. Arrivals 530. 45,622 passengers handled."  A departure is counted as a flight during the day.  Rmove During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said. In February, when the lockdown was not imposed, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data. Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases. While domestic services resumed in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday, they restarted in West Bengal on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/529-domestic-flights-carrying-45646-passengers-operated-on-saturday-puri-843872.html
31-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Wildlife conservation in India amid coronavirus lockdown||This is the last episode of Pandemic Podcast. But don't worry, we will be starting two new shows from tomorrow. "In The Newsroom" where you can get all your important daily updates and "The Lead" where we dive deep into some important current affairs with experts. Thanks for listening and do join us from June 1, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-wildlife-conservation-in-india-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-843876.html
31-05-2020||National||Herd immunity as COVID-19 strategy risky, countries must make timely interventions: CSIR DG||Banking on developing herd immunity to fight coronavirus is “too large a risk” for any nation and only timely interventions can mitigate the spread of COVID-19, Director General of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Shekhar Mande said. Herd immunity is achieved when the majority of population becomes immune to an infectious disease, either because they have become infected and recovered, or through vaccination. When that happens, the disease is less likely to spread to people who aren't immune, because there just aren't enough carriers. Responding to a question on whether it is viable for India to achieve herd immunity, Mande said, "It is too large a risk for any nation.” "Herd immunity, typically works when 60-70 per cent population of a country has been affected and it’s too large a risk to take for any nation. What one would do is to take intervention before so that the infection does not spread," he told PTI in an interview. Mande said several theoretical modelling that people have conducted across the world and also in India seem to suggest that there could be few waves of COVID-19 and people need to be prepared for them. "The number of cases will go down and people need to be prepared as there can be a second wave of COVID-19," he said. On US President Donald Trump terminating the country's relationship with the World Health Organization (WHO) as he blamed it and China for the deaths and destruction caused by the COVID-19 pandemic across the globe, Mande said it is "not a good sign". "WHO is a valuable body which has played an important role. It has been involved in smallpox elimination, polio virus elimination and it has worked very well with countries. The termination of ties is not a good sign," he said. Mande further said that the CSIR has adopted a five-pronged approach in the fight against COVID-19 focusing on, “surveillance, diagnostic, intervention through development of new therapies, hospital assistive devices and supply chain model." On the vaccine development front, he said three different approaches are being adopted. "One is immune boosting vaccine that improves the host’s immunity -- that is under trial in three different locations in the country and the results are expected in the next 15 days." "Another one is monoclonal antibody that CSIR has funded a collaborative programme between NCCS (National Centre For Cell Science) Pune, IIT Indore and Bharat Biotech. Third one is convalescent plasma therapy whose trials are going on in Kolkata," he said. He further said that Indian companies are "very deeply involved" in the process of vaccine development. India registered its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases on Sunday with 8,380 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, taking the country's tally to 1,82,143, while the death toll rose to 5,164, according to the Union Health Ministry. India is the ninth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/herd-immunity-as-covid-19-strategy-risky-countries-must-make-timely-interventions-csir-dg-843880.html
31-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: No option to drop caution, says PM Narendra Modi ahead of 'Unlock 1.0'||As India begins a graded exit plan from June 8 and opening interstate travel from Monday after the 68th day of the nation-wide complete lockdown ends on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi cautioned people against dropping caution telling them that the road ahead for the fight against COVID-19 is a long one. “COVID-19 very much exists and we cannot be complacent. We cannot afford to become careless, drop caution. There is no such option. The fight against Corona(virus) is still very much serious. You, your family, may still face grave danger from Corona(virus) (aapko, aapke parivar to Corona se abhi bhi utna hi Gambhir khatra ho sakta hai). There should be no laxity in following the rules of maintaining two yards distance, wearing a face mask and staying indoors as far as possible,” the Prime Minister said addressing his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’. Modi said, “The path of our fight against Corona(virus) goes a long way. It is a calamity, a scourge that does not have an antidote in the entire world. There is no prior experience on that. All of us also have to bear in mind that after such austere penance, and after so many hardships, the country’s deft handling of the situation should not go in vain. We must not let this fight weaken. Becoming careless or lackadaisical cannot be an option. The fight against Corona(virus) is still equally serious. A big part of our economy, trains, flights have been opened. We need to be all the more careful in such a situation.” The Prime Minister also indicated plans for bringing eastern India on the map of economic development in the wake of the massive migrant crisis during COVID-19 laying bare open the wounds of joblessness and poverty in states falling in the region—two of which Bihar and West Bengal goes to polls in 2020 and 2021 respectively. Uttar Pradesh goes to polls in 2022. The three states that will go to polls before next Lok Sabha elections have 162 Lok Sabha seats. Commendable efforts by some states in helping those, who are most vulnerable. Skill mapping of migrant workers, migration commission. Wide opportunities for small industries. While noting the skill mapping of returned migrant labourers being done by Bihar’s NDA government and setting of migrant commission by BJP government of Uttar Pradesh, Modi noted had our villages, districts, states been self-dependent, many problems would not have been present before use in the shape and size that they are today and dubbed the current scenario an eye-opener. Noting that the nation’s balanced economic development is possible only through the development of Eastern India, Modi said ever since the country offered him the opportunity to serve, “we have accorded priority to the development of eastern India. And now, considering the migrant labourers, the need of the hour is devising a new solution - paradigm…. we are ceaselessly taking steps in that direction."  “In the pain of our labour, we can see the pain of Eastern India, which has the potential to become the growth engine of the country, whose labour-power has the capacity to take the nation to new heights. The development of that eastern region is very important,” Modi said. Modi underlined the virtues of Yoga and Ayurveda in the fight against COVID-19 and hailed people for powering the fight against the disease through innovative spirits of the citizens and noted “India’s Seva Shakti is visible in the fight against COVID-19. Every Indian has played a part in the battle against COVID-19.” He noted that the COVID-19 mortality rate in India is very low despite the country’s population is much bigger than that of many other countries. The Prime Minister spoke on the Locust menace, water conservation and environment issue as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-no-option-to-drop-caution-says-pm-narendra-modi-ahead-of-unlock-10-843883.html
31-05-2020||National||Goa eyes to revive tourism sector hit hard by COVID-19||The Goa government on Sunday said that although the coronavirus pandemic has brought all the economic activities to a grinding halt, it was now taking steps to revive the economy, especially the tourism sector. Tourism is considered the backbone of Goa's economy. The state attracts a large number of domestic and foreign travellers. State ministers on Sunday expressed confidence that Goa would once again bounce back as the favourite tourist destination as the state government has put in place "stringent" measures to tackle the COVID-19 situation. Goa Industries Minister Vishwajit Rane, who also handles the health portfolio, said that it is time tourism and other economic activities resume in the state. "Goa has an excellent recovery rate as far as COVID-19 patients are concerned. Recently, there was a sudden rise in the number of cases, which has come down now," he said. Goa currently has 28 active cases. Of the total 70 positive patients found in the state so far, 42 have recovered. "People have to earn livelihood. We need to restart the economic activity and Goa is known as a tourist destination. As we have enhanced the testing measures under the guidance of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, we are confident that Goa will bounce back as a tourism spot once again," he said.  Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said, "Tourism has been the backbone of Goa's economic activities. However, the pandemic has left an adverse impact on it. The resumption of the industry will give the much-needed boost to the economy." "Once hotel industry restarts, we will ask them to adopt measures of social distancing as per the Union Home Ministry's guidelines. The restaurants and other activities are opening up. We don't expect a huge inflow in the first few days, but gradually people will start coming in," he said. The state is ready to welcome tourists once the situation improves, he said. A senior Tourism Department official said that the beach shacks and the hotel industry remained shut right from the time when Janata Curfew was imposed in March. "The department had ordered that the beaches be shut down to ensure that people don't venture out during the lockdown. The industry has to a standstill," he said. "There have been no tourists in Goa, except some foreigners, who continued living in the rooms rented out to them on long-term basis," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-eyes-to-revive-tourism-sector-hit-hard-by-covid-19-843884.html
31-05-2020||National||Lockdown 4.0 accounted for nearly half of all COVID-19 cases in India||The fourth phase of the coronavirus lockdown, which began on May 18, saw 85,974 COVID-19 cases till 8 am on Sunday, which is nearly half of the total cases reported in the country so far. Lockdown 4.0, which ended on May 31 midnight, has accounted for 47.20 per cent of the total coronavirus infection cases, number crunching from the Union Health Ministry data reveals. The lockdown, which was first clamped on March 25 and spanned for 21 days, had registered 10,877 cases, while the second phase of the curbs that began on April 15 and stretched for 19 days till May 3, saw 31,094 cases. The third phase of the lockdown that was in effect for 14 days ending on May 17, recorded 53,636 cases till 8 am of May 18. The country had registered 512 coronavirus infection cases till March 24. India is the ninth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic as of now.         The first case of COVID-19 in India was reported on January 30 from Kerala after a medical student of Wuhan university, who had returned to India, tested  positive for the virus. India registered its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with 8,380 new infections reported in the last 24 hours, taking the country's tally to 1,82,143, while the death toll rose to 5,164, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood to 89,995, while 86,983 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. "Thus, around 47.75 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior Health Ministry official said.  With the fourth phase of lockdown ending on Sunday, the Home Ministry on Saturday said 'Unlock-1' will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide lockdown will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country's worst-hit areas. While announcing the extension of the lockdown in containment zones across the country, the Home Ministry said temples, mosques, churches and other religious places and shopping malls will be allowed to open in a phased manner from June 8, while a decision on opening of schools and colleges will be taken in July in consultation with states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-40-accounted-for-nearly-half-of-all-covid-19-cases-in-india-843885.html
31-05-2020||National||Video showing Indian Army challenging Chinese in Ladakh not ‘authentic’||The Army on Sunday said that a video which went viral on social media purportedly showing clashes between Chinese Army and their Indian counterparts is not authentic. “It has been brought to our notice that a video is doing the rounds on social media on an incident on the borders. The contents of the video being circulated are not authentic,” Indian Army Spokesperson, Colonel, Aman Anand said in a statement. He said an attempt to link it with the situation on the Northern borders is malafide. “Currently no violence is happening. Differences are being addressed through interaction between military commanders, guided by established protocols on management of borders between the two countries,” Col Anand said. While strongly condemning attempts to sensationalise issues impacting national security, he requested the media not to air visuals that are likely to vitiate the current situation on the borders. The undated video showing Indian army challenging a group of Chinese soldiers and clashing with them in the Pangong Lake area of Ladakh emerged Sunday on social media. The Indian soldiers can be seen hitting the windows of the vehicle with rods and stones in an attempt to intimidate the Chinese. The windows of the vehicle clearly appear bullet proof as they do not break. There are shouts of “Bharat Mata ki Jai” as the Chinese troops retreat. Reportedly there was a clash between Indian and Chinese Army on the banks of the Pangong Lake on May 5 in which several soldiers from both sides were injured. Since then the situation in eastern Ladakh has been tense.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/video-showing-indian-army-challenging-chinese-in-ladakh-not-authentic-843886.html
31-05-2020||National||New biography on PM Modi released||Drawing from rare archival photographs of his childhood and lesser-known anecdotes, a new biography on Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been released. The book, "Narendra Modi – Harbinger of Prosperity & Apostle of World Peace", was released by justice (retd) K G Balakrishnan, former chief justice of India, to mark the completion of six years of Modi as the Prime Minister. Amid the ongoing lockdown, the book release event was hosted on the internet on Friday, with dignitaries present in both India and the US, according to a statement issued by its co-author Adish C. Aggarwala. The book is co-authored by Aggarwala, President of the International Council of Jurists and Chairman of All India Bar Association, and Elisabeth Horan, an American author and poet. "With rare photographs of Modi's childhood and early life, the biography traces his stunning personal and professional trajectory from being a boy who served tea to becoming the country's Prime Minister for the second time. It includes little-known and lesser-known facts and anecdotes," the statement said. The book is available in two formats, hardcover and e-book, and in 20 languages: 10 foreign languages -- English, Arabic, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin, Russian, and Spanish -- and 10 Indian languages -- Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Marathi, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu, and Urdu, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-biography-on-pm-modi-released-843887.html
31-05-2020||National||Love amidst coronavirus, lockdown: Couples recast big fat Indian wedding, settle for simplicity||Recasting the idea of the big fat Indian wedding -- with guest lists running into many hundreds, sometimes up to 2,000, and lakhs of rupees spent on multiple functions and elaborate clothes – couples are going back to the basics on arguably the most important day of their lives.  Retaining the essence of romance and maybe the gravitas that should go with a long-term commitment, they are saying “I do” on rooftops, homes, temples, churches, and sometimes even state borders, with only immediate family in attendance. Sans ‘band, baaja, baraat’ and other extra frills, but with masks, sanitisers and social distancing norms in place.  “We didn’t have a grand procession, decorations, firecrackers, feasts and relatives, but this was indeed the most memorable experience of my life,” said a bride in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district who did not want to be named. "We had earlier arranged for a grand function. But the lockdown threw a spanner in the works. So we decided to donate a part of the money saved for the wedding to help the state combat the pandemic," said Jyoti Ranjan Swain, the groom, a resident of Erasama block in the district.  Apart from the parents, an inspector of the Erasama police station and the block development officer (BDO) attended the wedding.  "This was no social gathering. The couple distributed sweets after the ceremony. It was a simple affair," said the BDO Kartik Chandra Behera.   There have been many unlikely wedding venues over the years, but a checkpost on the Assam-West Bengal border is likely to be top amongst them. That’s where Om Prakash Sha from Jalpaiguri in West Bengal reportedly wed Kajol from Dhubri in Assam last week.      Given the restrictions on movement from one state to the other and mandatory quarantine, the families approached the administrations of both districts for permission.    After much discussion, officials decided the wedding would take place on the Dhubri-Jalpaiguri ‘boundary’.      The bride’s father Mahesh Sha said his family accepted the advice of the administration and the priest to go ahead with the wedding despite the odds because it was an auspicious day.  Taufiq Hussain and Abeda Begum also decided to go ahead with their wedding despite the lockdown. They got married at home in Goalpara, Assam, last month with only eight family members present.      "This is the way marriages should always be conducted… among close relatives and people who matter rather than the usual fanfare and large sums of money being spent,” said Hussain.  His words found resonance many hundred miles away in the Tamil Nadu capital Chennai where K Shakthivel got married last month on the terrace of his home. "It resulted in a saving of at least 75 per cent of the originally planned expenditure of a few lakhs," Shaktivel, an AC mechanic, said. Only 10 family members were present since the hall he had booked was shut in view of the lockdown. But Shaktivel was content.        And that’s how it was for Rebin Vincent Gralan and Cila Lona, too, in neighbouring Kerala. They got married on April 15 at the St. Joseph's parish shrine in Pavaratty with only 10 family members in attendance.  "The date for the wedding was fixed earlier itself… we both convinced everyone to hold the marriage on the same date itself and it was conducted as a low-key function," Gralan told PTI.        There is no point in waiting for the pandemic to end, agreed Alex Paul, a businessman in Ernakulam who is all set to get married on June 15.        "We got engaged almost a year ago and had elaborate plans for a major wedding. But then came coronavirus and the lockdown. Now the wedding date has been decided as it is almost sure that this pandemic scare is not going to end anytime soon,” he said.  His grand wedding was downsized to a small affair at a temple in Karnataka’s Mandya district but 30-year-old Ravi Gowda is not complaining. He got married on April 20 as he had planned, and that’s all that matters.       "I had invited about 2,000-2,500 people for my wedding at a marriage hall in Bangalore’s Rajarajeshwari Nagar on April 20… We got married on the same date at our village temple in Mandya," he said.   He said he spent about Rs 10 lakh for the arrangements in Bangalore, but hasn’t got the money back yet.  Not everyone wants to get married without family and friends though. Shraddha Patel in Chhattisgarh’s Durg district, for instance, was supposed to get married on May 17 but has postponed the plans.  "I don't want a lavish wedding with hundreds of guests, but at least I want my close friends and relatives to be present there on the occasion. We are trying to figure out when to hold the wedding," the 24-year-old teacher told PTI.         There are also those who got married with parents looking on – virtually.         Research analyst Chaitanya and IT professional Thanuj were going to get married on April 30 in Kannur in Kerala but could not because of the lockdown. They waited and finally tied the knot on May 24 in Bangalore at the bride’s uncle’s home with 12 relatives present.  “The lockdown was getting extended and the virus cases were surging. There was no point in waiting as the uncertainty was continuing,” the bride's father A K Sudhakaran told PTI.        Most of his daughter’s jewellery was in a bank locker at Kannur so a few gold ornaments were bought for the big day. Both sets of parents and other close relatives saw the event on Zoom.      A businessman in Patna also went ahead and got the eldest of his three daughters married at a temple rather than wait for the lockdown to end.  “Everything was finalised. Even the engagement and ‘tilak’ functions were done before the lockdown, so I decided to get my daughter married at a temple,” the father told PTI on the condition of anonymity.  Sneha Anil Mahajan, a mother in Nagpur whose daughter got married on May 8 said the family decided not to postpone the wedding because the date was an auspicious one.  “Only about 45 to 50 guests attended. We had a guest list of over 1,000 people but it was not possible to invite them in such health crisis,” she said. “All the guests were given sanitisers and masks and we strictly followed social distancing norms. Each ritual was explained in detail which normally would not have been  possible. A marriage to remember for lifetime. We have no regrets,” said the mother, looking forward to a grand reception once the pandemic is behind everybody.  And sometimes, the young just overcome every obstacle on the way.  Like 19-year-old Goldie, who earlier this month walked 80 km from Kanpur to Kannauj in Uttar Pradesh to wed her fiance alone, unafraid and determined that the continuing lockdown would not interfere with their plans. When lockdown throws a hurdle on the way to matrimony, just jump it – that’s what young couple seem to be saying as the coronavirus continues its spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/love-amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-couples-recast-big-fat-indian-wedding-settle-for-simplicity-843891.html
31-05-2020||National||Attention being paid to new inventions to counter locust attack: PM||Attention is being paid to new inventions to counter the locust attack in various parts of the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday and noted that it is a reminder that a small creature can inflict great damage. "On the one side where eastern India is facing cyclonic calamity, on the other many parts of the country have been affected by locust attacks. These attacks again remind us of the great damage this small creature can inflict," he said in his 'Man ki Baat' radio address. The locust attack lasts for several days and affects a large area, he noted. Be it at the level of the central government, the state governments, agriculture department or the administration, all are involved using modern techniques to not only help the farmers but also lessen the loss accruing due to this crisis, he said. "Attention is being paid to new inventions, and I am sure that together not only will we be able to battle out this crisis that is looming on our agricultural sector, but also manage to salvage our crops," he said. The locust swarms entered Rajasthan last month from Pakistan and then spread to areas across the western states, helped by strong winds. About 90,000 hectares in 20 Rajasthan districts are affected by the locust attack. Swarms moved from Sri Ganganagar, Nagaur, Jaipur, Dausa, Karauli and Swai Madhopur districts towards Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. In Uttar Pradesh, agriculture department workers targeted swarms in Moth and Garautha areas of Jhansi, and in Sonbhadra district last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attention-being-paid-to-new-inventions-to-counter-locust-attack-pm-843904.html
31-05-2020||National||Rajasthan extends electricity bill payment date till June 30||The Rajasthan government has extended the date of payment of electricity bills for farmers, industries and domestic consumers till June 30. Earlier, the relaxations were given till May 31. The state government had on April 2 decided to defer the recovery of electricity bills of agriculture power connections. It had also decided to not recover bills for March and April from domestic consumers using upto 150 units per month. Instructions were given that no power connection will be disconnected till May 31 if electricity bills are not paid. The state government had also deferred the fixed charge in the bills of industrial establishments issued in April and May. "The chief minister has directed to extend the relaxations till June 30,” according to a press release||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-extends-electricity-bill-payment-date-till-june-30-843905.html
31-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Congress leader urges Railways minister to announce relief package for porters||Congress leader and former legislator Pradeep Mathur has urged Railways Minister Piyush Goyal to announce a relief package for porters hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic or provide them a financial aid of at least Rs 10,000 per month. In a letter written to the Union minister on Saturday, Mathur said "the government has announced a relief package for the unorganised sector, but no assistance has been given to railway porters." "Following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown, the employment opportunities for the railway porters working as unorganised sectors has come to a halt. As a result of which their families are on the brink of starvation," the letter read. There are nearly 25,000 licensed porters in Railways, the Congress leader said. "It is quite essential that the porters must be given Rs 10,000 per month or any other type of relief package be announced for them," Mathur said in his letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-congress-leader-urges-railways-minister-to-announce-relief-package-for-porters-843914.html
31-05-2020||National||AI makes it mandatory for crew to check and confirm that their pre-flight COVID-19 result is negative||Air India has made it mandatory for its pilots and cabin crew members to check and confirm that their pre-flight COVID-19 test results are negative before they operate an aircraft, according to an official communication issued hours after the Delhi-Moscow flight incident involving a pilot on Saturday. "The COVID-19 test is being conducted by the airline at a substantial cost, with considerable effort. As it is a recent procedure and there is a shortage of staff in office, there is a possibility of an oversight in this matter," said Captain R S Sandhu, Executive Director (Operations), Air India in a circular, which has been accessed by PTI. "The test is primarily designed to mitigate the risk of transmission among the crew. Every effort will be made by the personnel dealing with the testing and rostering of crew to ensure that the reports are checked before crew is being rostered for a flight," he stated in the circular. However, it is imperative that the individual crew member also checks and reconfirms his or her test result, Sandhu said. "In case of any oversight in this matter, not only are there avoidable adverse operational issues, tarnishing the image of the airline, but also irresponsible exposure of a fellow crew member to this disease," Sandhu mentioned. "Therefore, it is mandatory for every individual crew member to check and confirm a 'negative' report result, before undertaking a flight. Any laxity in this matter will be dealt with severity," he added. About Saturday's incident, two senior bureaucrats had said there was a "lapse" on the part of officials responsible to scrutinise the coronavirus test reports of the crew members and that aviation regulator DGCA has already begun an investigation into the case based on a preliminary report by the airline. The Airbus A320 plane departed around 7.15 am on Saturday for Moscow to bring back a group of stranded Indians under the Vande Bharat evacuation mission and it was back in Delhi by 12.30 pm following orders from the authorities, the officials said. They said the airline officials tasked to examine medical reports of the crew did not look at the pilot's test results properly before assigning him the duty. According to standard operating procedure, pilots and other crew members of any flight are required to undergo mandatory testing for coronavirus and are assigned duties if the laboratory results are negative. The plane with registration number VT-EXR was in the airspace of Uzbekistan when it was told to return. All crew members including the Delhi-based pilot with coronavirus infection have been quarantined after they arrived in Delhi, the officials said, "In this case, the airline officials did not look at the pilot's test results properly and deemed him fit to fly, assuming that he is COVID-19 negative, even when the test results stated otherwise," said an official in the DGCA. In a statement, Air India had said on Saturday that it recalled the aircraft immediately when it was noticed that one of the cockpit crew had tested positive in the pre-flight COVID-19 test.  "Immediately after landing all cockpit and cabin crew have been tested and all laid down medical precautions are being taken to ensure their health and safety. Another aircraft has taken off today to operate the Vande Bharat flight from Moscow to Delhi," Air India said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ai-makes-it-mandatory-for-crew-to-check-and-confirm-that-their-pre-flight-covid-19-result-is-negative-843917.html
31-05-2020||National||Cyclonic storm may hit Maharashtra, Gujarat coast in 2 to 3 days||A low-pressure area in Arabian Sea has formed into a cyclonic storm that may hit the North Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts in the next two to three days.  According to the forecast made by India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday,  the cyclonic storm may hit North Maharashtra-Gujarat coast by June 3. The cyclone system, Nisarga, is the second big cyclone in a fortnight's time,  after Amphan,  that rose from Bay of Bengal and had hit the eastern states of West Bengal and Odisha besides neighbouring Bangladesh - leaving a massive trail of destruction. The Mumbai-based Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) is closely monitoring the progress. "A low pressure area has formed over southeast and adjoining east-central  Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area with associated cyclonic circulation extending upto mid­tropospheric levels. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over east-central  adjoining south-east Arabian Sea during next 24 hours and likely to intensify further into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. It is very likely to move nearly northwards and reach near North Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts by 3 June," the RMC-IMD said.  "@Indiametdept predicts a Cyclonic Storm over Arabian sea by 2nd June Likely move towards N Mah & S Guj coasts Consensus by prediction models on its track now Strong winds & heavy Rains in Mumbai from 3rd June Stay Safe,   Follow @Indiametdept, @IMDWeather for updates,"  tweeted Madhavan Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences."We are keeping a watch," said IMD's deputy director general of meteorology Dr KS Hosalikar.  Under the influence of  the emerging weather system, light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy to very heavy falls much likely over Lakshadweep area, Kerala and coastal Karnataka. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with isolated heavy falls very likely over Konkan and Goa on 2-3 June, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclonic-storm-may-hit-north-maharashtra-gujarat-coast-in-2-3-days-843925.html
31-05-2020||National||The real 'coolie no 1'- Sharing burden and feeding migrant workers||As the announcement is made at Lucknow's Charbagh railway station about the arrival of 'shramik special' trains carrying migrant workers, 80-year old Mujibullah Rehman goes an extra mile to help the poor migrant workers. A coolie at the station for the past 50 years, Mujibullah virtually runs towards the train with a trolley filled with bananas, water bottles and some other eatables. With love and affection, the octogenarian coolie, who is barely able to make two ends meet, puts the fruits and biscuits on the outstretched hands of the passengers from the windows of the train. Clad in the coolie's uniform that displays his badge number 16, Mujibullah also keeps looking for the passengers, who alight from the train with heavy luggage. He would run to them and offer to carry the luggage to the bus stand outside the platform. ''I have to answer to the Almighty also,'' Mujibullah would say if the passenger asked him about the charges. ''What I am doing is nothing if compared to the problems faced by the poor migrant workers....they have no money...we must help them in whatever way we can,'' he says. What makes this coolie's service greater is that his income has taken a hit following closure of passenger trains for over two months following the lockdown. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wrote a letter to him lauding his selfless service to the migrant workers. ''Your (Mujibullah) selfless service in this hour of crisis will always be remembered,'' Priyanka wrote in her letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-real-coolie-no-1-sharing-burden-and-feeding-migrant-workers-843927.html
31-05-2020||National||Casteist remarks during phone call, away from public view, not an offence under SC/ST Act: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the use of casteist words during a phone call, away from public view, does not constitute an offence under the SC/ST Act. Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill passed the order on May 14 on a plea challenging the framing of charges against two persons from Kurukshetra who allegedly made casteist remarks over mobile phone against their village head. “Merely uttering such wrong words in the absence of any public view does not show any intention or mens rea (the intention or knowledge of wrongdoing that constitutes part of a crime) to humiliate the complainant who besides being Sarpanch, belongs to Scheduled Caste community. "It would not thus, ipso-facto, constitute acts of commission of offence, which are capable of being taken cognizance under the SC and ST Act, 1989,” said the judge. The counsel for the petitioners had argued that the allegations made against the petitioners do not fall within the provisions of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 as the telephonic call is not in a public view. Justice Gill, while allowing the plea, observed, “To constitute the offence under the (SC/ST) Act, it must be alleged that the accused intentionally insulted or intimidated with an intention to humiliate a member of Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe in any public place within public view. "In the present case, it is alleged that the offence has been committed by the petitioners by using the caste-based remarks over a mobile phone call to the informant, or a member of Scheduled Castes, of which there are no records. “Once it is admitted that the alleged conversation over the mobile phone was not in a public gaze nor witnessed by any third party, the alleged use of caste words cannot be said to have been committed within the public view,” the Judge said. The penal provisions are to be given a "strict construction" and if any of the ingredients are found lacking, it would not constitute an offence under the SC/ST Act, Justice Gill said in his order. On the complaint of village head Rajinder Kumar, an FIR was registered in October 2017 under the provisions of the IPC and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, in which the complainant alleged that Sandeep Kumar and Pardeep, the petitioners, allegedly used casteist slurs against him during a conversation on mobile phone. The complainant asked them not to use derogatory words and later handed over the phone to one Devi Dayal, who also told them to stop abusing, the FIR stated. The complainant also alleged that the duo also threatened to kill him. Later, a charge sheet against the two accused was submitted after which a court in Kurukshetra ordered framing of charges against them a year ago. The accused then moved the High Court here and submitted that as the telephone call was not in public view and therefore the allegations against them do not fall within the provisions of the SC/ST Act, which, however, was contested by the complainant. The counsel for the petitioners had also alleged that the case was a reprisal for the complaint filed by the father of one of the accused against the village head and Dayal, following which the panchayat had to return a grant of Rs 7 lakh for construction of a dharamshala. The judge said, “There is a lot of material on record to indicate that Jasmer Singh father of Pardeep Kumar (one of the accused) had raised finger towards the working of respondent No. 2 (village head) as Sarpanch and also against Devi Dayal and this cannot be ignored that on the application of said Jasmer Singh, grant of Rs 7 lakh had to be returned by the Gram Panchayat." The judge clarified, “It is a settled law that if two views are possible and one gives rise to suspicion only, as distinguished from grave suspicion, the trial judge will be empowered to discharge the accused, and at that stage it is not to be seen whether the trial will end in conviction or acquittal”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/casteist-remarks-during-phone-call-away-from-public-view-not-an-offence-under-sc/st-act-hc-843933.html
31-05-2020||National||Consult stakeholders, send feedback: MHA to states on reopening schools, colleges||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked states to consult all stakeholders in education sector on the reopening of schools and colleges and send feedback to the Centre to enable it to take a decision on the schedule for re-starting academic activities. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla told Chief Secretaries that the feedback sent by the states would help in taking a "timely decision". According to the guidelines issued by the MHA for the lockdown, the phase II of unlocking of the country involves the reopening of schools, colleges and coaching centres among others. It has said that a decision will be taken in July after consultations with states and other stakeholders. In his letter sent on Saturday, he said states and union territories have been asked to have consultations at the institution level with parents and other stakeholders. "You are advised to send the feedback on the consultations held, so that a timely decision can be taken for opening up of the educational institutions," he said. Last week, the Centre had allowed the states to conduct exams for Class X and XII from May 25 with a few conditions like ensuring social distancing and wearing of masks by teachers and students. Bhalla also said that there will be no restrictions on inter-state or intra-state movement of people and therefore, there is no need for separate approvals or e-passes. "However, in case you wish to regulate such movement, you are required to give wide publicity in advance," he said.  During lockdown 4.0, the government had allowed inter-state and intra-state travel but with consent of the states and Union territories involved. In the new guidelines, the Centre has withdrawn the clause for separate permission and e-passes for such travel. The three-phased 'Unlock 1' guidelines issued by the MHA, which will come into effect from June 1, said that religious places, hotels and malls will start functioning from June 8 after the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare prepares the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in consultation with states. The second phase is the reopening of educational institutions while the third phase, for which no specific timeline has been given, the government intends to open international air travel, Metro services, cinema halls and other entertainment avenues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consult-stakeholders-send-feedback-mha-to-states-on-reopening-schools-colleges-843934.html
31-05-2020||National||Do you need Central money to spend on ads: Tiwari asks Kejriwal||The Delhi BJP on Sunday slammed the AAP government for spending money on advertisements during the coronavirus crisis, and asked whether it was demanding Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to meet its promotional expenses. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has sought an urgent assistance of Rs 5,000 crore to pay salaries of Delhi government employees and meet office expenses. Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari asked Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal if his government needed the money to spend on advertisements. He also cited central government schemes for poor people in a bid to suggest Sisodia's demand was misplaced.  Tiwari tweeted, "790 crore directly in Jan Dhan accounts, free cylinders of Rs 836 crore, Rs 243 crore given to Divyang, widows and senior citizens, Rs 768 crore of ration that you could not distribute. Arvind Kejriwal ji if you demanding the money for advertisement expenses?" The chief minister has also requested the Central government to help the Delhi people at this time of a crisis. Tiwari previously too had attacked the Kejriwal government for issuing advertisements in newspapers and TV channels during the pandemic, claiming there was a shortage of beds in hospitals for COVID-19 patients. He had sought to know how much money was spent by the AAP government on advertisements and on hospital beds. BJP's East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir also took a swipe at the Kejriwal government, saying if it wanted to buy printing press of newspapers with Rs 5,000 crore.  "The frontpage advertisements in every newspaper are appearing daily, if printing press of newspapers will be bought by taking Rs 5000 crore in the name of people," Gautam wrote retweeting Kejriwal's request for Central help. Sisodia said the Delhi government needs Rs 3,500 crore per month to pay salaries to its employees and meet necessary office expenses. In the past two months, the government has collected around Rs 1,735 crore revenue only. He said that tax collection of the Delhi government has been around 85 percent below the normal due to the impact of coronavirus epidemic and lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/do-you-need-central-money-to-spend-on-ads-tiwari-asks-kejriwal-843943.html
31-05-2020||National||Firing at farm house of Republican Party of India leader in Delhi, security guard injured||A security guard at a Republican Party of India leader's Delhi farm house was injured after an unidentified man allegedly shot at him on Sunday, police said. Hari Nath, 50, suffered bullet injuries in his legs and was shifted to Balaji Action Hospital, where he is undergoing treatment, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) A Koan said. The incident occurred at the farm house of Mohd Shakeel Saifi, the national president of minority cell of Republican Party of India, in outer Delhi's Nihal Vihar area. The party is led by Ramdas Athawale, the minister of state for social justice and empowerment.  Saifi lives at the farm house along with his family members, the police said.  The police said they were informed about the incident at around 9.15 am following which a team immediately rushed to the spot. It found blood stains on the floor near the entrance gate of the farm house, a senior police official said. In his statement to police, Nath alleged that a person entered the farm house and started firing at him. He opened at least four-five rounds of fire, Nath told police. A case of attempt to murder under section 307 of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections of the Arms Act has been registered at the Nihal Vihar police station and further investigation is on, he said. The police are also scanning CCTV cameras to ascertain the identity of the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/firing-at-farm-house-of-republican-party-of-india-leader-in-delhi-security-guard-injured-843944.html
31-05-2020||National||Indian Railways set to resume 200 trains from June 1; key highlights||With Indian Railways set to resume 200 regular time tabled trains (100 pair) daily from June 1, around 1.45 lakh passengers will travel in first day as the government eased  lockdown restrictions that were announced to fight against COVID-19 pandemic across the country. "As many as 1.45 lakh passengers have booked tickets to travel on first day ( June 1). More than 26 lakh passengers have booked the advanced servation tickets from June 1 to 30," said an official in Indian Railways. These trains will run in addition to 15 pair Special Rajdhani Express started on May 12 and Shramik Special trains, meant to ferry migrant workers, started on May 1. For travel in 200 special  trains, only confirmed/ RAC ( Reservation Against Cancellation) ticket holders will be allowed to enter railway station.  Passengers advised to come 90 minutes early to station to enable  railway authorities screen them properly. While requesting to maintain social distance in station, the railways also asked passengers to  wear mask and download Arogya Setu app in their mobile phone. These trains have stops in most of the places except Maharashtra where the state government requested the Centre  not to allow deboarding of any passengers due to several places in the state declared as hotspot. The railways also asked all platform static stall to open including catering vendors. The trains with pantry car attached will provide limited number of packaged food and drinking water to passengers on payment basis. However, railways requested passengers to bring their food and drinking water from home, said a statement from railways.   Since these trains connect major cities of the states acorss the country, the railways said passengers have to adhere health protocol of destination states on quarantine. Highlights : Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to travel in trains. No blankets and linens will be provided to AC passengers. Passengers are advised to bring same from home. Temperature in AC coaches will be increased.  Limited number of packaged food and drinking water will be provided to passengers on payment basis on-board trains. Static catering stalls at railway platform will be kept open.  Passengers advised to bring food and water from home. Reservation chart will be prepared 2 hours early. Passengers have to follow destination station states' health protocal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-set-to-resume-200-trains-from-june-1-key-highlights-843947.html
31-05-2020||National||Making imputations damage institution: SC Judge||A Supreme Court judge, Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, on Sunday said that it was unfortunate that some of those who have been part of the institution, either from the Bar or the Bench, made imputations and gradings against the institution. "Criticism of a viewpoint and judgment is no problem. But when imputations and gradings start being made, I think we damage the very institution," he said.  "There is a problem of 'after me the deluge.' which means, since we are gone, everything is wrong," he said.  Justice Kaul was giving a lecture on "Freedom of Speech in times of COVID-19 - Fake News and Misinformation" via webinar organised by the Madras Bar Association.  He said the members of the Bar and the Judiciary who have been here must appreciate the challenges of any time and the system. Institutions should not be unnecessarily vilified. "To remain in news has also become a problem and the tendency is more critical and in a manner that crosses certain lines. This is like misinformation pandemic and I hope there is rethink of this process," he said. "I think some boundary has to be maintained otherwise it becomes part of a disinformation which causes doubts on institutions and I don't think that's good for any system because if you mistrust every system then you don't have a system, you have anarchy," he added. Justice Kaul said the Constitution provided for a limited restriction on Freedom of Speech as absence of it resulted in lack of dissent. "Even prior to the COVID period, we are increasingly becoming intolerant of the opinions that do not match with ours. What is perceived as the middle path becomes the casualty. There are various shades of grey, it is not always black and white," he pointed out. As a democratic polity, how to appreciate the other opinion that is different from ours becomes an important aspect, he added. "So people who hold opposing views may be called "Modi Bhakt" or an "Urban Naxal" or other labels. In these different political views also, the ability to convey one's ideas is important. Often the section calling another as intolerant is itself also getting intolerant," he added. Justice Kaul stressed at the menace of incessant forwarding of WhatsApp messages, says these messages often are forwarded "mindlessly" without even seeing if the information is right or not leaving it open for the recipient to verify the information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/making-imputations-damage-institution-sc-judge-843959.html
31-05-2020||National||NTA extends last date of submitting forms for various exams||The National Testing Agency on Sunday further extended the deadline for submission of applications for various examinations, including the Jawaharlal Nehru University Entrance Examination. The last date to apply for the Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) admission test 2020 for Ph.D. and OPENMAT(MBA), Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) 2020, Jawaharlal Nehru University Entrance Examination (JNUEE) 2020, has been further extended till June 15, 2020, the NTA said in a statement. Students can also apply for the UGC-National Eligibility Test June 2020 and Joint CSIR-UGC NET June 2020 till June 15, 2020, the NTA said. “In view of many requests received from students and the hardships faced by them due to COVID-19 epidemic, I have advised NTA to further extend the last dates of submission of online application forms,” HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said. The agency said that the submission of online application forms shall be accepted up to 5 pm, and submission of fee up to 11:50 pm on the last date for the registration of the above-mentioned exams. The detailed schedule mentioning revised dates of downloading of admit cards and of examination will be displayed separately on the specific examination website and the NTA website. This is the fourth time that the NTA has extended the deadline for submission of application forms for these examinations. Earlier on March 30, the National Testing Agency extended the last date to April 30. However, with nationwide COVID-19 lockdown being extended to May 3 by the Union government, the agency had decided to re-push the deadline to May 15. It was further extended to May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nta-extends-last-date-of-submitting-forms-for-various-exams-843960.html
31-05-2020||National||CIC admonishes official for denying RTI data on stranded migrants, asks govt to put it online||The Central Information Commission has pulled up an official for "callous and casual" response in denying data on stranded migrant labourers under the RTI Act, and asked the Labour Ministry to upload on its website as much data as possible on them. Information Commissioner Vanaja N Sarna came down heavily on the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO) of the office of Chief Labour Commissioner (CLC) who has told RTI activist Venkatesh Nayak that it has no data on stranded migrant labourers. The CPIO gave the response despite Nayak having quoted an April 8 circular of the CLC, directing its regional office to count within three days every labourer stranded after the imposition of the countrywide lockdown on March 25 to combat coronavirus.  Nearly a fortnight after the CLC circular, Nayak had filed an RTI application seeking to know the state-wise names of districts from which data about the stranded migrant workers were received. But he was told the officer did not have any data. Nayak then filed a complaint under the Right to Information (RTI) Act before the Commission. Sarna said the bench is conscious of the fact that under Section 18 of the RTI Act directions for disclosure of information is not warranted. However, she said, keeping in view the extraordinary circumstances that necessitated the complaint, it was prudent to consider Nayak's query in the letter and spirit of the RTI Act. "In doing so, the Commission invokes section 25(5) of the RTI Act and issues an advisory to the respondent authority to maintain a robust and dynamic website for placing all data related to migrant workers therein as and when it is received from different Regional Heads," she said. Sarna quoted from orders of the Supreme Court, High Courts and Home Ministry's press briefings in her detailed direction.  At this point, she said, it is necessary for the CPIO to put his best possible efforts to collect this data from different Regional Heads and place them on their website immediately even if it is done in a piecemeal manner. "It is also necessary to continue to update this data from time to time as additional data is received from various quarters," she said. Underlining that the RTI application raised a very important issue, Sarna said the Commission is not convinced with the fact that when a letter is issued by the Chief Labour Commissioner to collect the data on migrant labourers, who are seriously affected by the pandemic, then how it is possible that no action was taken whatsoever. "It is established beyond doubt that the CPIO has handled the RTI application in a very callous and casual manner. The complainant through his RTI application has raised a very important issue related to the stranded migrant workers," Sarna said in her stern order. But to the utmost surprise of the Commission, she observed, the CPIO has given a cursory, flimsy and inappropriate reply to Nayak while totally ignoring the seriousness of the issue he raised. "The Commission records its severe admonition against the CPIO for such negligent handling of the RTI application concerning an issue of such wide implications," she said. Sarna said the officer seemed completely unaware of the provisions of the RTI Act. Had he been aware, he could have transferred the query to the appropriate authority in the Chief Labour Commissioner's office to obtain the collated information from them, she said. "He should note that such poor handling shows complete laxity towards the implementation of the RTI Act which was enacted to promote transparency and accountability in the country and in case such a lapse is repeated in future, the Commission will be constrained to initiate penal action against him," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cic-admonishes-official-for-denying-rti-data-on-stranded-migrants-asks-govt-to-put-it-online-843969.html
31-05-2020||National||Reliance Entertainment Group CEO Shibasish Sarkar tests positive for COVID-19||Shibasish Sarkar, Group Chief Executive Officer- Content, Digital and Gaming at Reliance Entertainment, has tested positive for the coronavirus and is currently admitted to a hospital here. According to a source close to Sarkar, the senior executive at the production house was admitted to Kokilaben Ambani Hospital on Saturday after he developed fever. However, they didn't reveal when Sarkar got his test results. "He tested positive for COVID-19. He is recovering and his fever has gone down," the insider told PTI. Sarkar on Thursday participated in a webinar where he talked about Reliance Entertainment's two upcoming releases, "Sooryavanshi" and "83", which stand delayed amid the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reliance-entertainment-group-ceo-shibasish-sarkar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-843970.html
31-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Migrant worker dies on Shramik train in UP||A 50-year-old migrant worker died on-board a Shramik Special train from Rajasthan to West Bengal, triggering panic among other passengers who travelled with the body for more than eight hours, police said on Sunday. Buddha Parihar, who hailed from Harishchandrapur in Malda district, used to work at a hotel in Rajasthan's Bikaner. His brother-in-law Saraju Das also used to work with him at the same hotel. Parihar, survived by his wife and two children, was working in Rajasthan for nearly 20 years, his family said. Parihar died on the train around 10 pm on Saturday when it was near Mughalsarai in Uttar Pradesh, they said. The death triggered panic in the compartment with people suspecting that Parihar might have died due to COVID- 19 and the co-passengers might contract the disease, police said.  The body was handed over to the Government Railway Police (GRP) when the train reached Malda Town station around 6.40 am on Sunday. Later, the matter was handed over to the Englishbazar Police Station which has started an investigation into the incident and sent the body to Malda Medical College for postmortem, a senior police officer said.  "We used to work at a hotel but as soon as the lockdown started we lost our job. We didn't have any money left and tried to return home several times but couldn't. In the meantime, Buddha fell sick. Finally, we boarded the train on May 29. But he died on the train mysteriously," Das said. Malda District Magistrate Rajarshi Mitra later said Parihar had tuberculosis. Das, who accompanied him, will be tested for coronavirus, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-worker-dies-on-shramik-train-in-up-843985.html
31-05-2020||National||Omar Abdullah calls out celebrities for tweeting about outrage at George Floyd killing||National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah Sunday took a dig at celebrities for showing concern for American lives, in the event of George Floyd's killing in the US city of Minneapolis, but being allegedly indifferent to Indians who are victimised. “So much respect for all the celebrities tweeting #BLACK_LIVES_MATTER. It takes courage to bring your cowardice to the fore when you tweet for American lives but can't tweet for Indian lives,” Omar wrote on Twitter.   The NC leader was apparently referring to the social media posts of several celebrities including Bollywood stars Priyanka Chopra and Kareena Kapoor. Floyd, a black man, died May 25 in Minneapolis, Minnesota after a white police officer pressed his knee on his neck for more than eight minutes. The officer was arrested on Friday and charged with third-degree murder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omar-abdullah-calls-out-celebrities-for-tweeting-about-outrage-at-george-floyd-killing-843986.html
31-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: CISCE allows class 10,12 students to change exam centre, appear for boards later||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has allowed students to appear for the pending board exams from the city they are in at present and also given an option to candidates to take up the exam later during compartmental tests, according to officials. The exams, which were postponed in view of a nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19, have been scheduled from July 1 to 14. However, many students have moved to different locations after the lockdown came into effect on March 25. "We have received requests from schools and parents for a change in the candidate's exam centre. To ensure that students who are not present in the district where their school is located, the candidates have been allowed to appear for the remaining examinations from an exam centre located in a CISCE-affiliated school in the location they are in," said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, CISCE. Students who are unable to appear for the remaining exams due to COVID-19 will be permitted to take the exams at the time of conduct of compartmental tests, he added. The students have been asked to make request for change in the exam centre by June 7 with their respective schools. The Council has also asked schools to ensure social distancing is followed and directed candidates to carry hand sanitisers and wear face masks. Unlike the CBSE, which will conduct the pending exams in only 29 subjects crucial for promotion and admission to higher educational institutions, the CISCE will hold all pending exams. The pending Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams are scheduled from July 1 to 15. The CBSE has already announced that the students who have moved to a different district or state during the lockdown can take the pending exams from their present location. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of a slew of measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Later, the government announced a nationwide lockdown which began on March 25. The lockdown was initially imposed for a 21-day period till April 14. However, it has been extended thrice. The current phase of the lockdown will last till May 31. The schedule for the board exams has been decided in order to ensure that they are completed before competitive examinations. While engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains is scheduled to be held from July 18 to July 23, medical entrance exam NEET is scheduled for July 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-cisce-allows-class-1012-students-to-change-exam-centre-appear-for-boards-later-843998.html
31-05-2020||National||HC scraps Gujarat govt's restrictions on private docs, hospitals from testing coronavirus patients||The Gujarat high court has directed the state government to allow COVID-19 testing of patients on the recommendation of treating doctors and directed to approve such requests within 24 hours. This comes as a big relief to patients whose treatment were being delayed due to restrictions on testing. The state government had stopped private labs from testing citing guidelines from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The division bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and justice J B Pardiwala has also directed that private doctors and hospitals do not need to wait for approval from the nodal officers for carrying out testing on those patients falling under categories mentioned in the guidelines put down by the ICMR.  Meanwhile, the court has also impleaded ICMR as a party in the proceeding and issued notice while seeking answers on various aspects including the logic of restriction on testing. The court has asked the council to reply on "What is the rational behind its testing policy, whether the guidelines issued by the ICMR are statutory in nature and whether such ICMR guidelines are binding upon the state government or are they only recommendatory in nature and whether without any prescription from any physician, an individual can go to designated private hospital/laboratory for the purpose of testing." Fresh controversy The division bench, which termed the Ahmedabad civil hospital as "dungeon" directed the state government that it will keep a close watch on the functioning of this hospital and if it is not satisfied, it "may have to take some further steps in accordance with law."  The court has said that "The Health Minister (Nitin Patel) of the state; the Chief Secretary, Health Department and all other authorities to keep a very close watch on the administration and functioning of the Civil Hospital. There should not be any laxity in this regard." While the judgement was made available on Sunday, an incident showing negligence of the hospital left the authority red-faced again after it was found that the relative of a patient, who had already passed away and was cremated, kept receiving calls from the helpline informing that the patient was not only alive but also stable. The hospital authority said that "it was a mistake of the person, who informed the relative without checking patient's status and asked them to facilitate shifting of patients on basis of negative (coronavirus) report." Helping hand more beneficial than a critical tongue The court made several remarks about debates going on social media and other platforms about the role of Gujarat government and court orders in view of the rising cases. It said that “Merely criticising the government in power is not going to magically cure people of COVID-19, nor is it going to to make the dead come back to life. “ It says that although opposition is supposed to hold the government to account, “but in times like this, a helping hand would be more beneficial than a critical tongue. “ “All those who cannot extend their helping hand in this difficult times and do anything good for the people at large have no right to criticise the functioning of the State Government. If the State Government would not have been doing anything, as alleged, then probably, by now, we all would have been dead,” the bench has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-scraps-gujarat-govts-restrictions-on-private-docs-hospitals-from-testing-coronavirus-patients-844016.html
31-05-2020||National||Jharkhand, AP, Maharashtra express reservations on running special trains from June 1: Indian Railways||Hours before the Railways begins operating 200 special passenger trains, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra have expressed reservations about the planned services, the national transporter said on Sunday. Sources said a high-level meeting is underway at the railway headquarters to resolve the matter. They indicated the three states have raised concerns over the rising cases of the coronavirus as the reason behind their opposition to movement of trains.  "Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra have expressed reservations about running of trains or number of stoppages as planned. The matter is being discussed with the states. Any further development in this regard will be intimated,” a railway spokesperson said. The Railways has decided to run 200 special passenger trains from June 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-ap-maharashtra-express-reservations-on-running-special-trains-from-june-1-indian-railways-844019.html
31-05-2020||National||With 105 new cases, coronavirus cases in Jammu & Kashmir mount to 2446||The COVID-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir continue to spread rapidly and on Sunday 105 more people tested positive for the deadly virus in the Union Territory (UT) taking the total tally to 2446. Out of the total cases reported today, 90 cases have been reported from Kashmir division while the remaining 15 are from Jammu division. District Anantnag recorded the highest number of cases on Sunday with 24 positive cases. Anantnag continues to be the epicenter of the coronavirus spread in J&K. The southern district has 338 positive cases followed by neighboring Kulgam with 294 and Srinagar with 280. The positive cases on Sunday include a commissioner secretary rank officer after which five top ranking IAS officers, several officials of civil administration and health department went for self-quarantine. According to the daily Media Bulletin, out of 2446 positive cases, 1491 are active cases, 927 have recovered and 28 have died. J&K has been witnessing a spike in COVID-19 cases in the past 10-days. The UT recorded the highest single-day spike of 177 new cases on Saturday. From 500 cases on April 28 to 1000 cases on May 15, it took J&K 17 days to double its COVID-19 cases. However, in the last two weeks there has been a substantial rise in positive cases. While the first case was reported on March 9, the first 1000 patients took 80 days to accumulate. J&K government says the rise in cases is due to intensive testing. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest COVID-19 case density areas in the country which is nearly 200 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is 135. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, the Valley also is one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. The COVID-19-necessitated lockdown in J&K has been extended till June 8 by the UT government on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-105-new-cases-coronavirus-cases-in-jammu-kashmir-mount-to-2446-844020.html
31-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown trained people of India for new norms in lifestyle: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday said the nationwide lockdown of over eight weeks has trained the people of the country for the 'new norms' in lifestyle and the need for practising hygiene, physical distancing in day-to-day life. Singh, the Union Minister for the PMO, also said in a country as heterogeneous and populous as India, if people could avoid overcrowding to the maximum extent possible, this itself, will be one of the most rewarding 'new norms' in the time after the coronavirus crisis blows over. "While life has to move on and the show must go on, lockdown has inculcated in us the essential practices of hygiene, healthy maintenance of physical distance and discipline in day-to-day life," he told reporters here.  Singh said the lockdown measures have revived the traditional practices of handwash and greeting people with folded hands which are going to be part of the 'new normal' social culture.  The minister said the lockdown period taught everyone how to keep functioning and performing the professional work in spite of the constraint of not attending office. "It is amazing that in many cases, the work output was higher while working from home, which will possibly mark a new opening in professional life in the times to come," he said. Singh said when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown -- at a time when many of the European countries had refused to do so -- many questions were raised. "But today, looking back retrospectively, it is being acknowledged by all that a country of 130 crore population has been saved of a huge catastrophe because of this decision," he said.  The minister said the preemptive measures taken by Prime Minister Modi were being lauded across the world and have reiterated him as a visionary world leader.   Notwithstanding the misgivings in certain quarters, he said, statistical figures bear out that over the last 10 weeks, India's performance in the fight against coronavirus has not only been effective but has also improved. "Our recovery rate has over the last few weeks improved to more than 47 per cent and mortality rate has remained limited to around 0.2 per lakh and our doubling time has also improved," he said. Singh said even though the government will make certain relaxations in the days to come, the observance of practices learnt during the lockdown period will have to be carried out for a long time to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-trained-people-of-india-for-new-norms-in-lifestyle-jitendra-singh-844039.html
31-05-2020||National||States express reservation over special trains||Jharkhand, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh have expressed their reservations over 200 passenger trains starting its services from June 1. "Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra have expressed reservations about running of trains or number of stoppages as planned. The matter is being discussed with states. Any further development in this regard will be intimated," railway spokesperson said on Sunday. 200 timetabled passenger trains will resume its services daily from June 1 . Earlier also, these states had expressed their reservation for starting train services, saying this would further cause spike in COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-express-reservation-over-special-trains-844043.html
31-05-2020||National||India expels two officials of Pakistan High Commission for spying||India has expelled two officials of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi, after they were found to be working for the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) – the military spy agency of the neighbouring country. The two officials – Abid Hussain and Muhammad Tahir – were working in the visa section of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi. The probe by the counter-espionage agencies of the Government of India, however, found them to be undercover ISI agents. They were apprehended by the law-enforcement agencies in New Delhi on Sunday “for indulging in espionage activities”. Islamabad has dismissed New Delhi’s allegations against its officials as “false and unsubstantiated”. “We condemn the detention and torture as well as threatening and pressuring of the diplomatic officials to accept false charges,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Government said in a press-release issued in Islamabad.   The Government has declared both the officials of the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi “persona non grata” for indulging in activities incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission and asked them to leave India within 24 hours, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) stated in a press-release. Hussain and Tahir were caught red-handed by the police from Karolbagh in Delhi when they were obtaining documents related to security establishment of India. They were obtaining the documents from an Indian, whom they gave money and an I-phone, sources told the DH. They initially claimed that they were citizens of India. They even showed Aadhaar Cards, which were later found to be fake. But, while being interrogated by counter-espionage agents, both Hussain and Tahir confessed they were officials at the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi and worked for the ISI. The MEA also issued a démarche to the Charge de Affaires (acting High Commissioner) of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi, Syed Haider Shah, lodging a strong protest over the activities of the two officials against the national security of India.   Shah was asked to ensure that no member of Pakistan’s diplomatic mission to India should indulge in activities inimical to India or behave in a manner incompatible with their diplomatic status, the MEA said in its press-release. India had in 2016 expelled another official of the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi – Mehmood Akhter – after he had been found involved in espionage activities. Pakistan had retaliated by expelling an officer of the High Commission of India in Islamabad. Hussain and Tahir were later handed over to the representatives of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi, as both of them enjoyed diplomatic immunity and hence could not have been arrested or prosecuted. Pakistan, however, rejected what it called “the baseless allegation” against the two officials of its High Commission in the capital of India. It also described the action by the Government of India, as a “clear violation” of the 1961 “Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations” as well as the “norms of diplomatic conduct”. “The High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi has always worked within the parameters of international law and diplomatic norms. The Indian action is clearly aimed at shrinking diplomatic space for the working of Pakistan High Commission,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the neighbouring country’s government said in Islamabad. It accused New Delhi of trying to escalate the tension between India and Pakistan to divert attention from the “ongoing internal and external issues faced by” the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government or “from the worsening situation and gross human rights violations being perpetrated” in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expels-two-officials-of-pakistan-high-commission-for-spying-844045.html
31-05-2020||National||Diplomatic, military talks on to resolve border row with China: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Sunday said diplomatic and military-level dialogues are going on with China on the current border row and he was hopeful that the issue will be resolved. Also, in an obvious warning to Pakistan, Shah said India will not tolerate any breach of its borders and befitting replies will be given to such moves. "Diplomatic and military level dialogues are currently going on and I believe the issue will be resolved," he told the 'Republic Bharat' TV in an interview. Shah was replying to a question about the ongoing border row with China in Ladakh and some other areas and circulation of videos and pictures of clashes between personnel of the Indian Army and the PLA of China. The home minister said the Narendra Modi government would not allow any dilution of its international borders and would take all steps to protect the country's sovereignty. "No one should have any doubt about that.” Asked about the repeated Pakistani attempts to breach the border, Shah said India has never adopted an expansionist policy, but at the same time it would not tolerate any violation of its borders. "If someone tries to do that, we will give a befitting reply. It is our duty and responsibility," he said. Referring to the ongoing battle against COVID-19, the home minister said the Modi government has been successful in combating the outbreak. "It is not known when the vaccine and medicine will come. How long will people remain in their homes? I can say that India and Narendra Modi's battle against COVID has been successful thus far," he said. Shah said the entire country is fighting together as one with a single mind and hence the fight against coronavirus has been successful. "As far as Unlock-1 (beginning Monday) goes, states, districts, panchayats, ASHA workers are ready. An army is ready to fight the COVID," he said. The home minister said the central government, the Prime Minister and he himself were sad that some migrant labourers had to go home on foot, despite arrangements being made for their transportation. "This has happened may be due to miscommunication or lack of awareness. But I want to say that about 4,000 'Shramik Special' trains were run by the Railways in which more than 50 lakh people have travelled to reach their respective homes. Another about 40 lakh people used buses to reach their destinations. "I want to congratulate the Railways, that despite them not having the route drivers, they managed to run so many Shramik trains," he said. Asked about West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's criticism of the central government policies, Shah said be it fight against coronavirus or tackling the cyclone, things were not in a good shape in West Bengal. "One thing is sure that in the coming days, the BJP will form the government in West Bengal. People of Bengal are looking for a change," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diplomatic-military-talks-on-to-resolve-border-row-with-china-amit-shah-844056.html
31-05-2020||National||Rail Ministry's remark that frail shouldn't undertake train journeys shocking: Priyanka||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday termed as shocking the Railway Ministry's remark that the frail should not undertake train journeys and said this is the time to show sensitivity towards the migrants. She also highlighted a news report claiming that according to RPF data as many as 80 labourers have died during train journey. "Eighty people have died on Shramik trains. Forty per cent trains are running late. Many trains have lost their way. At many places images capturing inhuman conduct with passengers have come to light.  In the midst of all this, the Railway Ministry's remark that those who are frail should not undertake train journeys is shocking. Labourers have been ignored from day one, whereas they should have been dealt with utmost sensitivity during this time," she said in a tweet in Hindi. As extreme heat, hunger and dehydration add to the woes of returning migrant workers, nine passengers have been found dead in 'Shramik Special' trains since May 25 and they included a woman whose toddler son was seen trying to wake her up in a heart wrenching scene at a railway platform in Bihar. While a few deaths on board the non-air conditioned trains were also reported earlier after they were launched on May 1 to ferry migrant labourers to their home states, the Railways on Wednesday said most of the deceased had pre-existing health conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rail-ministrys-remark-that-frail-shouldnt-undertake-train-journeys-shocking-priyanka-844064.html
31-05-2020||National||Exercise caution as we rebound, says M Venkaiah Naidu||With the Union Home Ministry initiating more relaxations in the nationwide lockdown from June 8, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday urged people to exercise utmost caution as the society seeks to rebound from the disruption caused by the virus. In a Facebook post titled "Unlock-1 : Handle With Care", he said this rebound should be handled with care and responsibly by all stakeholders. "Tomorrow marks a new beginning towards recovering the lost space and to rebound from long confinement with severely pruned list of prohibited activities and that too only in confinement zones," he said on the last day of phase four of the lockdown. Relaxations during lockdown 4 resulted in the virus infection scaling new peak almost everyday since May 18. Coronavirus positive cases hit a single-day spike of about 8,000 on the day Unlock-1 was announced on May 30, he pointed out. "This provides guidance for actions as the nation is set on the course of phased exit from confinement. It only suggests that Unlock-1 shall be handled with care so that the intended rebound is not adversely hit," he opined. The zone of confinement stands substantially reduced from 130 crore people living in about seven lakh villages and over 4,500 towns, cities and mega cities under lockdown 1 to only confinement areas in its latest version, he said. It is understood that containment zones are about 6,000 across the country and mostly in the 13 cities including six capitals that account for 70 per cent of total infections. "Given the population of a few hundred to a few thousand in each containment zone, the number of people subjected to restrictions during the month-long lockdown beginning tomorrow would be very small. It is a substantial expansion in the space now available for the others to let their lives express themselves," he said. States have so far played a commendable role in fighting the virus in harmony with the Centre, Naidu said. "They now have even a bigger role in handling Unlock-1 with enhanced freedom of decision making. Success be ours," the vice-president hoped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exercise-caution-as-we-rebound-says-m-venkaiah-naidu-844072.html
31-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: States begin to 'unlock' with tailor-made keys||A day after the Centre issued detailed guidelines for Unlock 1.0 — a graded exit plan with limited lockdown in containment zones — nearly a dozen states on Sunday came out with regulations tailored to suit their needs. Many of them exercised discretion in modifying the central guidelines even as they announced the extension of lockdown till June 30 in containment zones. Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Manipur were quick to extend curbs, while Left-ruled Kerala said it will take a view on the new guidelines on Monday. The guidelines require the states and Union Territories to assess the spread of Covid-19 and accordingly prohibit certain activities outside the containment zones or impose restrictions wherever necessary. While the Centre has gone ahead with its decision to run 200 regular trains from June 1, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh have once again expressed reservations about the move. The matter is under discussion with the Centre. Uttar Pradesh has decided that all its shops will remain open from 9 am to 9 pm in Lockdown 5.0, while the Centre had modified night curfew timings from 9 pm to 5 am. Also, while the Centre has removed the bar on inter-state travel, saying no permits will be required for the movement of people and goods, UP has put restrictions on travel from hotspot Delhi to Noida (Gautam Budh Nagar) and Ghaziabad. Barring essential services, all other travelling will require passes. Wedding halls in UP can function with a cap of 30 people, but the state — which has a gun culture in many of its districts — has issued strict instructions against carrying weapons for celebratory firing.  Tamil Nadu, which did away with e-pass to travel within different zones in the state, has made it mandatory for journey outside the zones and for those coming from neighbouring states. Also, while the Centre has allowed religious places and places of worship to open from June 8, the AIADMK government has decided that the temples in the state will remain shut till June 30.   Similarly, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services — except those accommodating health, police personnel and government staff for quarantine purposes — will remain shut in Tamil Nadu. Telangana has not allowed shops/establishments after 8 pm, though the central guidelines don't mandate this. The state has, however, gone with the Centre's norms on no restriction on inter-state movement of persons and no separate permission for such movements. The lockdown will continue in containment zones till June 30, while in other zones it will end on June 7. West Bengal has decided to extend the lockdown till June 15 with several relaxations in areas under Category C (clear areas) and Category B (buffer areas). However, previous restrictions in areas under Category A (affected areas) will continue. Inter-district movement (within the state) of government and private buses will be allowed from June 1. In West Bengal, all places of religious worship, except those in affected areas, will be allowed to open from June 1 itself with not more than 10 people at time. Indoor and outdoor activities of TV and cinema productions with not more than 35 people shall be allowed from June 1. The worst-affected Maharashtra has taken baby steps towards easing lockdown in non-containment zones.  From June 5, all markets and shops, except malls and shopping plazas, will reopen on one side of the road on odd-even dates with several conditions from 9 am to 5 pm. Bihar is yet to act on the Centre’s directives to ‘unlock’ from June 8 and give more relaxations. Jammu & Kashmir has decided to continue with the guidelines and instructions in operation in the Union Territory till June 8. Rajasthan is not enthused by the Centre's decision to allow hotels from June 8, and has decided that restaurants, clubhouses (excluding sports facilities), and other hospitality services, eateries (except home deliveries and takeaways which are already permitted) will remain closed. (With inputs from E T B Sivapriyan, Mrityunjay Bose, Zuflikar Majid, Arjun Raghunath, Soumya Das, Abhay Kumar, Prasad Nichenametla, Sumir Karmakar and Sanjay Pandey)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-states-begin-to-unlock-with-tailor-made-keys-844074.html
31-05-2020||National||My Life, My Yoga: PM Narendra Modi launches video blogging contest for citizens||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a video blogging competition and invited citizens to participate in it during his 'Mann Ki Baat' address to the nation on Sunday. The 'My Life, My Yoga' contest (also called 'Jeevan Yoga) is a joint effort by the Ministry of AYUSH and the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR). It focuses on the transformative impact of Yoga on the lives of individuals and it comes as one of the activities related to the observation of the sixth International Day of Yoga (IDY) coming up on June 21, an official statement said. The contest has gone live on the social media handles of the Ministry of AYUSH  on Sunday. The observation of IDY in the past years has been marked by thousands of harmonious mass demonstrations of Yoga in public places.  "Due to the contagious nature of COVID-19, no mass gathering would be advisable this year. Hence, this year the ministry is encouraging people to practice Yoga at their homes, with participation from the entire family," the AYUSH Ministry said in a statement.  Through the competition, the Ministry of AYUSH and ICCR seeks to raise awareness about Yoga and to inspire people to prepare for and become active participants in the observation of IDY 2020. The contest will run in two legs. The first leg consisting of an international video blogging contest, wherein winners will be picked within a country. This will be followed by global prize winners who will be selected from winners from different countries. Entries can be submitted by participants under three categories covering youth (aged under 18), adults (above 18 years) and yoga professionals, and further, separately for male and female contestants.  This makes it a total of six categories in all. For contestants of India, prizes worth Rs 1 lakh, 50,000 and 25,000 for first, second and third-ranking within each of the categories have been announced within the first leg, the statement said. Details of the global prizes will be announced shortly on the Yoga Portal of the Ministry of AYUSH. To enter into the contest, participants are required to upload a three-minute video of three Yogic practices (kriya, asana, pranayama, bandha or mudra), including a short video message or description on how the said Yogic practices influenced their life. The video may be uploaded on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram with the contest #MyLifeMyYogaINDIA and appropriate category hashtag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-life-my-yoga-pm-narendra-modi-launches-video-blogging-contest-for-citizens-844084.html
31-05-2020||National Politics||'Namaste Trump' event spread COVID-19 in Gujarat; led to spread in Mumbai and Delhi: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday alleged that the event held in Ahmedabad to welcome US President Donald Trump in February was responsible for the spread of coronavirus in Gujarat and later in Mumbai and Delhi, which some of his delegates had visited. Raut also hit out at the Centre saying that the lockdown was implemented without any planning, but now the responsibility of lifting the curbs was left to the states. The Sena MP said that despite the opposition BJP's attempts to pull down the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, there was no threat to it as its survival is the 'majboori' (compulsion) of all the three ruling allies- Sena, NCP and Congress. "It can't be denied that the spread of coronavirus in Gujarat was because of the massive public gathering held to welcome US President Donald Trump. Some of the delegates, who accompanied Trump, also visited Mumbai, Delhi, which led to the spread of the virus," Raut said in his weekly column in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'. On February 24, Trump along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken part in a road-show in Ahmedabad, which was attended by thousands of people. After the road- show, the two leaders had addressed a gathering of over one lakh people at Motera cricket stadium, run by Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA). Gujarat had reported its first coronavirus cases on March 20, when samples of a man from Rajkot and a woman from Surat tested positive for the disease. Raut said that any move to pull down the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government and impose President's rule in the state citing its failure to curb the coronavirus pandemic would be suicidal. "The state had witnessed how President's rule was imposed and lifted as per will six months ago," he said. "If the handling of coronavirus cases is the basis of imposing President's rule, then it should be done in at least 17 states, including the BJP-ruled ones. Even the central government has failed to curb the pandemic as it had no planning to fight the virus," he said. "The lockdown was imposed without any planning and now without any plan, the responsibility of lifting it has been left to the states. This chaos will further worsen the crisis," he said. The Sena MP said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has made an excellent analysis of how the lockdown has failed. "It is shocking that people can indulge in politics by demanding President's rule in Maharashtra for the rise in the coronavirus cases," he said. BJP MP Narayan Rane had recently met Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari and demanded imposition of President's rule in view of the the Shiv Sena-led state government's "failure" in tackling the coronavirus pandemic. However, the BJP had later said that it was not trying to destabilise the government. Speaking about the stability of the government, Raut said that the survival of the MVA government was the 'majboori' (compulsion) of each of the three alliance partners. "Even if there are internal conflicts among the ruling partners, there is no threat to the government as the allies know that its survival is the 'majboori' of each one of them," Raut said. He said that the Devendra Fadnavis-led government, in which the BJP and Shiv Sena shared power, saw internal conflicts between the ruling allies, but it completed its full five-year term. Slamming Fadnavis, who is now the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, for predicting downfall of the MVA government saying it will fall on its own due to its internal bickering. "If the Fadnavis government, which witnessed deep internal conflicts between BJP and Sena, didn't fall, how can this one collapse? The Fadnavis government survived despite the (Sena) ministers carrying their resignation letters in their pockets," Raut wrote. Fadnavis, in an online media interaction held earlier recently, said he had no intention to destabilise the MVA government and said it would collapse on its own. "What Fadnavis means is that all attempts (of the BJP) to create discord among the three allies and break the MLAs has failed. Now the opposition hopes that something would happen among the allies and the government would be fall apart," he said. Raut said NCP president Sharad Pawar is the prominent leader, who laid the foundation stone of the "Thackeray sarkar", and only he can predict the future of the government. "He continues to say the government is stable and even the Congress is not going anywhere. MVA legislators are not up for sale in horse-trading. Hence, if the opposition says that the government will fall, it is wrong," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/namaste-trump-event-spread-covid-19-in-gujarat-led-to-spread-in-mumbai-and-delhi-sanjay-raut-843850.html
31-05-2020||National Politics||PM Modi's first year of second term 'historic': UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath Sunday on Sunday described the first year of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's second term as ‘historic’, crediting him with ending the J&K’s special status, triple talaq and paving the way for a Ram temple in Ayodhya. He lauded the BJP-led Union government for taking ‘unprecedented steps’ in the interest of every section during the coronavirus crisis. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has translated ‘hollow promises’ of the past into a reality, Adityanath told reporters in a video conference. "The passion he (Modi) has shown in solving problems, which have been a challenge for the country over the years, is unmatched," Yogi said. The scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, ending triple talaq and paving a way for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya are a proof of this, the chief minister said. He said the battle being fought under the leadership of the PM Modi against the coronavirus pandemic has 'set an example' for the whole world. During this lockdown, he did exemplary work by paying maximum attention to the interest of the most-affected sections, Adityanath claimed, highlighting the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by the Centre to give a fillip to economy activity. "India has now embarked on the path of self-reliance. Soon, India will become the manufacturing hub of the world," the CM claimed. Adityanath said when migrants started returning to UP, people thought it would trigger chaos, but they 'considered them as their strength'. Through the Citizenship Amendment Act, Modi has fulfilled India's long-pending dream of providing a dignified life to the oppressed minorities of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, he said. “The practice of triple talaq ended. This protected women's dignity. The inequality that persisted over the centuries came to an end,” the chief minister said. The chief minister said along with the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, many decisions were taken for the prosperity of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modis-first-year-of-second-term-historic-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-843924.html
31-05-2020||National Politics||Congress questions Solicitor General's remarks that HCs are running parallel govt in country||The Congress on Sunday questioned Solicitor General Tushar Mehta's remarks that high courts are "running a parallel government in the country", and asked whether the statement was meant to browbeat the courts. Accusing the government of displaying an arrogant attitude, former law minister and Congress leader Kapil Sibal said, "I wonder if this is meant to browbeat the courts. This is certainly a very arrogant attitude that should not be articulated in this fashion." The Congress also said that the government had displayed a similar arrogance in the past, with Sibal citing instances and alleging that some judges were transferred after they delivered judgements that were "uncomfortable". "This government has in the past displayed this kind of arrogance", he said, noting that both the courts and the government should take note of this. "Unless the courts are alive to what is happening on the ground, this kind of attack and expression is not conducive to a democratic environment," he said. Sibal added that this government also called a journalist a "vulture", and in saying so "I feel the government has forgotten its culture and we condemn this". He said journalists are committed by their profession "to clean up the vicious environment" in this country. Noting that March 24 (when the nationwide lockdown was announced) was a "watershed moment", he said the people of the country have forced the government to forget its agenda of polarisation and instead focus on problems posed by the coronavirus pandemic. Sibal also took a swipe at the Centre, saying, "The government's social distancing with people has increased so much that it does not know what is happening on the ground and how to address the problems faced by people, especially the poor." "The future history books will recognise this government as the harbinger of doom. The prime minister talks about protecting democracy, until March 24 they throttled democracy," he alleged.   The former law minister said prior to March 24, the agenda of the government was about Article 370, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, National Register of Citizens (NRC), population register, Citizenship (Amendment) Act, Triple Talaq, and not education, healthcare, concerns of the poor. "Had this government in the last six yrs concentrated on issues concerning people, India would have been different today," he said. Sibal noted that the COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the government's helplessness and the rift that was created in the society has been bridged by people themselves as they stand in solidarity with one another to overcome the current challenges. "I want to ask PM that at least now tell us what is your definition of your fellow Indians. Does that definition fit into what happened prior to March 24. At least now change the way you are handling the future of this country," the Congress leader asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-questions-solicitor-generals-remarks-that-hcs-are-running-parallel-govt-in-country-843945.html
31-05-2020||National Politics||Shatrughan Sinha takes jibe at PM over 'Atma-nirbhar Bharat'||Former Union Minister and ex-MP from Patna Sahib, Shatrughan Sinha, took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his call to make India an Aatma-nirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). “India was already an Aatma-nirbhar Bharat. Those who have loss of memory should refresh it. There is a long list of organisations which were established between 1950 and 1970, which eventually helped India become self-reliant,” the former BJP MP, who dumped his parent party in 2019 to join Congress, said on Sunday. Responding to PM’s call for ‘Aatma-nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, Shatru, who earlier served as Union Health Minister in Atal Bihari Vajpayee Cabinet, tweeted in Hindi: “SAIL was formed in 1954 to make India self-reliant in the field of steel production. IITs came into being in 1956 to produce the best engineering graduates, AIIMS in 1956 (in the field of medical science) and DRDO in 1958 to make India self-reliant in the field of defence research.” Arguing that even in the 1960s, India grew by leaps and bounds, Shatru tweeted (in Hindi) to buttress his point: “HAL came into being in 1964 to make India self-reliant in the field of aircraft production, green revolution in 1965 and ISRO in 1969, thereby making India self-reliant in the field of space technology.” “The later years were equally productive,” said Shatru, who was twice Rajya Sabha member before becoming Lok Sabha member from Patna Sahib twice (in 2009 and 2014). “India became self-reliant in the field of coal production when CCL was founded. Later, NTPC was formed in 1975 and GAIL in 1984,” tweeted Shatru. “The list is too long how India became a self-reliant nation….In 2020, a bhashan (speech) was prepared to make the country Aatma-nirbhar….Be neutral, Be positive, Be genuine,” tweeted Shatru, taking another jibe at his former party leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shatrughan-sinha-takes-jibe-at-pm-over-atma-nirbhar-bharat-843979.html
31-05-2020||National Politics||Modi maintaining physical distance from poor: Congress||Congress on Sunday slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis claiming that it had led to the government’s physical distancing from the poor. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal also accused the Modi government of “brow beating” the courts for questioning its handling of the migrant crisis and taking exception to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s remarks in the Supreme Court that the “high courts were running a parallel government in the country”. “This is certainly a very arrogant attitude that should not be articulated in this fashion,” Sibal said, addressing a press conference through video link. The former Law Minister said that the government’s “mishandling” of the response to the pandemic had forced the people into crisis. Sibal said that people walking on the roads to their native states was a testimony of the government’s ‘apathy’ as many people have lost their lives due to starvation.    “The government’s social distancing with people has increased so much that it does not know what is happening on the ground and how to address the problems faced by people, especially the poor,” the Congress leader said. “The future history books will recognise this government as the harbinger of doom,” he alleged. Sibal claimed that the rift created by the Modi government through its divisive agenda before the COVID-19 outbreak has been bridged by the people who stood by each other to overcome the challenges posed by the pandemic. Questioning the government’s “silence” on the standoff with China and Nepal, Sibal said: “Nepal is looking in our eyes and there is the standoff with China — why is the Prime Minister not looking them in their eyes”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-maintaining-physical-distance-from-poor-congress-844006.html
31-05-2020||National Politics||Owaisi attacks PM Narendra Modi for 'hardships' faced by migrant workers during coronavirus lockdown||Charging Narendra Modi with causing 'hardships' to migrant labourers by enforcing COVID-19 lockdown in the country, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday said the "unplanned" shutdown forced women to risk their lives and the Prime Minister did "nothing" for them. In a tweet, the Hyderabad MP said, "@PMOIndia's unplanned lockdown forced migrant women to risk their lives & walk home for 1000s of kilometres. He did nothing for them...." In another tweet, he said, "According to @PMOIndia one of his greatest achievements has been draconian & communal law that allows cops to imprison even more Muslim men. Muslim women have been beaten up, imprisoned, widowed & made childless because of this govt. This is their real record." He was apparently referring to the triple talaq law, which makes the practice of instant divorce among Muslims a punishable offence. On the first year of the Modi government's second term, Owaisi had criticised the PM on the triple talaq law and described it as "draconian and communal." Earlier, the AIMIM leader had also termed as "unconstitutional" the ongoing lockdown in the country to combat coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/owaisi-attacks-pm-narendra-modi-for-hardships-faced-by-migrant-workers-during-coronavirus-lockdown-844024.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Police tells court Zargar allegedly gave inflammatory speeches to incite riots||The Delhi police told a court here on Saturday that Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar, booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, allegedly gave inflammatory speeches to instigate a mob that led to the communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February. The submissions were made before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana during the hearing of Zargar's bail plea through video conferencing. The court put up the matter for further hearing on June 4. The police claimed that Zargar, a member of Jamia Coordination Committee, had allegedly blocked a road near Jaffrabad metro station during the anti-CAA protests and instigated people that led to the riots in the area. They further claimed that she was allegedly part of the “premediated conspiracy” to incite communal riots in northeast Delhi in February. In the bail plea, Zargar has claimed that she has been falsely implicated in the case and had no role in the alleged criminal conspiracy in the case. Zargar, an MPhil student of Jamia Millia Islamia University, is pregnant and currently lodged in Tihar jail under judicial custody in the case. Jamia Coordination Committee member Meeran Haider, Jamia students Asif Iqbal Tanha, Gulfisha Khatoon, Jamia Alumni Association President Shifa-Ur-Rehman, JNU student Natasha Narwal, activist Khalid Saifi, former Congress municipal councilor Ishrat Jahan, suspended AAP councilor Tahir Hussain and Umar Khalid have also been booked under UAPA in the case. Khalid has not been arrested yet. The accused have also been charged under sedition, attempt to murder, murder, criminal conspiracy, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth etc. According to the FIR, the communal riots from February 23-26 was a “pre-meditated conspiracy” and hatched by Khalid and his associates. All the associates were linked to two different groups, FIR said. It further claimed that as per the preplanned conspiracy, Khalid had given provoking speeches at various places and appealed to the Muslim minority community gathering to block roads and other public places during the visit of President of US Donald Trump so that the propaganda may be flashed at an international platform that Muslim minority community in India was being tortured. In order to achieve these objectives, on February 23, riots occurred in different areas of Delhi and in furtherance of the nefarious designs, on February 23, 24, the two groups started riots in different parts of north east and Shahdara districts of Delhi which continued till February 26, the FIR alleged. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-police-tells-court-zargar-allegedly-gave-inflammatory-speeches-to-incite-riots-843797.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi: Fire at Army canteen, 8 fire tenders on spot||A fire broke out in an Army canteen in Sadar Bazar area here on Sunday morning, Delhi fire service officials said. No casualty has been reported, they said. The fire department was informed around 9 am and eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot, they said. The blaze was brought under control by 9:50 am, fire officials said. However, the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-fire-at-army-canteen-8-fire-tenders-on-spot-843834.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police Assistant Sub-Inspector dies due to COVID-19||A 54-year-old Assistant Sub-Inspector of Delhi Police died due to COVID-19, making it the second casualty in the force due to the infection, officials said on Sunday. The ASI worked with the Finger Print Bureau (FPB) of the Crime Branch in Central Delhi's Kamla Market area, they said. An ex-Army personnel, he had joined the Delhi Police on November 1, 2014. He hailed from Rewa district of Madhya Pradesh and was residing at Naraina village in west Delhi, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central), Sanjay Bhatia, said the ASI was tested for coronavirus on May 26 at the Lady Hardinge hospital after he complained of fever and cough. He was found positive for the virus on May 28. He was admitted to the Army's Base hospital in Delhi Cantt and died on Saturday evening, Bhatia said. Earlier in May, a 31-year-old constable posted at the Bharat Nagar police station in north-west Delhi died of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-assistant-sub-inspector-dies-due-to-covid-19-843847.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Senior IAS officer in Jammu and Kashmir tests positive for COVID-19||A senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in Jammu and Kashmir tested positive for COVID-19 forcing authorities to quarantine 15 persons, including officials from various departments, who had come in contact with the officer. Sources told DH that the officer had attended a high-level meeting in Jammu that was chaired by a top bureaucrat and attended by a financial commissioner, a principal secretary, a senior bureaucrat in the disaster management authority and officials from health and medical education department. “As many as six IAS officers and several officers of Health and Medical Education departments were present in the meeting in which the officer, who later turned out positive, also participated,” they said and added the meeting was held on Saturday evening as a precursor to discuss lifting of lockdown restrictions in the Union Territory from June 8. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-31-843801.html Sources said soon after testing positive the officer was taken to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana super-speciality hospital in Kakryal in Reasi district on Sunday morning, while bureaucrats in his contact were either sent to a hotel or home quarantine. “Currently the samples of his contacts are being taken. Efforts are also on to trace all those who were in unsafe sustained contact with the officer during his visit to Kashmir recently,” they added. Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, Pandurang K. Pole said that they are tracing all those who had “unsafe sustained contact” with the officer. However, he said there is no need to panic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-ias-officer-in-jammu-and-kashmir-tests-positive-for-covid-19-843856.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Civilian injured in ceasefire violation along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir||A civilian was injured while several houses were damaged as Pakistani troops violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Mendhar and Balakote sectors of Poonch district in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. Reports said after a brief spell of ceasefire violation in the area on Saturday evening at around 10 pm, which lasted for an hour, Pakistan army again resorted to heavy firing in the area at around 03:15 am on Sunday morning. “Firing by Pakistan with small arms as well as mortar shelling lasted till four hours and five villages in the area came under fire,” they added. Block Medical Officer (BMO) Mendhar, Dr Parvez Khan said that a man identified as Mohammad Yaseen resident of Gohlad village got injured in the firing. “He has a splinter injury in his leg. Our team evacuated him with the help of locals and he is being brought to hospital,” he said. Reports said a few houses also got damaged due to the shelling. There has been a huge surge in ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir this year with 1547 instances reported till May 15. Pakistani troops had made the highest number of ceasefire violations since 2003 along the J&K border in 2019, amounting to over 3,200 instances or an average of nine such violations daily. The government of India led by then Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee had entered into a border ceasefire agreement with Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir on November 26, 2003. However, according to officials shelling and firing by Pakistani troops since last year is so heavy that virtually it has made the 2003 truce redundant. India shares a 3,323-km-long border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the LoC fall in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civilian-injured-in-ceasefire-violation-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmir-843863.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Gharial death at Delhi zoo: Inquiry panel finds 5 employees guilty of negligence||The Delhi zoo administration has found five of its employees guilty of negligence in the death of a female gharial last month, according to the findings of an inquiry report. The gharial had died on April 24 and its putrefied carcass was found three days later. "The opinion of experts that the carcass was three days' old was supported by collateral and scientific evidence of observation of maggots in the carcass, its putrefaction and the foul smell emanating from it," a three-member inquiry panel said in its report. The panel found five employees of the zoo -- Assistant Keepers Deep Kumar and Vinod Kumar, Head Keeper Rajbir Singh, Biological Assistant Manoj Kumar and Veterinary Officer Abhijit Bhawal -- guilty of "negligence and dereliction of duty". The head keeper was also found guilty of tampering of records of the zoo in a bid to conceal the negligence on his part, the inquiry committee comprising Veterinary Consultant of Central Zoo Authority Mrinalini Saini, Zoo Ranger Saurabh Vashishtha and Laboratory Assistant Rakesh Kumar Sharma said. The panel said Assistant Keeper Deep Kumar made entry into the records on April 24 and April 25, saying all animals including the gharial were in good condition, which was factually incorrect. "He made entries without actually seeing the animal," it said. "Officiating Head Keeper Vinod Kumar has admitted that he did not see the animal physically and made the entry as per the observations of the daily paid labour," the inquiry report said. Similarly, Head Keeper Rajbir Singh did not inspect the animal personally, it said. Biological Assistant Manoj Kumar mentioned in the records that the gharial was observed behaving normally on April 24 and April 25. Veterinary Officer Abhijit Bhawal did not visit the gharial from April 23 to April 26, "whereas it is the duty of the veterinary officer to visit and examine all the animals in the zoo and record his observations", the report said. A zoo official said Rajbir Singh has been placed under suspension and action is pending against the others. Former CZA member secretary D N Singh said it was a major lapse on the part of all zoo staff responsible for care and upkeep of animals. "Everyday, all of them are mandated to personally observe each and every wild animal in the zoo. It is their duty to see whether each animal has taken its entire feed offered, whether it is displaying normal behaviour, etc. In case of any aberration, it is mentioned in the records and medical care is provided to the animal," he said. "The inquiry report makes it clear that all observations and reports are written without actual observation of animals," he said. D N Singh also alleged that the transfer of the Delhi zoo from the wildlife wing of the Environment Ministry to the CZA has not brought any improvement in the management of the zoo. The zoo has been in the headlines recently over a large number of animal deaths and allegations of irregularities by staff. According to a census, the Delhi zoo recorded 245 deaths from April 2018 to June 2019 — the second-highest mortality figure in five years. As per information available on the website of the CZA, the Delhi zoo's mortality rate in 2018-19 was 15.12 percent, which is the highest among all major zoos in the country. The zoo has lost all its population of giraffe, zebra and chimpanzee. Overall, it has lost the entire populations of 10 species of animals since 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gharial-death-at-delhi-zoo-inquiry-panel-finds-5-employees-guilty-of-negligence-843867.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Migrant labourer commits suicide in UP||A migrant labourer who had returned from Delhi allegedly committed suicide following an argument with his wife, police said on Sunday.  According to SHO Lalauli Police Station, Pradeep Kumar Yadav, 50-year-old Genda Nishad had returned from Delhi around 10 days ago. "On Saturday, his body was found hanging from a tree in Korarakanak village. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination," he said.  Nishad had borrowed some money from his wife Sushila and wanted more. However, the wife did not have any money.  "This led to argument between them and Nishad left home on the pretext of cutting wood, where he ended his life by hanging himself from a tree," the SHO said.  The deceased is survived by his wife, six sons and a daughter, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-labourer-commits-suicide-in-up-843871.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Overnight rain, gusty winds bring mercury down in Delhi||Overnight rain, accompanied with gusty winds of up to 60 km per hour, brought the mercury down in the national capital on Sunday, the weather department said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 9.2 mm rainfall. On Saturday, it recorded the maximum temperature six notches below normal. The Palam Observatory gauged 5mm rainfall overnight. The weatherman has predicted light rain and thunderstorm with winds gusting up to 50 kilometers per hour over Delhi-NCR on Sunday. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 35 and 22 degrees Celsius respectively. With another western disturbance being expected in northwest India in the first week of June, a heat wave is not likely to return to Delhi-NCR before June 8, the weather department. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the India Meteorological Department's regional forecasting centre, said the effect of the current western disturbance and easterly winds will reduce significantly by Sunday evening. He said the maximum temperature in Delhi-NCR is likely to increase by two to four degrees Celsius from June 1 to June 3. "However, the mercury will remain below 40 degrees Celsius over most places and heat wave conditions will not return," he said. A fresh western disturbance and southwesterly winds along with the formation of a low pressure system in the Arabian Sea will bring moisture to Delhi-NCR, Srivastava said. These two systems will lead to thunderstorm and light rain over Delhi-NCR between June 3 and June 5. "A heat wave is unlikely over northwest India till June 8," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/overnight-rain-gusty-winds-bring-mercury-down-in-delhi-843901.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Terrorist camps, launch pads in PoK full, Army's response to CFV swift and hard: Lt Gen Raju||All the terrorist camps and around 15 launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) "are full", according to top army commander Lt Gen B S Raju, who anticipates an increase in infiltration attempts from across the border this summer to replenish the diminishing terrorist cadres in Jammu and Kashmir. In an interview to PTI, Lieutenant General Baggavalli Somashekar Raju asserted that the back of terrorism has been "virtually broken" and that Pakistan is unable to "digest" that Kashmiris are experiencing peace and an improved law and order situation. Lt Gen Raju took over the reins of strategically located XV Corps in Srinagar on March 1. "The back of terrorism is virtually broken. Because of the successes in eliminating terrorists operating in the hinterland, we expect cross-border infiltration to increase in the summer season to make up for the dead terrorists. I anticipate more and more attempts to replenish the depleting cadres, as the window for infiltration is also restricted to the summer season only," Lt Gen Raju said in an e-mail interview. "All the terrorist camps and around 15 launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir are full. These terrorist cadres are desperate to infiltrate with the help of Pakistani Army." Stating that Pakistan has consistently been aiding and abetting infiltration for more than 30 years now, the general said there have been several ceasefire violations (CFVs) by Pakistani army to support the infiltrating terrorist groups, but added such designs have been frustrated as "our befitting response to ceasefire violations has been swift, hard and punitive". He also spoke about the Army's counter-infiltration grid being fortified which, along with, "our effective response to ceasefire violations has left Pakistan helpless in furthering their agenda." An NDA alumni from the 1984-batch, Lt Gen Raju, who earlier served as the Brigade commander along the Line of Control (LoC), and later led the "Victor Force", a counter-insurgency group of the Army that looks after the militancy-hit south Kashmir region, also sent a clear message that those having any evil design "against our country" should shun such ambitions. "Anyone picking up weapon or harbouring ill intentions against the sovereignty of the nation will be dealt with more punitively," he said, adding that the army with various stakeholders are fully prepared for any contingency and will continue to relentlessly pursue those people. To a question how the army is coping up with increased infiltration bids when the entire world is grappling with COVID-19, Lt Gen Raju said Pakistan is unable to "digest" that Kashmiris are experiencing peace and an improved law and order situation. "Even in times when the world is together in combating the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, Pakistan still indulges in furthering its inimical designs along the Line of Control. Our soldiers along the borders are well equipped and fully geared to take on any eventuality which arises." The general said the army is fighting the coronavirus pandemic with utmost professionalism within India and in neighbouring regions, and also simultaneously defeating evil designs along the LoC and in the hinterland. On the recent killing of top militant leadership including Reyaz Naikoo and Junaid Ashraf Sherai, the self-styled commanders of banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group, he said that for the past one year, the terrorist leadership of all terror tanzeems (terror groups) have been effectively targeted and eliminated. "There is now a definite leadership void and Pakistan's persistence in pushing terrorists to carry out their agenda is losing hold on ground. After the loss of leadership...there is already a rift between various terror groups who are either vying for survival or gaining some prominence," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorist-camps-launch-pads-in-pok-full-armys-response-to-cfv-swift-and-hard-lt-gen-raju-843915.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi demands Rs 5,000 crore from Centre to pay salaries||AAP-led Delhi government has sought Rs 5,000 crore immediate assistance from the Centre to pay salaries to its employees, saying its revenue has dwindled to around Rs 1,735 crore per month. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday that he shot off a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in this regard outlining the problems faced by the Delhi government on the financial front. He said Delhi government requires Rs 3,500 crore per month for paying salaries and office expenses but its revenue collection has shrunk to around Rs 1,735 crore per month in the past two months. "The COVID-19 lockdown has an impact on the economic situation across the country and it has huge impact on the revenue of Delhi. We did a review of revenue collection. In the past two months, the GST collection has been only Rs 500 crore each month. The total revenue, including from other sources, has been Rs 1,735 crore (in two months). For two months, you need at least Rs 7,000 crore for paying salaries and running offices," he said. Sisodia said Delhi also did not get anything from the disaster relief fund that was given to other states. "The biggest issue what we are facing now is how to pay salaries to our COVID-19 frontline workers. Delhi government is also not getting any other assistance from the Centre. I have demanded in a letter to the Finance Minister to immediately release Rs 5,000 crore to Delhi," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-demands-rs-5000-crore-from-centre-to-pay-salaries-843920.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases rise to 802 in Uttarakhand||Dehradun district reported the maximum 25 cases followed by Haridwar (15), Pauri and Uttarkashi (6 each) and Rudraprayag (1), a state health department bulletin said. Most of the new patients have a travel history to Mumbai and Delhi. The bulletin said 102 patients have recovered, five are dead and three have migrated out of the state and there are 692 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-rise-to-802-in-uttarakhand-843922.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Take steps to become self-reliant: Mayawati tells Centre, Uttar Pradeh govt||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday advised the Centre and Uttar Pradesh government to take concrete steps towards becoming self-reliant instead of waiting for companies to move out of China and set up shop in India. Making a strong case for creating Shenzhen-style special economic zones characterised by highly entrepreneur-friendly regime with respect to land and labour, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said such an initiative will make it easier for small and medium scale industries to become self-reliant. In 1980, Shenzhen was established as China's first special economic zone. In a series of tweets, Mayawati said, "Instead of waiting for companies to leave China and come to India, the Centre and UP government should take steps to become self-reliant as unlike the Shenzen Economic Zone, free of cost road infrastructure, water, electricity and accommodation facilities for labourers near their workplace are not provided here." "If facilities which exist in Shenzen Special Economic Zone are given to Indian industrialists, then the ravaged small and medium industries, the welfare of the affected migrant class and India becoming self-reliant will definitely become a bit easier,” said. Attacking the Yogi Adityanath government in the state, the BSP chief in another tweet said, instead of helping the lakhs of migrant labourers returning to the state due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, a campaign to “fool” people through signing of Memorandum of Understanding and making announcements has been initiated in the state. “This is extremely sad. Without concrete steps taken in the interest of people, the situation will deteriorate. Prior to signing of new MoUs and publishing photographs, the government should have informed about the status of similar MoUs signed in the last few years,” she said. “It would be better if the MoUs are not signed for (clicking) photos and misleading people as lakhs of labourers are waiting for employment at the local level," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/take-steps-to-become-self-reliant-mayawati-tells-centre-uttar-pradeh-govt-843928.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Taj Mahal damaged in deadly thunderstorm in Agra||A deadly thunderstorm that rolled across parts of northern India damaged sections of the Taj Mahal complex, including the main gate and a railing running below its five lofty domes, officials said Sunday. One of the New Seven Wonders of the World, India's top tourist attraction has been shut since mid-March as part of measures to try and combat the coronavirus pandemic. AFP images showed workers assessing the railing of the main mausoleum after the storm on Friday night battered Agra city in northern Uttar Pradesh state. "One sandstone railing which was a part of the original structure has been damaged," Superintending Archaeologist of the Archaeological Survey of India, Vasant Kumar Swarnkar, told AFP. "One marble railing which was a later addition, a false ceiling in the tourist holding area and the base stone of the main gate has also been damaged." He added there was no damage to the main structure of the monument to love -- built by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan as a tomb for his beloved wife Mumtaz Mahal, who died giving birth in 1631. Local media reports said thunderstorms and lightning on Friday killed at least 13 people in two Uttar Pradesh districts. Fatal lightning strikes are relatively common during the June-October monsoon season. Last year, at least 150 people were killed by lightning in August and September in Madhya Pradesh state in central India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/taj-mahal-damaged-in-deadly-thunderstorm-in-agra-843930.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Railways to repaint isolation coach tops to reduce the heat inside||The non-air conditioned COVID-19 care isolation coaches will soon get a solar-reflective coating, which would bring down the temperature inside by 5-6 degrees Celsius, if a trial being conducted by railways on 100 such coaches is successful. The move comes amidst concerns raised by Niti Aayog on the heat inside these coaches during peak summers when temperatures soar to more than 40 degrees in parts of the country. According to a health ministry advisory on these coaches, around 5,200 of them have been earmarked for Covid care at 215 railways stations across the country. The railways has now ordered a trial to paint the roofs of 100 of the converted coaches over Northern and North Central Railway as per standards prescribed by The Research Designs & Standards Organisation (RDSO), a senior railway official told PTI. "The trial is expected to be concluded by June this year and once we are able to reduce the temperature by at least 5-6 degrees Celsius only then we would scale it up. The thing is if we cannot bring down the temperature substantially, then there is no point in investing money and resources in this,” said the official involved in the process. The cost of painting is estimated to be Rs 1 lakh per coach, including the cost of paint and labour, a second official said. Officials said if the trial is successful, the idea can be used on the 5,000-odd modified coaches and also in non-air conditioned coaches. They said the railways is using a "Made-in-India solution" developed by IIT-Mumbai and the aim is to reduce the temperature from 45 degrees to about 39 degrees. The solution can reduce ambient temperature by 15 per cent and also act as a fire retardant. "RDSO has been asked to develop a trial scheme with locations for measurements to be done. This paint is expected to bring down the temperature by 5-6 degrees. This is the right time to conduct the trial as the temperatures are high and measurements can be effective,” the first official said. Earlier, a trial was conducted on around 100 coaches of Humsafar Express, Jan Shatabdi Express, Antyodaya Express using another Make-in-India product, 3M Scotchkote Polytech Exp RG700, which is a solar reflective coating which reduces heat inside any enclosure and can be applied on various metallic and non-metallic substrates, officials said. In a statement, 3M India said its solution leads to energy conservation by over 20 per cent and can significantly contribute to passenger comfort. "It is estimated that if applied over 15,000 rail coaches in India's large rail network, this solution can save up to 162,000 MW of electricity which converts to reduction in the amount of CO2 released by almost 132,000 tonnes per year. This could potentially save approximately USD 15 million per year in energy costs or reduce it by 17 per cent," the company said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railways-to-repaint-isolation-coach-tops-to-reduce-the-heat-inside-843941.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Lockdown restrictions extended in Jammu and Kashmir until June 8||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday extended the coronavirus lockdown until June 8 and said the Centre's new guidelines on some relaxations require a fresh assessment of the spread of COVID-19 in the Union Territory. The Union Home Ministry has said 'Unlock-I' will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide lockdown imposed since March 25 will be relaxed to a greater extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the worst-hit areas. In an order, Chief Secretary and Chairperson, State Executive Committee, B V R Subrahmanyam said the guidelines or instructions issued on May 19 and 24 with regard to lockdown would continue until June 8. Referring to the fresh guidelines issued by the Union Home Secretary on Saturday for containment zones (Red zones) till June 30 and reopening certain activities in a phased manner in areas outside containment zones, the order said it requires a fresh assessment. “Whereas these guidelines require State and UT governments to assess the current spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and based on this assessment, prohibit certain activities outside the containment zones or impose such restriction as deemed necessary, which will require a detailed assessment and consultations on the spread of COVID-19 in J&K,” the order said. Barring 11 districts, including eight in the Valley, which were categorized as “red zones”, life started limping back to normal in four districts of Jammu region declared “green zones” and five other districts spread across the two divisions and named as “orange zones” on May 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-restrictions-extended-in-jammu-and-kashmir-until-june-8-843956.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||2 ASIs of Delhi Police succumb to COVID-19||Two Assistant Sub Inspectors of Delhi Police have succumbed to COVID-19 in the past two days, officials said on Sunday. ASI Vikram, who was posted in Sultanpuri Police Station in Outer Delhi, breathed his last on Sunday, while ASI Shesh Mani Pandey, a finger-prints expert posted with Crime Branch, passed away on Saturday after contracting the virus infection. "Delhi Police family mourns the loss of 2 brave police officers in our fight against Corona pandemic despite best efforts to save them. We pay homage to ASIs Vikram and Shesh Mani Pandey and may their souls rest in peace. We are committed to providing all help to their families," Commissioner S N Shrivastava tweeted. Vikram, who hailed from Gopalganj in Bihar, was admitted to Army Base Hospital on May 26 with breathing trouble and passed away at 11:30 AM. He was survived by wife and three sons. Pandey, who hailed from Madhya Pradesh's Rewa was an ex-serviceman who joined the Delhi Police in 2014. He was also admitted to the Army Base Hospital on May 28 after his test results were declared positive. He was tested at Lady Hardinge Hospital after he developed symptoms of fever and cough. On Saturday 8 PM, he breathed his last. Pandey is survived by his wife and three children, including a daughter. On May 5, a 31-year-old Delhi Police Constable Amit Kumar had died due to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-asis-of-delhi-police-succumb-to-covid-19-843967.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Highest spike of 1,295 new coronavirus cases in Delhi takes total to over 19K||Daily COVID-19 numbers are on the rise in Delhi with Sunday reporting 1,295 cases, the highest for a single day, and an addition of 57 deaths to the toll. With this, the national capital has 19,844 cases since the first one was reported on March 2.  Of this, 16,326 or 82.27 per cent of total cases reported in May alone. Since May 18 when lockdown 4.0 came into effect with more relaxations, there were 9,820 cases or 60.14 per cent of the cases reported this month. Of the 57 deaths, four were reported on Saturday and nine were on Friday. According to the medical bulletin, 10,893 patients are still under treatment, including 5,781 in home isolation. It said 416 were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,478. So far, Delhi has tested 2.12 lakh samples, which includes 6,045 new samples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/highest-spike-of-1295-new-coronavirus-cases-in-delhi-takes-total-to-over-19k-843971.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Senior Rail Bhavan official tests positive for COVID-19; sixth since May 13||A director-level officer of the Rail Ministry at Rail Bhavan here has tested positive for COVID-19, the sixth case detected in the building since May 13, prompting authorities to send 29 staffers to home quarantine, officials said Sunday. The officer last came to work at the rail headquarters on May 22. The latest case came to light on Saturday, five days after a fourth-grade multitasking staffer tested positive for the disease. Nine of his contacts have been sent into home quarantine till June 2, officials said. The director-level officer's 29 contacts have been sent to home quarantine till June 5. Another senior official tested positive on May 24, days after another was found positive on May 22. On May 14, a contractual worker, who served to drive out monkeys from the building with his langoor, tested positive, and an RPF staffer did so on May 13. The railways had sealed the building for two days each on May 14 and May 15 and in May 26 and May 27 for deep sanitisation. At least 50 railway staffers who have come in contact with those who tested positive for COVID-19 are home quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-rail-bhavan-official-tests-positive-for-covid-19-sixth-since-may-13-843992.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Special flight carrying 144 stranded Indians from Kiev lands at Chandigarh||A special flight from Ukraine capital Kiev carrying 144 stranded Indians landed here on Sunday under the Centre's Vande Bharat Mission. Two passengers were from Chandigarh, 54 from Himachal Pradesh, 53 from Haryana, 34 from Punjab and one from Rajasthan. All precautionary measures related to COVID-19 were at place at the international airport here to handle the incoming passengers. They were screened by Punjab Health Department authorities and subsequently handed over to respective states after immigration and customs clearances. Afterwards, all passengers were sent to quarantine as per protocol issued by respective states, they said. On May 22, an Air India special flight from New York carrying 100 passengers who belonged to Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Chandigarh had landed at the Chandigarh International Airport.       The Centre had recently said that the mega mission to bring home Indians stranded abroad will continue till June 13 and the extended phase will cover 47 countries. The second phase of the mission was to end on May 22. As per the government policy, Indians having "compelling reasons" to return like pregnant women, elderly people, students and those facing the prospect of deportation are being brought back home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/special-flight-carrying-144-stranded-indians-from-kiev-lands-at-chandigarh-843994.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward areas along LoC in Poonch||The Pakistani army continued heavy shelling targeting various sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, leaving a 25-year-old civilian injured and at least two residential houses damaged, officials said on Sunday. The shelling from across the border in Mendhar and Balakote sectors started around 11 pm on Saturday and continued till 4:50 am Sunday, followed by fresh rounds of fire in Kirni, Qasba and Degwar sectors this evening, they said. Mohammad Yasir, a resident of Gohlad, received splinter injuries when a mortar shell exploded near his house in the early hours of Sunday, the officials said. They said over half a dozen villages in forward areas were hit by the overnight shelling, resulting in partial damage to two houses. The shelling was intense in the Mendhar sector as the Pakistan army used long-range mortars to target civilian areas, the officials said. The Indian Army effectively retaliated but the casualties on the Pakistani side could not be ascertained immediately, they said. The panic-stricken people in the targeted areas spent the whole night in bunkers and other safe places, they said. A defence spokesman said the Pakistan Army initiated the unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and lobbying mortars along the LoC in Balakote and Mendhar sectors, causing damage to civilian houses. In a separate statement this evening, the spokesman said Pakistan again initiated unprovoked ceasefire violations in Kirni, Qasba and Degwar sectors around 7.50 pm, drawing a befitting response by Indian army. The cross-border shelling was going on when the reports last came in, he said. On Saturday, Pakistan had targeted forward areas in Kirni and Khari Karmara areas of Poonch district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-poonch-844027.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 Lockdown: UP okays interstate travel but curbs continue on Noida, Ghaziabad borders||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday allowed interstate travel but restrictions on movement of people into Ghaziabad and Noida from the adjacent national capital continue for now. In guidelines on the next phase of the lockdown, which begins Monday and will last till June 30, the state government left it to Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad administrations to take a call on relaxing restrictions travellers from New Delhi. By late evening, Noida authorities had decided that the border with Delhi will remain sealed. Ghaziabad authorities said the previous restrictions will continue till they come up with fresh instructions.  Both districts allow movement related to essential services and for people with valid passes through their “sealed” borders. But the restrictions meant to contain coronavirus cause problems for people who commute to work across the border. Largely following the Centre’s guidelines issued a day earlier, the state government has allowed the opening of religious places, malls and educational institutes in a phased manner from June 8 onwards. Barbershops too will open but they have to follow social distancing and other norms. On travel, the order issued by Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary R K Tiwari said, "There is no ban on interstate and intra-state movement by persons or goods." The order added that there is no need for a separate approval or an e-permit for this. But at the same time, it said there will be a ban on the movement of people from the containment areas in Delhi to the NCR areas of Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad. "The district administrations in consultation with police and the Health Department will issue separate orders for their respective areas as per the guidelines of Union Ministries of Home and Health and Family Welfare," the official said. All government offices will open with 100 per cent staff. But to prevent crowding, there will be three shifts from 9 am to 5 pm, 10 am to 6 pm and 11 am to 7 pm. Sanitisation and social distancing will have to be ensured.  All schools, colleges, educational institutes and coaching institutes are proposed to open in July, following the Centre’s guidelines. “Marriage venues can open but prior permission has to be sought, and not more than 30 persons are permitted to attend a marriage function," a UP government statement said. "Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and other similar places will remain closed till further orders," Tiwari said. Stadiums and other sports venue can open but not spectators will be allowed. International air travel and Metro services will remain suspended till further orders. Movement of people will remain prohibited from 9 pm to 5 am. Industrial activity outside the containment zone is allowed. Industrial units will have to ensure social distancing, thermal scanning, sanitisation and wearing masks. Night shifts are permitted if the factories provide safe transport home. In urban areas, no weekly markets will be allowed. In rural areas, they can be held with social distancing in place. Street vendors can operate in open spaced with similar conditions. "Sweet shops can open, but customers cannot sit there and consume the sweets," the statement said. State roadways buses can run within the state but they cannot carry passengers beyond the seating capacity. Parks will open from 5 am to 8 am and from 5 pm to 8 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-up-okays-interstate-travel-but-curbs-continue-on-noida-ghaziabad-borders-844058.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||India, China bring in heavy equipment and weaponry to their rear bases near eastern Ladakh||Indian and Chinese armies were moving in heavy equipment and weaponry including artillery guns and combat vehicles to their rear bases close to the disputed areas in eastern Ladakh as the two militaries remained engaged in a bitter standoff along the troubled border for over 25 days, military sources said Sunday. The enhancement of combat capability by the two armies in the region came even as both the countries continued their efforts to resolve the dispute through talks at military and diplomatic levels. The Chinese Army has been gradually ramping up its strategic reserves in its rear bases near the the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh by rushing in artillery guns, infantry combat vehicles and heavy military equipment, the sources said. The Indian Army has also been moving in additional troops as well equipment and weapons like artillery guns to aggressively match up to the Chinese build-up, they said, adding that India will not relent till status quo is restored in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and a number of other areas. The Indian Air Force has been keeping a strict aerial surveillance in the disputed region. A sizeable number of Chinese Army personnel entered into the Indian side of the de-facto border earlier this month and have been camping in Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley since then. The Indian Army fiercely objected to the transgressions by the Chinese troops and demanded their immediate withdrawal for restoration of peace and tranquility in the area. The Chinese Army has ramped up their presence in Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie too -- the two sensitive areas with a history of skirmishes involving the two sides. The Chinese army is learnt to have deployed around 2,500 troops in Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley besides gradually enhancing temporary infrastructure and weaponry. However, there is no official figure about the numbers. Sources said satellite images have captured significant ramping up of defence infrastructure by China on its side of the de-facto border including construction activities at a military airbase around 180 kms from the Pangong Tso area. The assessment by the Indian Army is that the build up is aimed at putting pressure on India. "We are well aware of the Chinese ploy. The Indian Army is firm on its stand that we are not going to accept anything less than restoration of status quo in the area," said a senior military official. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said bilateral talks were on at military and diplomatic levels with China to resolve the row. The trigger for the face-off was China's stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. The sources said China was also laying a road in the Finger area which is not acceptable to India. The sources said military reinforcements including troops, vehicles and artillery guns were sent to eastern Ladakh by the Indian Army to shore up its presence in the areas where Chinese soldiers were resorting to aggressive posturing. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to "disengage". However, the standoff continued. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-china-bring-in-heavy-equipment-and-weaponry-to-their-rear-bases-near-eastern-ladakh-844062.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Thousands of families in Jammu and Kashmir survived lockdown by stitching masks: Official||Thousands of families in Jammu and Kashmir earned their livelihood by stitching face masks during the COVID-19 lockdown, an official said on Sunday. Many of these families are thankful to the administration for providing them employment during the lockdown through J-K Khadi Village Industries Board (KVIB) and State Handloom Development Corporation Limited, he said. The Department of Industries and Commerce, J-K has so far manufactured as many as 11.66 lakh masks by engaging various artisans, the official said. "Out of the total, KVIB has manufactured more than 10 lakh face masks and J-K State Handloom Development Corporation about 1.6 lakh," said Commissioner Secretary, Industries and Commerce department, Manoj Dwivedi. He said administration's people-friendly measures during the lockdown have not only provided employment to thousands of people of the union territory but has also augmented the production of face masks in J-K. "The unitholders of Handloom Development Corporation and KVIB have been able to survive the lockdown by manufacturing face masks. They have been able to earn their bread and butter only because of this activity," Dwivedi said. Secretary KVIB Rashid Ahmad Qadri said it was a humongous task to achieve the production of over 10 lakh face masks in a short duration. "The department has manufactured 10.43 lakh cotton face masks out of which 10.40 lakh masks have already been distributed," he said. The whole exercise was undertaken by the districts under directions from the J-K administration, Qadri said. Deputy commissioners personally supervised the activity, framed district level task forces and placed orders with different self-help groups, local tailors and other units, he said. The distribution of face masks was managed through the Panchayati Raj Institutions and the payment was directly transferred to the accounts of the beneficiaries, Qadri added. He said the administration ensured the issuance of passes to mask manufacturing units so that their work does not suffer during lockdown. Trained candidates of rural self employment training institutes also prepared around 95,000 face masks and handed them over to the district administration in Doda, Kishtwar, Samba, Kulgam, Kupwara, Pulwama and Shopian, an official said. Nasreena Begum, who runs a cutting and tailoring centre at Thathri area of Doda, said she was "getting anxious" for her family's survival during lockdown as she was receiving no orders. However, the orders for stitching masks from district administration and other government organizations made things better and so far she, along with 20 other women, have made over 50,000 face masks, Begum said. "Our business had collapsed as we could not get any material due to lack of transportation during lockdown, but thanks to KVIB we have received orders for supply of masks to the government and are now able to run our day-to-day affairs," Begum said. She said her unit now manufactures almost 1,200 face masks a day and is hopeful to get orders for more in the future. She has also received orders for face masks from the Army, BSF and other security agencies, Begum said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/thousands-of-families-in-jammu-and-kashmir-survived-lockdown-by-stitching-masks-official-844065.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Lockdown: All govt, private offices to start functioning with full strength from June 1||The Rajasthan government on Sunday allowed full attendance in government and private sectors but continued the ban on opening religious places, hotels and malls in the next phase of the lockdown, starting on June 1 and lasting till June 30. In its fresh guidelines issued at the end of the fourth phase of lockdown, the state government also allowed private and commercial transport vehicle to carry passengers up to their full capacity, but no more. The Ashok Gehlot government also allowed interstate and intrastate operation of buses, while providing that the buses would ply within the state only on permitted routes and outside containment zones. The city buses, however, were yet not allowed to ply. The guidelines said there would be no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement of people and goods and no separate pass, permission, approval or permit would be required for that. Government offices will start functioning with full capacity from June 1, said the new guidelines. During the last phase of lockdown, full-strength functioning was allowed only for government departments dealing with important and essential work in red zones and full strength of officers and 50 per cent of staffers for other government offices with remaining officials working from home. Private offices too have been permitted to operate with up to full strength but they may encourage “work from home” practice to the extent possible, the guidelines said. All religious places, hotels, restaurants, hospitality services and eating places, except the already permitted home delivery and take away services, shall remain closed for public. The movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain strictly prohibited between 9 pm to 5 am across the state. Only essential activities will be allowed in containment area where cases have been detected in recent past, the guidelines said, while allowing no relaxation within the containment, hotspots or curfew-bound areas.   All shops, already opened, will continue to operate while ensuring strict implementation of the lockdown and ant-corona provisions, like observing social distancing and wearing face masks.   Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeeva Swarup said the prolonged lockdown, with gradual relaxations has helped contain the community spread of COVID-19 and save thousands of lives. The threat from virus, however, still continues, he cautioned. “These guidelines are based on the principal of cautious resumption of normalcy through adequate precautions and safety measures at work and public places,” Swarup said in the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-lockdown-all-govt-private-offices-to-start-functioning-with-full-strength-from-june-1-844068.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||CRPF DIG posted at MHA control room tests positive for COVID-19||A CRPF deputy inspector general posted at the Ministry of Home Affairs control room here has tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Sunday. They said the test report of the officer was received on Saturday. The deputy inspector general (DIG) was attached with the Union home ministry to monitor the work of its control room located in North Block, they said. Two persons who worked with him have been quarantined and all safety protocols are being followed, an MHA official said. The officer has been admitted to an isolation facility for treatment, they said. Earlier, two CRPF jawans attached with the ministry had tested positive for the disease. They have now recovered, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-dig-posted-at-mha-control-room-tests-positive-for-covid-19-844070.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand minister Satpal Maharaj, family members test positive for coronavirus||Uttarakhand Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj, his wife Amrita Rawat and 21 others, including members of his family and staff, tested positive for coronavirus, an official said on Sunday. Satpal Maharaj had attended a meeting of the state cabinet on Friday. Asked whether other cabinet ministers who attended the meeting will be quarantined, state government spokesman Madan Kaushik told reporters that they will follow the advice given by the Health Department as per the guidelines of the Centre. According to state Health Department spokesperson J C Pandey, the minister’s wife tested positive for the infection on Saturday while his two sons and their wives, along with 17 others, were found infected with the virus on Sunday. Amrita Rawat was admitted to the AIIMS, Rishikesh, on Sunday morning. The minister and other members of his family are too kept at the facility, an AIIMS official told PTI. The 17 others could not be admitted to the hospital due to a shortage of space, the official said. Amrita Rawat was a minister in the previous Congress government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-minister-satpal-maharaj-family-members-test-positive-for-coronavirus-844073.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi set to allow more relaxations; city records highest spike of 1,295 new cases; death toll rises to 473||Opening of salons, shops in malls on an odd-even basis, and religious places are among the activities the Delhi government is likely to allow in the national capital in the coming days, even as the city continued to witness a spike in COVID-19 cases with the highest single-day record of 1,295 fresh infections on Sunday. The Delhi government may extend the lockdown in containment zones till June 30, an official said, adding that the city administration will permit all activities, including in religious places, allowed by the Centre in a phase-wise relaxation plan. A decision on the opening of cinema halls and gymnasium may be taken later. However, measures for maintaining social-distancing like 20 passengers in a bus, two people, excluding the driver, in four-wheelers and one person in an autorickshaw will continue to be in place for next more days. Sources said that neighbourhood religious places are likely to be allowed to open even as famous ones which witness large footfall will remain closed for some more days. The government will come up with detailed guidelines for the next phase of relaxations on Monday. The government is likely to prohibit people's movement from 9 PM to 5 AM during which all non-essential activities will not be allowed. At present, the timing is from 7 PM to 7 AM. On Sunday, Delhi recorded its highest single-day spike of 1,295 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 19,844, as the death toll due to the disease mounted to 473. The previous single-day highest spike of 1,163 fresh cases was recorded on May 30. This is the first time in Delhi when more than 1,200 COVID-19 cases have been reported in a day. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has issued show cause notices to four leading facilities in the national capital, including AIIMS and LNJP Hospital, for "delay in reporting death cases". While LNJP Hospital is a dedicated COVID-19 facility under the Delhi government, the rest three hospitals are under the central government. "Show cause notices have been issued to AIIMS, LNJP Hospital, RM Hospital and Safdarjung Hospital to explain the reasons for delay in reporting death cases and for violation of the directions issued by the Delhi Health Department, as well as by DDMA under the Disaster Management Act," the department said in a statement. Besides, memoranda have been issued to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital also to explain the reasons for "delay in reporting death cases and for violation of the directions" issued by the health and other authorities. The Delhi government had faced allegations of under-reporting deaths due to the coronavirus, but it blamed the hospitals for the discrepancy in numbers saying they were not filing timely death reports of patients. The health department has announced additional guidelines for disposal of bodies of those who die of COVID-19 or suspected to have died of it at hospitals, directing that such bodies be sent to mortuaries within two hours. On Sunday, Lt Governor Anil Baijal directed authorities to continue with the strict measures in containment zones in order to arrest the spread of COVID-19 in the national capital. Baijal held a meeting with Chief Secretary Vijay Dev and other top officers of the Delhi government and municipal corporations to review steps being taken to ramp up the medical infrastructure in the city keeping in mind various scenarios. Two Delhi Police Assistant Sub-Inspectors have died due to COVID-19 since Saturday evening, taking the overall coronavirus casualty figure in the force to three, officials said on Sunday. While a 52-year-old ASI died around 11.30 AM Sunday during treatment at the Army Base Hospital here, another officer of the rank passed away at the same facility Saturday evening, they said. A Delhi Police spokesperson said that nearly 500 personnel have tested positive for the deadly virus so far. Facing drastic decline in tax collection in the wake of the coronavirus-forced lockdown, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said that the AAP government has sought an immediate assistance of Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to pay salaries to its employees and meet office expenses in this "hour of disaster". Addressing an online media briefing, Sisodia said that the lockdown has affected the economy of the country as well as Delhi. After the briefing, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter and requested the central government to help the people of Delhi "in this hour of disaster". Slamming the Delhi government, the Delhi BJP on Sunday asked the AAP dispensation whether it was demanding Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre to meet its promotional expenses. Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari asked Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal if his government needed the money to spend on advertisements. He also cited central government schemes for poor people in a bid to suggest that Sisodia's demand was misplaced. Tiwari tweeted, "790 crore directly in Jan Dhan accounts, free cylinders of Rs 836 crore, Rs 243 crore given to Divyang, widows and senior citizens, Rs 768 crore of ration that you could not distribute. Arvind Kejriwal ji are you demanding the money for advertisement expenses?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-set-to-allow-more-relaxations-city-records-highest-spike-of-1295-new-cases-death-toll-rises-to-473-844082.html
31-05-2020||North and Central||Places of worship to open in Punjab from June 8: Fresh lockdown guidelines||The Punjab government on Sunday issued fresh guidelines for the next phase of lockdown, starting on June 1 and allowed the opening of places of worship besides hotels, restaurants and shopping malls from June 8. The new guidelines also said the lockdown provisions, however, will remain in force in containment zones till June 30. The new guidelines came a day after Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a four-week extension of the lockdown till June 30 in Punjab. As per the guidelines issued by the Punjab Home Affairs and Justice Department, the movement of individuals for the non-essential activities shall remain prohibited from 9 pm to 5 am. Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, assembly halls would continue to stay shut while all social, political, sports, cultural, academic and religious gatherings would continue to remain prohibited, the guidelines said. As far as marriage-related gatherings are concerned, guests not exceeding 50 would be allowed while up to 20 people would be allowed to attend funeral or last rites, the guidelines stipulated. As per the guidelines, religious places or places of worship, hotels, restaurants (in-dine service) and shopping malls will remain closed till June 7. The state government, however, based on standard operating procedure of the Union ministry of health, would issue SOP before June 8 for their opening, they said. There would be no restriction on interstate movement of people and it would require no separate permission or e-permit. However, use of COVA app and self-generated 'e-pass' would be mandatory, the guidelines said. Schools and colleges besides other educational and coaching institutes would continue to remain shut, the guidelines said, while allowing liquor vends to remain open from 8 am to 8 pm. The interstate movement of buses will be allowed with mutual consent of the state and subject to the compliance of the Transport Department's SOP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/places-of-worship-to-open-in-punjab-from-june-8-fresh-lockdown-guidelines-844083.html
31-05-2020||Opinion||Survival of the fittest 40s||My sister Vidya and I have a favourite pastime. To compare ourselves with our mother – what she, her life was like -- when she was as old as we are right now. And we realise how old we thought she was, back then! By the time Ma was 43, she had become a mother-in-law, and in the next two years, a grandmother. A happy one at that, easing into the role smoothly, looking after the grandchildren while her daughters built their careers; bending her daily routine to help them juggle their jobs, travel, inlaws-relationships and parenthood. Meanwhile, many of us in our 40s are busy, as I see, taking a break from our careers, yet feeling we are at the crossroads; counting our greys that have grown every day during the lockdown, pretending that we are cool with the new crown on our heads, but can’t wait to go back to Coloured Hair once the salons are safe to go back to. We are busy helping people around with time, ideas or money, but we also have a bugbear that our mothers didn’t have -- to keep up with social media and our social circles, a bugbear that won’t be crushed even by quarantine. In many ways, Covid-19 has completely altered the planetary position of the middle-agers. In the past five to 10 years, the 40s, even 50s, were the toast of the advertising world, the temple at which FMCG, food, fitness and the fashion industry placed their choicest offerings. New-age jobs meant you could buy your own (first) house and car right in the 20s, but it is the ‘settled’ 40s that attracted the media-spenders more. The age at which a person has loose change to spare even after EMIs; the age in which the urge to spend on one’s own wellness has well emerged. And so, we were wooed with travel options to ‘Fit at 40’ workout themes and apps – the world truly belonged to the middlers. Come Covid era, that income and thereby that indulgence is under threat. Employment and opportunities are getting scarce; those who are bang in between being ‘young’ and being ‘senior citizen’ are finding themselves on the chopping block. Younger ‘resources’ cost less and are also seen as better adapters to new technologies, so organisations think it makes better economics to let go of the rest. This is paradoxical to the fact that the onset of the 40s is when people grow deeper into their career and, perhaps, even get better at it. Reporters, for instance, are likely to do the most legwork and travel in their 20s and 30s, but it is age and experience that earn the title ‘seasoned’. With years on the field, come perspectives (besides bias and dogmatism!). A doctor couple that I know from the famed Christian Medical College, Vellore, who spent their early years serving in rural Tamil Nadu, say it is only now, after three decades, that they feel they are better practitioners. “Often, I can just see a patient walking in and figure out what could be wrong.” Just that they have just now ‘retired’. The ‘peak’ age of one’s best work is strikingly different for different professions. A gymnast could peak in her teens, a cricketer or footballer in the 20s (though outliers like a Dhoni or Roger Federer can dominate the sport way past the average age of prime). A techie may begin to plateau in the 40s, while in the judiciary, the 50s is just the warm-up age! The rule-bender is politics -- where being young can work against you. The late Madhavrao Scindia famously said how he was already a grandfather, but simply not old enough to be considered for the Congress party’s top post. Where does this leave the middlers? Not in a very well-equipped place to cope. The Network of Women in Media, a national collective of women from print broadcast and digital media, recently formed a solidarity group for those who had lost or were in danger of losing jobs. Raksha Kumar, an independent journalist herself, was one of those who put out her phone number, saying her first thought was “to only offer solidarity”. She was flooded with calls that came right through the week, from both men and women who said they had told their potential employers they are willing to take up a lower position with lesser pay, but weren’t still getting new jobs. I asked Raksha if she saw any recurring theme in the calls, and what her takeaway message was. The need for diversity in skillsets, she said. People who had spent a decade or more in their field found it harder to find placements. Is being a generalist better than being a specialist? Will being versatile score over being single-focused? For now, it is clear that reskilling or upskilling is the way to go. Or the other trending word: Pivot. Which means you reimagine same old you in new ways, doing new things, or the same things differently. (Vasanthi  Hariprakash can chat with a stone and get a story out of it.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/survival-of-the-fittest-40s-843785.html
31-05-2020||Opinion||The wages of centralised decision-making||The spread and impact of COVID-19 has not been uniform across the country. Take four contiguous states for instance: Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala -- all on the west coast and reasonably prosperous. While the first two account for nearly half of all cases in India, the latter two account for less than 4,000 cases. Gujarat and Karnataka have roughly the same population but have vastly different numbers of cases even though Gujarat detected its first cases a week after Karnataka did. One answer to this lies in the responses of state governments. Kerala and, to an extent, Karnataka have been vigilant and effective about testing, contact tracing and isolating infected persons, but Maharashtra and Gujarat have been less so. But why should there be such a difference in outcomes in four states of reasonably comparable wealth? The answer may have to do with the large role given to state governments under our Constitution when it comes to public health and sanitation. All law-making powers under the Constitution for Union and state governments are derived from the same two articles: Articles 245 and 246. As any civics student will tell you, certain powers are reserved for the Union (List I), certain for the states (List II) and certain are the responsibility of both (List III). However, is there an underlying logic to the way these subjects are separated in these three lists? This is a question that arises particularly when tackling epidemic diseases. While “public health and sanitation” is in the exclusive domain of the state, both the Union and the state governments share powers when it comes to preventing the spread of infectious and contagious diseases from one state to another. When you think about it, the framing is quite clear: Health and sanitation will be in the hands of the government closest to the people while the Centre always remains in the background to help if the situation gets out of hand, or threatens to go beyond state borders. This was not uncontested in the Constituent Assembly and members did worry about the spread of epidemics, but not the epidemic we are thinking of. They were thinking of the “epidemic” of adulterated mustard oil which had spread disease and devastation across Eastern India and which, they felt, could only be tackled by centralising the power to manage disease and public health! One particular member, Brajeshwar Prasad Mishra, who was against any sort of federalism, had this to say: If the nation is to be saved from the scourge of disease and epidemics, all powers as far as this entry is concerned must be vested in the hands of the Centre. Of course, I fully appreciate the point that by wresting those important powers, provincial autonomy will be modified to a very large extent, but provincial autonomy is not an end in itself. It is only a means to an end -- the end being the economic, political and cultural advancement of the people of this country. Any movement of ideology that stands in the way of the economic, political and cultural advancement of the people of India must be liquidated and wiped out. The bombast of this speech seems to have been an outlier in the Constituent Assembly and seems fairly ludicrous in hindsight -- federalism has kept India together even as neighbouring countries such as Pakistan and Sri Lanka have splintered and fallen into civil war as they tried to impose a unitary identity on diverse peoples. The wisdom in creating a federal structure cannot be denied. Needless to say, the rest of the Assembly did not agree with Mishra. Coming back to COVID-19, states such as Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra did begin to impose their own lockdowns much prior to the Centre by exercising their powers under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. States pushed the Union to impose a full lockdown later because inter-state movement of persons was becoming difficult to handle. Unfortunately, that is where the story of cooperative federalism ends. Since then, we see an unnecessary and confusing centralisation of decision-making. Decisions are made in Delhi with little coordination between states. There’s no framework for cooperation, resulting in states refusing to let workers leave or enter their boundaries. Our Constitution-framers, almost all of them having lived through the Spanish influenza outbreak, if not the various plague outbreaks, knew that any effective response to an epidemic had to be led by the government closest to the people, with the Centre playing a supporting role. Unfortunately, we have forgotten these lessons and are paying a heavy price for it. (Alok Prasanna Kumar argues that Harry Potter is science fiction and Star Wars is fantasy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-wages-of-centralised-decision-making-843786.html
31-05-2020||Opinion||He can’t be Moriarty!||The Pai household is divided into those who watch stuff on the big flat screen and those who do not. The eight legs that constitute the Viewers Bloc consist of the three children and their mother. The six legs constituting the group that has better things to do with its time has me and Percival Wolfric Brian, our golden retriever. He is the moderate face of my faction, often spending time in the living room while the viewers binge-watch shows on Netflix. The extremist faction of our Bloc firmly believes that the best place to put the television is outside the window, especially from a high-rise apartment. The dinner table acts as the Security Council where the debates of this geopolitics are usually conducted. “That’s Moriarty,” she said, pointing to a slick, clean-shaven young man in a suit. I was shocked. “Moriarty? Him? The guy looks like an investment banker. He can’t be Moriarty!” They started laughing. They told me it’s been three years since Sherlock had ended and that, indeed, was Moriarty. When Victor showed me a YouTube video of the said investment banker getting out of a helicopter with Apple earphones listening to Queen’s I want to break free, I thought the Brits had crossed a line. In fact, they’d entirely lost the plot. No wonder they got themselves into such a mess over Brexit. If you could turn the “Napoleon of crime” into a slick city suit, you will certainly make smaller mistakes. The metaphorical man who’d been living in a cave woke up to see his family watch their favourite episodes of one of their favourite shows. I could get the reinvention of Holmes and Watson, now called “Sherlock” and “John” who send text messages, not telegrams, to each other. I understood that there had to be female characters and romantic interest. I even reluctantly adjusted to Mycroft becoming a main character. In fact, I enjoyed bits of the episodes that I saw in passing. But how could they do that to Moriarty? I told the children that the real Professor Moriarty is a sinister, shadowy figure who appears in a couple of stories and is referred to in a few more. Sidney Paget depicts him in the December 1893 edition of The Strand Magazine as a thin, bald, brooding man, well into his fifties, emerging out of the darkness. Holmes describes him as “The greatest schemer of all time, the organiser of every devilry, the controlling brain of the underworld, a brain which might have made or marred the destiny of nations—that’s the man!” All in all, he is a villain whose malign influence is heightened because it is perceived indirectly. The children countered that while that may be so, the new Moriarty was quite cool as well. I agreed. He was cool. The character he plays is brilliant. I quite like the I want to break free scene. But that cannot be Moriarty. That should not be Moriarty. You can’t completely change the character of the character. Airy pointed out that for a person who liked cover versions and remixes in music, it was inconsistent of me to oppose remixes of television characters. I had to admit she was right. But having immersed myself in the pages of the facsimile edition of the Complete Sherlock Holmes for many of my childhood years, the brilliant novelty of Sherlock was too much for me. Perhaps this is what it means to be growing older — the familiar is suddenly changed, leaving you with a sense of loss, perhaps even of violation. If you try to fight it, you become a curmudgeonly old uncle or aunty. If you go along with it, you might even enjoy it. Better to accept reality. Maybe the investment banker is not the evil professor, but his grandson. (Nitin Pai is an unapologetic proponent of dad jokes  @acorn)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/he-can-t-be-moriarty-843787.html
31-05-2020||Opinion||Living in the isolated moment during lockdown||Maximum City”, Mumbai, has yet again matched up to the moniker bestowed upon it by author Suketu Mehta by becoming the “Coronavirus Capital of India”. Despite an eternal lockdown exceeding two months so far, infection numbers continue to grow in the city where I live. As does my dismay. Wretched reports of overflowing public hospitals, makeshift quarantine and treatment camps mushrooming wherever space will permit (including the race course and planetarium), and the likely impact of the impending monsoon are overwhelming. People are carelessly flouting the lockdown. It’s not only those in poor and congested areas. Educated and supposedly sensible people are merrily gathering on the streets, too. Outside Starbucks in a tony suburb that’s incidentally also a virus hotspot, they chat, most sans masks, over takeaway coffees. In another area of the city, members of an upscale housing society throw a samosa and music party. Four of my friends tell me that residents of their apartment complexes recently tested positive for the virus. It is spreading wider. I admit, I’m frustrated, along with the majority of the people following the lockdown. Lack of clear and timely information compounds it. As I try to figure out what’s going on, it seems the situation has degenerated into a political power play. This increases my confusion, as I don’t understand how the government functions, having decided long ago that it’s best I keep my nose out of it. The Mumbai Police Commissioner has issued a prohibitory order to curb criticism of the government and the spread of false information. Nevertheless, a message stating that Mumbai and Pune will be under military lockdown for 10 days is being circulated. There are other fake orders permitting relaxations in the lockdown rules. Muddled much? Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government has announced a welcome change of strategy, concentrating on contact tracing and isolation, which it has dubbed “Chase the Virus”. My peculiar imagination presents me with a glorious vision of Ramdas Athawale running after the virus, dressed in his finest jarring attire and chanting, “Go Corona Go”. At this point, I question my mental state. I realise my happiness, and also my sanity, depend on my capacity to deal with uncertainty right now. It feels like I’m living in a parallel universe in the calmness of my home, while my long-time dread of Mumbai imploding due to its woefully inadequate infrastructure is coming to fruition (never did I dream it would be a virus bringing this spirited city undone though!). I don’t know when or if my husband will be able to return to work, or when I’ll see my parents again. Nor do I have any predictions about the future of the travel industry. All I can do is focus on the present moment, because that’s all that’s definite. About 15 years ago, I undertook a 10-day residential silent Buddhist Vipassana meditation course. In some respects, it was not unlike lockdown. For the whole 10 days, I was alone with my thoughts, completely cut off from anyone else and the outside world. A few participants lost their minds and had to leave. The most important thing I learned was the reality of impermanence. Situations, and feelings, come and go. What matters is that we acknowledge them but remain detached in order to avoid suffering. There are days when I achieve new things and am upbeat, and days when I’m unmotivated and disturbed. But as always, tomorrow will be a different day and next year a different year. This lockdown actually provides an incredible opportunity to practise living in the now because the ability to plan for the future has been taken from us. And so, I try to direct my attention towards making the present meaningful and appreciating the little everyday “sunshines” in order to emerge resilient and healthy. If I can’t change what’s happening around me, at least I can change what’s happening inside me. (Sharell Cook is trying to make sense of India, one ‘Like That Only’ at a time)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/living-in-the-isolated-moment-during-lockdown-843789.html
31-05-2020||Opinion||A pandemic of democratic inertia||As the economic toll from Covid-19 mounts, there have been a number of people pointing to past failures in funding public health, which has greatly increased our vulnerability. With some foresight, we could have built a healthcare system that is more resilient and able to withstand such large threats. To which it is added, at least now we must make the necessary investments in healthcare for the future. Health is not the only arena in which this is heard, either. Another looming catastrophe is also receiving attention -- climate change. As in the case of public health, we have gone on merrily ignoring one warning after another about how badly we’re going to be hit by the changing climate, unless we change our ways soon. In fact, we are told, it may already be too late to avoid serious consequences. But how likely is such a rethink? More than 30 years after climate change news began appearing regularly in the media, should we now be optimistic that coming face to face with a pandemic will finally nudge us into doing things that we’ve refused to do so far? Or is even Covid-19 not enough to rouse us from our wilful neglect? The first answers aren’t reassuring. Among the big ‘reforms’ announced by the government as part of the package to revive the economy is a large commitment to expanding the coal industry. That’s odd, because even before the pandemic, it was widely understood that fossil fuels are things we should get away from. Boosting investment in them isn’t really the lesson we should be learning from Covid-19. Another example is the proposed development of the Hubballi-Ankola railway line passing through the Western Ghats. Cut more trees, deplete more pristine habitats -- and even dismay a lot of voters in the process. You’d think this is exactly what a democracy should be able to prevent. And yet it happens. Why? I think an important part of the answer is that our politics has reached a tipping point of failure -- the democratic processes we follow aren’t adequate to make a connection between the wishes of the people and the actions of our leaders. What we want is incidental, and rarely figures in the calculus of decision-making. Is the public addicted to fossil fuels? I don’t think so. What it wants is affordable energy prices, and ease of consumption. If that is available from cleaner options, they will switch readily, sometimes even at a premium. But there’s a problem -- the political parties are addicted to fossil fuels, unlike the people they supposedly represent. Why would any party take positions that are mis-aligned with the way more and more people think? Would that not make them unpopular, and therefore at risk of losing elections? Alas, the answer is ‘no’. What we are seeing, not only in India but around the world, is that political leaders ally with those who fund their elections. And legacy industries that are harmful to the planet are a big part of that funding. Is there a risk of becoming unpopular by making such choices? Not at all. As political observers have often pointed out, parties have not really needed to earn the support of the public by delivering development. That’s fairly evident -- after seven decades of elections, we’re still in the bottom quartile of the world on many development indicators. Clearly, our one-time ritual visit to the ballot box every five years isn’t connected to making our lives better. The irony is the public’s endless faith in this level of misalignment. We want something, we elect people to do those things for us, and they do the very opposite of what we want, repeatedly. We tell ourselves that the next choice we make will be better, but that’s not really true -- we’re always expecting basketball players to win cricket tournaments and trying to achieve victory through substituting one dribbler for another. It would be funny if it were also not so tragic to millions of people. Can we really sleep through a pandemic and wake up with no new commitments to set a different course? Yeah, because that’s easier than taking responsibility for self-governance. Ultimately, the great disasters that loom can only be repelled by a much higher level of personal responsibility, and far greater levels of participation in public problem-solving. By leaving this to others, we find we have left it to no one. (Ashwin Mahesh wakes up with hope for the city and society, goes to bed with a sigh, repeats cycle @ashwinmahesh)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-pandemic-of-democratic-inertia-843790.html
31-05-2020||Panorama||Towards a new economic-geography for states||With millions of workers desperately returning to their native hometowns and villages, after being stripped of their dignity and means of livelihood, the pandemic has made many states receive a large influx of these workers into their own territories. This has also thrown a set of possibilities for states (like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh etc) to reprioritise their socio-economic outlook for the time to come. Economic geography, as a sub-field in economics, often receives a lot of policy-attention in discourse on studying international trade, allowing nations to maximise their economic potential and production in certain commodities and services with comparative advantage, for gains in trade. In a pre-Covid world, urbanisation, as a process, was seen concentrated in economic centres, projected as hotspots for attracting domestic/foreign capital, and becoming destinations for exports, creating more employment, making millions to migrate into these spaces from far-away rural corners. It seems there is now a pressing need to revisit this dynamics of an urban-biased, economic geography to bring the focus back on developing more proximate economic hotspots within states, where states invest in building their own comparative advantages, creating more opportunities for local populations. This is critical at a time when supply-chains of commodities, and even labour movements, are likely to disengage from far metropolises and move much closer for production-distribution-consumption needs. The question is: How can a state - at the bottom of the development pyramid - maximise this crisis-opportunity for transforming its economic policy-making framework and allow its own population to gain in social and economic terms? There are five areas which states (with low GSDP and per capita incomes) can focus upon. Firstly, by ploughing in deeper structural reforms in areas of factor markets (land, labour, enterprise, capital, tech-penetration) to provide a crowding-in effect for private investors to bring long term investments within states. This will not happen by simply focusing on one factor of production alone. There has been a lot of discussion around the temporal suspension of (pre)existing labour laws in states like UP, Maharashtra, MP to attract more investment. However, state administrations are erring in doing ad-hoc suspensions or removing laws that actually take away agency -- and security -- of workers from them and give greater autonomy and bargaining power to employers. This only exacerbates worker exploitation. At a time when almost 30% of the organised workforce is unemployed, and millions within the unorganised, contractualised workforce lack adequate social safety nets, a reorientation of existing labour laws need to safeguard worker interests as against abandoning them altogether. Further, factor market reforms in land, capital markets, tech-policy need to be complemented with others to give enterprises a broader set of incentives to invest in. Secondly, states with embedded comparative advantages in production and distribution of certain commodities - or services - given their socio-economic, socio-cultural capital networks, need to leverage these to scale. For example, if a state produces the best quality textile products in apparel, or manufactures the best quality carpets for exports and has MSMEs engaged in this, there is a strong case to be made for viable firms to get more advantages of scale through targeted fiscal (tax or indirect tax-related) incentives and targeted credit lines from financial institutions. This can help these firms scale up their production as demand picks up. Similarly, if an agrarian state offers strong potential for scaling up production and supply of certain vegetables, pulses, cash crops etc, incentives need greater alignment to make agriculture and allied activities a more profitable, and for farmers to gain market-access in proximate (nearby) locations of produce, making their process of distribution, or point of sale easier. I have argued earlier how distant market-networks made the supply-chain management of essential food crops rigged with price distortions which adversely affected the principal source - the farmer. Advisory team Thirdly, with perhaps a state-focused economic advisory team to the CM, states need a three-to-five-year state-employment policy to ensure that everyone within the state who wishes to work has a job with a basic social-safety net. This helps bring rates of involuntary unemployment down and addresses other scenarios of high frictional unemployment, more underemployment in existing sectors. A medium to long-term fiscal plan focused on employment generation, having more regularised public data on employment, and promoting worker-intensive sectors of occupation will offer locals with opportunities for better subsistence and livelihood-especially those who reverse migrated to their villages and may now prefer staying and working closer to home. Fourthly, imbibing lessons of effective decentralisation and in building social capital from Kerala’s model. This is vital particularly for poorly developed states which need sustained public investments in building their human capital, through greater public spending in healthcare, education, social service delivery (say mother-child care support, family planning support/counselling, unemployment insurance, and basic nutritional access to the poor). Kerala has championed in these basic areas along with other states like Tamil Nadu in the South, Goa in the West and Sikkim in the North-East. The fifth aspect is closely related to the fourth, and is in connection to decentralising governance, allowing greater decision- making power and financial autonomy to local communities and women-led groups. This has been seen in states like Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh where there is improved administrative governance at local levels, more efficient micro-finance institutions, self-help groups etc. Greater investment in social capital catalyses and empowers local community members to feel part of the governance process and strengthens the state-citizen contract. Additionally, it creates a robust feedback loop on policy-implementation locally, allowing the executive, legislative branches to take cognizance of concerns and respond to them more directly. When a national crisis strikes --as it did with this pandemic --it often reorders the governance and social planning architecture of a state, particularly in terms of (re)allocating resources. This crisis offers states an opportunity to do just that and the opportunity must not be missed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/towards-a-new-economic-geography-for-states-844035.html
31-05-2020||Panorama||Off the record: 31 May||A new kind of war While recently J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh accused Pakistan of sending Covid-19 infected militants into the Valley, there were suggestions from a few on social media that the army should now fortify the Line of Control (LoC) with Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) mines. While responding to police chief’s claims, the netizens, in lighter vein, suggested that not only HCQ mines should be laid along the LoC, sandbags in the bunkers should be replaced with HCQ bags and HCQ darts should be fired instead of machine-gun fire and mortar shells at infiltrators. There was also a suggestion of setting up quarantine bunkers for the infiltrators on the LoC, if they are caught alive. While wars are nothing new in human history, Covid-19 wars will be different. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar Praiseworthy act A video showing some passengers in a Mizoram-bound Shramik special train giving away food items to flood-affected people taking shelter on a railway track somewhere in Assam is earning a lot of praise. These people were stranded in Bengaluru during the lockdown and had faced a lot of hardships before the Centre decided to start special trains to help them get back to their homes. That the passengers showed so much of concern for the flood-affected people despite their suffering was inspiring. Even the Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad K Sangma appreciated the gesture. On Saturday, another video was seen in social media where some people in Begusarai in Bihar were seen offering food items to passengers in another Mizoram-bound train. Zoramthanga. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati Pragya’s tale Nearly a decade after she was released on bail by an NIA court, the Malegaon bomb blast accused and Bhopal MP Pragya Singh Thakur still wants the world to believe that she bears the trauma of alleged torture she underwent during custody of the Anti-Terrorism Squad, Maharashtra. Ten people were killed and 80 injured in the blasts in Malegaon, Maharashtra in September 2008. On Saturday, she released a video message saying visibility in one of her eyes was absent and the second had 25% vision. She said there was swelling and pus in parts of her brain. The injuries to her eyes were caused by torture. The controversial Lok Sabha member is undergoing treatment in the AIIMs, New Delhi. She disclosed her condition a day after posters appeared in parts of Bhopal to the effect that the MP is missing in her constituency at the time of unprecedented crisis. Rakesh Dixit, Bhopal Another slugfest The plight of the migrant workers during Covid-19 has generated much political heat. Pushed on the backfoot, BJP is now busy trading punches with the Congress on the issue. Delhi BJP leaders shared separate photographs of Rahul Gandhi’s interaction with migrant workers and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra speaking to a group of party workers. They claimed that the same lady figured in both the photographs, once as a migrant worker and in the other as a party worker. Congress hit back at the BJP asking it not to insult the migrants even if they cannot help them. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Winding routes Since more than 90% of total 3890 Shramik Special trains operational from May 1 were travelling to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the railways diverted some trains to avoid route congestion. Around 70 trains were diverted to different routes, and 35 of these went through Odisha. This led to an increase in the duration of the journey by 10 to 16 hours. According to the railways, they diverted the trains as per a suggestion from a computer-system. The railways defended an Uttar Pradesh bound Shramik special train from Vasai Road in Maharashtra landing in Rourkela in Odisha, but a top official is now studying whether the computer based-system guided the trains properly or not. Ajith Athrady, New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-31-may-844036.html
31-05-2020||Right in the Middle||My recollections of royalty ||‘Trooping the Colour has been cancelled for 2020.’ This announcement comes as no surprise. The pandemic that is plaguing our planet is unimpressed by the time-honoured traditions of the United Kingdom. The country has been celebrating the official birthday of its monarch for over 270 years, but Covid-19 is unlikely to dutifully disappear in deference to the Crown. In 1975, on the second Saturday in June, I was among the thousands in London who witnessed the annual parade with its pomp and pageantry. When the royal cavalcade headed back to Buckingham Palace, we walked briskly alongside the carriages, in the same direction. Soon after, Queen Elizabeth II and her husband, the Duke of Edinburgh, stepped onto the balcony, along with members of their family. The regal group that greeted the cheering throng that afternoon has expanded through the decades. Forty-five years ago, Anne was the only one of the Queen’s children who was married, while Andrew and Edward were youngsters. Charles, Prince of Wales, was resplendent in his red uniform of Commander of the Welsh Guards. At twenty-six, he was an immensely popular, eligible bachelor. ‘Charlie! Charlie!’ yelled the women in the crowd, as he smiled and waved.  I was lucky enough to see Charles again, at Windsor Castle. I had gone there with Mary Katherine Street, who had been our landlady when my parents and I were living in England in the 1950s. Nearly two decades later, she was my guide to places of historical significance. The author of three novels about the life and times of Henry VIII, she was a fascinating fount of knowledge.  ‘Auntie Mary’ was interested to learn that I had seen Prince Charles a few months earlier, playing polo in Delhi. A friend of mine somehow got hold of a film of the game, and, while watching it with her, I remarked that Charles was handsome. She declared that her fiancé was better looking. I refrained from making a caustic comment, since we were at her house and only halfway through the reel. Today, that match is easily accessible on YouTube. So is Trooping the Colour of 1959, which I attended as a four-year-old. I do not remember much of the ceremony, but vividly recall Queen Elizabeth and her bright shade of lipstick!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-recollections-of-royalty-844038.html
31-05-2020||Second Edit||Centre’s growing fixation with Hindi||The government’s fixation with Hindi is growing, as is seen from an official document issued by the Union Home Ministry, which pushes for the ‘’promotion and progressive use’’ of the language in government undertakings and offices all over the country. It is an annual document that expresses a perennial concern and obsession of the government, and tells civil servants that it is not enough that the work in government offices is done, but it should be done in Hindi. The government is unhappy that substantial work is still being done in English and reminds officials that targets have not been achieved, though there is ‘’progressive use’’ of Hindi. Since civil servants do not use Hindi in official work, subordinates are ‘’not getting the right message’’. But it is the message conveyed through the letter that is not right. It is that the government is obsessed with spreading and even imposing Hindi on people who do not speak the language and who are not ready to work with it. The letter says it is the constitutional obligation of senior officials to use Hindi, implying that failure to do so is to go against the Constitution, which may have consequences. But the actual consequence of such a hard position on Hindi is to alienate people from the language and those who champion it.The letter says that Hindi isnot used ‘’to the required extent’’, and offices may now have to measure their communications and file entries in percentages of Hindi wordage.  Issuing such diktats will only increase resistance and opposition to the language. The letter should be taken as a follow-up of Home Minister Amit Shah’s call last year to make Hindi the country’s national language and to take it to all regions by 2024. He even said that “it is extremely necessary to have one language for the whole of the country that will be India’s identity in the world’’.  India is a diverse country and each state has its own official language. The idea of “one country, one language’’ will not be accepted just as the narrow notions of oneness and sameness that are being promoted in other areas will not be. The document has elicited sharp reactions from non-Hindi states which consider the Centre’s persistent attempts to promote Hindi as continuing threats to their identities. It is felt that coercion is being used to impose the hegemony of Hindi on others. This will lead to more resistance, alienation and strife.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/centre-s-growing-fixation-with-hindi-844031.html
31-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu extends coronavirus lockdown till June 30, allows partial resumption of public transport||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday announced extension of the ongoing lockdown till June 30, albeit with more relaxations that included partially opening up public transport and allowing more employees at the workplace. Chief Minister K Palaniswami said the curbs on religious places, inter-state bus transport, and Metro and suburban rails would continue. Pubic transport will resume with reduced services from June 1, but buses will not be operated in Chennai, Kancheepurm, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet districts having the highest concentration of COVID-19 cases in the state. Private stage carriers will be allowed to operate in authorised routes, Palaniswami said. "To prevent the spread of coronavirus, the curfew is being extended till June 30 under the State Disaster Management Act and as per the Union Home Ministry's notification," he said in a statement. Tamil Nadu is among the states worst affected by the coronavirus pandemic. It witnessed the biggest single-day spike of 938 new coronavirus cases on Saturday taking the infection count to 21,184. The Centre had on Saturday announced 'Unlock 1", a graded exit plan from the lockdown that allowed, among others, reopening places of religious worship and restaurants. The state government on Sunday also announced a number of other relaxations, barring containment zones, and these include allowing more employees at the workplace and permitting showrooms and jewellery shops to re-open. Malls will remain closed, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-june-30-allows-partial-resumption-of-public-transport-843822.html
31-05-2020||South||Lockdown and quarantine violations put Kerala under risk of COVID-19 spike through local contact||With over 65,000 instances of lockdown violations reported in Kerala over the last four weeks and around 500 instances of quarantine violations in around two weeks, the state health authorities are worried if this trend will lead to a high risk of a spike in COVID-19 infections through local contact. Having contained all COVID-19 cases reported within the state till the first week of May, the state health authorities were confident that even if a large number returnees from other states and abroad were infected, a further spread through local contact could be curbed by effectively by quarantining the returnees. However, at least 80 people so far got infected through local contacts after the return of people, which makes over 10 percent of the 712 COVID-19 cases reported in Kerala, after May 4. During the initial phases of COVID-19 spike in Kerala, till the aforementioned date, around 30 percent people got infected through local contact. Kerala Health department Nodal officer Dr Amar Fettle said that violation of quarantine and lockdown norms by one single person poses the risk of spreading the infection to many. Despite massive awareness, people still tend to take it lightly, which is very unfortunate. The best way of fighting COVID is the self-protection by each and every individual from getting infected by wearing masks and maintaining hygiene. Though concerns were raised that the preference is given by the Kerala government for home-quarantine rather than institutional-quarantine poses a high risk of quarantine violations, health experts cite that home-quarantine can be enforced more effectively than institutional-quarantine, especially with regard to surveillance and for ensuring the mental health of the quarantined. Moreover, institutional quarantine of a large number of people returning from abroad also poses infrastructure and manpower challenges. Dr B Ekbal, who heads an expert committee of the Kerala government on COVID-19, told DH that Kerala was quite successful in effective home-quarantining during the initial phases. Even now, 500 odd home quarantine violations were found when over one lakh people were kept under home quarantine. Hence, it could not be projected against the home quarantine system. In order to curb home-quarantine violations, the Kerala police also launched surprise checks at houses apart from the tight surveillance by local-level health workers and vigil committees of local residents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-and-quarantine-violations-put-kerala-under-risk-of-covid-19-spike-through-local-contact-843873.html
31-05-2020||South||Man kills mother after quarrel over dinner in Kerala: Police||A 27-year-old drunk man allegedly killed his mother following a quarrel over dinner in the district, in perhaps the first such liquor-related crime in Kerala after the government resumed sale of alcoholic beverages couple of days ago after a two month gap. Nithin Babu, who was in a highly inebriated state, slit the throat of his 55-year old mother Kunjannamma with a kitchen knife after hitting her in the head with a hammer in their house at Thrikkodithanam village at around 10.30 pm on Saturday, police said. Not only that he then telephoned his neighbours to inform them that he killed his mother, they said adding a quarrel over food prepared for dinner was the immediate provocation for the murder. After being alerted, police reached the spot and found the woman lying in a pool of blood. The man, who had by then left the house after bolting the grill gate, was soon taken into custody from the area, police said. Nithin had been staying with his mother since his return from Dubai last year. This is perhaps the first such liquor-related incident in Kerala after the state government resumed sale of liquor after two month-long dry days due to COVID-19 lockdown. Sale of liquor, stopped in the state in the last week of March due to the nation-wide lockdown to prevent spread of novel coronavirus, resumed on May 28 through the government- owned Kerala State Beverages Corporation (BevCo) outlets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-kills-mother-after-quarrel-over-dinner-in-kerala-police-843900.html
31-05-2020||South||TN has good healthcare system, can implement Kerala model against COVID-19: Health Minister Shailaja||"Despite the financial constraints, we are able to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic with the people-centred policies. We also have good public health centre and dedicated health workers," the Minister said in the Facebook live discussion titled Maiam Talks. Tamil Nadu, which is among the states witnessing high number of in COVID-19 cases, too has a good public healthcare system and can implement measures such as strict quarantine and treating symptomatic persons taken by Kerala, she said.  Kerala, where the country's first three COVID-19 cases were reported since January 30, has seen fewer deaths (nine) and the total infection count stood at 1,208 with 624 active cases as of Saturday. Shailaja detailed measures taken by the state ever since it came to know about the virus outbreak in Wuhan and said a rapid response team and control room were formed on January 24 itself, six days before the first COVID-19 case in the country was reported from Thrissur. The symptomatic persons were shifted to hospitals from the airports itself and the rest of them were under strict home quarantine, she said adding Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the state administration and the health workers were very supportive in taking all the precautionary measures.  She also said people's participation was a major factor in fighting the pandemic. In response, Haasan praised the 'winning' Kerala model and said "This is what we want our government in Tamil Nadu to do." He and his followers will go to the public as "volunteers without any party colour" and help the Tamil Nadu government in fighting the pandemic, he added. "We are trying to organise a citizen partnership with the state government without giving any political shades to it. We do not want to play politics when the lives are at stake. Here livelihood also matters," he added. Haasan also discussed the post-COVID scenario with Director of US-based Centre for disease Dynamics, Economics and Police (CDDEP) Ramanan Lakshmi Narayanan and Dr Shalini, a writer and psychiatrist, as part of the Maiam talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-has-good-healthcare-system-can-implement-kerala-model-against-covid-19-health-minister-shailaja-843936.html
31-05-2020||South||Kerala IPS officer sleeps on office floor on last day of service||Kerala's senior most IPS officer, Jacob Thomas slept on his office floor on the last day of service on Sunday. Thomas, who is an officer of the 1985 batch IPS, posted the picture of his office room on social media on Sunday morning with a bed-sheet on the floor. "Last days beginning and sleep in the office room itself," he commented. With an axe in his hand, he also told a section of media that he will be beginning his next role in life with the axe of Parasurama. Thomas has been sidelined almost throughout his 35 years long service. He could wear the khaki uniform only for around five years during the initial years of service. Most of his service was on deputation in various institutions and public sector undertakings. He is retiring from service on Sunday as managing director of Metal Industries, a Kerala government PSU involved in manufacturing of metal tools and other products. Thomas was initially considered as a no nonsense officer. Later many corruption allegations, including forest land encroachment in Kodagu, came up against him. He was posted by present Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan as Vigilance director. He initiated probes and cases against a minister and many top IAS-IPS officers. Subsequently, he was removed from Vigilance director post citing the allegations that came up against him. Thomas landed in trouble after he openly flayed the government and penned a service story without government nod. He was placed under suspension for nearly two years before being reinstated to the current post last year. Though Thomas sought VRS last year for contesting Lok Sabha polls under the banner of an NGO, government reportedly rejected his plea citing the pending departmental proceedings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-ips-officer-sleeps-on-office-floor-on-last-day-of-service-843942.html
31-05-2020||South||Telangana extends coronavirus lockdown in containment zones till June 30, allows inter-state movement||The Telangana government on Sunday extended the lockdown in containment zones till June 30 even as it lifted the restrictions on inter-state movement of people. Certain restrictions currently in force in non- Containment Zones would however remain extended till June 7. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar announced the extension of lockdown after holding discussions with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahender Reddy and other senior officials in the backdrop of the Centre issuing new guidelines on the COVID-19 lockdown.  Rao instructed the officials concerned to strictly implement the lockdown in the Containment Zones, an official release said, adding that night-time curfew would be implemented daily from 9 PM to 5 AM. Shops would be allowed to remain open only till 8 PM, it said. Rao further said there would not be any restrictions on inter-state travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-in-containment-zones-till-june-30-allows-inter-state-movement-843974.html
31-05-2020||South||Six migrant workers from Andhra Pradesh injured in mishap||Six migrant workers from Andhra Pradesh were injured, three seriously, when the mini-truck in which they were travelling was rammed by a lorry from the rear in Nalgonda district of Telangana on Sunday, police said. The mini-truck carrying 12 workers was proceeding from Sangareddy district to Addanki in Andhra Pradesh when the mishap occurred at around 5.30 am, they said. All the injured have been hospitalised, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-migrant-workers-from-andhra-pradesh-injured-in-mishap-844053.html
31-05-2020||South||One more coronavirus death in Kerala||A woman died of COVID-19 in Kerala on Sunday evening. Sulaikha, 55, of Mavoor in Kozhikode, who recently returned from abroad, died at Kozhikode medical college hospital . According to local sources, she returned on May 20 from Riyadh and was later tested COVID-19 positive. She was undergoing treatment at the Kozhikode medical college hospital since May 25. She was suffering from hypertension. So far eleven persons, including a native of Mahe, died of COVID-19 in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-more-coronavirus-death-in-kerala-844061.html
31-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records single-biggest spike in COVID-19 cases; tally crosses 22,000||In the biggest-ever single-day surge since the outbreak began in March, Tamil Nadu on Sunday registered a record 1,149 positive coronavirus patients, including 95 persons who returned from abroad and other states, even as the death toll mounted to 173. There was no respite from the positive cases for Chennai, the state capital, which reported 804 cases on Sunday, the highest in a single day so far, taking the tally in the metropolis to 14,802. With today’s biggest surge, the total number of Coronavirus cases in Tamil Nadu stands at 22,333 with 173 deaths – 13 of which were reported on Sunday alone – and 12,757 discharges. The increasing number of people losing their lives to Covid-19 is also a concern for the state, which has been maintaining that it has one of the lowest mortality rates in the country below 1 percent. And the Health Department also classifies the deaths into exclusive Covid-19 deaths and Covid-19 deaths due to co-morbidities, which experts say is not the right way to deal with the situation.  Data released by the government says May has been the worst month for the state with 145 of the 173 deaths being reported in the 31-day period. Also, the month saw the state moving from a mere 2,526 positive cases on May 1 to 22,333 cases on the last day of the month. Though the number of positive persons is growing every passing day, the testing numbers have not seen much of an increase with 12,807 persons being tested on Sunday. However, the state boasts of possessing 72 labs that conduct tests for Coronavirus. This is despite an expert committee appointed by the state government asking it to ramp up testing to ensure the virus does not spread further. Doctors treating Covid-19 patients and experts told DH that while increased testing is the need of the hour, the government should focus on ensuring compliance of physical distancing, wearing of masks, and other precautions that are followed universally. Though the government is in denial, experts say Chennai is grappling with wide-spread community transmission as hundreds of people with “absolutely no travel or contact history” having contracted the virus. Dr. Ram Gopalakrishnan, Senior Consultant, Infectious Diseases with Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, said there is “wide-spread” community transmission within the metropolis and that there is no second opinion on the issue. “There is widespread community transmission within Chennai. We in the medical profession see patients who have absolutely no risk factors like contacts or travel but turn out to be positive. Within Chennai, there is no question that community transmission is happening. Outside Chennai, it is probably true that there is little or no community transmission,” Dr. Gopalakrishnan told DH last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-single-biggest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-22000-844063.html
31-05-2020||South||Chartered flight with 300 Indians stranded in Nigeria arrives in Kochi||A chartered flight carrying over 300 Indian nationals stranded in Nigeria due to COVID-19-induced lockdown arrived here on Sunday afternoon, an airport official said. The Air Peace flight from Lagos, Nigeria carrying 312 passengers on board, landed at the airport at 3.30 pm, Cochin International Airport Spokesperson said. "There were 197 Keralites among the evacuees, who were stuck in the African country during the lockdown," he said. Rest of the passengers are from other south Indian states including Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chartered-flight-with-300-indians-stranded-in-nigeria-arrives-in-kochi-844075.html
31-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, 120-feet Vivekananda statue near Bengaluru||Inspired by the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s Statue of Unity in Gujarat, the state government has proposed a statue of Swami Vivekananda that will come up near the Muthyala Maduvu water fall in Jigani on the outskirts of Bengaluru.  Housing Minister V Somanna announced Saturday that the Vivekananda statue will be 120 feet tall. “The idea is inspired by the basic element of the Sardar Patel statue situated on a water body. The statue has been able to augment tourism. We wanted to take up a similar initiative in the interest of tourism,” Somanna told DH. The Vivekananda statue plan is part of the Karnataka Housing Board’s (KHB) plan to develop Muthyala Maduvu as a tourist destination. “There’s water there. We’ll have waterfalls. It’s very nice,” Somanna said. “People come to the Bannerghatta National Park. This place is about 10-12 km from the national park. Tourists who come there, can visit this statue, too,” he said.  The statue will be housed on a three-acre plot as part of the Prime Minister’s Township the KHB is developing under the Surya Nagar 4th Phase residential scheme.   Although the cost of the statue was yet to be finalised, preliminary work had begun and a basic idea of the requisite architecture was already in place, Somanna said. “The work is likely to be completed in a year’s time."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-120-feet-vivekananda-statue-near-bengaluru-843773.html
31-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt launches COVID-19 information portal||The COVID-19 information portal warroom.karnataka.gov.in was launched by the Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Saturday. The portal is a an interactive interface that has near real-time update of COVID-19 bed occupancy, ICU occupancy, oxygen occupancy and ventilator occupancy in every district across Karnataka. Currently, it offers COVID-19 summary, source analysis, testing summary etc. In future, the portal would also be able to update on supply requirements of sanitisers and PPEs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-launches-covid-19-information-portal-843821.html
31-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Delayed COVID-19 reports put Karnataka returnees in quandary||Anand Bandiwaddar, a 26-year-old civil services examination aspirant who returned from Delhi to Gokak in Belagavi district in a Shramik Express is now a worried person. He fears to enter his home, as even after completing 14-days of institutional-quarantine, he has not received report of the swab test that was collected eight days ago. Not just him, more than 3,000 people in Belagavi, who have returned from other high-risk states, are awaiting their medical reports and yet the majority of them (600 according to former minister Satish Jarkiholi) have been sent home by the district administration, stating the new guidelines by the State government. This has led to fear among people and elected representatives of community spread as those sent for home quarantine can still spread the disease. “I have completed 14-days of institutional-quarantine and my swab sample was collected after eight days of institutional-quarantine. I don’t have any symptoms, however, one of my co-passengers who travelled in the same bus from Hubballi to Belagavi on May 16 has turned positive now, and I am worried to enter the home as I may spread the disease to others. Release of the medical report could have helped us to make a decision,” said Anand. Shivaraj Kumar, who was institutional-quarantined at Gokak BMC hostel says that majority of the returnees from Maharashtra, one of the high-risk state, were tested on the sixth or seventh day, and were released before the results were out. “25 of us were kept in the same hostel and we don’t know if anyone of us had contracted the disease,” he said. Even Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee Working President Satish Jarkiholi on Saturday raised concern over the move of the Health Department, which has ‘discharged’ 600 persons who were under institutional-quarantine across Belagavi district before reports of their COVID-19 tests were issued. He termed it a ‘big risk’ taken by the district administration. Sources in district administration informed DH that more than 7,000 people have come from high-risk states, including Maharashtra. Testing all of them is a time-consuming process. Speaking to DH, Belagavi Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli said, medical reports of more than 3,000 people are awaited, and all those who have been ‘discharged’ from institutional-quarantine are as per the circular issued by State government on May 27, which says: ‘A person who has completed 7-days of institutional quarantine and is asymptomatic can be permitted for home-quarantine without a COVID-19 test (RT-PCR)...’ Bommanahalli said the large-scale backlog is because of the high flux in the number of returnees from other States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/delayed-covid-19-reports-put-karnataka-returnees-in-quandary-843999.html
31-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||4 test coronavirus positive after return from quarantine centre||In a goof-up by Alamel taluk administration, four Maharashtra returnees, who were sent home from institutional quarantine on Friday, had tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday. Two women and as many men had returned from Pune, Maharashtra, recently. They were placed under institutional quarantine at a hostel in Madanahalli village. With new SOP reducing the mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine to seven days for interstate travellers, all four were released and sent for home quarantine on Friday, two days before they tested positive for Covid-19. The travel history of one of the infected was frightening. The man in question is said to have attended a wedding and a funeral in the village, visited a hair-cutting salon at Alamel all in a day. Realising their mistake, the authorities admitted all four to Vijayapura Covid Hospital on Saturday night. But the damage was done.  In fact, the taluk administration has sent many Maharashtra returnees home from quarantine centres across the taluk before they could receive the lab reports of the quarantined. Meanwhile, the taluk administration has sealed Madanahalli village. All nine primary contacts of the infected and a barber have been placed under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/4-test-coronavirus-positive-after-return-from-quarantine-centre-844026.html
31-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||16 train services from today||The South Western Railway will commence 16 special train services from Monday in accordance with the Indian Railways' announcement earlier this month. Trains between Bengaluru and Hubballi, Shivamogga, Mumbai, Howrah, New Delhi, Danapur, Hubballi-Vasco-Da-Gama-New Delhi and Gadag-Mumbai routes will begin operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/16-train-services-from-today-844047.html
31-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 numbers in Karnataka swell by 299 in a day||The state’s single-day Covid sike hit a new high with Karnataka recording a whopping 299 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. An overwhelming majority of the cases - 252 (or 84.25%) are people who returned to the state from Maharashtra. Interstate travellers from Maharashtra continue to torment Kalyana Karnataka districts. The region reported a whopping 189 fresh infections. Raichur district, which had zero cases till May 18, alone accounted for 83 fresh cases on Sunday. In just 13 days, Covid-19 tally in the district jumped to 217. Among the 83 new cases, as many as 80 were Maharashtra returnees while a 35-year-old man had a travel history to Bengaluru. A total of 13 children in the age-group of 1 to 10 years and 20 teenagers are among the cases reported today (May 31). What’s more disturbing is the fact that infections have started to surface in residential areas. The district administration has sealed several areas in Raichur city, Lingasugur and Maski towns and a few villages in Devadurg taluk. Yadgir district has galloped to second spot on state list with 285 cases. The district on Sunday witnessed 44 new cases. All but one are Maharashtra returnees. A 28-year-old woman has a travel history to Andhra Pradesh. Meanwhile, Kalaburagi district recorded 28 more Covid-19 cases. Alalnd taluk alone had reported 10 cases, including five of a Busanuru family. All 28 cases have a travel history to Maharashtra. A 11-month-old baby boy from Aland taluk has also tested positive for novel coronavirus. As many as 33 Maharashtra returnees tested positive for Covid-19 in Bidar district. Among the infected were five children in the age-group of 1 to 11. The district has 131 active cases as on May 31. Ballari reported one case while Koppal district drew a blank on Sunday.  Casualties Two Covid-19 fatalities were reported in the state on Sunday, taking the death toll to 51. A 50-year-old man from Raichur district, diagnosed with SARI, pneumonia, sepsis and respiratory failure, died at OPEC Hospital on Thursday (May 28). His throat swab sample returned positive for coronavirus on Sunday. In Bidar district, a 75-year-old man, with the complaints of breathlessness, fever and hypertension, was admitted to a private hospital on May 18. He died at his house on Friday. The elderly man, however, tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-numbers-in-karnataka-swell-by-299-in-a-day-844048.html
31-05-2020||West||Doctors to be hired for COVID-19 treatment in Mumbai: Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh on Sunday said that doctors and nurses will be hired on honorarium basis for COVID-19 treatment in Mumbai. The decision has been taken to ensure that there is no shortage of medical staff for treatment of COVID-19 patients in the city, he said in a statement. Mumbai has so far recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases among all the cities in the country. Its tally of patients till Saturday night was 38,442, while the number of deaths was 1,227. Registered doctors below 45 years of age, who do not suffer from any medical ailments and have completed their internship, will be hired as per the needs for treatment of patients. "They will be paid Rs 80,000 per month. Apart from doctors, physicians will also be hired on honorarium basis. Anaesthetists and intensivists will be paid Rs two lakh per month. Qualified nurses will be hired for Rs 30,000 per month. "The honorarium will be paid by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Eligible doctors and nurses should apply for it online," he said. Meanwhile, Deshmukh has also directed Vice Chancellor of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), Dilip Mhaiskar, that students who have passed their MBBS examinations in February 2019 and completed their one year internship be provided temporary graduation certificates. He said that with the certificate, they can register themselves with the Maharashtra Medical Council. If this happens, nearly 4,000 doctors can provide medical service in the present COVID-19 situation, he said. About 4,000 students have cleared the MBBS exam of November 2018 and the results were declared in February 2019. They have completed the internship in February 2020. However, the convocation ceremony is yet to be held in view of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctors-to-be-hired-for-covid-19-treatment-in-mumbai-anil-deshmukh-843892.html
31-05-2020||West||76 more COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan, total now 8,693||The state reported 76 fresh cases, taking the total number of cases to 8,693. The maximum of 21 cases were detected in Jaipur followed by Jhalawar 14, Bharatpur 12, Jhunjhunu seven, Kota six, Dholpur and Rajsamand five each, Ajmer three, Udaipur two and Tonk one. '''One death and 76 coronavirus positive cases were reported in Rajasthan on Sunday. Officials said 5,772 COVID-19 patients have so far recovered and 5,099 of them have been discharged. There are 2,727 active cases in the state. PTI SDA DPB DPB||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/76-more-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-total-now-8693-843899.html
31-05-2020||West||Elgar Parishad case: Court asks for medical report of jailed 81-year-old activist||A special court in Mumbai on Saturday directed state-run JJ Hospital to submit a medical report of activist Varavara Rao, arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad case. The 81-year-old activist was admitted to the hospital from Taloja jail on Thursday evening after he complained of giddiness. Rao's plea for seeking interim bail on health grounds is pending before the court, and is scheduled to be heard on June 2. His lawyers on Saturday urged the court, hearing his interim bail plea, to direct JJ hospital to submit Rao's medical report. The fact that the accused has been shifted to hospital shows that the matter is serious, their application said. Therefore, it would be necessary to see the medical report and present condition of the accused while hearing his bail plea, it added. Allowing the application, the court asked for a report from the hospital on Rao's medical condition. Rao and ten other civil liberties activists were booked under stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for alleged Maoist links and conspiring to overthrow the government. They were booked initially by Pune Police following violence that erupted in Koregaon Bhima there. According to police, the activists made inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgar Parishad meet held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which triggered violence the next day. The police also said they were active members of banned Maoist groups. The case was later transferred to the National Investigation Agency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-case-court-asks-for-medical-report-of-jailed-81-year-old-activist-843912.html
31-05-2020||West||Schools in remote Maharashtra with no COVID-19 cases should reopen: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Schools in remote areas of Maharashtra without internet connectivity and unaffected by the coronavirus pandemic should be reopened by implementing social distancing norms, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday. Stressing that the new academic year should begin in June, as in the normal times, the CM also called for the need to develop and strengthen online educationsystem in the state. Maharashtra is worst affected by the coronavirus pandemic with 65,168 cases and 2,197 deaths so far.  "In remote areas, where there is no internet connectivity and coronavirus pandemic spread, schools should be reopened by implementing social distancing norms. In places where there is a problem in physically restarting schools, the option of online education must be used," he told officials of the School Education department and Minister Varsha Gaikwad in a meeting held via video conferencing. While it is not necessary that schools must restart now, the department should develop and strengthen the online education system in the long run, he said. "Coronavirus pandemic shouldn't be a roadblock in the education of children. The academic year (2020-21) must start from June. Maharashtra should set an example before the rest of the country," said Thackeray.  He said Google platforms could be used onan experimental basis. "Education is a necessity which cannot be allowed to be stopped, he said. The CM also said that premises of schools currently used as a coronavirus quarantine facility should be disinfected and sanitised before making them reusable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/schools-in-remote-maharashtra-with-no-covid-19-cases-should-reopen-cm-uddhav-thackeray-843946.html
31-05-2020||West||Daulatabad Fort puts cannons in perspective||Cannons have changed the course of history, especially Indian history. But where can one find cannons of the medieval era?  The cannons at the Daulatabad Fort are perfect to study cannons and their relevance in the subcontinent, particularly in the Deccan.  The conical-shaped hill fort of Daulatabad, earlier known as Devagiri or Deogiri, is located in the Aurangabad district of Maharashtra. "There are 288 cannons in Daulatabad Fort," according to Dr Tejas Garge, Director, Directorate of Archaeology & Museums, Government of Maharashtra.In the sixth century, Daulatabad was part of caravan routes. Like Deogiri, the 'Hill of Gods' changed its name to Daulatabad, the 'Abode of Wealth', the fort also changed hands multiple times. At a webinar, 'History of Gunnery in India', hosted by the Sadhana Education Society's L S Raheja College of Arts & Commerce, Santacruz, Dr Garge said that the Deccan was ruled by many dynasties that shaped Indian history. These include Mauryans, Satvahanas, Vakatakas, Chalukyas, Pallavas, Rashtrakutas, Cholas, Kakatiyas, Vijayanagara, Khiljis, Tuglaqs, Bahmanis, Nizamshahis, Mughals and Marathas. Impregnable by military standards and an example of strategic planning, the fort falls between Aurangabad city and Ellora Caves, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, featuring Buddhist, Jain and Hindu monuments. "The cannons here are unique. They have various types, sizes and shapes," said Dr Garge.One of the most famous cannons is the Mendha tope. "The Qila Shikan or Breaker of Forts or Mendha tope was made by Muhammed Hussain Arab. Aurangazeb’s name is engraved as ‘Abul Zafar Muhiuddin Muhammad Aurangzeb Bahadur Alamgir Badshah Gazi’. It’s a composite cannon. This too was one of the most effective cannons. The cascabel is in form of a ram and hence the name Mendha tope," he said, adding that it has a barrel of wrought iron and casing of bronze. "In fact, Emperor Aurangazeb had used such cannons," he pointed out. Another cannon bears three inscriptions in Persian, one being the title 'Dara Shukoh Shah-I-Baland-Iqbal'. "This was Emperor Shah Jahan' son and Aurangzeb's brother Darah Shukoh. The name of manufacturer Muhhmad Hussain be can also seen," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/daulatabad-fort-puts-cannons-in-perspective-843954.html
31-05-2020||West||Bhima Koregaon: Ex-information commissioners urge Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to release Varavara Rao||Two former information commissioners have written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to release 80-year-old Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, who is in judicial custody in Bhima Koregaon case, on humanitarian grounds. In their letter, former commissioners Shailesh Gandhi and Sridhar Acharyulu claimed that there is "a lack of evidence" against Rao. "Pune police and State Investigation Team having investigated the case for 16 weeks could not collect even an iota of evidence to prove the wild charge that this 80-year-old man from Hyderabad has conspired/attempted to murder Prime Minister Narendra Modi," they said. The case was taken over by the National Investigation Agency after change in government in Maharashtra. The case is related to speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, and the next day's violence near the Koregaon Bhima war memorial in the district. Pune police claimed that the conclave was backed by Maoists and the speeches made there triggered the violence. During the probe, the police arrested Left-leaning activists Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Mahesh Raut, Shoma Sen, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Sudha Bharadwaj and Varavara Rao for alleged Maoist links. Citing the constitutional position, the former information commissioners in their letter said, "The subject of 'Law and order' is in the state list as per the distribution of powers under the Indian Constitution, which cannot be taken away by the Centre without any such request from the state or by the court". "It is a well-established principal of criminal justice that the accused shall be presumed innocent until the charge is proved beyond reasonable doubt. Because of lack of evidence, Varavara Rao has every right to be acquitted as not guilty. Only awaited legal formality is the final judgment of acquittal by court," they said. The former information commissioners highlighted Rao's frail health, Supreme Court order on undertrials during COVID-19 scenario, lack of information to his family to appeal for his release. "The magistrate who is hearing the case is seeking a medical report about Varavara Rao, since several adjournments. When the court was hearing the bail petition on 29th, the medical team was attending unconscious Varavara Rao. But the medical report was not submitted to the court," the letter said. The ex-commissioners appealed to the chief minister to take either of the steps to acquit him, release him on bail, shift him to Hyderabad Hospital, permit the family to meet him in the hospital, facilitate a videoconferencing with family, disclose his medical condition or share certified copies of entire file notings related to handing over of his case to NIA. PTI ABS -- “We bring the World to you" Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhima-koregaon-ex-information-commissioners-urge-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-to-release-varavara-rao-843958.html
31-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra govt extends lockdown till June 30||All markets, market areas and shops, except malls, will be allowed to open in Maharashtra from June 5 on the odd-even basis in non-containment zones as the state government on Sunday announced phase-wise reopening under the "Mission Begin Again". However, religious places, shopping malls, hotels and restaurants will continue to remain closed. While the state government has extended the lockdown till June 30, it preferred the new nomenclature as "Mission Begin Again", a day after the Centre announced significant relaxations under 'Unlock 1'.  Maharashtra is worst affected by the coronavirus pandemic, reporting 65,168 cases and 2,197 deaths so far. In a major relief, the state government allowed outdoor physical activities like morning walks and cycling. Additionally, public places can now be used for individual exercises, excluding non-COVID-19 zones. As per the new guidelines, all private offices can operate with up to 10 per cent of their employee strength as per the requirement from June 8 with others working from home. Offices of the state government will function at 15 per cent strength or 15 persons whichever is more. Self-employed persons like plumbers, electricians, pest control staff and technicians will be allowed to work, but they will have to follow social distancing norms and use masks and sanitisers. Garages can also function and customers can visit them with prior appointment. Intra-district bus services will be allowed eith maximum 50 per cent capacity, but inter-district bus services will remain barred.  These activities will be permitted in the red zones of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including Mumbai, as well as Solapur, Pune, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola, Amravati, Nagpur. However, such activities will not resume in COVID-19 containment zones, it said. As of now, the government has decided against reopening educational institutions and against allowing operation of international air travel; metro rail; passenger movement by train and domestic air travelunless specially allowed through separate orders and standard operating procedure. Cinema halls, gymnasiums,swimming pools, public parks, theatres, bars,auditoriums, assembly halls,religious places, beauty parlors, barber shops, salons, shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services will not be allowed to open. However, inter-state and intra-state movement of medical professionals, sanitation personnel and ambulances will be allowed. "Inter-state and inter-district movement of persons like stranded migrant workers shall continue to be regulated," the guidelines said. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had on Saturday said 'Unlock-1' will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide lockdown effectuated on March 25 will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-govt-extends-lockdown-till-june-30-843965.html
31-05-2020||West||Over 83% COVID-19 victims at Ahmedabad civil hospital had comorbidities: Gujarat government told the High Court||Over 83 per cent of COVID-19 patients who died at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital suffered from "severe comorbidities," the Gujarat government told the High Court on the basis of analysis of 351 deaths at the facility. Ahmedabad hospitals have so far reported 789 COVID-19 deaths, of which the Civil Hospital alone accounts for 415. As per analysis of COVID-19 deaths at Civil Hospital prepared by the Community Medicine Department of BJ Medical College here, 83.24 per cent of 351 deceased patients had severe comorbidities, the state government said in a recent reply to Gujarat High Court. These patients suffered from diabetes, hypertension, coronary heart disease, thyroid disorders, chronic kidney disease, chronic lung disease, CVA, pulmonary TB, liver disorder, psychiatric illness, cancer, neurological disorder, Parkinsonism, extra-pulmonary TB, seizures disorders, SLE, and rheumatic heart disease, it said. The High Court had said "it is very distressing to note most of the patients in the Civil Hospital are dying after four days or more of the treatment", adding "this indicates complete lack of critical care". The government cited a report by a leading infectious diseases expert, Dr Atul Patel, who said Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) is a major complication in patients with severe disease that appears soon after they suffer from dyspnea (difficult breathing). "Among patients who developed severe disease, the medium time to dyspnea ranged from 5 to 8 days, the median time to ARDS ranged from 8 to 12 days, and the median time to ICU admission ranged from 10 to 12 days. "These time periods are from the day of symptom to disease progression. Those cases who get admitted late may be already in the second week of their symptoms. Clinicians should be aware of the potential for some patients to rapidly deteriorate one week after illness onset," Patel said. In its order on a suo motu PIL related to coronavirus pandemic made available on Sunday, the Gujarat High Court directed the government to ensure "all necessary medical protocols as are laid down for different categories of patients are strictly adhered to so that no life is lost because of any kind of negligence or non-attendance". The court expressed satisfaction over the government's reply that 47 new ventilators have been brought to the Civil Hospital for those critically ill and that the strength of medical officers had been enhanced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-83-covid-19-victims-at-ahmedabad-civil-hospital-had-comorbidities-gujarat-government-told-the-high-court-843983.html
31-05-2020||West||Rajasthan Lockdown: All govt, private offices to start functioning with full strength from June 1||The Rajasthan government on Sunday allowed full attendance in government and private sectors but continued the ban on opening religious places, hotels and malls in the next phase of the lockdown, starting on June 1 and lasting till June 30. In its fresh guidelines issued at the end of the fourth phase of lockdown, the state government also allowed private and commercial transport vehicle to carry passengers up to their full capacity, but no more. The Ashok Gehlot government also allowed interstate and intrastate operation of buses, while providing that the buses would ply within the state only on permitted routes and outside containment zones.  The city buses, however, were yet not allowed to ply. The guidelines said there would be no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement of people and goods and no separate pass, permission, approval or permit would be required for that. Government offices will start functioning with full capacity from June 1, said the new guidelines. During the last phase of lockdown, full-strength functioning was allowed only for government departments dealing with important and essential work in red zones and full strength of officers and 50 per cent of staffers for other government offices with remaining officials working from home. Private offices too have been permitted to operate with up to full strength but they may encourage “work from home” practice to the extent possible, the guidelines said. All religious places, hotels, restaurants, hospitality services and eating places, except the already permitted home delivery and take away services, shall remain closed for public. The movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain strictly prohibited between 9 pm to 5 am across the state.  Only essential activities will be allowed in containment area where cases have been detected in recent past, the guidelines said, while allowing no relaxation within the containment, hotspots or curfew-bound areas.   All shops, already opened, will continue to operate while ensuring strict implementation of the lockdown and ant-corona provisions, like observing social distancing and wearing face masks.   Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeeva Swarup said the prolonged lockdown, with gradual relaxations has helped contain the community spread of COVID-19 and save thousands of lives. The threat from virus, however, still continues, he cautioned. “These guidelines are based on the principal of cautious resumption of normalcy through adequate precautions and safety measures at work and public places,” Swarup said in the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-lockdown-all-govt-private-offices-to-start-functioning-with-full-strength-from-june-1-844018.html
31-05-2020||West||Did we cremate the right person? Dead coronavirus suspect's kin wonder after call from hospital||Hours after they performed the last rites of a 71-year-old man who died as a "coronavirus suspect", his kin received a call from a government hospital in Gujarat's Ahmedabad saying his sample had tested negative and, hence, they should shift him to a non-COVID ward. The call led to panic and confusion among relatives of deceased Devram Bhosikar who worried if they had cremated the right person as they had not seen the face since the corpse was wrapped as per COVID-19 protocol. The Gujarat Cancer Research Institute, where the man died, had, however, correctly confirmed his identity.  "On May 28 afternoon, I admitted my father-in-law in the trauma centre of GCRI. From there, he was transferred to the COVID ward and his sample collected for testing. On the second day, I received a call from the COVID centre saying that my father was doing fine," his son-in-law Nileshbhai said. "Soon after, I received another call and was told his condition was critical and I was needed in the hospital. I insisted on connecting with him through a video call where he said he was doing fine. Soon after, I received a call from the hospital informing me about my father's death," he said. At the time of the death, the family had not got the coronavirus test report, he added. The family then got a call from a operator at the hospital on May 29 night informing them the man's report was negative and that they should now shift him to the non-COVID ward at the facility. "We wondered if we had performed the last rites of our father or someone else as we had not seen his face," the son- in-law said.  In a statement, Shashank Pandya, Director, GCRI, said there was no truth in the claim that relatives were handed over the body of another person. "Devram Bhosikar was admitted to the hospital on May 28 and suffered from cough, had trouble breathing, and his relatives said he was suffering like this since the last four days. As per his chest X-ray, he likely suffered from pneumonia and was already in serious condition," Pandya said. "As per COVID-19 protocol, we collected his swab for coronavirus testing. On May 29, he passed away even before his COVID-19 report was made available. He was counted as a coronavirus suspect case because he showed symptoms and hence, his last rites was performed as per the protocol," he said. "His coronavirus report was received at 10:30 on the night of May 29. His relative was thereby informed about this. The man at the control room has no idea about the last status of the patient, and hence, he informed the relatives that they can transfer the patient from COVID ward to the normal ward, which actually confused them," he said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/did-we-cremate-the-right-person-dead-coronavirus-suspects-kin-wonder-after-call-from-hospital-844037.html
