01-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi to start normal run from April 15||Ludhiana, March 31The Northern Railway has announced that another New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi Express train (04053/54) would also start its normal run from April 15 (operating once a week on Thursdays).The train 04053 would leave New Delhi at 7.20 am and arrive in Amritsar at 1.30 pm (with a three-minute stoppage of 11.08 am to 11.11 am at Ludhiana). On return journey, the train 04054 would depart from Amritsar at 4.50 pm and reach New Delhi at 10.50 pm with a five-minute halt 6.50 to 6.55 pm at Ludhiana. The train would fill the gap left by 02029/30 Swarn Shatabdi Express which runs on all six days of the week except Thursday.The Railways have also announced two more summer special trains to provide additional connectivity of New Delhi/Delhi to Jammu Tawi and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra.The (02265/66) Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Jammu Tawi-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Duronto Tri-weekly Special Express would go into operation from April 11, 2021 till further notice on every Tuesday, Friday and Sunday from Delhi and from April 12 on every Wednesday, Saturday and Monday from Jammu Tawi.The train (02265) would leave Jammu Tawi at 10.20 PM and reach Jammu Tawi at 7.15 am with one halt on the way at Ludhiana (2.37 to 2.47 am) while on return journey, the train 02266 would depart from Jammu Tawi at 7.15 pm and reach Delhi Sarai Rohilla at 3.55 am with a 10 minute stoppage at Ludhiana (11.20 to 11.30 pm).The (02445/46) New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-New Delhi Superfast Special Express would operate daily from March 31 and April 1, 2021 from New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra respectively till further orders.The 02445 train would leave New Delhi at 8.50 pm and reach Shri Mata Vishno Devi Katra at 8.05 AM the next day with a 10 minutes stoppage at Ludhiana (1.05 to 1.15am). On return journey, the train 02446 would depart from Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra 7.55 pm and arrive New Delhi at 6.55 am with a 10 minute halt at Ludhiana (2.10 to 2.20am).Other commercial halts of the train would be at Panipat, Ambala Cantt, Jalandhar Cantt, Pathankot Cantt, Kathua, Jammu Tawi, Ramnagar and Udhampur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/delhi-amritsar-shatabdi-to-start-normal-run-from-april-15-233077
01-04-2021||With an aim to encourage youth to shun drugs||Song released to encourage youth||Covidiots made to undergo RT-PCR testPeople wandering in public places without masks are on the radar of the police in the district. Today, as many as 624 persons were made to go through RT-PCR test in Nawanshahr after the careless residents were caught by the police personnel. Announcements are being made by the joint efforts of the police department and the district administration to prevent residents from contracting the virus.People wearing others’ masks quite bizarre!Health workers who are working in the field have been witnessing a strange behaviour among the people. They said that people were still not wearing their masks, and on the top of it, if confronted, ask them to provide them one. “Whenever someone visits either for vaccination or check-up without covering their mouth and nose, we ask them about their masks, they then ask their friends or family accompanying them to give theirs for a while,” said a Block Extension Educator. The frontline workers said that they felt so strange looking at such bizarre behaviour of people around them. “How can they take other’s mask, and wear them. It is so disappointing to witness such behaviour of the residents even when we have survived a year of pandemic and still the fear is there,” a frontline worker said.(Contributed by Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/song-released-to-encourage-youth-233095
01-04-2021||Jalandhar||HMV inks pact with Ex-servicemen||Talk on rural entrepreneurshipSt Soldier Management and Technical Institute organised a workshop on ‘Rural entrepreneurship development’ in collaboration with Mahatma Gandhi National Council for Rural Education, Department of Higher education, GOI. Prof Chethan, Director of the council, gave information regarding development of rural area plan and how to grab opportunities available in environment and also discuss various marketing strategies. Dr Ranbir Singh Battan, resource person from the council gave information on different aspects of rural entrepreneurship development programme and discuss various business plans. He told how to implement business plans and take competitive advantage. Dr R K Pushkarna, Principal of the college, encourage students to prepare different rural development plan and implement them. Dr Anjali, HoD, thanked Prof Chethna and Dr Ranbir Singh for making students aware about various facts relating to rural entrepreneurship development and ensuring them to conduct development program in future.e-Panel discussionThe department of management of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised an e-Panel Discussion on the topic of ‘National Education Policy 2020: A Global Perspective’ for the classes of MBA 4, BBA 6, B.Com 6, BBA 4 and B.Com 4 on Zoom platform. The resource persons for the e-discussion were Dr Sonia Singh from Toss Global Management, Dubai, Amna Rafi Chaudhry from Amity University, Dubai and Prof (Dr) Vishal Kumar from the School of Management at Maharaja Agrasen University, Baddi, HP. The coordinator for the said event was Dr Inderpal Singh Arora (HoD) and the moderators were Dr Manisha Dhir and Jaskamal Kaur. The expert panelists briefed the students about the new education policy, highlighting the prospective changes in the education system and what opportunities this new policy will provide for the upcoming generation. They stressed on the capability of India’s youth and the contribution of Indian students in the admissions across worldwide universities. Dr Inderpal Singh (HoD, Management) presented vote of thanks to the expert panelists and stated that ‘Change is the only onstant’ in the present times.Workshop on financial educationThe PG department of commerce and business administration of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised an online workshop on ‘Financial Education Awareness’ under the aegis of Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to celebrate Financial Awareness Campaign, Global Money Week-2021. The keynote speaker was Dr Sanjay Kumar Aggarwal, an eminent resource person of Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). He stressed on the fact that basic financial literacy could make a crucial difference in the opportunities and the life prospects of young people. He further added that it is a foundation stone, a building block for lifelong wellbeing and for a more inclusive economy. The theme of the workshop covered major aspects like financial planning, setting up of financial goals, primary and secondary markets operations, philosophy and principles of insurance, features and benefits of financial schemes, etc. He discussed the various avenues for investing money keeping in mind liquidity, risk and return. Principal Prof. Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi lauded the efforts of faculty for organising such meaningful workshops for students and motivating them to understand the basic concepts of financial planning. TNSStudents get jobsCalvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger, fashion lifestyle brands, conducted a pool campus placement drive at CT Group of Institutions for MBA/ BBA/ HM/ FD/ Arts/ Mass Communication 2021 passing out batches. As many as 129 students from various colleges like NIT Jalandhar, Apeejay College, GNDU Jalandhar, PCTE Baddowal, CT Group, Baba Farid Group of Institutions and Modern Group of Colleges participated and after the group discussion round, 31 were shortlisted for the final round. Amit and Chetna Lally, company officials, briefed the students about the company and job profiles Manbir Singh, Managing Director, CT Group, said that the group is known for industry driven campus to make students 'industry ready' and creating various platforms for students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hmv-inks-pact-with-ex-servicemen-233094
01-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Ex-serviceman duped of Rs40 lakh, 13 booked||The city police have booked 13 accused, including the owner and manager of a finance company for conning ex-serviceman of Rs40 lakh on pretext of doubling the money in six years. The FIR was lodged on orders of the SSP on the direction of the High Court in the writ filed by the complainant.According to the information, Gurpal Singh, a resident of Lodhi Chak village under police station Tanda, had filed a petition in the High Court. He had complained that the Kim Infrastructures and Nector Commercial Assets Company’s owner Ravinder Singh, MD Sanjeev Sikander, the directors of the company – Jagmohan Singh, Palvinder Singh, Gagandeep Singh, Mukhtiar Singh, Khajan Singh, Gurdeep Singh, resident Amritsar, Umeshwar Singh, Lekhraj, Arun Kumar, residents of New Delhi and The KJS Bal, hoaxed him that amount will be doubled and returned to him in six years and got his Rs40 lakh invested in their company. The accused did not return his money after the maturity. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-serviceman-duped-of-rs40-lakh-13-booked-233093
01-04-2021||---||Cop loses life in firing incident  on PAP campus||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 31A Punjab Police Sub-Inspector(SI) reportedly lost his life in a firing incident. A gunshot was heard around 6.30 pm on the PAP campus at gate number three.The victim has been identified as Sub-Inspector Paramjit Singh (57), a resident of Adampur. He was presently residing on the campus with his family, including his wife and a son.SHO Cantt police station Inspector Azaib Singh said it was yet to be ascertained as to how the gunshot was fired. Paramjit Singh died on the spot after a bullet was misfired from his carbine. The bullet pierced through the right eye of the cop. The police were investigating the matter, the SHO added.Senior cops including, IG SK Kalia, Commandent Manjit Singh Dhesi and ACP Cantt Major Singh reached the spot. The victim was posted as Sub-Inspector in PAP 27 Battalion.This is the second such incident in nearly two months. Pritpal Singh (50), a Punjab Police constable reportedly lost his life in a firing incident after a bullet was fired from his self-loading rifle (SLR).The police anticipated that Pritpal committed suicide. He was deployed as a guard in the 9th Battalion. The SHO said that inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC had been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cop-loses-life-in-firing-incident-on-pap-campus-233092
01-04-2021||---||Western Command chief in Jalandhar, visits military station||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 31Lieut-Gen RP Singh, Commander, Western Command, visited Jalandhar Military Station on Wednesday. He was briefed on operational matters at Vajra Corps Headquarters by Lieut-Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, GOC Vajra Corps, and also witnessed display of innovations and equipment aimed towards enhancing operational efficiency of the formation.The Army Commander also visited the Covid-19 vaccination centre, assisted reproductive technologies (ART) centre and ECHS polyclinic at Military Hospital Jalandhar. He complimented all ranks of the Military Hospital for their dedication in providing healthcare facilities to serving personnel, families and veterans during the pandemic. He briefly interacted with the Western Command and Army Red Hockey teams at the newly-constructed astro turf hockey node and motivated them to excel.Alka Singh, regional president AWWA, Western Command, accompanied the Army Commander during the visit and interacted with the families of soldiers in the station and also Veer Naris. She appreciated the various welfare measures being instituted and station facilities upgraded.The Army Commander expressed his satisfaction on high level operational preparedness and excellent training standards of the formation. He commended all ranks of Vajra Corps for their high morale and exhorted them to continue working with same zeal and enthusiasm for the safety and security of the nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/western-command-chief-in-jalandhar-visits-military-station-233091
01-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||No eyesight, yet his vision made him self-reliant||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 31Varinder Pal Singh, a Class IV employee at District Administration Complex, was just nine years old when he lost his vision. Born with a partial vision, he didn’’t know he would be exposed to a sea of hardships at this tender age. Despite having a good academic record, he had to leave his studies when he was in Class VIII. Now, after overcoming all his fears and challenges, Singh is the sole breadwinner of his family of four, including his younger siblings and his mother. It’s been five years since he has been looking after the needs of his family and helping his brother and a sister study further. His father died in 2015 after suffering cardiac arrest.“I remember when I was in Class VII, my teacher came to me and told me not to keep my books close to my eyes while reading. However, she later realised my struggle to see and read things. She told me that I had a poor eyesight and recommended me to consult doctors. As my parents were not educated enough to detect my defect in vision since childhood, my eyesight kept on deteriorating as I grew physically. Even after visiting several doctors and hospitals, I could not regain my eyesight and lost it completely in 2007,” recalled Varinder, a resident of Bhogpur city.Aged 29, he starts his day at around 8 in the morning, and takes a bus from Bhogpur to the city bus stand to reach his office before 9 am.Before joining a school for the blind in Ludhiana, in 2011, he spent four years of his life in depression and agony. While his father was also physically disabled due to an under grown leg, he wanted to study further and help his father. After joining the school, which was recommended to him by one of his family friends, he completed his schooling using Braille script, and later his graduation. Subsequently, his search for a job landed him to a government office in Mohali from where he shifted to Jalandhar.“Initially, it was tough coming to office and managing things on my own. Sometimes, the discrimination and mocking by some people used to be dampener, but I have a family to feed so it didn’t affect me much. After 2-3 months, everything became normal and I have been working here since 2016,” added Varinder. He says he uses sixth sense and counts steps to reach any place.He further stated the only thing that pinches him and the other disabled like him is the delay in their promotion and salary hike. They feel being discriminated against on several accounts. Also, he demanded a hike in the physically disabled allowance which is only Rs 1,000 at present, Rs 2,000 lesser than what is offered in the neighbouring states.Meagre allowance pinches him||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-eyesight-yet-his-vision-made-him-self-reliant-233090
01-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Parents of toddlers try to puzzle out education riddle||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 31For every parent, admitting their ward to a perfect school is like achieving a milestone. The moment a child turns 2.5 or three, the parents start to look for the school that would provide their kid a good education. But ever since the pandemic started, the parents have been thrown in a great dilemma: What to make of their child’s education?They say that a child of this age cannot understand the meaning of online education, and they will surely not understand a word if taught online. Kush Aneja will be turning 3 this September. Her mother Mahi Aneja had already thought of admitting him to one of the leading schools in the city, but to date, it is not clear whether the offline classes will start or not, which is why she had to drop the idea and has now thought of teaching him on her own.“I don’t know what I am going to do next. There is hardly any chance that proper classes will be held in the school. Although admissions are going on, I don’t think it is of any use,” Mahi said.Deepa, mother of Rihaan, a three-year-old, is also on the same page as Mahi. “I feel that a year will be wasted now. Otherwise, my son would have learned a lot in school. Although I try to teach him, it is very difficult these days to make a kid sit as teachers do in the schools,” she told.The parents think that the pandemic has played a major spoilsport. They feel that beginning year forms a strong base for the children, but this online education was something they could not approve of.Aakriti Trikha, mother of twins Pranay and Prayan, said how could a child who is three study online. “Kids this age won’t be able to sit in front of the screen and won’t even get what is happening,” she shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-of-toddlers-try-to-puzzle-out-education-riddle-233089
01-04-2021||Hoshiarpur March 31||Nine die, 161 test +ve for Covid in Hoshiarpur||The district reported nine more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 544 on Friday. Besides, the district also witnessed 161 fresh cases taking the tally to 13,598. Giving information about the Covid cases in the district, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,693 and 12,330 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of today’s 161 positive cases, 12 patients were from Hoshiarpur city and the remaining were from the other health blocks of the district. Five patients of the district died at Jalandhar hospitals while three more died at Jalandhar hospitals and one more died at a Mohali Hospital. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nine-die-161-test-ve-for-covid-in-hoshiarpur-233088
01-04-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||March registers 557% jump in Covid cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, March 31Jalandhar district in the month of March witnessed a jump of 557.4 per cent in the Covid cases as compared to February.While there were 1,181 cases reported in the district in February, infection showed a spurt with as many as 7,764 cases in March. In January, health authorities reported 881 cases.In January and February, 32 and 30 deaths were reported, respectively. Sadly, as many as 195 deaths took place due to the pandemic in March.Clearly, the prevailing Covid wave has been quite dangerous and hence the state government has ordered closure of schools and colleges at least for the next 10 days from April 1 onwards.The week from March 22 to March 28 saw a maximum of 2,950 positive cases. If we compare the weekly data, the number of cases from March 1 to March 7 was 945, which jumped to 1,389 in the next week and further to 2,286 in the third week and highest cases registered in the last week.The maximum rise on a weekly basis was witnessed in September 2020 in Jalandhar. A total of 1, 882 (highest number) Covid-19 cases were reported during the first peak between September 7 and September 13.Even as the state government has allowed colleges and schools to call staff, the teaching faculty was worried about their health. Three staff members of a private woman college tested positive this week, but the inmstitute asked teachers to attend campus daily.“Though we all have been allotted separate rooms and are conducting our classes from these rooms, there still remains a chance of contracting the infection as we are using common utilities at the campus. We are demanding that since only online classes can be run under these circumstances and cases are on a rise, we may be allowed to operate from home, if not daily then may be on alternate days,” said some teachers.Meanwhile, the administration claimed that it has been taking steps to increase its capability of administrating as many as 30,000 jabs to the people in the district everyday.“Mobile camps were conducted at Gadaipur and Focal Point areas. Those above 45 years and without any comorbidity will be able to get vaccinated from April 1 onwards,” Jalandhar (DC) Ghanshyam Thori on the rising Covid cases in the district. “The move is likely to slow down the spread of the virus,” he said.343 infected, 9 deaths in districtJalandhar: While nine people succumbed to the coronavirus on Wednesday, the reports of 343 people came positive. With this the death toll has gone up to 915. In the last 30 days as many as 210 Covid patients lost their lives. In addition, the caseload of active cases has also crossed 3,000 mark taking the count to 3,609. As part of the intensified RT-PCR testing drive, as many as 7,59,744 samples have been collected from the district, out of which 6,94,635 have tested negative. The maximum number of cases has been reported this month only. The case count has reached to 3,609 from 527. As per the data received from the Civil Hospital, around 48 patients are admitted at the hospital and 16 are on ventilator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/march-registers-557-jump-in-covid-cases-233087
