02-04-2021||Nawanshahr||Testing times for Nawanshahr as Covid death toll hits 80 in March||For Nawanshahr residents, it is like reliving the fearful moments exactly when the pandemic had just started spreading slowly towards the end of March last year.The district grabbed the headlines when the virus was detected in a patient belonging to Nawanshahr in the month of March. Though panic gripped the district, the authorities managed to control the spread and the situation remained under control for several months. Now, exactly after a year, the district has again seen a rise in the number of deaths due to Covid-19.However, the situation in the district was normal in previous months, but in March, the number of deaths started increasing again. More than 80 deaths have been reported from the district in March, while in February, there were nearly 20 deaths due to the virus. No doubt, the rising number of deaths has become cause for concern for the health authorities.Of the total 198 deaths reported in the district so far, more than 80 were registered in the month of March alone.Notably, Nawanshahr was the first district in the state where the first case of Covid-19 and death were reported from Pathlawa village. It was also one of the first districts in the state where students of government schools testing positive for Covid-19.Despite an increase in the recovery rate (80 per cent patients recovered from the disease and discharged), Civil Surgeon Gurdeep Singh Kapur expressed little hope of improvement in the Covid situation. Rather he showed concern over the increase in the number of deaths.Of the total 7,304 cases in Nawanshahr, 6,491 have already recovered from the illness. “The number of active cases is also low. RT-PCR tests and RAT tests are being done on a daily basis. We are focusing on contact cases so that the chain of positivity could be broken,” he said. Also, the vaccination drive has picked up pace in the district.Today, four deaths were reported in the district and 55 persons tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/testing-times-for-nawanshahr-as-covid-death-toll-hits-80-in-march-233494
02-04-2021||Jalandhar||Factory workers cast off fear factor, get inoculated for Covid||Now, the workers, labourers working in the industrial units have also got an opportunity to protect themselves from contracting the virus. The district administration has started mobile vaccination camps at Focal Point, and Gadaipur to ensure maximum participation of industrial workforce in the drive. The industry owners feel that from now onwards, they will be working in a safe environment after everyone is vaccinated.Balram Kapur, one of the leading industrialists in the city, has taken the responsibility to ensure that his workers remain safe and on Wednesday 170 people, including his management staff and labourers were inoculated. On Thursday, also, more than 100 staff members were vaccinated with the help of these mobile vans in his unit.“I was thrilled to see the response. Nobody was forced. But the workers came forward and got inoculated,” he said. “Five per cent of those who got inoculated developed minor fever, but the health authorities have said that it was a good sign and the fever would go away in two or three days,” added Kapur.He told that such initiative will remove the fear among the manufacturers, traders, labourers who work together in a unit. “If everyone is vaccinated, the fear of contracting the virus will go. However, we will keep on following the guidelines, but, the horror and panic that had gripped before will vanish.”The initiative has been taken to provide vaccination facilities to eligible beneficiaries of the industry at their doorstep. The first camp was launched on Tuesday that witnessed immense success with inoculation of a good number of workers. Similarly, two camps were organised on Wednesday, where a large number of workers across industries were vaccinated besides on the spot registration facilities.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the industries’ have been asked to lend a hand in making vaccination drive a mega success in Jalandhar and has also urged them to encourage their eligible workforce to come forward for the inoculation. The camps are bidding to cover maximum workers.From today, people aged 45 and above can receive a vaccine jab as the government has removed the condition of comorbidity for people of this age group, so more industrialists are now encouraging their workers to get the shot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/factory-workers-cast-off-fear-factor-get-inoculated-for-covid-233495
02-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||9 deaths, 258 new Covid cases in Jalandhar||The district on Thursday reported nine deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 553. Meanwhile, the district witnessed 258 fresh cases of infections, taking the tally to 13,834.Giving information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the reports of 3,672 samples were received and of them, 237 new cases were reported while 21 more patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases stood at 1,734 while 12,538 patients recovered. Hoshiarpur city reported 19 new cases while the others were reported from various health blocks of the district.Of the nine deaths reported, four patients died at the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur; four others (one each) died at private hospitals in Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and the Civil Hospital, Dasuya, while one patient died at home. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-deaths-258-new-covid-cases-in-jalandhar-233496
02-04-2021||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Staff, inmates of Hoshiarpur jail get Covid vaccine||In order to ensure vaccination to all inmates of Central Jail here, the district administration in association with teams of the Health Department on Wednesday organised a special vaccination camp inside the jail premises to cover all eligible beneficiaries. With it Hoshiarpur has become the first district in the state having vaccinated all inmates.Giving details, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said all inmates got vaccinated inside the jail besides 96 officials of the jail were also received jab. She said there were total 459 inmates in the jail and the team of Health Department covered all eligible beneficiaries by administering first dose in one day to keep them safe, secure and healthy amid the rising cases in the district. Health team led by District Immunisation Officer Dr Seema Garg administered the first dose to all eligible beneficiaries including jail staff. Superintendent of Jail Iqbal Singh Dhaliwal, Deputy Superintendents of Jail Harbhajan Singh, Tejpal Singh, Medical Officer Dr Ramvir, Dr Gurjit Singh were also present during vaccination.The DC said till day a total 84,656 doses had been administered to eligible beneficiaries across the district. She said that 8,330 healthcare workers got first dose while 3,618 received second dose. Similarly, 12,263 frontline workers have got jab of first dose and 3,653 received second dose. In the category of 60 years of age or above and age group between 45 and 59 with co-morbidity as many as 56,792 beneficiaries have got the vaccination in the district.Urging the eligible beneficiaries to take Covid vaccination without any hesitation, the DC said it was high time to strictly follow all safety protocol besides adopting all measures under Covid appropriate behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/staff-inmates-of-hoshiarpur-jail-get-covid-vaccine-233497
02-04-2021||Jalandhar||48-year-old from Jalandhar sets record cycling 100 km daily for 300 days||In a rare feat, a 48-year-old teacher from the city has accomplished a new record by bicycling for over 100 km daily for 300 consecutive days without taking a day’s break.One of the most active members of the Jalandhar Biking Club, Gurpreet Singh proudly calls himself a teacher by profession and a cyclist at heart. “From May 19, 2020, to March 14, 2021, I cycled 100 km to 400 km every day. I have cycled more than 32,000 km during this period. During this journey, I had faced scorching sun, dense fog of the nipping weather, strong thunderstorms and rain but never gave up. I used to cycle four to 15 hours a day come what may,” he shared his rare feat, adding that his cycling ride details have been recorded on Strava app. An international cycle manufacturing company Merida Bikes, too, has published his achievement.His list of feasts does not end here. Gurpreet is a three-time Super Randonneur having completed rides of 200-300-400-600 km in one season. In all, he has cycled more than 48,000 km. Last year in June, he covered a distance of 3,851 km and stood first in India as per Strava June Cycling Distance Challenge. He secured second position by cycling 300 km in a pan-India event ‘Longest day Longest Ride’ organised on June 21.Gurpreet, who has been a teacher of accountancy at Apeejay School, Rama Mandi, and has now been into private coaching, discussed that he started cycling just two years ago. “Earlier, I was suffering from many physical problems such as being overweight, hypertension and cervical. My weight was 106 kg. I used to take many medicines daily. Owing to cervical, I have even fainted many a times and the doctor had advised me to stop driving. But after I started cycling, I have shed all excess weight and I am perfectly fit now…needing no medicine.”But the real trigger was not Gurpreet’s own health condition but that of his son. He recalls, “My son, daughter and wife, who is teaching at Kendriya Vidyalaya, had been telling me for years to take up cycling but I had been postponing it. It was a fracture that my son got in his elbow, and his wrong approach at that time, that cemented in him the fear of ride any two-wheeler ever again.”This made Gurpreet pedal just to convince him. “I began riding every morning for 2 km or 4 km. I began enjoying the crack of dawn and the picturesque sunrise daily. Slowly, I began relishing wonders of good health and eventually turned out to become a passionate cyclist.” He got his father, who had been advised knee surgery, a gym cycle and now even he has his fitness levels upped.Advocating more reasons on his choice to maintain the passion, Gurpreet tells, “Cycling has given me very good friends including top bureaucrats, industrialists and doctors. My friends often accompany me to shorter rides such as those to Baba Bakala, Khatkar Kalan, Kartarpur and Kapurthala. We have also gone for adventure rides such as those to Chohal Dam in Hoshiarpur and also to Kasauli using the old road with 50 km of tough elevation.”For his consecutive century rides for 300 days, Gurpreet intends to get his record documented. “I have already applied for the entry in International Book of Records, Limca Book of Records and India Book of Records. I have been getting their queries. I have my fingers crossed,” he signs off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/48-year-old-from-jalandhar-sets-record-cycling-100-km-daily-for-300-days-233498
02-04-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar admn warns of action against colleges not releasing degrees||These days, protests are being held by students under the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme in the city. For several times, they have blocked roads in protest against their colleges for not releasing their degrees and mark sheets.The district administration on Thursday released an order warning of strict action against the colleges which had not released degrees of the students under the Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme. Action will be initiated under the SC and ST (Prevention of atrocities) Act, 1989.Scores of meetings have been held where college managements, officials of the district administration and students have sat together and discussed the problems. However, several instructions have been given to the college managements by the officials in favour of the students during the meetings, but to no avail.Last year, over 100 SC/ST students of various colleges had apprised the Director, Social Justice and Empowerment, of the problems being faced by them. These were no release of degrees and roll numbers put on hold, no registrations done, possession of original certificates and charging of extra fees.The Director had then said that strict action would be taken against the educational institutions which were harassing students without any reason. But to date, no action has been taken in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-admn-warns-of-action-against-colleges-not-releasing-degrees-233499
02-04-2021||Jalandhar||Rs 13.7 crore for Agri college||Vijay Mashaal flagged offJalandhar: The sanctified Swarnim Vijay Mashaal was flagged off on Thursday from the precincts of Vajra Corps in a ceremony held at Jalandhar Military Station on its onward journey to Rising Star Corps and it will be received at Madhopur today. During the course of the last few months, the victory mashaal has traversed 1,250-km along the Punjab frontiers, visiting nine battle zones of Vajra Corps. Befitting felicitation ceremonies and ceremonial functions were organised to honour the 1971 war veterans, Veer Naris and martyrs at military stations of the Golden Arrow and Panther Divisions during the course of the journey of the Mashaal through the Vajra Corps Zone. TNSTwo industries get certificatesJalandhar: The DC issued in-principle approval certificate under the Punjab Right to Business Act- 2020 to two industries — Juneja Iron Works for scaffolding accessories and Vaishnav Engineering Works — for casting and forging products. The certificates were handed over to the owners of both the industries for starting scaffolding and casting industries after they had applied at Business First Portal. Under the Act, all NOCs related to setting up a new enterprise are completed within 15 days after applying at the portal. All formalities and NOCs related to the new business/business start-up would be awarded through this single medium in a record time. TNSPUNSEED head honouredJalandhar: Jagdish Samrai, councillor ward number 78 and director PUNSEED, on Thursday honoured by the board of directors for his best performance and achievement as director last year. He was honoured for bringing new policy, ensuring the provision of seeds to the farmers and several other works. Samrai had also given suggestions to form new HR policy in the PUNSEED. He was given an appreciation letter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-13-7-crore-for-agri-college-233500
02-04-2021||Jalandhar Cantt has a pearl of a green space in Jawahar Garden. Meandering here is akin to a walk in heaven frothed with nodding blooms||Flower varieties in Jawahar Garden of Jalandhar Cantt||Tribune correspondent Ajay Joshi and lensman Sarabjit Singh journeyed through the place, to capture the flowering of beauty, amid the procession of ‘king of seasons’ – The springtimeMarigoldFrom Mexican marigold to calendula and marsh, the garden has different varieties of marigold. The growth of the marigold depends on its type. Sometimes even the season plays an important role in the growth of different marigolds. They are used both as herb and decoration. With a little yellowish shade, white marigold plants can be easily cultivated, are widely adaptable to varying soils and climatic conditions and have a good flowering duration.BarbinaThe flowers are small to medium-sized and frequently borne on spikes. Barbina is favoured in pink, blue and violet colours, blue being the dominant. Cross pollination helps them take a larger space compared to other flowers. The barbina spikes of various colours give an elegant shape to a bouquet.Dog flowerDog flowers can be grown from cutting or from seeds. A dog flower plant needs 10-20 days to germinate. For perfect bloom, they can be sown indoors on the surface of the soil eight weeks before last frost. The gradual opening of the buds provides color for an extended period of time. They can be used in layers for decoration and can change the sight of any wall.PinjiThe short-lived pinji flowers can catch every eyeball with their colourful shades. They are mostly used as flower view and give a spectacular view to any garden. People also prefer them to place these near the boundaries of their balconies or gardens. A large pot or container is usually preferred to facilitate their growth.GazaniaGazania is popularly known as treasure flower for its jewel bright blooms. They are available in different colours. People usually demand gazanias with orange and reddish shades. However, the blooms come in shades of rose, red, pink, bronze, gold and orange and are set off by the cool green foliage. From October to January, they can fill any space with amazing view.AsterDozens of varieties of aster plants abound Jawahar garden. The colors are also diverse, ranging from white and pastel blues and pinks, to hybrids of deep scarlet and purple. It typically blooms between August-October. Most range from 1-4ft in height, with exceptions as tall as 5-6ft and some staying as small as six inches, the aster can cover a garden area very rapidly.PetuniaPetunias are one of the most popular garden flowers for both borders and containers. They are prolific bloomers, and you can find them in just about every colour but blue tops the chart. Petunias have wide-shaped flowers and branching foliage that is hairy and sticky. Within the petunia genus, there is great variety: single and double blooms; spreaded and smooth petals, stripped and solid colours.Sweet WilliamConsidered a biennial flower, ‘sweet william’blooms during the second year of its growth. They give an astonishing view to windows, terrace, gardens, door edges and balconies. Their colourful white, pink, red and purple blooms make them a popular choice for flowerbeds and borders. Seeds can also be sown directly in the garden early in the season and takes two-three months to flower fully. These prefer full sun, but will tolerate light shade. The soil should be rich with nutrients. It is best if the soil is loose and well drained. However, don’t forget to maintain the soil so that it is moist to slightly dry. Relatively short-lived, they are also known as dianthus barbatus…can be grown from seeds, cuttings or plant divisions.KalanchoeA member of succulent family, kalanchoe or ‘widow’s thrill’ blooms in spring summer and winter. However, it has fixed blooming months. Flower lovers are drawn to kalanchoe for its ease of care and interesting leaves, which bloom consistently throughout the year in response to daylight. Available in pretty shades like red, pink, yellow, and white, kalanchoe can be easily found at most grocery stores and nurseries. Flower flakeThese are generally grown around the borders in any garden. They require good quality moisture to bloom to their full capacity. Organic manure works wonders for their roots and flower growth. The flowers are known to have a special place reserved in a bouquet.Delia or DahliaDahlias are classified according to flower shape and petal arrangement. These need to be kept weed-free. Use organic mulch around the plants to prevent weeds and conserve moisture. The gardener at Jawahar garden said they bought the samplings of dahlia from Kolkata. As the climatic conditions here don’t suit them, they have to provide a plenty of water to the roots. Natives of Mexico and Central America, they make the surroundings beautiful. People also create artificial dahlia in the absence of right knowledge to grow it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flower-varieties-in-jawahar-garden-of-jalandhar-cantt-233501
