03-04-2021||---||Shiv Sena (Hindu) president Nishant Sharma arrested by Kharar Police||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 3Kharar police have arrested national president of Shiv Sena (Hindu) Nishant Sharma and Arvind Gautam for making a provocative speech and threats against a particular community in Jalandhar by releasing a video.Thirty-six people, including advocate Amit Ghai, Ravi Sharma, Ishant Sharma and Arvind Gautam were named in the FIR under Sections 295-A, 298, 153-A, 153-B, 505, 149, 124-A and 120-B at the Kharar City police station on Friday.Kharar City SHO Daljit Singh said, “Nishant Sharma, a resident of Kharar; and Arvind Gautam, a resident of Phase 6, Mohali; have been arrested. Raids are being conducted to arrest the other accused.”Shiv Sena leader Kashmir Giri faked attack to get gunmen nabbed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shiv-sena-hindu-president-nishant-sharma-arrested-by-kharar-police-234105
03-04-2021||Jalandhar||Agriculture Department organises Camps||Get vaccinated: Admn to localsJalandhar: The district administration appealed to residents to come forward and join the vaccination drive in Jalandhar. The administration released a poster in this regard, which read ‘Jalandhar did a record 11,690 vaccinations on April 1. Cumulative vaccinations have crossed over 1 lakh. Please come forward and join in this drive’. Such initiatives have been being taken by the administration to encourage residents to get themselves inoculated. TNS‘No shortage of classrooms’Jalandhar: The Education Department has asked school heads to use Art and Crafts room in case there is a shortage of classrooms. The department said it has come to their notice that Art and Crafts rooms were being used by subject teachers for their personal space. Thus, it’s advised to use them for students from now ownwards, reads the circular. TNSDD to highlight infra of schoolsNawanshahr: A new programme ‘Nawian Paidan’ has started on DD Punjabi. On Sunday, the programme will focus on achievements of the government schools in Nawanshahr. The programme will inform about infrastructure, increase in enrolment, smart classrooms and installation of solar panels in some schools. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agriculture-department-organises-camps-233774
03-04-2021||Jalandhar||Two DAVIET students get jobs||Conference on changing paradigmsA conference on ‘Changing paradigms of individual and society’ were organised by the Department of Psychology and Department of English at DAV University, in the online mode. The event was inaugurated by Dr Jasbir Rishi, officiating Vice-Chancellor of the University. Dr Ramesh K Arya lauded the initiative and said that the research was significant for sustainability and development of academic institutions. Dr RK Seth, officiating Dean Academics, introduced the keynote speakers Dr Paul T Corrigan, visiting Assistant Prof, University of Tampa and the resource person, Namita Kandhola, Consulting Psychologist, Vancouver, Canada. The conference was held in eight parallel sessions each facilitated by a chairperson and teacher coordinator. More than 100 participants joined the conference and presented their papers from different states and countries. The chairpersons of different sessions included Dr Rubal Kanojia, Central University of Punjab, Dr Sunil Kumar, Central University of South Bihar, Dr Sudeep Ahlawat, Central University of Haryana, Dr Ramesh Singh, Nagaland University; and Dr Navdeep Singh Tung, GNDU, Amritsar. Dr KN Kaul, officiating registrar said that such events were important for academia and improving the quality of research. He also presented the vote of thanks.Webinar on poetryKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a national webinar on ‘Creative Process of Poetry’. The webinar was organised by PG Department of Hindi under the series of ‘Mera Sahitya, Meri Drishti’. The eminent speakers for the webinar were Dharampal Sahil and Veena Vij Udit from Srinagar. It is important to mention that scholars and students from all over India participated in this webinar with full zeal and enthusiasm. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi maintained that the poetry is the mirror of the society and the literature created by renowned poets have become immortal as it is remembered by the world forever. Veena Vij said that poetry is the reflection of poet’s sensitivity and aesthetic sense. Talking on the creative process, she said that poetry gets moulded in the words by achieving a deep introspection of author’s thoughts. She also stressed on the literary symbols and tools that are employed in order to provide meaning and clarity to the feelings of poetry. Dharampal Sahil in his address laid emphasis on his extensive collection of writings by stressing on the fact that how poetry represents the truth to the readers in its most beautiful manner.Flower showStudents of Apeejay College of Fine Arts bagged the first position in flower show competition organised by Virsa Vihar. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra felt joyous at the success of students and put forth no doubt the surroundings filled with flowers look beautiful and add positive vibes there but this kind of beauty also leads to mental and psychological peace. She added it is the need of the hour and being mentors it is a responsibility to motivate our students to make our environment clean and green. She also shared that the students had planted- various species of palm, croton, succulent and snake plant for the competition.HMV signs MoUHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with advocate Vikrant Rana, Director Legal Punjab, International Human Rights ( Affiliated School to UNO and International Bar Association) in which training and leadership skills to the students of HMV will be provided by the Advocate Vikrant Rana and his team. With this collaboration, various activities, conferences and seminars shall be organised for the students. Further both the signatories will collaboratively work together for promotion of research and safeguard of the human rights in society. The MoU was signed by Advocate Vikrant Rana and Dr Ajay Sareen, Principal, Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya. On this occasion Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur, Dean Academics, Dr Anjana Bhatia, Dean Innovations and Research, Maninder Kaur, Joint Secretary of IHRO and others were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-daviet-students-get-jobs-233770
03-04-2021||---||Phillaur village youth falls off tractor, dies||Jalandhar, April 2A 19-year-old youth Arshpreet Singh, a resident of the Mansoorpur Wadala village in Phillaur, died while coming back from the ongoing farmers’ protests against the farm laws at the Delhi borders, on Friday. He died on the way when he fell off his tractor. Arshpreet was the only son of his parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phillaur-village-youth-falls-off-tractor-dies-233765
03-04-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar DC Ghanshyam Thori takes stock of flood relief works in Gidderpindi||DC Ghanshyam Thori on Friday took stock of flood relief works going on the banks of the Sutlej in Gidderpindi village.The DC met renowned environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal and discussed various works to strengthen the river banks. He hailed the efforts of Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal to protect the flood-sensitive areas. He reiterated district administration’s commitment to providing all necessary help and assistance in the flood protection task. Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner handed over handed over a cheque for Rs one lakh to Seechewal to aid the ongoing works at the banks.Pointing out further, the DC stated that the state government has already undertook a slew of projects to strengthen the Dhussi Bandh along the river. He said there was no paucity of funds for floods management and administration has always accorded topmost priority to this task. He added that the administration is ready to tackle any kind of flood-like situation arising out of heavy rainfall. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-ghanshyam-thori-takes-stock-of-flood-relief-works-in-gidderpindi-233767
03-04-2021||---||Amritsar eves, Ludhiana Basketball Academy men take home trophies||Jalandhar, April 2Holding of sports events maintaining with proper Covid guidelines amid the pandemic is like an achievement in itself. The 71st Senior Punjab State Basketball Championship (men and women) which began on March 30 concluded on Friday with great success at PAP ground here. The championship was held in Jalandhar after a gap of 10 years.Gagnesh Kumar, ADCP Traffic, JalandharProtocol followedThe championship was also conducted for the players who are now looking for jobs. Proper precautions were taken. The indoor stadium at PAP is quite big. But we ensured that only team members were present, we did not allow huge gatherings, also, spectators were not allowed.Eight teams participated – in men and women categories each – in the event organised by the District Basketball Association Jalandhar and Punjab Police international basketball players. The knockout format was applied to the games.In men’s category, the final was played between Ludhiana Basketball Academy (LBA) and Jalandhar. The former won the match. While the women’s team from Amritsar marked its presence by defeating Ludhiana. Many international players also participated in the championship.Gagnesh Kumar, ADCP Traffic Jalandhar, who is a former international player, said the championship was also conducted for the players who are now looking for jobs, and need certificates. “Proper precautions were taken. The indoor stadium at PAP is quite big. But we ensured that only team members were present, we did not allow huge gatherings, also, spectators were not allowed,” he said.Dr SK Kalia, IG PAP, was the chief guest on the occasion. Parminder Bhandal, DCP Amritsar, and Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, DCP Amritsar, were the guests of honour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amritsar-eves-ludhiana-basketball-academy-men-take-home-trophies-233763
03-04-2021||---||Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala achieves record coach production||Jalandhar, April 2The Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, has created a record in the production of coaches during the fiscal 2020-21. Rail Coach Factory (RCF), which is one of the largest coach manufacturing units, has produced as many as 1,500 coaches during the year 2020-21. Of the 1,500 coaches,1497 are LHB (Linke Hofmann Bushch) coaches. The RCF manufactured 1,342 coaches during last corresponding year ie 2019-20.The modern LHB coaches, that are based on German technology, were first introduced on the Indian Railways network in the year 2000. However, the first indigenous LHB coach was put into service on the rail network in 2003. As compared to conventional ICF- design train coaches, the LHB coaches are considered to be better, safer and technologically advanced. Interestingly, 1,500 coaches manufactured during the year are the highest in the last five years, with 1,489 coaches last manufactured in 2016-17. Also, the increase in production volume is significant due to hard times of Covid pandemic during which production remained suspended for a considerable time. RCF had another feather in the cap when 182 coaches were produced in the month of March, thus surpassing 154 coaches in December’ 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rail-coach-factory-kapurthala-achieves-record-coach-production-233766
03-04-2021||---||‘OTT platforms proved saviour of actors’||Jalandhar, April 2Be it Kabir M Love in Patal Lok or Babar in Mirzapur 2, Aasif Khan who was lately seen on digital screens as Parchun in movie ‘Pagglait’, believes that more than the length of any character it’s the unpretentiousness of the plot and realistic approach that effects the success of any show.Having played the above three characters, and as Anas Ahmad, a journalist in ‘Jamtara-Sabka Number Ayega’ and Ganesh in ‘Panchayat’, this year remained fruitful for Aasif whose acting career kicked off after the release of his debut film ‘India’s Most Wanted’. Despite the Covid-19 outbreak taking a huge toll on film and TV shoots, the digital shows on various OTT platforms helped him remain connected to his fans.“It was all together a different experience. I didn’t know my four shows would be released this year, but if we calculate the inclination of audience, especially youth towards OTT platforms, I think the people in the entertainment industry will have to pull up their socks to meet audience’s expectations. This has indirectly also let the creative world explore. Be it the scripting or direction or acting or the location, the artists, for the past few years, with the advent of digital screens, are focusing much on delivering raw and real content. The doors of imagination have actually widened now,” adds Aasif, who was in the city to promote his film.Revealing about the characters he portrayed so far, he says, every character had its different essence. While Babar was more of a silent and man-of-actions character, on the contrary Kabir M Love was an innocent character. Likewise, ‘Panchayat’ and ‘Jamtara’, showed me as a fragile and as a vocal person, respectively. “The best part about performing in Indian web series is that you get to learn about different dialects and cultures that eventually enhances your skills and brings productivity. Besides, every person has different observational capacities and because of that one might have to recollect examples from the past or search for present avenues to portray any character. I could also pull the character of Babar as I knew the dialect. Hence, we need more such regional series that brings both ‘mass and class’ under one roof,” he tells.While ‘Pagglait’ revolves around the self-discovery journey of a widow (Sanya Malhotra), whose husband dies within a few months of marriage, ‘Parchun’, with his kind and caring gestures makes sure that she didn’t suffer alone.Sharing his best moments after the release of ‘Pagglait’ with content creators here, he says, it was an overall learning experience. The Covid blues couldn’t dampen their spirits and continue to shoot adopting the new normal.Khan fleshes out, “OTT platforms don’t need critic reviews, the audience decides what survives in the market.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ott-platforms-proved-saviour-of-actors-233762
03-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Fed up with homeschooling, parents want government schools to reopen||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 2Extension of restrictions due to rising Covid cases has led to shutdown of schools again. The decision has not gone down well with parents of the students studying in the government schools, mostly in the rural belt. They said it was after a long wait that they were planning to send their wards to schools where they could ‘actually’ study. But with the state government closing the schools again, in wake of the increase in the number of cases, parents of the government schools’ students are left to face the same challenges again.Teachers shared that the parents had been approaching them and calling them to ask why the schools were closed again. Some of the parents also say: Koi corona nahee hunda, school kholo.Kulwinder Singh, a teacher from Government School, Mundi Cholian, said, the parents often ask him about the reopening of schools? “They tell me that they had brought phones for online education of the students with much difficulty, but the students were still not studying the way they should. So, the parents think that it was important for them to visit the schools and attend offline classes the way they used to earlier,” the teacher said.But, he added, that it was only because of the rise in the number of Covid cases that the decision was taken. “I feel that the students could be invited to schools according to the roster. “One day, students of Class VI could be asked to come while students of senior class could be attend the offline classes in schools the other day,” Singh said.One of the government school teachers from Lohian block said she was facing a lot of trouble. “Parents often fight with me when I call them to ask whether the students have done their work or not.They tell me, Hamein yahi kaam nahee hai, aur bhi kaam hote hain. Aap school kholo, koi corona nahee hai (We have other works to do as well. There is nothing like corona, so, open the schools),” she said.A head teacher from the government school, Uggi, Ravinder Kang, also shared the same sentiments. “The department has done its best in these tough times. But parents don’t listen to us. They keep on coming to us and tell us about their problems. They are also worried about the future of their wards,” he said.The teachers shared that the Education Secretary was continuously monitoring the situation, and the reopening of the schools could be decided at the next meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fed-up-with-homeschooling-parents-want-government-schools-to-reopen-233764
03-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Ordeal of despair: A year after exodus, migrant worker stands duped, indebted||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 2A year ago, when the pandemic scarred the world, millions of migrant workers of the nation rushed back to their native places. While many started their journeys on foot, others had to pedal their way to their hometowns. There are hundreds of stories highlighting despair and ordeals of the migrant workers.Itbari, a migrant labourerLast year was tragic for us. First, I lost my money in a fraud and later, I had to postpone the wedding because of the lockdown. And now I am heavily indebted. I am working day and night so that I could pay money to the lenders at the earliest. Again, the cases have increased and I fear another lockdownThe tale of Itbari, a farm labourer, is no less painful. He was to leave for his native village in UP for his daughter’s wedding that was scheduled for April 17, but then the lockdown was announced and Itbari could not go. Hence, the wedding had to be postponed.Also, when he went to the agricultural society to withdraw his savings, he came to know that the secretary of the society had committed a fraud and he had no money.Neither he could get his hard-earned money nor could he marry off his daughter because of the lockdown.Although the cooperative department had then sought a criminal action against the secretary, till date, Itbari has not got his money back.Depressed Itbari then lamented “My daughter’s marriage had to be postponed. How will I recover from this loss? Only the government can help me now.”Today, when The Tribune approached the farm labourer, he apprised that he had married his daughter off when the lockdown restrictions were eased. But he had to take a loan of Rs 1.5 lakh, and he is still indebted.“Last year was tragic for us. First, I lost my money in fraud, later I had to postpone the wedding because of the lockdown. And now I am heavily indebted,” he said.“I am working day and night so that I could pay money to the lenders at the earliest. Again, the cases have increased and I fear another lockdown,” Itbari said.These days, Itbari is at his native village, to look after his parents. He will be back in Jalandhar in 10-15 days.“The pandemic proved worse for the poor. I have not come to terms with the fact that I have lost my money in a scam. And now I have to pay back my lenders. I just want everything to get back to normal,” he hoped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ordeal-of-despair-a-year-after-exodus-migrant-worker-stands-duped-indebted-233756
03-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Covid vaccination drive for those above 45 gains momentum in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 2The drive to vaccinate those above 45 years of age in the district got off to a roaring start. In the last two days, 8,447 persons between the age group of 45 to 60 years got vaccinated — 4,588 on Friday and 3,859 on Thursday.Meanwhile, a total of 24,105 persons got vaccinated in the first two days of April 2021. While 11,950 persons got vaccinated on April 1; as many as 12,155 persons received their Covid vaccine on April 2.The number of persons getting the jab per day has hence doubled since March as on March 31, only 6,343 persons received the Covid vaccination.Notably, with a dramatic jump in Covid cases, after record highs in the district during the month of March, the vaccination centres had also been considerably ramped up and at least eight to 10 mobile vaccination vans had also been pressed into service to intensify the vaccination drive.Officials said the recently introduced measures as well as the introduction of mobile vans coupled with the start of the start of next phase of the vaccination drive had given a boost to the number of those now choosing to get vaccinated.Of the 12,155 vaccinated today, as many as 2,781 were frontline workers (out of which, 2,784 got the first dose, while 87 got the second one), 709 health workers (673 received the first dose, 36 got the second), 4,588 persons between 45 to 60 years of age (4498 first dose, 90 second dose) and 3,987 above 60 years of age (3,909 first dose, 78 second dose).District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “There has been a record vaccination in the district in the past two days. There is an immense response to the vaccination phase of those over 45 years of age. The enthusiasm of the public has also surpassed the previous phases. Over 11,900 got vaccinated on the first day of April alone and today, an additional persons 12,000 got vaccinated. Collectively, the number of persons who got vaccinated in the district has now crossed the 1,10,000 mark. While 250 centres are currently operational in the district, 216 centres were active on Thursday. With the help of mobile vans, the drive is reaching more and more people everyday.”While citizens also keenly anticipate the next phase which will include those above 20 years of age – the DIO said the next phase is also expected to begin in a month or so in keeping with the steady advancement of vaccination phases by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-vaccination-drive-for-those-above-45-gains-momentum-in-jalandhar-233757
03-04-2021||---||Covid-19: 9 deaths, 439 cases reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, April 2With an alarming 439 new Covid cases reported in Jalandhar, the district tally reached 30,562 on Friday.Of the total cases reported today, as many as 40 belong to other districts.The district health authorities reported nine deaths in Jalandhar today. With this, the death toll in the districtincreased to 933.A total of 26,337 persons have been discharged so far. At present, the district has 3,292 active cases.In Kapurthala, 67 persons tested positive for the Covid-19. The district health authorities reported three deaths in Kapurthala today.The deceased include a 38-year-old woman resident of Phagwara who died at the Government Medical College, Amritsar; a 61-year-old male resident of Bhagwanpur village who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar and a 60-year-old male resident of Begowal village who died at a private hospital in Amritsar.The health officials urged residents to get inoculated.Website for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-9-deaths-439-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-233758
03-04-2021||Jalandhar||100% staff of PAP battalion vaccinated||On the directions of Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta, the 7th PAP Battalion on Friday organised a mobile Covid-19 vaccination camp for family members of the police officers/employees on the campus.Commandant Harkamal Preet Singh Khakh of the 7th Battalion said 300 eligible beneficiaries (above the age of 45) were inoculated today and the camp would continue further as well.He said the entire staff (100 per cent) of the 7th Battalion has received the first dose and more than 98 per cent got the second shot.The Commandant said only accelerated vaccination drive can help in building immunity, which is essential to break the transmission chain of the virus. He said the vaccination was now open for all persons above the age of 45 years and any kind of identity can be produced for getting the jab.Khakh said the state government was running the vaccination drive on a war footing and now, it’s the social responsibility of residents to get vaccinated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/100-staff-of-pap-battalion-vaccinated-233771
03-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar residents start restocking home testing kits||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 2As Covid-19 cases are witnessing a steady rise in the district for the past one month, chemists reported a sharp increase in the demand for medical devices related to Covid such as pulse oximeters, thermometers and inhalers, among others.While the trend was witnessed earlier last year till September, during the peak of the first phase of the virus, the demand for such devices had gradually declined with the receding Covid cases.Tanuj Gupta, owner Gupta Agencies (wholesale chemist and druggist) at Dilkhusha Market said, the demand has raised to such an extent that apart from the chemists, even the kiryana (general) store dealers were selling the oximeters and thermometers.“The market has witnessed an increase in demand of home-testing kits since February. Besides, masks and sanitisers, oxygen monitoring devices and thermal scanners are back in demand. At present, the customer base has expanded from chemists to the local businessmen running shops in residential colonies. Over a thousand oximeters must be sold on a daily basis by the retailers. Sometimes, the stock gets finished even within a week,” added Gupta.“Morover, the pandemic has prompted a rapid increase in the use of at-home diagnostic devices as many of us fear going to diagnostic centres for medical tests, suggests health experts and chemists, he said.Blood pressure monitors, digital thermometre and glucometer are also being sought by the locals. An oximeter is available between Rs 150- Rs 4,000. However, people prefer to buy the devices which are durable and pocket friendly. Raj Kumar Verma, owner Rajeev Entreprises, who deals in surgical goods and medicines says, nearly 15-20 oximeters are being sold on a daily basis to the retail customers. Also, thermometers and other devices have also become common.He also believed that after a gap of four months, the need for oximeters has doubled for the past one month. Kulwinder Singh, a resident of Defence Colony, who had come to the medicine market for an oximeter said, “Even if we haven’t contracted the virus, this would help us check our oxygen level. As we know that the new stain attacks lungs, causing a dip in oxygen level, the device would help us monitor the same.Oxymeters available even at Even kiryana storesThe pandemic has prompted a rapid increase in the use of at-home diagnostic devices. Blood pressure monitors, digital thermometre and glucometer are mostly sought by the locals. An oximeter is available between Rs150- Rs4,000. However, people prefer to buy the devices which are durable and pocket-friendly. Raj Kumar Verma, owner Rajeev Entreprises, says, nearly 15-20 oximeters are being sold on a daily basis. Tanuj Gupta, owner Gupta Agencies, (wholesale chemist and druggist) said, the demand has spiked to such an extent that apart from the chemists, even the kiryana (general) store dealers were selling the oximeters and thermometers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-start-restocking-home-testing-kits-233772
03-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid-19: Hoshiarpur logs nine deaths, 183 new cases||Hoshiarpur, April 2The district today reported nine deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 562. Meanwhile, the district witnessed 183 fresh cases, taking the tally to 13,988. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said on Friday, the reports of 1,831 samples were received and out of them, 154 new cases were reported while 29 more patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases stood at 1,663 while 12,783 patients recovered. Hoshiarpur city reported 14 new cases, while the remaining ones were reported from various health blocks.145 jabbed at Verka plantUnder the Covid-19 vaccination drive, District Health Officer-cum-SMO Police Lines Hospital Dr Lakhvir Singh on Thursday administered the first dose of Covid vaccine to the entire staff of Verka milk plant, Ajjowal.Dr Lakhvir Singh said 145 staff members along with general manager of the plant were inoculated in today’’s special drive. He said as of now 8,163 doses had been administered here, including first dose to 2,422 healthcare workers and second dose to 855. Apart from this, a total of 4,329 senior citizens and 523 beneficiaries between the age group of 45 and 59 with co-morbidities were inoculated during the vaccination drive. The DHO 1,879 and 755 officials have been vaccinated at said at the Police Line Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-hoshiarpur-logs-nine-deaths-183-new-cases-233773
03-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Minor rape and suicide case: SC panel Chairman meets victim’s family||Hoshiarpur, April 2National Commission for Scheduled Castes Chairman Vijay Sampla on Friday met family members of a minor girl, who died after consuming poison. He expressed deep grief and sympathy with the family and assured all possible help.He said he had directed the police to ensure timely disbursal of compensation to the deceased’s family. He said the commission had sought a detailed report immediately after the incident took place following which the DGP marked an inquiry.DC Apneet Riyait said the victim’s family would receive the first instalment within a few days.Meanwhile, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the prime accused was arrested on Thursday by conducting raids on 17 different hideouts. He said the second accused has also been nabbed. He said as per the complaint submitted by the victim’s mother, the minor had left her home around 10:30 am on March 28 to do school work at her friend’s home, but the accused abducted her.The SSP said an FIR under Sections 306, 365, 366-A, 506, 34 and 376-D of the IPC, Sections 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act and Section 3 of the SC/ST Act was registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minor-rape-and-suicide-case-sc-panel-chairman-meets-victims-family-233768
