04-04-2021||---||Cleanliness drive begins at Sultanpur Lodhi||Jalandhar, April 3As a part of the kar sewa initiative to cleanse the holy city of Sultanpur Lodhi, environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal started a cleanliness drive from the Talwandi Chaudhrian bridge.Ghats on both sides from the Talwandi bridge to the rest house and Nirmal Kutia stretch were cleaned. Teams of residents, youths from Gidderpindi and Malwa and also young men from Talwandi Madho, Kotla Heran, Sherpur Dona and other villages participated in the drive.While thanking the sangat indulging in kar sewa, Seechewal said ahead of the 400th Parkash Utsav of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the work of the beautification of the holy city of Sultanpur Lodhi was on and in keeping with the precedent already set by Sultanpur Lodhi, the further maintenance and beautification of the city and the holy banks of the Kali Bein would not be possible without the active participation of the dedicated local community.He said hordes of devotees are expected to congregate at Sultanpur Lodhi during Guru Tegh Bahadur’s parkash utsav in 2021 on the lines of Guru Nanak Dev’s parkash utsav, which saw overwhelming crowds in 2019.He stressed on the importance of growing plants along with maintaining the basic cleanliness of the city.A team of Ajit Singh along with tractor trailers, Raja Sultanpur Lodhi and his team, Gatka coach Gurwinder Kaur, Jaswant Singh, Gurwinder Singh Boparai, Amrik Singh Sandhu, Satnam Singh Sadhi among others participated in the kar sewa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cleanliness-drive-begins-at-sultanpur-lodhi-234467
04-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||To avoid wastage, docs advise people to come between 9 am & 1 pm||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 3Amid massive Covid vaccination drive under way in the district, people who could not be inoculated complained about disorderliness at the government vaccination centres. Particularly patients who are turning up at the Civil Hospital in the afternoon are complaining about not being entertained.However, despite considering the grievances, the doctors are forced to ask beneficiaries to return without being vaccinated in order to avoid wastage of the vaccine.“A vial of Covid-19 vaccine once opened for inoculation needs to be completely administered within four hours else the remaining doses go waste and need to destroyed,” said District Immunisation Officer (DIO) Rakesh Chopra.While a 5 ml Covishield vial contains maximum 10 doses, a 10 ml vial of Covaxin contains 20 doses. Each dose administered to any individual carries 0.5 ml vaccine. Chopra said, for all vaccination centres, including the private ones, the district only has Covishield.“Therefore, in the absence of required number or beneficiaries, the vaccine can’t be administered to one or two persons. Most of the people are administered the vaccine by 1pm, leaving only a few people by the closing time arrives. Hence, at least eight people need to be present on the spot before opening a Covishield vile to ensure that it does not get wasted,” Doctor Indu at the Civil Hospital vaccination centre said.As the inoculation time has been kept between 9am and 3pm on all seven days in a week, people who are visiting the vaccination centres after 1.30 pm or 2 pm remain unattended, even if they carry their registration numbers.Ravinder Singh (49), a resident of New Jawahar Nagar, who had gone to the Civil Hospital to get the jab, said after completing his registration in advance, he visited the hospital for his first dose. However, he could not be vaccinated. He says, a system needs to be framed so that nobody has to return without being inoculated. “Patients should be given time slots for vaccination,” he said.For the convenience of beneficiaries, the doctors said early visits should be preferred to avoid any delay in getting vaccinated.Dr Atinder Pal Kaur, deployed at the Urban PHC vaccination centre, Garha Road, claimed that there was zero per cent wastage of vaccine at her centre. “We make sure there are 8-10 people present at one time. Asha workers and area councillors have also been roped in to inform and call people according to the time slots,” Kaur said.A vial of Covid-19 vaccine once opened for inoculation needs to be completely administered within four hours else the remaining doses go waste and need to destroyed, said District Immunisation Officer (DIO) Rakesh Chopra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-avoid-wastage-docs-advise-people-to-come-between-9-am-1-pm-234468
04-04-2021||---||Nearly 5,000 women travel in 185 govt buses in two days||Jalandhar, April 3 After the announcement of free travel for women in the state roadways buses, nearly 5,000 women have travelled free of cost from the Jalandhar Roadways Depot in the last two days  so far.  While quoting the figures Punjab Roadways General Managers Tejinder Sharma and Navraj Batish said that a total of 4,949 women passengers have availed the facility through the fleet of 185 government buses of both the depots in two days.  On the launch day, as many as 1,529 women travelled free of cost whereas 3,462 beneficiaries availed the facility on the following day. They said the government has spent a whopping amount on the scheme so far.  The GMs further stated that adequate arrangements had already been made in the buses before the official launch of this scheme. They mentioned that various software updates were inculcated in the ticketing machines besides the introduction of panic buttons and GPS tracking systems in all the buses to ensure the utmost safety of women travellers.  Sarabjit Kaur, a daily passenger, while sharing her experience lauded the state government’s decision. She said that apart from free bus services to women, the panic button and GPS tracking of buses would accord top priority for their safety besides infusing a sense of confidence and security among them.  Another passenger, Baljeet Kaur, said the decision would make a long-term impact from the standpoint of socio-economic welfare of women as it would encourage girls of distant areas to rush to major cities to pursue their dreams of getting a higher education and better employment opportunities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nearly-5-000-women-travel-in-185-govt-buses-in-two-days-234469
04-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||New strain impacting lungs more quickly, say experts||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 3With the rise in Covid cases every day, another worry which haunts the doctors is the increased and relatively quicker pace at which corona is impacting lungs of the Covid patients being reported. While 32 of the 56 hospital beds at the ICU of the Civil Hospital here are currently taken up by Covid patients, doctors say compared to the strain seen last year – the frequency of the Covid patients requiring non-invasive ventilation has seen a very dramatic rise this year.4 deaths, 469 new cases logged in dist Jalandhar: With a single day rise of 469 new cases reported in Jalandhar, the district tally reached 31,031 on Saturday. Of these 469 cases, as many as 28 belong to other districts. Four persons also died of Covid in Jalandhar on Saturday, taking the death toll to 937. While 26,691 persons have so far been discharged, there are 3,403 active cases in the district. In Kapurthala today, 128 persons tested positive for Covid. Three deaths were also reported here on Saturday. The deceased include a 70-year-old woman resident of Phagwara who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 62-year-old male resident of Noorpur Lubana Dhilwan village who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar and a 65-year-old male resident of Phagwara who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. TNS6 die, 195 positive in Hoshiarpur districtHoshiarpur: Out of 2,496 reports received in the district on Saturday, 195 persons tested positive for Covid-19 taking the tally to 14,154 in the district. With the death of six more patients, the toll also rose to 568. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said the samples of 2,016 persons were taken in Hoshiarpur district on Saturday. As many as 12,990 persons have recovered and there were 1,645 active cases. Of the new positive cases, 16 cases were related to Hoshiarpur city, while the remaining were from different health blocks of the district. Two deaths due to Covid-19 were reported from Amritsar and Jalandhar hospitals, two at Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, and two more at Civil Hospital, Dasuya. OCUntil today, the district has seen 31,031 Covid cases and 937 deaths.While January and February saw 32 and 30 deaths, respectively; in March a whopping 195 deaths took place. In the first three days of April – 22 deaths have already been reported in the district. Nine deaths (each) were reported on April 1 and April 2 and four deaths were reported today.Doctors advised vaccination as the most effective solution to escape the severity of the new strain. While the Civil Hospital even saw days when 40 to 42 beds of the 56-bedded ICU were housing Covid patients, doctors suggested that getting vaccinated is the most effective way to prevent the Covid infection.Anaesthetist Dr Paramjit Singh, who has been at the frontlines of the Covid pandemic ever since it hit the district last year, said, “In the strain seen last year, a patient was getting severely sick only after 5 to 8 days. But in the new strain the lungs are getting involved very soon. This can clearly be seen. Patient who reports after considerable delay now has much more greater chance of having serious lung damage. Earlier, preliminary symptoms like lack of taste, sore throat or cold were signs which people could act on timely to prevent damage. But with the newer strain the effect to the lungs is quicker and often without warning.”He added, “Among level 2 patients, earlier of 60 to 70 patients only 10 required hi-flow oxygen but now out of about a 50 patients about 35 are being seen to require high flow oxygen. While we have 18 to 20 ventilators, non-invasive ventilation is still the best way to aid breathing in a Covid patient. But the frequency of patients requiring non-invasive ventilation has clearly seen a marked rise in the new strain. Also, last year we primarily received senior citizens or those with comorbidities as patients. But this time, there are a considerable number of young patients requiring non-invasive ventilation or one or the other kind.”Dr Vijay Mahajan, MD, Tagore Hospital, said, “The present wave of Covid-19 infection has some special features. A majority of the infected people have infection due to UK variant strain. This strain is highly infectious and is involving mostly all members of the family whether young or old. Even small children are getting infected. The most important feature of this virus is that it directly infects the lungs rather than infecting through nose and throat. So symptoms related to nose and throat are minimal. In view of the direct involvement of the lungs, the chances of patient having a severe lung infection are very high. This is one of main cause of increase in death rate during the current wave of Covid infection. Hence, people need to be more conscious and get themselves vaccinated as per norms and strictly observe Covid protocols.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-strain-impacting-lungs-more-quickly-say-experts-234470
04-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||e-rickshaws to ensure no one takes Covid for a ride||Hoshiarpur, April 3  In the larger interest of the public, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora on Saturday unveiled ‘Every Ward, Every Village Awareness Drive’ to make masses more vigilant in the wake of rising Covid cases. The minister said the awareness messages would be spread at all prominent places of the city and rural areas by 15 e-rickshaws duly fitted with public addressal system.  Arora, said, “It was high time that we became more sensible to contain the spread of Covid. Under the awareness drive, teams of 20 persons in every ward and every village would make people aware of the ill-effects of Covid-19, besides encouraging them not to be complacent while adhering to Covid protocol. The awareness drive has been commenced in the wards of Hoshiarpur from Sunday. It will take place in villages too, said the minister, adding that the elected representatives, social and religious bodies should also come forward to play a pivotal role to ensure its success.” Dispelling various misconceptions and rumours about the Covid vaccine, Sunder Sham Arora mentioned that CM Captain Amarinder Singh, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait and he himself, were among the lakhs of people who got themselves vaccinated. He said nearly one lakh beneficiaries had been inoculated so far in the district with 10,000 doses were being administered daily by as many as 100 teams. Apart from health workers, frontline workers, banking sector, schools, colleges and other department are being covered under the inoculation drive. Now, around 73,000 ex-servicemen and their families would also be covered in the coming days. In a fervent appeal to all political parties, the minister said support and cooperation of the public, all political parties is essential to contain the Covid-19 spread. He urged all political parties to stand in unison to keep the virus at bay by adhering to all safety protocols in letter and spirit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/e-rickshaws-to-ensure-no-one-takes-covid-for-a-ride-234471
04-04-2021||Jalandhar||6-year-old Hoshiarpur resident in India Book of Records||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-year-old-hoshiarpur-resident-in-india-book-of-records-234472
04-04-2021||Our Correspondent||3 peddlers held with Rs 20 lakh, 5-kg poppy husk||Hoshiarpur, April 3The police have busted an inter-state drug smuggling gang and arrested three of its members who used to smuggle poppy husk from Jammu and Kashmir. A total of Rs20 lakh of drug money and 5 kg of poppy husk was also recovered from their possession.The accused have been identified as Surinder Singh, alias Shinda, Phumman Singh, alias Kali, and Shinderpal Singh, alias Shinda, all residents of Burj Hasan village in Jalandhar district.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the CIA wingh received a tip-off that some peddlers were heading to Srinagar to bring contraband. He said on the basis of information, the police laid a naka near Garna Sahib. An SUV (Scorpio) was stopped and during its inspection, cops receovered Rs 20 lakh hidden in a spare tyre of the car and 5 kg-poppy husk, which was also kept in the trunk, he said. During interrogation, the accused revealed that they had collected Rs 20 lakh by selling narcotics and were about to leave for Srinagar again to bring more poppy husk, said Mahal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-peddlers-held-with-rs-20-lakh-5-kg-poppy-husk-234477
04-04-2021||Jalandhar||Friendly cricket match in Jalandhar's Lyallpur Khalsa College||Virtual graduation ceremonyA virtual graduation ceremony was organised for five schools for the students of K.G.II (Green Model Town, Loharan, and Cantt. - Jandiala Road, Royal World School, Nurpur Road, and Kapurthala Road) of INNOKIDS, the Pre- Primary School of Innocent Hearts. The mentors of IHS vividly exhibited all the activities of the students through the videos. The students showed their gratitude by presenting poems and speeches in praise of the mentors. However, the students didn’t come physically yet they made videos and sent them to the mentors which were glorified by the mentors. The students were in mixed emotions as they were nostalgic to leave their old teachers and were excited to go into their new grades. Alka Arora, Director INNOKIDS congratulated the students on their promotion to new classes. On this occasion, the students were sent e- certificates with their photographs on them. The Incharges of INNOKIDS were happy to have the new experience of seeing children growing virtually. Shally Bowry, executive director of schools blessed the students.Literary Fest at DPSDelhi Public School Jalandhar organised Literary Fest for classes pre-primary to Class VIII through digital platform under Principal, Ritu Kaul. The fest incorporated literary events that showcased famous stories and texts in English,Hindi and Punjabi language and also added new dimensions to it. The fest allowed students to think beyond the daily spheres of influence and think of the world beyond our immediate surroundings. It gave them a greater capacity to love different languages and enabled them to push themselves to new standards of excellence. A special bridge programme ‘Literary Potpourri’ was organised for grades pre-nursery to prep. The aim of organising the programme was to introduce learners to the next level. The activities consisted of phonic drill, letter tracing, games, story telling, mind mapping, rhyme recitation, news paper hunting and many more. Children also created a portfolio and presented it to their parents and teachers with confidence. During the event in different languages, students of class I to V were engaged in different activities, giving us an insight about the characters in fairytales and their literature books. They also recited different poems. Rendezvous with the Author Vidit Uppal was the highlight of the fest.Principal Ritu Kaul admired the skills and confidence of the children and extended her best wishes.Nutrition fortnight celebratedThe NSS Unit of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, celebrated “Nutrition Fortnight” under Principal Dr Ajay Sareen. The programme was organised as per the guidelines of Ministry of Youth Programme and Sports. The objective of this programme was to highlight the importance of nutrition for better health. The NSS volunteers participated in video competition and tried to spread awareness regarding nutritious diet. Gurvinder Kaur won first prize, Ishpreet Kaur won second prize and Harmanpreet Kaur won third prize. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the winners. She also congratulated NSS Unit for the endeavour. On this occasion, NSS Programme Officer Veena Arora, Dr Anjana Bhatia and Harmanu Paul also congratulated and encouraged the winners. The judgement of the competition was done by Pawan Kumari, Assistant Programme Officer NSS. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/friendly-cricket-match-in-jalandhars-lyallpur-khalsa-college-234478
