05-04-2021||---||Mohalla Karar Khan, Jalandhar residents get clean water, but roads stay unrepaired||Jalandhar, April 4Scarcely had residents of Mohalla Karar Khan got respite from contaminated water after more than a decade when they started facing another civic issue. Councillor Davinder Rony said though the water pipes were laid, the roads had not been re-carpeted, leading to a bigger problem in the ward.The residents are a harassed lot and have been continuously demanding help from the councillor. Rony said, “The provision of direct water supply to the houses in the mohalla is an achievement in itself and I had been fighting for it ever since I became a councillor. But now, this problem has become another issue. I am going to raise this matter with the Municipal Corporation now.”Notably, for the past many years, residents of Mohalla Karar Khan, Ward No. 66, had been facing the problem. Around 25 houses were the worst affected and the residents were compelled to fetch water for their daily needs from a nearby gurdwara. Leaking sewers and water pipes had not been changed for years together and residents were unable to get out of the problem even after several complaints.Davinder Rony, Independent councillor from Ward No. 66, said he had been approaching both the Mayor and the Commissioner but to no avail. He had estimated that an expenditure of around Rs1.50 lakh had been passed for the laying of new pipelines in the area. But even after facing several problems, he didn’t stop and kept on fighting for his ward residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mohalla-karar-khan-jalandhar-residents-get-clean-water-but-roads-stay-unrepaired-234828
05-04-2021||---||Councillor Jagdish Samrai shows the way, urges slum dwellers to take Covid jab||Jalandhar, April 4Nearly 80 per cent area of the Ward No. 78 is covered by slums. While the slum area dwellers might be expected to be less aware of the developments regarding Covid, area councillor Jagdish Samrai makes sure to reach out to each one of them. These days, he has been visiting the slum areas on a daily basis to make people aware of the Covid vaccine. He has been handing over a list to the people where they can visit and get themselves inoculated.Samrai had just received the jab. So, he also shares his experiences with the people of the ward to encourage them to get jabbed. “I keep telling them that there is no side-effect and they must definitely go to the site to get jabbed,” he said.Samrai said he has also asked one of the Senior Medical Officers to send a team to the area so that he could ensure that people are getting vaccinated.Even when the pandemic began, there were several people in Ward No. 78 who did not have anything to eat.Samrai had come to their rescue. He made a list of people who did not have anything to eat and distributed food packets to them. People had then run out of their LPG cylinders and were unable to cook for themselves.Samrai said slum dwellers were out of jobs and there was nobody to help them out.“It is my duty to stand for them. Thus, I made sure that nobody sleeps on an empty stomach,” he said.To tackle the problem, Samrai also took an initiative to visit each home with pamphlets that display precautionary measures against the disease. The ward has several economically-weaker families. The Congress councillor had got 5,000 pamphlets printed for the purpose and also put-up banners at various places in the ward.He has been known for his fight for rights of his ward residents. A few days after becoming the councillor, Samrai sat on a dharna against the Municipal Corporation and that too for a genuine demand of providing safai karamcharis for the ward. He then took a broom in his hands and started cleaning the roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillor-jagdish-samrai-shows-the-way-urges-slum-dwellers-to-take-covid-jab-234829
05-04-2021||---||Teachers declare series of  protests||Jalandhar, April 4The Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha on Sunday held a meeting at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall here in support of their demands. During the convention, teachers also announced their plans to hold protests and dharnas in the months of April, May and June.The convention was held to announce the future policy of teacher bodies on their key demands. Their demands are regularisation of the services of all contractual teachers working in government schools (on full salaries); reversal of the procedure as per which thousands of vacant posts in schools were being eliminated in the name of transfer policy; opening of schools being closed in the name of Covid as per the protocols; restoration of the old pension scheme; implementation of the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission; payment of the pending instalments of dearness allowance; immediate implementation of pending promotions of all sections of teachers, etc. The meeting also laid stress on the ‘anti-teacher’ policies of the state government.Key demandsThe meeting was led by state conveners Sukhwinder Singh Chahal, Vikram Dev Singh, Balkar Singh Valtoha, Surinder Kamboj and Baljit Singh Salana as well as conveners Sukhraj Singh Kahlon, among others.A series of dharnas and protests were announced to be held in the months of April, May and June by teachers. They decided that on April 18, a large number of teachers would hand over a protest letter to the state education minister by reaching at his residence. It was also declared that on April 29, district-level dharnas would be held by teachers across the state and in the second week of May, protest letters would be handed over to four Cabinet ministers. Finally, they declared that on June 1, a huge dharna would be held in the constituency of the state education minister.In the beginning of the meeting, tributes were paid to deceased principal Tarsem Bahia, employee leader Ramesh Kumar Sharma, employee and farmer leader Datar Singh and to all those farmers whose died during the ongoing farmers’ protests on Delhi borders.Addressing a gathering, teachers said a set of recent directions and policies of the state government were jeopardising education in the state. Taking on the Centre, they said the Modi government’s Education Policy-2020 was being implemented under the excuse of transfer policy through rationalization plan which was robbing government primary, middle and high schools of posts. They said side by side the school merger agenda was also serving the same ends.They also condemned the beating up of unemployed ETT teachers during the Education Minister’s Sangrur rally and demanded action against those responsible for the act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-declare-series-of-protests-234830
05-04-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar groom violates Covid norms, held from reception party||A 29-year-old groom (Vishnu Kant Kamboj) was arrested by the Jalandhar police from his reception party on Saturday night for breaking the Covid-19 protocol.Around 200 guests were present in the reception, which was being hosted in a park. After seeing the police, guests fled from the spot.An FIR under Section 188 of the IPC was registered.ASI Sukhwinder Singh said, “During the curfew, a reception party with around 200 guests was being organised at a park. The party was being held in direct violation of the DC’s orders. As per Covid protocol not more than 20 people can gather.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-groom-violates-covid-norms-held-from-reception-party-234831
05-04-2021||Jalandhar||SAD to corner AAP, Cong on agri laws||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will be holding dharnas in the district on April 5. The SAD leaders said the dharnas will be held against the Aam Aadmi Party and Congress’ tactics to defame Akalis.The dharnas will be held in Jalandhar north (Maqsoodan), Jalandhar central (Company Bagh and Dhilwan Chowk, Hoshiarpur Road and Rama Mandi) and Jalandhar west (Babu Jagjiwan Ram Chowk and Basti Sheikh).Kulwant Singh Manan, chief, SAD (urban), alleged Bhagwant Mann’s presence during the on the Essential Commodities Act 2021 made clear that the AAP was anti-farmer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-to-corner-aap-cong-on-agri-laws-234832
05-04-2021||---||7 deaths, 387 new cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, April 4The district reported 387 new cases of Covid on Sunday, taking the infection tally to 7,79,481. Of the 387 cases reported today, as many as 59 belong to other districts. Seven people also died of Covid in the district on Sunday, taking the death toll to 944. While 27,190 people have so far been discharged, there are 3,284 active cases in the district. In Kapurthala, 135 people tested positive for Covid on Sunday. Three deaths were also reported at Kapurthala today. The deceased have been identified as a 43-year-old female resident of Phagwara who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 75-year-old male resident of Kapurthala who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; and an 86-year-old female resident of Kapurthala, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. A total of 9,371 people have tested positive in Kapurthala until now.Seven die in HoshiarpurThe district on Sunday reported seven deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 575. As many as 172 fresh cases of infections were also reported taking the tally to 14,299.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-deaths-387-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-234833
05-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||To open or not to open schools?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 4Captain saab, jo corona cinemeyan te thekean vich nahi aunda te kirpa karke bacchean dian classan cinemeyan vich laiyan jaan, te paper thekean te lai laye jaan ji. Reads a message widely circulating on WhatsApp criticising the closure of educational institutions in the state.While many parents and residents are livid at the closure of schools when cinemas, liquor vends and political rallies are allowed to operate, the irony is that less than a month ago, there was a huge clamour among parents demanding the closure of schools after many students in the district tested positive. At a teachers’ convention in Jalandhar as well, one of the demands was the opening of schools amid ‘Covid protocol’. While on March 5 itself, as many as 136 schools children in the district tested positive – a similar scenario in other districts also prevailed – with mass Covid infections among schools students the state government closed schools yet again on March 19. With the government coming under criticism yet again for the closure of schools – many say the criticism has been partly fuelled by the private lobby.Notably, while the exams of the board classes weren’t yet held when schools were closed, the government decided to promote the students of Classes VI, VII and IX without exams. The exams of the Class V were on – with one yet to go – when the schools were shut on March 19.A teacher of the government school said, “My daughter is in higher secondary and I am a teacher myself. I am indeed worried about my daughter’s higher education. Loss of studies with such huge periods of closure is inevitable. But given the new strain, parents also understand that the move is essential to safeguard their own as well as their kids’ health. The severity this time is much. Schools can resume after the worst is over.”Karnail Phillaur, of the Government Teachers Union, said, “Our demand is that schools must be opened amid Covid protocol, so that the education of students isn’t put in jeopardy. Abiding by the protocol is important. However, the criticism is also fueled by the private sector as they are not able to levy hefty charges similar to the pre-Covid times. The Government Teachers Union opinion that schools must be opened amid full security measures in place.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/to-open-or-not-to-open-schools-234834
05-04-2021||Jalandhar||JMP park gets Rs 10 lakh grant||MP inaugurates a new tubewellJalandhar: Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary inaugurated a tubewell for the supply of fresh drinking water to Ward No. 32 and Abadpura area of the city. He was accompanied by Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Kumar Rinku and Mayor Jagdish Raja. The tubewell has been installed at a cost of Rs 18 lakh by the Punjab Government. On this occasion, MP Chaudhary said the newly installed tubewell would fulfil the needs of residents of ward 32 and Abadpura area. “Many programmes are being implemented to install and upgrade infrastructure to supply water, ensure sanitation and disposal of sewage,” he added. MP Chaudhary further stated that the government has started work on surface water supply project, which would reduce the load on underground water and would provide 24/7 supply of freshwater from the Sutlej via a network of pipelines. TNSSmooth wheat procurementJalandhar: The district administration is set to ensure hassle-free procurement of wheat in the district in wake of the prevailing circumstances due to Covid. The DC said elaborate arrangements would be made to facilitate farmers during the procurement of grains. He said keeping in view the prevailing situation and to ensure procurement in a segregated manner, the number of designated mandis would be enhanced by designating new mandis in the district as it was done last year during wheat and paddy procurement. He mentioned that for this purpose, the storage points, vacant government lands would also be utilised. The DC said this would help in reducing rush of farmers in the mandi on one hand, and maintaining social distancing during the procurement on the other. TNSHMV students win medalsJalandhar: Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya cyclists Lute Mayuri Dhanraj won two silver and one bronze medal and Mukul one bronze medal in the National Track Cycling Championship held at Hyderabad. Principal Ajay Sareen congratulated the team, coach Rajesh Kaushik and faculty Sukhwinder Kaur and Ramandeep Kaur. The Principal gave the students best wishes for their bright future. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jmp-park-gets-rs-10-lakh-grant-234835
05-04-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Admn is there only to enforce what we should be doing||How to tackle virus? Here you goThe administration is not doing enough to force the restrictions. People are openly roaming about without mask, there is no enforcement of the night curfew, and no restriction on gatherings. Sunday restrictions on restaurants, eating places, dhabas are not there to be seen. People are not getting tested for Covid. Following are my suggestions:1. Strict enforcement of the restrictions imposed by the government.2. Encourage and enforce Covid-appropriate behavior in offices and public places.3. Though vaccination process is going on well it needs to be sped up by countering the rumors about its ill-effects on social media. Famous personalities and religious leaders should be involved in creating awareness4. People should get themselves tested promptly when advised by the doctor. Usually out of 10 patients who are advised testing only two-three get tested. So many cases are going undetected and are part of the resurge.5. We must gear up the treatment facilities at level two and three in the district.6. Strict monitoring of the home quarantined patients to avoid sudden deterioration.—Dr Rajender SharmaGo hard on violators of guidelinesMasks are worn by people but they do not pay much attention to physical distancing. Due to the heat, people of the city wear a handkerchief or a scarf, which are very light and thin. This is the vaccine for them and the protection from police fines. Along with the mask, social distance should be emphasised. Because masks and sanitisers available in grocery stores, clinics, mall and banks of the city but the distancing is nowhere to be seen. The administration needs to articulate its importance in maintaining social distance. Grocery stores, doctors’ clinics, malls and popular market places like Mai Hiran Gate should be monitored by the administration. Strict action should be taken against those who violate social distance.—Nikita SharmaThe second wave is our cross to bearCovid-19 has us in a spot again, unfortunately. After the minimum number of cases, that is positivity rate, by the end of the year, the positive cases are rising again exponentially. Because of the downward trend then, people had become too complacent and careless as if the Covid had already ended. But they were totally wrong. The viruses get mutated and then people get even more severely affected, causing more morbidly and mortality. Still, in spite of the night curfew and penalties for not wearing masks, people don’t care thinking that Covid won’t affect them. The police and the administration are trying to do their best but still more needs to be done. More strictness and penalising those who flout the protocols are needed. Even putting those people behind the bars for a short duration will teach them a good lesson and also for the general public too. During Holi, many people didn’t follow the rules nor avoided large gatherings. The political leaders and social workers should also come to the fore and motivate the public by giving personal examples about observing the prescribed protocols to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Staying at home is the best solution. The responsibility for this is on all of us.—Dr JS WadhwaAltering bazaars’ timings would helpThe administration can issue orders and it is up to the masses to implement the orders with sincerity. ‘Prevention is better than Cure’, the Union Government , state government, Health Department, district administration, media has left no stone unturned in highlighting the negative impacts of Covid-19 and all the how-tos to keep the virus at bay. Even though dose of vaccination to the masses for Covid-19 is in progress, it will take a lot of time to cover a country having population of more than 130 crore. As last year when the Pandemic engulfed the whole world, the masses around the globe were in a dilemma due to deaths. The masses strictly followed the suggestions of the Health Department be it distancing, wearing masks, sanitisers, but when the government lifted restrictions they forgot the impact of Covid. Even though the Police and the Health Department is carrying out strict vigil for those who are without masks and are heavily fined, even then the masses do not care. No distancing, especially in the bazaars, shopping complexes, and public places is common. The administration should make a mechanism that the timings of various bazaars be changed to curb the menace of rush and traffic hazards. Some bazaars’ opening time should be earlier along with evening closing time adjusted simultaneously, while some bazaars’ timing should remain the same. If the masses fail to follow the prescribed norms as directed by the Ministry of Health, the result is known to all of us.—Rajat Kumar MohindruWe all are not self-disciplinedThe normal life of people has come to halt in spite of all the precautionary measures and directions issued by the administration, the pandemic has made the routine life difficult especially the poor citizens and badly affected their livelihood. The directives and guidelines are not being adhered to. People care two hoots for the law and order. But who is responsible for the failure? I hold the administration responsible because law enforcement authorities, police, failed to implement it. They should have been very strict and fined heavily against the lawbreakers. Only 40 per cent wear masks and maintain social distance. We are not self-disciplined and take pride in breaking the rules. It has also been noticed and found that people are having a lot of family social functions as one could hear music being played at night even after 9 pm, so curfew has no meanings. The police do not bother to take defaulters to task.—Col GS BhullarStrict implementation of guidelines keyIt is now one year that the Central and state governments started their fight against the onslaught of the pandemic that triggered an unprecedented public health and economic crisis enveloping the entire country. Despite the lockdown, issuance of health and safety guidelines, roll out of indigenous Covaxin and Covishield vaccines, massive testing and treatment, and aggressive inoculation drive, the deadly virus has repeatedly refused to relent; rather, it is becoming more and more assertive with the passage of time. The blunder of lifting the lockdown restrictions, albeit in a phased manner, for resumption of economic activity has led to a highly improper, inappropriate Covid behaviour. But for some five-month respite when the positive cases dipped low, the sudden surge in fresh infections and death rate this February with a more lethal UK strain during second wave has reached alarming proportions in some states, including Punjab. The state government has imposed night curfew and increased the number of vaccine centres to check the mysterious transmission. Though the Health Department and police and civil administrations have determined to take a tough action against those not wearing masks, the irresponsible and unwarranted laxity and complacency on the part of authorities and the people to strictly implement and follow the mandatory Covid protocols is the core problem. The government should address vaccine skepticism and hesitancy concerns and bolster public trust and confidence. No permission should be given to super-spreader social, religious and political events, whatever the compulsions. There is dire need to scale up inoculation programme to produce maximum immunogenicity to the virus. The government should emulate Australia and New Zealand’s timely and well-conceived efforts till the country settles into a ‘Covid normal’ to outrightly suppress or eliminate the ambiguous pathogen. A herculean task, indeed! Let us hope for a safer, brighter and better future.—DS KangGovt is only doing lip serviceThe government is only doing lip service and seems helpless in implementing the preventive measures for coronavirus. The following measures might help:1. No entry to government or private offices or banks without mask.2. No train or bus ticket without showing a mask.3. Make the organisers distribute masks at the entry of functions.These measures will sensitise the masses regarding the second wave.—Dr Kuldip SinghFrequent reminders of protocols requiredWhy blame administration for everything that goes wrong? Maintaining social distance is the duty of the people. We should take the onus in saving ourselves. Administration is there only to enforce what we should be doing. The spike in Doaba is getting worse. We should avoid crowded places and shun gatherings. Administration can launch more awareness campaigns and impose fines. Rest is up to us. Human lives matter and our sensitivity towards maintaining protocols can save these lives. When this thought will sink in, every individual will do his duty towards the society. Till then administration needs to gear up and carry on with task of penalising the violators. I want to see the message about Covid protocols scribbled in bold on the billboards at several places in the city. People need frequent reminders so the message has to get viral and flashed everywhere.—Dr Rana Preet GillAdministration needs to be proactiveIt is a matter of great concern and sorrow that the administration is not taking enough steps towards maintaining distancing at public places. Given the present pathetic scenario of rapidly surging daily cases of new variant, the norms of distancing are required to be strictly maintained at any cost. But it is most unfortunate that the administration is behaving like a helpless spectator only. The people seem to have thrown all norms to the wind and criminally neglected to abide by the rules for individual safety as well the society as a whole. But the administration cannot afford to be complacent anymore and have to rise to the occasion and take all necessary steps to ensure compliance of distancing strictly as per safety protocols. The limiting of numbers in gathering of any type will not help even if twenty persons at a gathering of any type are not strictly following the prescribed distancing norms. The administration needs to be proactive to ensure enforcement with zero toleration. Otherwise, the society will have to bear unimaginable consequences.—Jagdish ChanderDon’t step outside without a maskWearing mask or not wearing mask is the question of life and death. Taking necessary precautions during Covid-19 is crucial. The people going to shops, offices or any other workplace need to be wearing masks. It should be clearly written on a board ‘no mask, no entry’. It’s still a debatable issue whether mask saves us but at this crucial time without putting ourselves in any debate, masks helps to restrict virus transmission. Actually transmission occurs mostly inside the house living with an infected person with close proximity but masks are for others if we are infected. It’s better to be cautious. Don’t step outside without a mask. It’s almost a year, coronavirus is ready for a second major assault and the lockdown is back. Administration should take a serious note and levy heavy penalty for not wearing masks in a bid to help control the surge. Now, it should be made mandatory to wear masks. The government is already collecting heavy fines. We should keep our masks readily available at an approachable place so that we don’t forget to wear them while going out. It’s often noticed that in order to keep from fine and punishment, people used to borrow other person’s used mask which is very dangerous. Administration is already doing a very good job but it needs to be uncompromising when it comes to violating norms.—Shashi KiranCovid-appropriate behaviour mandatoryAfter inoculation of the elderly and the frontline warriors, the Health Department has now teamed up for the quick jab to all eligible above 45 years along with the second shot to 60-plus. Simultaneously, door-to-door surveillance and testing is also envisaged in view of the spike in cases. While these measures intended to combat the disease are appreciable, enhanced attention is required to maintain cleanliness and comply with the distancing norms meticulously. Mask, a panacea to keep the disease at bay, many people still do not wear besides indulging in frequent violations of reduced gatherings norms. Strangely, during the festivals and on social functions when utmost care is needed, people hardly abide by such restrictions. With the result, there is a spike in the number of fresh cases and the daily death rate is sharply increasing in many parts of the country. In Punjab, especially Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar and nine other districts, the fatality rate is relatively so high that night curfew has been imposed from 9 pm to 5 am. Here, other than the original SARS-CoV-2 strain, the UK variant B.1.1.7 is found more active which is substantially deadly. It is apprehended that the situation may further aggravate during wheat harvesting operations where it becomes all the more difficult to maintain prescribed disciplines. Reviewing the abrupt surge in active cases, the Union Government has observed that micro-containment zones may not be enough, rather the whole district be put under stringent measures like the lockdown to break the chain.—Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathWe need to take care of ourselvesI feel that the Health and Police Department are checking people who are without masks, but not taking enough measures in maintaining social distance at public places. Covid tests are installed near traffic lights but what is the benefit if there is no eye on the people making big gatherings. Big bash weddings are not a necessity but our health is! But it is our duty as well to make sure that we keep ourselves safe in every possible manner. We cannot merely be dependent on someone to keep check on us.—Anuja SharmaCitizens must cooperate with govtIn my opinion the government may be taking sincere steps to ensure social distancing at public places, but such efforts prove to be useful only with the cooperation of the fellow citizens. The administration has imposed night curfew, limited the presence of people at public and private events, announced fine if a person is found without a mask, etc but still I witness many people violating the given guidelines. The major reason for such is corruption on a massive scale in our country. A person can easily escape from these guidelines by feeding the concerned official with enough amounts. There are boundaries and steps for people to stand on, in order to keep a distance from each other but the people of our country do not realise the seriousness of this grave situation and ignore as if there is no such thing as the Covid-19 and the government has just made it up for their own advantages. But through this platform I would like to inform and warn all the people of this nation to support the administration in this difficult period of time so that we can go back to normal and prosper as before.—LeharSome takeaways to tackle resurge —Naresh Johar QUESTIONIs resentment of parents on exam postponement justified when they themselves clamoured for closure of schools after mass students tested positive just a few weeks ago?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (April 8).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admn-is-there-only-to-enforce-what-we-should-be-doing-234836
05-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Farmers try to stop MoS Som Parkash's car in Hoshiarpur, show flags||Union Minister of State Som Parkash had to face tough time as angry farmers tried to stop his vehicle near the BJP district office here today. The minister was here to hold a meeting with party functionaries and workers.As soon as farmer organisations learnt about the minister’s visit, they tried to reach the venue to register their protest over the three agriculture laws.AAP, Cong behind attack on MLA Arun Narang: BJPChandigarh: The BJP on Sunday alleged the opposition parties were instigating farmers against the central government to score political points. Former state secretary of BJP Vineet Joshi today claimed the AAP and Congress were responsible for the attack on Abohar MLA Arun Narang in Malout. TNSThe police had barricaded various crossings across the city to avert any untoward incident. However, some protesters managed to reach close to the venue and jostled with the police, but were prevented from moving ahead. The farmers then raised slogans against Som Prakash.As the minister’s vehicle left the venue after the meeting, the farmers tried to stop it, but were blocked by the police. They registered protest by waiving flags at the car.The district police and civil administration had been on their toes ahead of the Union minister’s visit, deploying a large number of police officers and personnel. SP Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu and SP Mandeep Singh oversaw the security arrangements. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-try-to-stop-mos-som-parkashs-car-in-hoshiarpur-show-flags-234634
