06-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Nawanshahr: Lessons learned at Pathlawa village?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 5People here have seen it all. A year ago, the name of Pathlawa village had hogged the news coverage. The village in Nawanshahr, after the first case and casualty due to the Covid-19, was the talk of the town. For months, the villagers remained fearful.A 70-year-old resident, with travel history to Germany and Italy, was the victim. The Nawanshahr administration had also quarantined the village, the first containment zone in the state. A look at one year of the pandemic and what lessons has it given to the villagers: today, there are hardly any cases here, but everyone is prepared for the worst-case scenario as the second wave continues to bulge.Pathlawa has a population of 2,500. Sarpanch Harpal Singh, whose mother was also infected at that time, said the year had been tough. “The second wave is here. Obviously, there is a fear among the people, but what happened a year ago has made us work more towards looking after the health facilities of the village,” he said.One thing that the sarpanch is now focusing on is providing health facilities to the people here and making them aware of every development that happens.There is a charitable hospital at the village by the name ‘Sant Baba Kanhaiya Singh Charitable Hospital. The sarpanch is associated with the charitable society and has been ensuring that the hospital has every possible facility so that the residents don’t have to go outside the village for treatment.Harpal informed that an X-ray machine will also be available in the hospital by tomorrow. He said the virus attacks the lungs, so it was very important to have the availability of the machine and by next week, scanning machines will also arrive. He is also ensuring regular sampling apart from asking people for inoculation.Pritam Kaur (72), his mother, became the oldest Covid-positive person from Pathlawa to be discharged from the hospital. When she came back, she was welcomed with a siropa. Her brother Ajaib Singh, former sarpanch of nearby Usmanpur village, had also donated a month’s pension to hospital staff for treating his sister well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-lessons-learned-at-pathlawa-village-235299
06-04-2021||Our Correspondent||MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal flags off mobile vaccination van||Hoshiarpur, April 5Giving an impetus to the ongoing Covid vaccination drive, MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal flagged off a mobile vaccination van to villages in Harta-Badla block here on Sunday. The vaccination van would cover eligible beneficiaries in 134 villages falling in the block.Giving details, Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal said in its first two visits in the villages of Jian and Bhatrana, as many as 68 beneficiaries were vaccinated in these villages. He said the mobile van would reach Badla Khurd village where doses of Covid vaccination would be administered to all eligible beneficiaries above 45 years of age.The MLA said a detailed chart had already been prepared to cover villages by giving prior information to respective sarpanches. He said ASHA workers were already disseminating information to villagers regarding vaccination in their villages so that maximum people could be inoculated near their homes.The MLA said the van would reach around 9.30 am in scheduled villages to administer doses till 3 pm every day. “The van is equipped with the requisite staff, including a doctor and a vaccinator and required medical assistance as well as medicines,” said the MLA.Dr Raj Kumar also appealed to the people to take the vaccine jab as soon as possible, besides strictly adhering to the prescribed safety protocols in the larger public interest amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. Prominent among those present on the occasion included Chabbewal SMO Raj Kumar, Medical Officer Himani, Ayurvedic Medical Officer Sarabjit and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-dr-raj-kumar-chabbewal-flags-off-mobile-vaccination-van-235300
06-04-2021||Jalandhar||LPU vax drive: 150 inoculated on Day 1||Prioritising Covid vaccination for its employees, Lovely Professional University (LPU) organised a massive vaccination drive at Uni-Hospital, situated within the university campus, for its staff members. On Day 1, 150 employees got vaccinated.LPU is among first few educational institutions to begin administering the direly required vaccines to faculty and staff. In this regard, the HR Department at the university took initiative, and announced an online registration link for staff members, with necessary guidelines to be followed. The result is a massive immunisation drive at the campus. Maximum of the staff members volunteered and got registered.By providing needed information about the vaccination and establishing supportive policies and practices, LPU is helping increase vaccine uptake among its workforce. Prior to this, wearing masks, keeping social distancing, and sanitisation were also compulsory for all staff members and visitors while being on the campus, or for any movement. It is also still being strictly observed, from Day 1 of implementation by all students and staff, including security staff, maintenance/construction workers, gardeners and allied workforce. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-vax-drive-150-inoculated-on-day-1-235301
06-04-2021||Jalandhar||7 deaths, 370 new cases in Jalandhar district||With 370 new cases reported in Jalandhar on Monday the district tally reached 31,788. Seven people died, taking the death toll to 951. While 27,578 people have so far been discharged, there are 3,284 active cases in the district.In Kapurthala today, 142 people tested positive. Four deaths were also reported. The deceased include a 68-year-old woman who died at isolation ward Kapurthala, a 75-year-old male resident of Khallu village who died at GMC Amritsar, a 69-year-old female resident of Phagwara, who died at DMC Ludhiana and a 65-year-old male, also a resident of Phagwara, who died at GMC Amritsar. A total of 9,513 people have tested positive in Kapurthala until now.11 deaths, 195 fresh cases reported in HoshiarpurThe health authorities on Monday reported 11 Covid-19 related in the district. With this, the death toll reached 586. The authorities reported 195 fresh cases, thus taking the tally to 14,453.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said reports of 2,229 samples were received and out of them, 154 new cases were reported while 41 more patients belonging to Hoshiarpur district were reported from other districts. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-deaths-370-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-235302
06-04-2021||---||F&CC meeting: Construction of garbage points on the agenda||Jalandhar, April 5The F&CC meeting will be held on April 8. New projects such as construction of various garbage points in the west constituency will be tabled during the meeting. Notably, there is a need for garbage points in the west constituency as piles of garbage are seen lying on the roads in the constituency. The proposal has been made at an estimate of Rs 47.35 lakh.Congress councillor of Ward No.38 Onkar Rajiv Tikka of the Jalandhar west constituency had been fighting for the problem of garbage disposal in his ward for long. He had also given an ultimatum to the Municipal Corporation (MC) that if garbage from his ward was not lifted, he would hold a dharna and would continue the same till the issue gets resolved.He had complained that people from other wards are throwing waste in his ward which was creating problems for residents of the area. He said no lifting of garbage was being done in his ward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fcc-meeting-construction-of-garbage-points-on-the-agenda-235305
06-04-2021||Jalandhar||Covid-19 vaccination move||National Maritime DayEklavya School observed National Maritime Day.The day is celebrated every year to raise awareness in support of intercontinental commerce and the global economy as the most well-organised safe and sound environmentally responsive approach of transporting goods from one corner to another corner of the world. Online activities were done by the students to celebrate the day. The National Maritime Day speech was also written by the students in which they highlighted and illustrated the importance of the day. A poster making competition was held based on the theme. To make the event more fruitful online modelling competition was held to enhance the knowledge of children by enacting the roles of ship sailors and etc. Chairman JK Gupta encouraged the students who participated. Director Seema Handa said that such kind of awareness makes us more knowledgeable. Principal Arvinder Kaur appreciated the activities done by the students to celebrate the day.Kindergarten virtual graduationIVY World School, under the ageis of the Vasal Education Society, celebrated “Kinderbration” - Kindergarten graduation - in the Kindergarten wing. To celebrate progression and development of the virtual graduation ceremony, all students of K2 shared their thoughts from their handmade book marks that they had prepared. They also expressed of what they want to be when they grow up and how that will make the world a better place. The most important part of the ceremony was that Ivyians of pre primary dressed in graduation robes and caps sitting with their parents. Children looked pretty in their graduation robes and caps. Ivyians of K2 enjoyed making graduation caps craft and spoke about their journey of kindergarten. The programme concluded with a vote of thanks by headmistress Parminderjit Sandhu. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School congratulated and addressed the graduates on their achievements and also congratulated the teachers for their dedication and hard work in shaping the students through education and other co-curricular activities. The president of Vasal education Society, KK Vasal, chairman Sanjeev Kumar Vasal, director Ena Vasal, and CEO Raghav Vasal wished all the graduates.DDU-GKY training centre inauguratedCT Group of Institutions, North Campus, Maqsudan, inaugurated the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY) training centre on its premises. It was organised to welcome the students who have enrolled under DDU-GKY. DDU-GKY is uniquely focused on rural youth between the age group of 18 to 35 years from poor families. The aim of this training centre is to provide skills to rural youth and jobs having regular monthly wages or above the minimum wages. The vision of the centre is to transform rural poor youth into an economically independent and globally relevant workforce. The job guaranteed courses are running under the centre are multi-skill technician – fabrication, bridal fashion & photographic make-up artist, CNC setter-cum-operator: Turning, Chef: Commi-I. These courses are free for the rural youth of Punjab. IAS Vishesh Sarangal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development), Jalandhar was the chief guest for the ceremony. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-vaccination-move-235306
06-04-2021||---||Punjab CM failed farmers & Akali Dal fought for their cause: Sukhbir||Nadala (Kapurthala), April 5Addressing his ‘Punjab Mangda Jawab’ rally in Doaba on Monday, SAD president Sukhbir Badal said Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government had failed farmers while the SAD championed farmers’ cause. Addressing a huge crowd carrying party flags, Badal, who was speaking at the rally organised at Nadala by SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, said the Akali Dal had steadfastly supported farmers in their cause while the Congress had failed them.Badal said electricity bills of people of the state had been piling up for the past four years of the Congress government. The Congress bought cheap electricity and sold it at hefty rates, he said.Takes a jibe at KhairaSpeaking on the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, Badal said, “We would not let the Electricity (Amendment) Bill be implemented. Neither the states nor the people are in its favour. With a heavy heart, I have to say that the Central Government is taking bureaucratic decisions without considering the sentiments of the people.”Addressing electricity tariffs in the state, he added, “When we talk of the state, the state government is purchasing power at Rs 2.80 per unit but selling it at Rs 9 per unit to Rs 8 per unit to industry and domestic consumers, respectively. You see the profit of the electricity board is Rs 1,200 crore. They are earning money.”Badal said it was in tandem with the Shiromani Akali Dal that the SGPC under Bibi Jagir Kaur and the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee under MS Sirsa provided relief to farmers.Badal said, “I can proudly say today that due to the work of our associate bodies like the SGPC under Bibi Jagir Kaur and DSGMC under MS Sirsa that the farmers who had been detained were freed. SAD has all along been fighting for the cause of farmers. But what has the Congress done for them.”He said outsiders like people from Rajasthan and Jammu had teamed up with Congress legislators to form a sand mafia in the state which had caused a loss of Rs 2,000 crore to the state exchequer. He said while the state had suffered a loss of around Rs 6,500 crore in excise revenue, the state could not collect even Rs 100 crore out of the Rs 1,400 crore revenue projected by the Congress government from sand mining.Doling out pre-poll promises, Badal said if the SAD formed a government in the state it would not allow implementation of the three agricultural laws. He announced that besides ensuring procurement of food grains on the MSP, the SAD government would also announce an MSP for vegetables, fruits and milk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-cm-failed-farmers-akali-dal-fought-for-their-cause-sukhbir-235307
06-04-2021||---||‘Extend benefits of public welfare to beneficiaries’||Kapurthala, April 5Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni on Monday asked all officials to ensure that the benefits of public welfare schemes reach every eligible beneficiary so that maximum number of people could avail them.Presiding over a meeting of the District Grievance Redressal Committee at the local district administration complex here today, he said the benefits of schemes like distribution of wheat, shagun scheme, health insurance card, pensions, etc should be extended to every beneficiary.All set for New medical collegesDuring the meeting MLA Rana Gurjit Singh from Kapurthala, among other MLAs were also present.Rana said the concrete planning should be done to solve the problem of waste in the cities. Chairman Punjab Agro Industries Joginder Singh Mann said the waste dumped by marriage palaces on the roadsides by the owner should be stopped besides taking strict action against violators.Soni asked the commissioners of the Municipal Corporation Phagwara and Municipal Corporation Kapurthala to make a comprehensive plan in this regard.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Kapurthala Deepti Uppal said the Punjab Government has also launched online portals for the people to register their grievances, and the tasks at hand are dealt in a timely manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/extend-benefits-of-public-welfare-to-beneficiaries-235308
06-04-2021||Jalandhar||Mobile camps for vaccination||Mega Job fair from April 22Nawanshahr: A ‘Rozgar mela’ will be held from April 22 to April 30 in the district. While giving information, Employment Generation Officer Rupinder Kaur said applicants can apply on www.pgrkam.com till April 18. The interested youths can also call on contact number 88727-59915 if they have any query regarding the process. Notably, various camps were held earlier as well, but nine day job fair has come as a great opportunity for unemployed youths during the pandemic. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mobile-camps-for-vaccination-235309
06-04-2021||---||Capt Amarinder hasn’t fulfilled 5% of his promises: SAD||Jalandhar, April 5The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) protested against the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday in various parts of the district for not fulfilling their promises. Activists of the SAD broke ‘paap da ghada’ during protests.Former senior deputy mayor Kamaljit Singh Bhatia (SAD) said Capt Amarinder Singh had promised to provide employment to youth, free mobile phones, waiving debt of farmers and make the entire state drug free, but not even 5 per cent of these promises have been met to date. Kulwant Singh Manan, chief, SAD (Jalandhar) said before coming to power, Capt Amarinder had made false promises and even now the Congress was busy spreading lies.Manan also targeted AAP’s MP Bhagwant Mann and said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was coming to the state and pretending like he’s the only well-wisher of Punjabis. At Jalandhar (central) constituency, Kamaljit Bhatia headed the protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/capt-amarinder-hasnt-fulfilled-5-of-his-promises-sad-235310
06-04-2021||---||Jalandhar DC says ensure vaccination of 45+ officials||Jalandhar, April 5Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday asked all government departments to ensure vaccination of their officers/officials aged 45 and above at the earliest so that the target of vaccinating everybody falling in this age group could be achieved within the stipulated time period.Chairing a review meeting of vaccination in government departments, the Deputy Commissioner said as there was a fresh surge in Covid cases, it was necessary to vaccinate most vulnerable group — people above 45 years of age.The DC said people falling in the age group accounted for most of the deaths occurred. He said the administration had launched a special drive to cover all eligible beneficiaries within this month and government officials were an integral part of the programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-says-ensure-vaccination-of-45-officials-235311
