07-04-2021||Jalandhar||NOCs within 30 days, says Jalandhar DC||Missing man found deadJalandhar: An elderly person who was reportedly missing from the last two days was found dead at Burlton Park. The deceased has been identified as Ashwini Sharma (68), a resident of Babu Labh Singh Nagar. The Police Division 1 received a message on Tuesday that a body was lying at Burlton Park. After visiting the spot, cops discovered that the deceased was missing from Sunday. Assistant Sub-Inspector Heera Lal said, the body has been sent for the post-mortem to establish the exact reason of his death. TNSProcurement from April 10Kapurthala: It’s estimated that 3.59 lakh metric tonnes of wheat would arrive in mandis in Kapurthala as the state government is going to start procurement of wheat from April 10. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the district administration has made all necessary arrangements for smooth procurement of wheat, including cleanliness of mandis, drinking water, electricity and gunny bags. She said due to surge in Covid, passes would be issued to farmers to bring wheat in mandis. tnsExecutive body’s term extendedKapurthala: The meeting of executive body of the Punjab College Non-Teaching Employees’ Union (aided and un-aided) was held recently via Google meet under the chairmanship of Mandeep Singh Bedi. Members said they decided to extend the term of the executive body for one year or till the elections are held. Some vacant posts were filled and changes were made with consent of present members. Senior vice-president Dr Anil Kumar, among others, were also present. TNSRelaxation to CBSE schoolsKapurthala: The Nawanshahr and Kapurthala administrations have released orders granting relaxation for conducting practical exams scheduled by the boards, on the condition that Covid-19 related guidelines will be followed. As per instructions of the state government, schools will remain closed till April 10. As practical exams are underway in CBSE schools, relaxation has been given. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nocs-within-30-days-says-jalandhar-dc-235823
07-04-2021||Jalandhar||Student makes it on big screen||IKGPTU signs MoU with FUELIK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) has signed an MoU with FUEL (Friends Union for Energizing Lives), which is a leading NGO working in collaboration with HDFC Bank for providing job enhancement programmes to engineering and management students. This MoU is aimed at providing skills training to students of IKGPTU and to enable them to better understand and enhance their job-related skills. The MoU was signed by Prof (Dr) Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice Chancellor, IKGPTU and Bajiprabhu Deshbandhu from FUEL organisation. Dr Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice Chancellor said that this partnership will be mutually beneficial between the two eminent organisations having complementary expertise. He further said that this collaboration is oriented towards bringing about qualitative improvements in job related skills of students. He said, “The university students have performed exponentially great in placements and these kinds of training will further give a boost in selections of IKGPTU students in placements.”LKCTC gets Rs2-lakh grantLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus (LKCTC) has added another feather in its list of achievements. In recognition of efforts undertaken by LKCTC over the years for overall development of students, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has conferred a grant of Rs2,00,000 under the scheme for promoting interests, creativity and ethics among students (SPICES). A matching grant has been approved by the managing committee of the Khalsa College Lyallpur Educational Charitable Trust, to be utilised in favour of students to evolve their interests, hobbies, creativity and values. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) motivated the coordinator as well as the team members for their perseverance and industrious efforts for achieving this feat.Job ready programme culminatesKMV college’s placement cell successfully culminated the nine days online ‘Job Ready Programme’ with Maharashtra based company of skill development that imparts training in managing the process of training and deploying resources. This specialised programme for KMV students aimed at improving the employability skills of the students. KMV students made the most out of this excellent and free-of-cost opportunity. Various modules of the programme like- organisational structure, public speaking, presentation skills, group discussion and personal interviews etc. were covered by the trainer in the nine-day long session. More than 100 students were benefitted from this programme and took active participation every day. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi appreciated the participants for having learnt all the required skill set and also lauded the efforts of the trainers of the company that they have successfully made all the participants confident, full of energy, ready for the industry.Vaccination drive in Khalsa CollegeCovid -19 vaccination drive was organised in Lyallpur Khalsa College wherein around 70 staff members were vaccinated. This information was given by the college principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra who said that the college was committed to the well-being of its staff and also of the neighbourhood community. He also expressed his gratitude towards the district administration for this support. — tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/student-makes-it-on-big-screen-235822
07-04-2021||---||Two Kapurthala villages selected for national awards||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, April 6Nurpur Lubana and Sangojla villages in the district have been selected for the national award by the Union Ministry of Rural Development in two different categories.The panchayat of Sangojla village in Dhilwan block of Kapurthala has been selected for the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Empowerment Award and the panchayat of Nurpur Lubana village the Bal Mittartai Purskar.Congratulating the panchayats selected for the award, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said these awards were announced taking in view the outstanding performance of the panchayats. She said this would inspire the rest of the panchayats to work harder.At Sangojla village, interlocking tiles were installed at a cost of over Rs 10 lakh and sewerage was installed at a cost of Rs 10 lakh. Apart from this, Rs 3 lakh was spent on the construction of panchayat house, Rs 4.5 lakh on the construction of a playground under MGNREGA and Rs 4 lakh on roads leading to various deras.The upgrade of the government school as Smart School at Nurpur Lubana village has created a conducive environment for education and the all-round development of children.Besides, the successful implementation of government schemes for the welfare of children, organisation of education as well as other social and sports activities were also important in the selection of the award.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-kapurthala-villages-selected-for-national-awards-235821
07-04-2021||---||7-day national workshop on football coaching begins||Our CorrespondentMahilpur, April 6A seven-day national workshop on ‘football coaching: techniques and strategies’ organised by the Physical Education Department of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa College, Mahilpur, began on Tuesday. The inaugural session was attended by Arjun awardee Gurdev Singh Gill as the chief guest, while the function was presided over by Surinder Singh Bhullewal Rathan, president, Sikh Education Council.Welcoming the gathering, principal of the college, Dr Jaspal Singh, motivated the students and players to learn more about the principles of football coaching and the practical field of the game through the workshop. Council president Rathan in his address hoped that this seven-day workshop would prove to be very informative about football coaching. He encouraged the coaches and players present to work impartially and diligently.In the first technical session, Gill shared his playing days. He called upon the players to dedicate themselves to the game with discipline, hard work and determination.Dhyan Chand award-winning football player Sukhwinder Singh who was present as the keynote speaker informed about the purpose of the workshop. He said coaching along with playing is the most challenging task for which the physical and mental fitness of the sports coaches is important. He shared pointers regarding the game and coaching with the players at the college’s playground. He also informed about the latest football sports techniques in the world and answered the questions of the coaches and sports students present at the workshop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-day-national-workshop-on-football-coaching-begins-235820
07-04-2021||---||304 youngsters get jobs at mega fair in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 6The 7th round of mega job fair began in Jalandhar (Mehatpur), on Tuesday under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ yojana. The camp was organised at the Block Development and Panchayat Office, Mehatpur, in which as many as 355 youths and 10 companies appeared to shortlist eligible candidates.A total of 304 candidates were selected by the companies, which include LIC, CSC, SBI, A-One International, Pukhraj Healthcare, ICICI Bank, Narayni Herbal, Herbalife Nutrition and Agile. Under the 7th round, 12 placement camps will be organised in the district, including camps at Shahkot, Lohian Khas, Noormahal, Bhogpur and Adampur, on April 8, 9, 12, 16 and 19, respectively.Similarly, more camps will be held at DBEE, Jalandhar, on April 20; Guru Nanak National College for Women, Nakodar, on April 23; Janta College, Kartarpur, on April 26; Government Polytechnic College for Women, Jalandhar, on April 27; Phillaur on April 28; and CT Institute of Engineering and Technology, Shahpur, on April 30.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said these job fairs would provide ample employment opportunities to unemployed youths across the district. He said the selection would be done purely on merit basis in a transparent manner.The Deputy Commissioner called upon youngsters to register themselves at www.pgrkam.com for more jobs, besides reaching the DBEE on 0181-2225791.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/304-youngsters-get-jobs-at-mega-fair-in-jalandhar-235819
07-04-2021||---||ASHA workers, pensioners come down hard on govt||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 6ASHA workers held a protest outside the District Administrative Complex on Tuesday against the state government. The members alleged that they were getting only Rs2 per vaccination.The president of the union Gurjit Kaur said the ASHA workers were being asked to get patients for vaccinations and they were being given Rs2 per vaccination. “If we convince and help inoculate 100 persons, we will get Rs200. Do you think it is ok? We are getting harassed,” she said, adding that they have been on frontline since the pandemic started and had to get used to people’s wrath. “When we used to visit people’s homes in the beginning to ask them if anyone was having symptoms, people sitting in the government offices and ordering us won’t even know what insult we have had gone through then,” the members said.The members also said that they had been entrusted with various tasks under the Ayushmaan Bharat Yojna. They announced to boycott the works if the DC doesn’t give them time for meeting so that they could convey the problems.Meanwhile, another protest was held by Punjab, UT and Pensioners Joint Front Union. The members burnt the effigy of the state government and said the officials were not doing anything and nobody was listening to their demands. The members have been demanding to reinstate the old pension scheme. They said if the government doesn’t heed, then they will ensure that the Congress is voted out of the power. The members also announced to hold a zonal-level rally on April 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asha-workers-pensioners-come-down-hard-on-govt-235818
07-04-2021||Our Correspondent||15-year-old among 7 fall prey to virus in Hoshiarpur district||Hoshiarpur, April 6Out of 2,802 reports received in the district, 146 persons tested positive for Covid-19 while nine more persons from the district were reported postive from other districts, thus taking the tally to 14,599. The health authorities reported seven deaths, including 15-year-old boy. With this, the death toll reached 592.Of the new positive cases, 16 cases were related to Hoshiarpur city, while remaining were from different health blocks of the district. Two deaths each were reported from the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital, Dasuya Civil Hospital and one each from Chandigarh, Amritsar and Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/15-year-old-among-7-fall-prey-to-virus-in-hoshiarpur-district-235817
07-04-2021||---||Kashmir to Kanyakumari in 50 days: Armyman gets grand welcome in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 6In order to make it to the Guinness Book of World Records, an Indian Army soldier, Naik Velu P, who started ultra-marathon from Srinagar to Kanyakumari reached Jalandhar on late Monday night.The Armyman is eyeing to complete 4,300-km run within 50 days. Naik Velu P was given a grand welcome by Brigadier V Anand and all ranks at the Jalandhar Military Hospital on his arrival from Srinagar via Pathankot.Velu P was born in Krishnagiri (Tamil Nadu) and joined the Indian Army in 2011. He started the ultra-marathon from Srinagar and has covered 480 km by covering an average distance of 80 km to 100 km daily. The Armyman is serving as a nursing assistant at the 60 Para Field Hospital. The ultra-marathoner said objective behind his run is ‘One Nation, One Spirit’.In June last year, Naik Velu P became the first Indian ultra-marathon to complete 1,600 km in just 17 days. He has been representing the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) in long-distance runs for the last four years. In September, he will be representing the country at World Championship in Romania. All ranks of the Vajra Corps wished him success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kashmir-to-kanyakumari-in-50-days-armyman-gets-grand-welcome-in-jalandhar-235816
07-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||All over again!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 6Lessened stamina, no agility, dripping energy levels, weighty and loss of zeal, this is what the sports teachers noticed in the players as they joined their respective schools after remaining incarcerated at their homes for so long. The teachers said it takes months to make a player competition-ready, but the pandemic played a spoilsport.That when the mentors in the schools were finding it difficult to prepare the players, the schools were shuttered again owing to Covid’s onslaught in the form of second wave. This has again posed a challenge for the teachers.Sharandeep Kaur, physical education teacher at Government Senior Secondary School (Girls), Adarsh Nagar, said, “It’s a big tension because no activities are happening for the students. I had made them do some activities when the schools were reopened, but now that the schools are closed again, it is a matter of concern.” She added that the students had become dull at their homes.“Flexibility and weight count a lot in a player. I noticed that there was no stamina and some had put on weight,” the teacher shared. She said that when a student plays a game, he/she also becomes active in studies too, but laziness has now taken a toll and the studies, too, are bearing its effects.Sudhir Kumar, physical education teacher from Government Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, also corroborated the statement. He said if a student will play, the immune system will become stronger, so they must be called to the schools.“They have been eating fast food, which affects endurance big time. I had already been easy on them when they had joined after being confined to their homes for so long, and was planning to increase the time of training, but then again, schools were closed. I really hope that schools are opened so that the students could continue with the practice,” he said.Former Assistant Education Officer (AEO) Sports, who’s now headmaster at Government High School, Puranpur, Harbinder Pal said students will need proper conditioning. “I had been preparing them to excel in sports, but since last year when Covid hit, it’s like ‘paneeri laati, paani nai de hoya’,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-over-again-235815
07-04-2021||---||No respite from Covid: 6 deaths, 307 new cases reported in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 6The district on Tuesday reported deaths of six persons due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 957. Besides, the district witnessed 307 fresh cases. As many as 219 patients lost their lives in March alone and in the first week of April, 43 fatalities were reported.In addition, the caseload of active cases has touched 3,124. As part of the intensified RT-PCR testing drive, over 7,87,960 samples were collected from the district, out of which 71,418 people have tested positive and 7,16,542 samples tested negative.This year, after the arrival of the second wave of Covid-19, maximum number of cases were reported in March. The case count reached 3,609 from 527 on March 31.As per the data received from the Civil Hospital, approximately 60 patients are admitted in the hospital.On Tuesday, active cases were majorly reported from areas like Maqsudan, Nakodar, Basti Gujan, Hargovind Nagar, Basti Danishmanda, Guru Govid Singh Avenue, Dilbag Nagar, Greater Kailash, Mota Singh Nagar and others.Intensifying the ongoing battle against the pandemic, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday solicited support from non-governmental organisations (NGOs), community leaders, religious leaders, market associations and resident welfare societies of the district to efficiently tackle the new wave of the infection.While presiding over a meeting with over 40 such NGOs at the District Administrative Complex, the Deputy Commissioner accompanied by renowned environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal said that in the present scenario, the vaccination of maximum people was the only key to diminish the rapid spread of the virus. He said the NGOs, being an integral part of our society, could play a constructive role to ensure maximum immunisation by transforming the vaccination drive into a mass movement in Jalandhar.Thori urged the NGOs to organize mobile vaccination camps in their respective fields — colonies, markets, religious places and industries.During the meeting, a WhatsApp group — civil society — was formed and all representatives of society were added in it. He shared two WhatsApp numbers 9888981881 and 9501799068 along with a form, which can be duly filled in by the NGOs and posted in the group so that a mobile vaccination camp for people above 45 could be arranged for them. He said volunteers of the NGOs were connected with thousands of people at the grassroots, who could create awareness among masses to come forward in huge numbers for the vaccination. He also appealed to NGOs to leave no stone unturned to ensure that every eligible resident (above 45) was immunised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-respite-from-covid-6-deaths-307-new-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-235814
07-04-2021||---||Parents cry foul over ‘inflated’ tuition fee of Jalandhar schools||Jalandhar, April 6Tension has brewed over charging of additional fees under the tuition fee category between parents and managements of private schools in the district. Irate parents on Tuesday said if schools continue to overcharge, then they would have to gherao residence of the Chief Minister and the Education Minister.Parents under the banner of “The Parents’ Association Jalandhar” alleged school managements were putting pressure on them to pay various charges in addition to the tuition fee. Upset over this malpractice, irked parents claimed that they were being harassed by school managements.“Despite the intervention of the Deputy Commisioner, schools have resorted to various means to put mental pressure on parents. Staff of private schools has even started stalking social media profiles of parents to check their activities. Children are also being harassed by school authorities,” said Chetan Verma, a member of the association.Though partially directing schools to adhere to the guidelines of the Supreme Court, the administration has failed to initiate any action against such institutes, said parents.Upset over the attitude of school managements, Avni Kumar said some institutes have already refused to declare annual results of students who have not cleared their dues. Avni said they fear that students’ access to online education may also be suspended.Rakesh Singh, whose daughter studies in Class IX at a private school said, apart from the tuition fee, school has again asked to deposit all fee components except transportation. “Even the building fee is being demanded. Everything is being adjusted in the tuition fee category,” he said.Parents said, “Schools are not only demanding building fee, but also practical fee for the entire year. Practicals were held for just two weeks.”They said if school managements continue to blackmail them by stating that if fee would not be paid, they would neither declare results of their wards nor promote them, then they would protest at the state-level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parents-cry-foul-over-inflated-tuition-fee-of-jalandhar-schools-235813
