08-04-2021||---||Sports event for farmers at Tikri on Baisakhi||Jalandhar: To celebrate Baisakhi with farmers, the Five Rivers Heart Association in collaboration with Punjab Wrestling Association are organising a sports event on April 13 at Tikri border. Sikh martial arts, cricket, wrestling (mud), kabbadi, body building, horse racing, athletics, turban tying competition, volleyball and various games will be held. Free medical assistance camps will also be available all the time. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sports-event-for-farmers-at-tikri-on-baisakhi-236314
08-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Nawanshahr sees surge again, reports 187 cases in last 2 days||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, April 7After a week’s rest, the district again saw a surge in Covid cases. In the last two days, 187 cases were reported. While on Tuesday, 101 persons tested positive, Wednesday saw 86 persons testing positive. Last week, less than 50 cases were being reported on a daily basis.Not only this, four persons succumbed to the virus. Civil Surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapur said studies have shown that those who are getting vaccinated are developing antibodies, which was a very positive sign.“This is a sign that everything is going right. The vaccination is safe and effective. Already, I have been seeing great enthusiasm among people for vaccination and people are coming themselves. I want that everyone who comes under the category gets covered,” he said.The Civil Surgeon said there was a decrease in the death rate in Nawanshahr, which would eventually become nil if people get vaccinated. There are a total of 7,661 positive cases in Nawanshahr so far, and 7,032 persons have recovered so far (recovery rate 91.78 per cent). There are total 43 active cases and the results of 1,076 persons are awaited. A total of 1,227 samples were taken on Wednesday.As per the information, a proper roster is being prepared by the Health Department at sites, where the vaccination camp would be held. On Wednesday, the vaccination camp was held at the gaushala too.The Health Department has been asking institutes to let them know if they want the vaccination camp to be held on their premises.90 persons fined for not wearing maskIf on the one hand residents in the district are coming forward to get vaccinated in large numbers, carelessness is also increasing among people. On Wednesday, as many as 535 people were stopped by the police for not wearing mask and they had to undergo Covid tests as well. Not only this, 90 others were imposed fines as well. The health experts have been saying that even if one has received a jab, doesn’t mean they can roam around without wearing masks. Precautions must be taken at every step.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-sees-surge-again-reports-187-cases-in-last-2-days-236244
08-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid patients report heart issues post-recovery: Expert||Hoshiarpur, April 7Cardiac issues are being noticed in patients even after three-month of recovery from the coronavirus infection. Difficulty in breathing, body fatigue and sweating are more pronounced persistent symptoms even after months among Covid recovered patients. Attributing these symptoms always to sequalae of Covid infection may actually be misleading and patients should always be evaluated for detailed cardiac check-up, Punjab Rattan awardee and vice-chairman at the department of interventional cardiology at Medanta Hospital, Dr Rajneesh Kapoor, said this during a virtual press conference on Tuesday.Dr Kapoor said coronavirus was predominantly a respiratory infection but has been also noted to cause inflammation in different parts of the cardiovascular system, from muscles of the heart to blood supplying arteries.In another spectrum, many Covid treated patients also manifest cardiac complications months after resolution of Covid infection. One rare presentation of complete heart block (slow heart rate) requiring pacemaker encountered in two patients almost two months post Covid,” Dr Kapoor further informed.The virus involvement is seen in blood clot formation, known as thrombosis. It also leads to endothelium (innermost layer of arteries) dysfunction. Patients who suffer such issues are disposed to a higher risk of suffering a heart attack or stroke, he opined.“We are getting cases of heavy breathing, palpitation, fastening of heart breath. Many of them (around 40%) are having a history of different levels of Covid-19 infection — mild, moderate, or severe. Even those who didn’t have any pro-cardiac issues can develop heart complications post corona.“Post-recovery when these people face breathing complications, it is the lungs which are checked. An ECG test reveals heart conditions later. In context to resuming exercise regime post-Covid, one should avoid for 6-8 weeks after Covid and then gradually restart it, starting with walks,” he said.We are finding many cases with abnormalities in patients. We are, therefore, conducting a study to understand the effect on the heart of those recovered. There are a lot of eco-cardiology things that can be picked up to understand if there can be complications in the future. If we can identify, then we can be more vigilant,” Dr Kapoor maintained.Patients can lower their risk of cardiovascular disease-related mortality by being careful on recognising the signs and symptoms. A simple ECG test can reveal if the symptoms are heart-related or not. Most of the heart-related diseases are completely treatable, provided medical attention is given on time, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-patients-report-heart-issues-post-recovery-expert-236245
08-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Heads for reopening schools, colleges in a graded manner||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 7Wary of students’ health and mounting Covid-19 cases, the state government on Wednesday announced to extend the closure of educational institutions till April 30.However, the decision hasn’t gone down well with private school and college heads. Students who have been preparing for examinations also apparently expressed their resentment to the decision.While principals demanded reopening of colleges and schools in a graded manner, students who have got accustomed to attending online classes at home also want to attend classes offline.Post the announcement to continue with the virtual classes, Manhar Arora, Principal, St Soldier College, said this was the most crucial time for students to attend regular classes.“Owing to the shutdown of colleges, the examination process has already been delayed. Even before the imposition of restrictions last month, exams were being undertaken in colleges. Now, students, who are left with one or two exams are at the receiving end. Students coming from distant cities will have to make arrangements for their stay. Therefore, the state government needs to opt for a systematic approach for educational institutions. Considering all precautionary measures being adopted, schools and colleges can be reopened with 50 per cent capacity,” said Manhar, who further mentioned that his college suffered a loss of nearly Rs3-4 crore during the pandemic.Amid a slew of protests against private schools, school authorities also claimed to have gone out of funds. Shortage of funds has led them to put more cuts on salaries of the staff and teaches.Rajeev Paliwal, Principal, Innocent Hearts School, said: “The board examinations are approaching next month, however, schools are yet to conduct the practical examinations. If schools will remain closed, the delay in practical exams will put an extra burden on teachers and students. Only students from Classes IX to XII should be allowed to attend classes in a phased manner.”Covid and the lockdown has reportedly affected the learning capacity of students. Teachers find it difficult to develop the same concentration power among students. “Offline classes are comparatively better than virtual classes. Instead of shutting down colleges for students, the college managements should be told to exercise strict safety measures,” said Jasmeet Singh, a BCom student at DAV College.“There is no regularity in online classes. At college, at least were get to attend 3-4 lectures, but the online classes has increased the dependency on online notes as compared to books,” said Varjit Kaur & Ramandeep Kaur, members of Punjab Students Union.“The delay in board exams is only diverting our attention from competitive exams,” said Bhavuk Singh, a Class 12 student preparing for JEE.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/heads-for-reopening-schools-colleges-in-a-graded-manner-236246
08-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Eyeing greener pastures, youth falling prey to scams||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 7Youth in Punjab dream of shifting abroad but reports of several of them being duped by travel agents are becoming common with each passing day.Also, youngsters, it seems, aren’t ready to learn their lesson and keep falling prey to such fraudsters every now and then.Jaswinder Ram (27) in his complainant to the police said he gave Rs2.5 lakh to a travel agent with a promise that he would send him to Italy. Jaswinder, who belongs to an economically weaker family, said he had extreme difficulty in arranging the money. He took loans from various parties, but the travel agent failed to send him abroad.“My financial condition is in a mess. Neither have I received my money back, nor I am able to pay it back to my lenders, who are also harassing me,” he said.The Behram police have filed an FIR against the travel agent under Section 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC and Punjab Travel Professionals (Regulation) Act, 2014.As per the information, there are nearly 15 cases pending at Behram police station alone, wherein youths have been duped by travel agents.The police said an FIR was registered, but no arrest has been made in the case so far. Further investigations, however, are on in these cases.Foreign dreams dashed, Not the first time||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eyeing-greener-pastures-youth-falling-prey-to-scams-236247
08-04-2021||---||Cops crack jewellery theft case, 2 arrested||Jalandhar, April 7The division number 3 police station on Wednesday solved a jewellery theft case that was reported on Tuesday in Lal Bazar. A man and a woman had reportedly fled with a gold chain from the store. The man introduced himself as a cop deployed at PAP. Shop owner Harwinder Singh told the police that the accused fled with the gold chain and left their artificial chain at the store. They came to know about the incident after checking the CCTV footage. The accused had come on bike.SHO, Inspector Mukesh Kumar, said the arrested accused was identified as Ankush, alias Honey Kumar, a resident of Ali Mohalla. The police have also arrested his accomplice Sunil Kumar. The gold chain has also been recovered from their possession.A case under Sections 379-B and 411 of the IPC has been registered against them at the police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cops-crack-jewellery-theft-case-2-arrested-236248
08-04-2021||---||Jalandhar reports four more deaths, 345 fresh cases||Jalandhar, April 7The district witnessed four casualties due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 961 on Wednesday.Besides, the district reported 345 fresh cases, taking the tally to 32,440. Of the fresh cases, as many as 62 patients belong to other districts. While 28,393 people have been discharged so far, there are 3,086 active cases in the district.In Kapurthala, 154 people tested positive for Covid-19, pushing the tally to 9,750. Three deaths were also reported in Kapurthala. The victims are: a 76-year-old woman, who was a resident of Kapurthala and died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 77-year-old man, a resident of Shiekhpur village who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar; a 51-year-old woman, a resident of Marripur village, Tibba, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.Hoshiarpur district sees 7 deaths, 132 new casesThe district reported seven more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 599 on Wednesday. Besides, the district also witnessed 132 fresh cases, pushing the tally to 14,713. Giving information about Covid cases in the district, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,379 and 13,878 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of today’s 132 positive cases, 10 patients were from Hoshiarpur city, 18 were reported from other districts and the others were from various health blocks of the district. Four patients of the district died at Jalandhar hospitals, two at Nawanshahr hospitals and one at a Amritsar hospital. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-reports-four-more-deaths-345-fresh-cases-236249
08-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Treating with respect||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 7Doctor Yash Mitra, who works at Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) and is a retired Civil Surgeon from Amritsar, is a real protector of the environment and ecosystem. He has dedicated his terrace to nature where he does kitchen gardening, composting, has hybrid and fruit trees, different variety of flowers, bird nests to attract birds, butterflies and what not!The wonders on his terrace don’t end here. Whenever at home, he likes to indulge in activities related to gardening and using natural products to create different useful things. He has also made ‘house cleaner’ (bioenzyme) using natural products like peels of citrus fruits, jaggery and water. The house cleaner can be used as a phenyl, for cleaning of floors, and other things.The doctor also grows micro-greens such as chia seeds at home, and makes peepal bonsai. Presence of organic vegetables at Mitra’’s home like spinach, coriander, cauliflower, brinjal, peas, Okra, etc are like a blessing when almost everything today one consumes is adulterous. There are fruit trees of kinnow, papaya, banana, grapes, guava, oranges, jamun. Medicinal plants such as tulsi, ajawain, insulin, clove and elaichi can also be spotted. One gets transfixed on seeing flowers like roses, lilies, bougainvillea, marigold that festoon the rooftop.There is a regular gardener who visits and looks after the garden, and whenever the doctor comes back home, he doesn’t forget to sit with his wife Anu Mitra on the terrace amid beautiful chirping of the birds, blowing winds and colourful flowers and they both look after their green babies with care and love.“There is a lot of positivity in this area. I grow organic vegetables; I use kitchen waste for composting. All these activities give me a lot of happiness,” he said. He keeps on attending workshops related to kitchen gardening, also watches videos on social platforms to keep him updated.As a doctor, Mitra feels that stress is the reason for so many diseases such as hypertension, heart diseases, etc. “So, having an environment like this at home is a stress-buster.”The doctor also shared his next plans, which includes growing mushrooms and keeping a beehive for collecting honey and is open to experimenting with aquaponics. Soon there’s going to be Korean grass grown on the rooftop transforming it into a lawn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/treating-with-respect-236250
08-04-2021||---||‘Run for Lives’ event today at  Jalandhar's Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya||Jalandhar, April 7The first ‘Run for Lives’ 2021 – a health event supported by Fit India Movement and Sports Authority of India will be held on April 8 at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya. The event will comprise individual run of 1.5-km (under-21) and 3-km (under 25) category. Being held in collaboration with Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, it is sponsored by Beenu Rajpoot Films and Agrimaa Society of Arts, Delhi.The event is being held by Beenu Rajpoot (filmmaker) with the motto to promote fitness as easy, fun and free. She was also recently selected as ‘Fit India Ambassador’ and ‘Fir India Champion’ of the Fit India Movement, Sports Authority of India.Beenu shared, “The mission of this ‘Run for Lives’ event is to create awareness towards fitness and a more physically active lifestyle. Running and cycling is a beloved hobby of many people across the globe. Both are the best ways to boost your physical as well as mental health. It helps just about all aspects of your health, provides an outlet for stress relief and improves your mood and overall happiness. Cycling is one of the most accessible sports on the planet. It’s also a sport which gives anyone who takes to two wheels an enormous sense of freedom. Leaving the stress of daily life and pedaling away without a care in the world, whether it’s in your local lanes or high in the mountains miles from civilization. There’s little that can beat the beautiful simplicity of a bike ride. Besides these activities, we will soon organise yoga marathon, campus running, workshops on food combinations and diet and workshops on fitness etc.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/run-for-lives-event-today-at-jalandhars-hans-raj-mahila-maha-vidyalaya-236252
08-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: AAP stages protests over  power bills||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers, led by its district president Sandeep Saini, held a protest at Kanak Mandi Chowk here against hefty electricity bills on Wednesday. The protesters also burnt the copies of the bills. He said the Capt government was not leaving any stone unturned in plundering the masses financially even in this horrific period of Covid-19 pandemic.He alleged by selling the costliest power to its consumers, the state government was not only filling its coffers but also plundering the pockets of some capitalists. Perhaps this government and its ministers have forgotten that in the 2022 Assembly elections, they have to face the general public which has made up their minds to oust them from power in the state. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-aap-stages-protests-over-power-bills-236253
08-04-2021||Our Correspondent||BJP Mahila Morcha stages protest  against ‘poor’ law and order in Punjab||Hoshiarpur, April 7District Mahila Morcha activists of the Bharatiya Janata Party held a protest here on Wednesday against the ‘deteriorating’ law and order situation in the state. Party’s district president Archana Jain, state Mahila Morcha vice-president Niti Talwar and in-charge Rakesh Sood were also present during the protest. The protesters marched towards the residence of local MLA-cum-Industries Minister Arora and raised slogans against Punjab government. The protesters were adamant to reach the Arora’s house, which police did not allow. Finally, the protesters handed over bangles to police officials for Sunder Sham Arora. The BJP women leaders alleged, “ The law and order situation under the Capt government has completely broken down. Hundreds of women have fallen prey to pouncing. Thefts, robberies are happening continuously and the criminals are out of the reach of the police. Due to the deteriorating law and order situation, the fundamental rights of BJP leaders and workers are being violated.” Archana Jain said that if the law and order situation was not improved soon, the Mahila Morcha will intensify its protests in coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-mahila-morcha-stages-protest-against-poor-law-and-order-in-punjab-236255
08-04-2021||Kapurthala||Kapurthala DC takes note on delay of works||Mandis ready for procurementKapurthala: Before procurement in the district, 42 permanent mandis and sub-mandis are ready for procurement besides setting up temporary mandis to facilitate the farmers and labourers in view of Covid. Sodium hypochlorite is being sprayed in all mandis to control the spread of corona. Arrangements have been made for cleaning of mandis, while hand-free washing stations would also be set up at each mandi to save the farmers, artisans and labourers from corona. District Mandi Officer Arvinder Singh said that Mandi Board, Punjab, would provide sanitisers and masks to the farmers and labourers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-dc-takes-note-on-delay-of-works-236257
08-04-2021||Jalandhar||World Health Day observed at Jalandhar's Eklavya School||Kamla Nehru College for WomenDepartment of Science of Kamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara, celebrated ‘World Health Day’ by organising a series of online events on poster making, slogan writing and video clips under the theme of ‘Building a Healthier and Fairer World’. The primary objective of this celebration was to make the students and staff aware about the dire need of taking care of one’s health and to further boost their immune system so as to develop required immunity to fight with the deadly diseases like coronavirus. More than 60 students actively participated in various events and prizes were given to the first, second and third position holders. Dr Savinder Pal, Principal of the college congratulated the faculty of the department and motivated them to enlighten the common masses to educate them about their health.Student clears UGC NET ExamAjay Kumar, a student of Lyallpur Khalsa College from the PG Department of Mathematics cleared the UGC NET examination with 71st rank in the list. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra and Dr Harjit Singh, HoD, Mathematics, congratulated Prof Ajay Kumar and attributed the success to the immense hard work put forth by the faculty member. Principal Dr Samra urged the students to take inspiration from such teachers of the college excelling equally in the field of research and academics whilst maintaining an excellent level of personal skills. Teacher of the department Dr Dinkar Sharma and Dr Palwinder Singh were also present on this proud moment for the college.Creation campStudents of Sanskriti KMV School participated in creation camp through online bridge activities post final examinations. Students made best use of time by indulging in unique preparations like bird feeders, bird homes, delicacies, home decorators, clay model art and sculpturing. The best part was the salad making and daily fitness schedule. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-health-day-observed-at-jalandhars-eklavya-school-236259
