09-04-2021||Jalandhar||Government asked to fill vacant posts||One held with 30 liquor cartonsJalandhar: The police have arrested a person with 30 cartons of illicit liquor. The accused has been identified as Amarpreet Singh, alias Goldy, a resident of Tower Enclave, Phase-2. Assistant Sub-Inspector Vijay Kumar said they got a tip-off that the accused used to sell illicit liqor in the city following which a raid was conducted. He said Goldy had kept the liquor cartons at an empty plot in Tower Enclave. A case under Sections 61-1-14 of the Excise Act has been registered against the accused. tnsProjects worth Rs2.60-cr passedJalandhar: The F&CC meet was held on Thrusday in which projects worth Rs 2.60 crore were passed. A project related to construction of garbage points in West constituency with an estimate around Rs 43 lakh was not passed. The meet was attended by Mayor Jagdish Raja, Senior Deputy Mayor Surinder Kaur, councillors Gian Chand and Gurwinderpal Singh Bunty Nilkanth. TNSBeneficiaries get pension numbersJalandhar: In a special event, pension numbers were given to as many as 102 new beneficiaries in Ward No. 78. Jalandhar ADCP Daljit Singh Saroa handed over the certificates to the beneficiaries who will be covered under old-age pension scheme, pension for handicapped, and pension for widow. Councillor Jagdish Samrai said his ward has more than 800 beneficiaries. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/government-asked-to-fill-vacant-posts-236758
09-04-2021||Jalandhar||Riti-Rivaz organised||LPU gets nod for addl programmesThe University Grants Commission (UGC) has granted recognition to Lovely Professional University (LPU) to offer two additional programmes - M.A. (Punjabi) and MA (Psychology) through its Open and Distance Learning Mode. This prestigious recognition is from the February-March 2021 session, and onwards. The admission to these new postgraduate programmes in Punjabi and Psychology is already open. Presently, LPU is offering MBA, BBA, MCom, BCom, MCA. MSc IT, BCA, BSc IT, DCA, MLIS, BLIS, DLIS, B.A. and M.A. programmes through Distance Education (DE) mode. MBA Programme offers specializations, including Marketing, Finance, Human Resource Management, Information Technology, Operations Management, Retail Management and International Business. These specialisations are quite popular amongst working professionals. Students and professionals, who want to upgrade their educational qualifications, can also opt for various MA programmes in education, economics, Hindi, English, history, mathematics, political science and sociology.The programmes are being offered in semester mode with affordable fee structure.Vax drive at CT Group of InstitutionsIn order to spread awareness regarding importance of Covid-19 vaccination and to mark the World Health Day, CT Group of Institutions, South Campus, Shahpur organised a one day Covid vaccination drive in association with the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. More than 60 staff members got vaccinated. An online registration was done for teaching and non-teaching members of the campus who are above 45 years of age. A team of officials from Civil Hospital namely Dr Chetna, Community Health Officer (CHO); Navdeep Kaur, Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery (ANM) and Deepak Sodhi, computer faculty supervised the drive. CT Group Chairman Charanjit S Channi and Vice Chairman Harpreet Singh said getting vaccinated is quite necessary now and eligible people must get themselves vaccinated.World Health Day observedKapurthala: Pushpa Gujral Science City observed World Health Day by organising a webinar on “Managing stress during Covid-19”. Around 200 students and teachers from all over Punjab participated virtually. Dr Himanshu Sareen, Head, Department of Psychiatry, Punjab Institute of Medical Science, was the key speaker. He said stress should not be seen in isolation, but in relation to how the event is perceived, available social support and coping capabilities. A person with good support and coping ability is less likely to have harmful effects when faced with stressful situations whereas a person can easily breakdown even when the stress is not very severe if one has poor stress-managing ability. He urged the participants to eat healthy, exercise regularly and evade paranoia. Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, said according to World Happiness Report, India is the fourth-least happy country in the world. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/riti-rivaz-organised-236757
09-04-2021||---||Missing woman’s body found in drain, one booked||Our CorrespondentMahilpur, April 8The Mahilpur police have booked a resident of Amritsar in connection with the decomposed body of a 35-year-old woman recovered from a choe (rainwater drain), who was missing from Langeri Road in Mahilpur city for eight days. A case was registered against accused Rahul of Amritsar under various Sections of the IPC, including murder and deletion of evidence.Sheikhuddin, alias Zahid Mohammad, a resident of Langeri Road, told the police in a statement that his mother, Seema Mohammad, worked in a city mall. Rahul, a resident of Chheharta in Amritsar, who had come out of a de-addiction centre here after recovery, came in contact with her. Meanwhile, her mother had a divorce from his husband and started living at Langeri Road in a rented house. She used to say Rahul as her husband. After some time Rahul started harassing his mother for drugs and started beating and forcing her for immoral activities. Rahul came to Mahilpur in the last week of March and on March 29, he asked his mother to go to the market on a motorcycle and after some time he came back alone.When asked about Seema, he made excuses. When his mother did not return till the next day, he informed his aunt Reena Begum and her husband Karamat Ali, residents of Nasran. He said that on April 2, they lodged a report of disappearance at the Mahilpur police station. When Rahul found out about the complaint, he went to Amritsar. Last evening, people spotted the body of a naked woman at Ladhewal Choe and informed the Mahilpur police.The police identified her from burnt phone and mall’s identity card found nearby. SI Satwinder Singh is investigating the case. An FIR has been registered against accused Rahul under Sections 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC and a police party has been dispatched to Amritsar to arrest Rahul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/missing-womans-body-found-in-drain-one-booked-236755
09-04-2021||---||Foundation day: ‘Run for Lives’ event, vedic prayer marks 2nd day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 8Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya held second day of its three-day celebrations to mark the occasion of its ‘95th foundation day’ under principal Dr Ajay Sareen. The day was marked by the first ‘Run for Lives 2021’ event held on the college premises in collaboration with HMV to promote fitness.The first day of the celebrations saw the launching of IIC web page and plantation of medicinal herbs. The second day started with havan yajna with Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar, S Harcharan Singh as chief guest. Beenu Rajput, filmmaker, and Government of India’s ambassador for ‘Fit India Movement’, Dr Pawan Gupta, Ashok Pruthi and SP Sahdev, members of local committee were also present.After the havan, the principal welcomed the chief guest and other dignitaries. He recalled the services of all past principals with a deep sense of gratitude and also appreciated the dedicated contribution of teaching, non-teaching, supporting staff and students. S Harcharan Singh, Joint Commissioner, in his presidential remarks, praised the college for dispensing its social duties and for making its students, empowering women to lead the society successfully.HMV alumni Beenu Rajput, Delhi-based filmmaker who has been selected as ‘Fit India Ambassador’ and ‘Fit India Champion’, organised first ‘Run for Lives’ event in collaboration with HMV to promote fitness in daily routine. Dean academics Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur was presented with a cheque by the principal Dr. Ajay Sareen for the welfare of underachievers.The health event comprised individual run of 1.5 km (under-21) and 3 km (under-25) category. Being held n collaboration with Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya Jalandhar, it was sponsored by Beenu Rajpoot Films and Agrimaa Society of Arts, Delhi.Prof Kuljit Kaur’s book ‘Boonda Banan Samunder’ was released on this occasion. An e-app of biodiversity which has the digital data of all plantation of the college was also launched with the joint efforts of Botany and Computer Department, Jagjit Bhatia, Dr Anjana Bhatia, Ramandeep Kaur and team was present. School coordinator Meenakshi Sayal and publication team comprising Lovleen, Jaspreet, Sushil Kumar and Anuradha Thakur released school magazine ‘Srijan’ and school prospectus too.HMV’s Mass Communication Department launched its internet radio ‘Awaaz’. It was launched by Punjabi Singer Firoz Khan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/foundation-day-run-for-lives-event-vedic-prayer-marks-2nd-day-236754
09-04-2021||---||Round 7: 473 youth get job letters during mega fair||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 8Under the Ghar-Ghar Rozgar mission of the state government, as many as 473 youths have received job offers from 12 companies during seventh round of the mega job fair held at Shahkot on Thursday. The camp was organised at Block Development and Panchayat Office (BDPO), Shahkot, in which as many as 556 youths participated while 12 companies appeared to shortlist eligible beneficiaries for various job opportunities.Disclosing further details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said a total of 556 youths participated in Thursday’s placement camp and 473 were selected by the companies. During the camp, Pukhraj HealthCare PVT LTD selected 82 candidates for jobs, ICICI Bank 11, LIC, Nakodar 65, Agile Company 83, SBI Life Insurance 16, CSC 27, Herbalife Nutrition India 38, Narayani Herbals 46, Future Generally 33, Rank Step Education and Consultancy Services Pvt Ltd 13 and LIC Jalandhar selected 59 unemployed youths for jobs.The DC further added that under the seventh round as many as 12 placement camps are being organised in the district, including camps at all BDPO offices of the district.Similarly, more camps are to be held in various locations comprising one at DBEE Jalandhar on April 20, Guru Nanak National College for Women, Nakodar, on April 23, Janta College Kartarpur on April 26, Government Polytechnic College for Women, Jalandhar, on 27th, BDPO Phillaur on 28th, and CT Institute of Engineering and Technology, Shahpur, on April 30.The DC said the job fairs acted as a catalyst to transform the destiny of the youth. Thori reiterated that that the selection of the youth for jobs would be made purely based on merit through a fair and transparent system. He called upon the youth to register themselves on www.pgrkam.com for more jobs. The interested ones can also contact on 0181-2225791 for further information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/round-7-473-youth-get-job-letters-during-mega-fair-236749
09-04-2021||---||Jalandhar administration to ensure  distancing in grain markets||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 8To prevent the spread of Covid in mandis and to protect the health and safety of farmers and labourers, the 30X30 feet bocks have been made at all permanent mandis to ensure social distancing. Drawn with white chalk on the mandis’ brick floors, this is being done to ensure at least 6 feet social distancing as per Covid protocol.Notably, neighbouring to Jalandhar, amidst the present peak in Covid the Kapurthala district cases have also surpassed all previous records. While the district has seen over 9,000 cases of Covid, it is piling on over 150 cases on an average for the past one week. Today the cases hit an ever high 177 one-day mark in the district.An average of three deaths is also being witnessed in Kapurthala every day. Recently four deaths were also seen in a single day.Informing regarding this, Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal said across 42 permanent mandis in the district the exercise was being undertaken and in view of Covid, 20 temporary mandis were also being made. The DC said to prevent crowds accumulating in mandis, passes were also being released to farmers so that farmers bring their grains on designated dates only.While sodium hypochlroide spray was already being conducted at the mandis, from April 10 onwards handwash stations would also be set up at the mandis, besides there would be availability of masks and sanitisers at the purchase centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-administration-to-ensure-distancing-in-grain-markets-236732
09-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||A shoulder to lean on||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 8In order to encourage farmers in their battle against the controversial farm laws, the Good Samaritans are leaving no stone unturned to provide all possible comfort to the farmers staying put on the outskirts of the national capital.It has been over four months since the farmers have been demanding repealing of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.To support the agitators, a city-based youth has come forward to supply all the summer essentials to the farmers. From collecting fans and refrigerators to medicines, Kanwar Sartaj Singh (28) has been organising various camps to receive donations for the farmers.In the month of July last year, Singh had established an NGO called ‘EduYouth Foundation’ to distribute free stationary and books among children from underprivileged class. Himself a teacher, Sartaj said, “I was appalled by the plights of the people who were finding it difficult to purchase books and notebooks after the Covid outbreak. Hence, I launched the NGO to connect with the likeminded people who could come forward to help the needy. However, after the farmers protest was kicked off we made a group of volunteers to help the farmers. While quilts, tents, warmers and other items were in demand during the winters at the protesting sites, fans and mosquito repellents are being demanded these days.”As per the farm unions, as many as 50,000 farmers are there at the Singhu border at present. After baisakhi, more protesters are likely to join the protest. Therefore to avoid shortage of essential commodities, Sartaj has also launched a ‘contribution drive’ to collect disposable plates and glasses, fans (roof, pedestal), coolers, washing machines, water bottles, medicines, mosquito coils and nets, packed food and others.With the help of his volunteers, already three trolleys have been sent to the Singhu border, he has asked residents to step forward and make donations at Gurdwara Singh Sabha, Defence Colony. The foundation is also going to hold a tribute march at the Model Town on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-shoulder-to-lean-on-236731
09-04-2021||---||2 nabbed with illegal weapons||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 8The CIA Staff 1 on Thursday held two Kapurthala-based brothers with illegal weapons. The accused have been identified as Jernail Singh (29) and Jermail Singh (26), both residents of Nurpur village in Kapurthala. Apart from two .32 bore weapons, four magazines and seven live cartridges were also recovered from their possession.Cops said they had received a tip-off that the accused were crossing Chugittee with weapons following which a naka was set up to nab the duo. A stolen motorcycle was also recovered from the accused, said the police.After the death of their father, both brothers started doing petty crimes and were granted bail last year in a theft case, said the police. A case under Sections 379, 482 and 411 of the IPC and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused at Rama Mandi police station.32-yr-old held with heroinThe Special Operation Unit (SOU) on Thursday held a youth with 8 gram of heroin.The accused has been identified as Ratan, alias Kaka, a residenet of Colony 29, Jalandhar Cantt.ACP (Crime) Kanwaljit Singh said they received a tip-off regarding the accused and his involvement in drug peddling. The 32-year-old has been in this trade for the last five years, said the police.A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against Kaka at Cantt police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-nabbed-with-illegal-weapons-236730
09-04-2021||---||Vax drive picks up pace in Nawanshahr||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 8In Nawanshahr (last five days), maximum number of positive cases have been reported from Sujjon block followed by urban-Nawanshahr block. While 82 cases have been reported from Sujjon, urban Nawanshahr has witnessed 67 new cases.In order to tackle the pandemic, the Health Department inoculated 2,539 persons in the district on Thursday. As per information, 594 beneficiaries were administered vaccine in Sujjon block today.In Nawanshahr and Balachaur block, 175 and 269 persons received the jabs, respectively. As many as 633 persons in Muzaffarpur and 360 in Mukandpur received the shots. Today, the health authorities reported 47 cases and zero death in the district. The death rate in the district is 2.69 per cent (toll 208). Nawanshahr Civil Surgeon Gurdeep Singh Kapur said, “Recovery rate has increased. There is a decrease in death rate in the district, which is a positive sign.”Beneficiaries hesitant in Kapurthala districtDeputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal showed concern as more than 100 cases were being reported daily in the district.While residents in Jalandhar and Nawanshahr have started coming forward to get inoculated on their own, beneficiaries in Kapurthala were still hesitant. The Deputy Commissioner said residents here still have inhibitions. “Even I have got inoculated along with several other officials. I can assure you that vaccine is safe,” she said.Uppal urged shopkeepers and traders to ensure that there’s no rush in their shops, else strict action would be taken by the administration.She said shop will be shut if owners don’t follow the guidelines. “When the pandemic had started, shopkeepers used to ask customers to stand at a designated spot outside their shops. Such measures should be started again, otherwise it will become difficult to tackle the Covid-19,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vax-drive-picks-up-pace-in-nawanshahr-236729
09-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Have you ever been mistreated?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 8They were called names, people insulted them by saying they were bringing virus, and were labelled as the government’s spy, ASHA workers have had to soak in numerous slighting remarks throughout the pandemic. A few days ago, the workers held a massive protest against the government for giving them their dues. Besides dealing with problems on the field, they were suffering personal problems too. There are a lot of tales that expose the ground realities and challenges in their work.When everyone was confined to their homes at the start of the pandemic, ASHA workers were entrusted with the task to visit homes and ask people if they were feeling alright or showing any symptoms but the workers said that they had to go through ‘torture’ as people didn’t see them as help.Asha worker Gurjeet Kaur (49), who tested positive recently, is the sole earner in her family. After the death of her husband, she has been looking after her aged in-laws on her own. Kaur’s son, who is into menial jobs, is also facing troubles because of the pandemic.Kaur said she is the supervisor of ASHA workers and covers 20 villages. “I have so many problems in my personal life. I am still recovering from the virus. I remember that I was holding my six-month-old granddaughter when I felt uneasiness and then got myself tested, and when the report came positive, I was shattered. I suddenly got worried for my granddaughter. These are the emotions that we go through,” she shared.Kaur is already dealing with various issues in her personal life. And haunting flashbacks of past year keep coming back; she likes to term that time as a “complete horror”. “People would shut doors on our faces, would mistreat us even though we all were doing our jobs, but it has been a really tough year like never before,” she said.Amritpal, ASHA worker from Nussi village in Jalandhar married off her daughters with much difficulty and said she is the lone bread winner as her husband, a labourer, doesn’t support her much. “We live on this meager income. All this never felt that difficult since the pandemic hit us. ‘log saanu kehnde si ki etho jaao, tusi hi coronavirus laike aande ho’, can you believe how bad we would have felt at that time? No one can and ever will,” she concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/have-you-ever-been-mistreated-236728
09-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Welcome, we are vaccinated!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 8‘We are vaccinated against the Covid-19’ signs greet visitors at a plush eatery at Urban Estate, Phase II, in the city. Amid the pandemic, fine-dining experience has taken a surreal shift as eateries are now ushering in customers by declaring that their employees have been inoculated. The stickers further exhort, ‘Take your Best Shot! Protect yourself and your loved ones. Get vaccinated against Covid-19’.Restaurants, food outlets and eateries, are getting their employees vaccinated to ensure safer dining experience for their customers. Along with promoting safety, signs are also aimed at boosting business among a restaurateur business still reeling under the aftermath of the lockdown and second peak.”Sandy Williams, manager, Barista (Urban Estate, Phase II) said, “Protection from pandemic is a major concern. Our entire staff has been vaccinated and we are following safety protocols. We aim to provide safe dining experience to our clients without worrying about the Covid-19.”Notably, nearly 28 employees of various franchises were vaccinated in March.Neeraj Kumar, operations manager, Euro Greens, said, “Around 28 employees working with us at Hayden Park (Birring village) and Urban Estate, Phase II, have received shots. Our workers at Barista, Subway, Chicago Pizza and Lahori Gate outlets have been inoculated. We got them vaccinated first after receiving directions from the administration. Our employees were inoculated in batches.”He said, “The idea is to ensure customer feels safe at our outlets. We have also displayed ‘wear masks, save lives’ stickers at our units. Covid protocol is abided by everybody. We also want to set an example for everyone. The attempt is also to dispel rumours regarding the vaccine. From owners to employees all of us have been vaccinated. So it serves not just a protection, but also an inspiration among customers who may be sceptical.”Employees at these eateries were vaccinated before mobile vans were started by the district administration.8 deaths, 419 cases in districtRacing past previous records, the Covid cases on Thursday again witnessed a high. With 419 new cases reported in Jalandhar, the district’s tally reached 32,859, of 419 as many as 46 belong to other districts. Eight persons also died here today taking the death toll to 969. While 28,759 people have so far been discharged, there are 3,131 active cases in the district.In Kapurthala, 177 tested positive and three deaths were reported. The deceased include a 76-year-old man, a resident of Fattu Dhinga block, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, a 75-year-old woman, resident of Kapurthala, who too died at a private hospital in Jalandhar and a 62-year-old man, resident of Sultanpur Lodhi.12 die in Hoshiarpur districtThe district reported 12 more deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 611 on Thursday. Besides, the district also witnessed 115 fresh cases; the tally is 14,828 now.Giving information about cases in the district, Civil Surgeon Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,225 and 14,146 patients had recovered. Out of today’s 115 cases, 15 were from Hoshiarpur and the remaining related to other health blocks of the district. Five patients of the district died at hospitals in Jalandhar, while a similar number of patients died at Hoshiarpur hospitals. One patient died at a hospital in Amritsar and one more died on the way to Amritsar from Dasuya Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/welcome-we-are-vaccinated-236727
