10-04-2021||Nawanshahr||Song on drugs by Gurprasad Singh Manga appreciated||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/song-on-drugs-by-gurprasad-singh-manga-appreciated-237291
10-04-2021||Kapurthala||Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh reviews works||Exotic veggies get a praiseJalandhar: Delegates from the Ministry of Defence, Punjab Government and National Defence College, visited Centre of Excellence for Vegetables at Kartarpur for socio-political tour. Dr Daljit Singh, project officer, Centre of Excellence for Vegetables, informed delegates of various activities going on in the centre. The delegates appreciated various exotic vegetables and asked questions regarding the same. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-mla-rana-gurjit-singh-reviews-works-237242
10-04-2021||A webinar on “Role of e-Learning in Implementation of NEP 2020” was organised by the Department of Electrical Engineering||Webinar on implementation of NEP by DAV University, Jalandhar||Poshan PakhwadaJalandhar: As per the guidelines from Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, NSS unit and de-addiction committee of MGN College of Education Jalandhar organised inter- college competitions under ‘Poshan Pakhwada 2021’. On this occasion elocution, poem recitation, e-slogan writing and e-poster making competitions were organised on the themes poshan (overall nutrition), hygiene, water sanitisation, hand wash, and sanitisation, yoga for health, growth monitoring, poshtik ahar, immunisation, general well-being and problem of anemia in girls. More than 65 students from different colleges of Punjab participated in various categories of competitions. In elocution competition, Divya from DAV College of Education Hoshiarpur got first position, Pavleen Kaur from MGN College of Education, Jalandhar, bagged second position and Nandini from MGN College of Education Jalandhar got third position and Himanshu Gharu from DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, got a consolation prize. In poem recitation competition, Divya from DAV Colllege of Education Hoshiarpur got first position, Pavleen Kaur from MGN College of Education Jalandhar bagged second position and Manjot Kaur from MGN College of Education Jalandhar got consolation prize. In e-slogan recitation competition, Rajwinder Kaur from DAV College of Education Hoshiarpur got first position, Ankita Sharma from MGN College of Education, Jalandhar bagged second position and Khushnaseeb from DAV College of Education Hoshiarour and Sheetal Sharma from MGN College of Education, Jalandhar got third prize, Tanya Mehta from MGN College of Education, Jalandhar got consolation prize. In e-poster making competition Rachita from MGN College of Education Jalndhar got first position, Tanya Mehta from MGN College of Education, Jalandhar and Tanvir Kaur from Shri Guru Arjab Dev Government College Tarn Taran bagged second position and Vanshika Sharma from Kamla Nehru College of Education for Women Phagwara got third position and Meenakhsi from DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, got consolation prize. Judgment of all the competitions was done by Dr Ravjit Kaur, Dr Pooja Bhardwaj and Geetanjali Mittu. The entire event was coordinated by Dr Kiran Walia and Gaganpreet Kaur under principal Neelu Jhanjhi.Launch of IIC webpageThe third and final day of the celebrations of 95th foundation day of Hans Raj Mahila MahaVidyalaya was marked with the launch of webpage of HMV Institute’s Innovation Council (IIC), a venture under the canopy of MHRD, Government of India. Taking delight in the launch, principal Dr Ajay Sareen said HMV adopted the concept propagated by Innovation Cell, MHRD, Government of India, to promote and foster innovation and start-up in campus. She said the institute is actively involved in conducting such activities to provide all possible help to budding entrepreneurs. The web page will provide a glimpse into the myriad of activities and motivate the younger generation to come forward with their ideas. Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated Dr Anjana Bhatia, in-charge IIC, and the whole team comprising of Dr Rakhi Mehta, Second Lt. Sonia Mahendru, Navneeta, Alka, Lovleen, Dr Meenakshi Duggal Mehta, Ashish Chadha, Vidhu Vohra, Rishabh Dhir, Protima Mander, Dr Simmi, Harpreet and Dr. Jaspreet Kaur.World Health DayKamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara’s Department of Physical Education conducted an online lecture on the occasion of World Health Day with the theme ‘Yoga and its relevance’. The lecture was delivered by Sunita. The primary objective of the event was to make the students aware about the dire need of taking care of one’s health and to further boost their immune system so as to develop required immunity to fight the deadly diseases like coronavirus. More than 55 students actively participated in the session. Dr. Savinder Pal, principal of the college, congratulated the faculty of the department and motivated them to enlighten the masses to educate them about their health.GNDU to begin courses for teachersGuru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) will begin teacher education programmes for special students and to create more inclusive environment on campus. School of Education at GNDU has developed a state-of-the-art facility for running BEd special education (multi- disability) and integrated four years teacher education programmes for training teachers. Keeping in mind the lack of special educators in Punjab and professional centre for training, the university has taken up the initiative and has also signed an MoU with the Pehal Government Resource Centre (Special School) and Government Senior Secondary School, Karampura, for commitment to equity, access and quality education, to special students. Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu said, "The purpose behind launching new courses is for catering to need of scarcity of trained and proficient teachers in handling diversity and thereby making inclusion in schools a success. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-implementation-of-nep-by-dav-university-jalandhar-237234
10-04-2021||---||411 youngsters get jobs at mega fair in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 9As many as 411 unemployed youths got on-spot jobs during the seventh round of mega job fair held at the Block Development and Panchayat Office, Lohian Khas under Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojna. Divulging the details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said a total of 437 youths participated in the job fair, of which 411 got placed into 10 companies. The DC said the job placement camps would be organised throughout April at various locations in Jalandhar.Disclosing more details, Thori said more camps are to be held in various locations comprising a camp at DBEE Jalandhar on April 20, Guru Nanak National College for Women, Nakodar on April 23, Janta College Kartarpur on April 26, Government Polytechnic College for Women, Jalandhar, on 27th, BDPO Phillaur on 28th, and CT Institute of Engineering and Technology, Shahpur on April 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/411-youngsters-get-jobs-at-mega-fair-in-jalandhar-237233
10-04-2021||---||IKGPTU’s ‘Navonmesh’ a mega success||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 9With the aim of providing motivation to its students, faculty and staff, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University organised a mega event on Thursday on its main campus. Event was held at the Sri Guru Nanak Dev auditorium. The day was full of knowledge, faith, self-confidence and motivational lectures, life experiences. The title of the event was ‘Navonmesh’.The university organised this event in association with ‘Yayavar literary festival’. While following all the guidelines of the Punjab Government, the students, faculty and staff were not invited by the organising team in big strength and being a technical university, thousands of spectators were added to it using the technology, including national-international level students, faculty, researchers, general public joined this programme through YouTube live and other social media platforms. Vice-chancellor Prof (Dr) Ajay Kumar Sharma welcomed through online medium and announced this effort as an historical programme.From the organising team Er Navdeepak Sandhu, deputy director (Corporate Relations and Alumni) IKGPTU and Nupur Sandhu, founder and director of ‘Yayavar literary festival’ led the inaugural ceremony. This was followed by a live band of a group of four students who performed on Bollywood songs.In the first session, the topic ‘how I found my goal of life’ was discussed by the international football player women’s league J&K Ms Afshan Ashiq. The second address was from professional skydiver Arjuna awardee Group Captain (retd) Kamal Singh on the topic ‘how adventure makes you think out of box’. The first session panelist was Vinit K Bansal, a banker, specially-abled, entrepreneur and writer of dozen best sellers. The moderator was Ms Nupur Sandhu. In the second session, Radio Mirchi Jammu and Kashmir’s programming head RJ Shwetima Jamwal spoke on the topic ‘social media and its impact’.In the next session, Dr Sarabjit Singh Mann, assistant professor Punjabi IKGPTU, was the moderator. The panellists were Punjabi poet and ghazal singer Sukhvinder Amrit, Vijay Vivek and Dev Dard. The third session was addressed by noted TEDx speaker, actor, Major (retd) Mohommed Ali Shah on the subject ‘life of a soldier’, while the other speaker Aarusha Mahajan spoke on the topic ‘How to start a start-up’. At the end of the ceremony, Nupur Sandhu conveyed the vote of thanks. Dr Mrigender Bedi, Dr Vivek Aggarwal, Dr Gazal Sharma, (both assistant professors) Tarun Kanodia, Deepak Sidana and Ankit Kapila (programmers) coordinated the programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptus-navonmesh-a-mega-success-237232
10-04-2021||---||On the cards: Micro testing of food products in Hoshiarpur||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, April 9Under the state government’s Tandarust Punjab Mission, the microbiological testing of food products and other eatables will be started in a few days as Hoshiarpur has got three big refrigerators, a chiller and two carriers.The refrigerators and other hi-tech apparatus have been received by the District Health Officer, which would immensely be beneficial for sampling and preservation of samples without adding any chemical for increasing their shelf life. Health teams will soon go hi-tech with modern apparatus for all kinds of tests across the district.Stating this here on Friday, District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh said once these machines became fully functional, the prescribed safety norms would be enforced more efficaciously. With these machines, Dr Lakhvir said, the microbiological analysis of the food samples could be done easily, which was earlier a cumbersome process.“Now, health teams would not require to add formalin in the samples taken from any place for enhancing their shelf life as with the use of these carriers, chiller and refrigerators the samples could be preserved as it is,” he added.The District Health Officer also urged the owners of food outlets, manufacturers of food products, especially milk, paneer, curd, cream, meat, fish, etc, to sell only fresh, hygiene and quality products in the larger public interest.He said under the Tandarust Punjab Mission, strict action would be initiated against those violating the Food Safety & Standards Act, 2006. He said the food products should meet the prescribed quality norms as adulteration and any sort of contamination would not be accepted. Owners and vendors of eating joints/outlets should also maintain the cold chain to and from the places they would procure the raw material and where they preserved the same, he added.On the directives of the State Food Commissioner Punjab, Dr Lakhvir said, the pace of sampling and testing drive would be accelerated to ensure the availability of pure, hygiene and quality food products.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/on-the-cards-micro-testing-of-food-products-in-hoshiarpur-237230
10-04-2021||---||Young farmers head to Delhi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 9Youngsters in hundreds under the banner of the Kirti Kisan Union set off for New Delhi to participate in farmers’ stir on Friday.Youth wing will protest on KMP Road on April 10. Young farmers and labour activists were mobilised from various villages. Protesters said the Kirti Kisan Union held campaigns in villages for mobilisation of youths.Farmer leaders said jungles, fertile land and water was being handed at throwaway prices to corporates. They said the Delhi-based andolan can put a stop to such policies. They said hardworking residents were trying their best to participate in the protest. They said agriculture laws passed by the Centre should be withdrawn immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/young-farmers-head-to-delhi-237229
10-04-2021||---||Farmers, labourers to celebrate birth anniv of  Ambedkar jointly in Delhi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 9On the call given by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, farmers and farm labourer unions decided to celebrate Dr BR Amebdkar’s birth anniversary  on April 14.It’s for the first time in the state that Ambedkarites and farmers shall jointly celebrate the event. Across districts, several events would be held to observe the occasion. Jathas of farmers and labourers would also be heading to Delhi.In a joint meeting, leaders of various unions said the Centre was trying to steal away constitutional rights of people. They said in response to these attempts by the government, April 14 this year would be celebrated both at Delhi borders and across the state as an assertion of constitutional rights.They said three agri laws, the Electricity Amendment Act 2020 and the New Education Policy were all a part of an attempt to steal away the rights. They said Dalits would be most intensely affected as they depend on agriculture, landless and poor peasants shall also be left without livelihoods.Members said the New Education Policy would impact their right to education and the Electricity Amendment Act would rob them of provision of exemption from paying electricity bills. They said farmers and labourers were united against the passing of these laws and bills.Dehati Madoor Sabha general secretary Gurnam Daud, Pendu Mazdoor Union chief Tarsem Peter, Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union general secretary Gulzar Gaurian, Mazdoor Mukti Morcha chief Bhagwant Samrao, Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union head Balwant Makkhu, Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee’s Mukesh Malout among others, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-labourers-to-celebrate-birth-anniv-of-ambedkar-jointly-in-delhi-237227
10-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||The thrill is gone: Charm of entering new standard melts away||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 9There are no more carriages carrying school kids in the city. The stationery and school bags shops that would see a hustle-bustle of the students and their parents during this time are quiet and empty now. The charm of entering new classes has gone away with online education. The pandemic has taken away everything. The sellers say that the business has got badly affected as there is a 70-80 per cent dip in the sales of the stationery items, school bags, etc.New school bags, new notebooks and its covers, writing names, roll numbers and class on the stickers, new uniform, this is what promoting to a new class meant for the school students, but not anymore.There is a sense of despair among students as well as the sellers of their workaday items. Varinder Gandhi, who has a stationery shop at Mai Hira Gate in the city said, “There is more than 75 per cent dip in the business. Students would earlier come to us and would buy notebooks, pencils and pens, copy covers, and now with online education, they don’t need anything. There is hardly any sale.”The shopkeepers were hopeful that unlike last year offline classes would be held this time, but to their horror, the schools are again shut.Nitin Sahni, from Eastern Stationery Mart, said, this is something that had never happened before. “Ups and downs are part of business, but this is something that has happened for the first time. Everything’s online, so who would buy notebooks. We had hoped that schools would reopen. Let’s see what the future has in store for us,” he added.Owner of VK Bags, Lalit, asks who will buy a bag now. “When nobody is going to the school, why would anyone even spend their money on school bags at this point of time? Everyone is suffering through the same condition. It’s a tough time,” he said.Yuvika Aneja, who just entered Class VI, said she was missing her offline classes. “I used to buy new water bottles, would cover notebooks and buy new and pretty bags too. All that charm has gone,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-thrill-is-gone-charm-of-entering-new-standard-melts-away-237224
10-04-2021||---||4,500 beneficiaries jabbed in Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, April 9Around 4,500 persons were administered vaccination in Kapurthala district on Friday at the Civil Hospitals, sub- division hospitals, primary health centres and 42 health- wellness centres. At present, 83 session sites have been made operational to incoulate beneficiaries in the district.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said special teams have been deputed at the Market Committee offices to cater farmers and labourers for upcoming wheat procurement season. She said Kapurthala and Phagwara cities also witnessed special camps at various places to facilitate senior citizens.MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, who visited the vaccination centre at the Municipal Corporation office, urged residents to come forward and get vaccinated. He said the government was administring free vaccination at the governtment-run hospitals.The MLA said he along with his family members took the jab and senior citizens must come forward as it has no side effect. The Deputy Commissioner said 26,836 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the district. She hoped that in the next two days, the district would see a sharp increase as mobile units would also be roped in, besides enhancing outreach sites in villages.As many as 3,970 persons with comorbid conditions (at high-risk) have been jabbed in the district.Central team visits NawanshahrA Central team consisting of two members visited Nawanshahr district on Friday and checked Covid preparations in the district. They took note of the current situation of Covid in the district, availability of beds in hospitals for patients, sampling, contact tracing, vaccination, etcThe team also asked regarding the death rate in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapur said the team showed satisfaction on the works and initiatives taken by the Health DepartmentThey also visited the containment zone in Ward No.13 in Balachaur. Tomorrow, the team will visit Sujjon village where there is another containment zone||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-500-beneficiaries-jabbed-in-kapurthala-237221
10-04-2021||---||4 deaths, 502 fresh cases in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 9While the first shocker was witnessed on March 18 when the district witnessed 510 cases, Jalandhar district’s per-day count crossed the 500 mark for the second time on Friday. Even during the peak period of Covid-19 in September last year, the per-day count of cases crossed the 400 mark but the new strain is leading to new highs in the district.With 502 new cases of Covid reported in Jalandhar today, the district tally reached 33,361. Meanwhile, Kapurthala district witnessed 111 fresh cases pushing the tally to cross the 10,000 mark.Of the 502 fresh cases, as many as 85 patients belong to other districts. Besides, four persons died of Covid in Jalandhar, taking the toll to 973. While 29,073 people have been discharged so far, there are 3,315 active cases in the district.On an average, the district is witnessing around 300 to 400 fresh cases per day. On many days, the number crossed the 400 mark. However, during the new strain, over 500 cases have been witnessed only on March 18 when the district recorded 510 fresh cases.Though vaccination is in full swing in the district with mobile vans, educational institutes, offices, etc, also serving as vaccination centres, the intensity of the new strain is, however, not being countered despite the much-intensified vaccine drive.In Kapurthala, 111 people tested positive for the virus today. Besides, two deaths were also reported in the district. The deceased are: a 38-year-old man of Phagwara, who died at a PIMS in Jalandhar, and a 62-year-old woman of Dhilwan who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar. The tally of cases in Kapurthala touched 10,038.Meanwhile, the Hoshiarpur district reported six more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 617 on Friday. Besides, the district also witnessed 141 fresh cases, taking the tally to 14,945.Giving information about Covid-19 cases in the district, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,231 and 14,275 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of today’s 141 positive cases, 17 patients were from Hoshiarpur city, 24 were reported from other districts and the remaining others were from various health blocks of the district. Three patients died in Hoshiarpur hospitals and one each at Patiala, Dasuya and Amritsar hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-deaths-502-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-district-237220
10-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Fearing curbs, migrants head back home||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 9The rising Covid-19 cases have triggered the fear of last year-like lockdown among migrants. Labourers, daily wagers, kiln labourers among others have begun heading back to their states. They say if a lockdown is imposed, they will have to either shell out thousands for a journey back home or remain stranded. Lesser wages during the pandemic has also triggered the return.“Five to six of my fellow labourers have headed back to UP and Bihar in recent days amid the fears they would be stranded if a lockdown is implemented. Memories of the last year are fresh. Reports from other states of lockdowns have also motivated many to head back,” says Santosh Kumar, a UP resident and daily wage labourer.150 have leftAt our four kilns in Jalandhar, there are 700 to 800 labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar as well as Punjab. Of these, 100 to 150 have already gone back to their states. Lockdowns in other states have compounded their fears. —Rakesh Kumar, Labour contractorIqbal Chand Mattu, member, All-Mazdoor Shakti Sangh and Punjab Mazdoor Union, says, “The fear of uncertainty looms. Everyone is fearing another lockdown. Some labourers last year paid Rs 6,000 to 7,000 to reach their native places. Wages are already minimal. Many are contemplating to move out before further restrictions are imposed.” Mattu said 70 per cent of kiln labourers in Punjab were from other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fearing-curbs-migrants-head-back-home-236945
