11-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||No procurement on Day 1 as arhtiyas go on strike||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 10Harvested wheat crop arrived at various grain markets of the district but remained unlifted on the first day of procurement.Reason: The arhtiyas (commission agents) went ahead with their state-wide protest against the state government’s decision to follow the Centre’s direction of transferring the minimum support price (MSP) of farmers’ crops directly to their bank accounts. Hence, farmers returned to their villages without procurement.Farmers started thronging the grain markets from 8 am onwards on Saturday hoping to sell their produce early, but the deadlock between the government and the arthiyas left them at the receiving end. On the first day, the crop was only cleaned and packed into gunny bags.Balwinder Singh (32), a farmer who had come from Budhiana in Jandu Singha, said he arrived at the grain market to avoid any damage to his crop. “Two days ago, around 18 acres of standing wheat crop was gutted in a fire incident at our village. Due to short-circuit of overhead high-tension electricity wires, the phenomenon of the burning of ready to harvest crop is common. Therefore, we try to harvest our crop as soon as possible. The non-clarity over the timely transfer of MSP into our bank accounts has apparently forced arthiyas to go on strike,” Balwinder, who brought around 300 quintals of wheat for procurement to the grain market, said.Likewise, Davinder Singh from Gakhhal village, said it’s been three hours since he had been sitting at the grain market. “Earlier, the procurement used to be concluded within two hours after reaching the mandis. It’s hard to understand why the government is adamant on DBT, when commission agents also transfer us the MSP directly into our accounts within a few days of procurement,” Davinder said.Farmers also have added pressure these days due to the agri-laws’ stir. Those who couldn’t join the stir on the Delhi-Haryana borders are reaping the fields of their relatives, gradually delaying the harvesting process.Clear the air over DBT, demand arhtiyas“We have no issues over the direct transfer of crop’s price into the bank accounts of farmers, but the government procurement agencies need to clear the air over a stipulated time period of transfer of money. The farmers most of the time take advance money from us, which wouldn’t be possible with the interference of the government agencies. In addition, the shortage of staff and maintaining the record of the crop arrived in the mandis will only delay the transfer of money into the bank accounts of farmers,” said Kashmiri Lal, an arhtiya. He informed that the strike was called off later in the evening and the procurement would begin from tomorrow onwards.What Role they play in grain marketsApart from collecting the crop from farmers, arhtiyas provide labour, gunny bags, loading and unloading of crops and loan to farmers. They also maintain the record of the exact amount of crop brought in the market, which is usually done manually. For the past two years, they have also been paying farmers through digital modes. Heavy fans which cost around Rs70,000 to Rs80,000 are provided to farmers by the arthiyas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-procurement-on-day-1-as-arhtiyas-go-on-strike-237520
11-04-2021||Kapurthala||Come forward, get jabbed, people urged||Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh called upon people to come forward for Covid vaccination as it was the only way to wipe out the epidemic. The MLA on Saturday asked the councillors to mobilise people for vaccination in their respective wards so that the spread of the virus could be stopped. He visited the special immunisation camps set up by the Health Department for Ward Nos.12, 13 and 14 at Baba Deep Singh Nagar and Ward Nos.37 and 38 at Rohi Wala gurdwara. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/come-forward-get-jabbed-people-urged-237522
11-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur DC ropes in religious organisations||Hoshiarpur, April 10In a clarion call to social and religious organisations to play a significant role to tackle the pandemic, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Saturday said following the health guidelines and vaccination of eligible beneficiaries was very important.Riyait said special camps would be held on Sunday in Budhabarh, Majhpur, Latifpur, Bariyana, Kotli Khas and Bhangala villages. Besides vaccination drive would also be carried out at Radha Soami satsang ghars at Nara, Bassi Kalan/Handowal, Dhakkowal, Bajrawar, Khanora, Bajwara, Nangal Shaheedan, Nandachaur, Dhadde Fateh Singh, Sahaipur, Bagpur, Goraya, Haryana, Janori, Takhni, Nangal Jammal and Shamchurasi.Holding a meet with the SDMs, cops and the Health Department, the Deputy Commissioner appealed to people above 45 years of age to take the shot as soon as possible to contain the surge.Riyait said inoculation drive was being carried out on war-footing in urban and rural areas of the district at 100 locations.She said around 1.34 lakh beneficiaries have received the shot to date in the district and 4,600 persons were jabbed today.Riyait asked the SDMs to liaison with social and religious organisation to increase testing and vaccination.Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal said to step up contact tracing and timely quarantine of contacts of a positive person, eight special teams have been formed.He said these teams would remain in constant touch with the administrative and health officials. Mahal said those violating the norms will be dealth with sternly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-dc-ropes-in-religious-organisations-237524
11-04-2021||---||Unaided colleges’ assn demands online exams||Jalandhar, April 10In view of the rising cases of Covid-19 infection, the Punjab Unaided Colleges Association (PUCA) on Saturday urged Dr Ajay K Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, IKGPTU, Jalandhar, to conduct the pending exams through the online mode.Dr Anshu Kataria, president, PUCA and chairman, Aryans Group of Colleges, said in view of the rising cases, the university had postponed all the pending examinations of March till further orders. Some students had already appeared in the December 2020 exams but some were still pending, which is resulting into mismatching of semester, syllabus coverage, etc, besides causing inconvenience to students.S Manjeet Singh, senior vice-president, Punjab Unaided Technical Institutions’ Association (PUTIA), said, “We are getting so many applications from students of Punjab as well as from other states to conduct the exams through the online platform.”On social media, several students across various states were expressing their concerns, requesting colleges to conduct online exams.In order to safeguard the larger interest of students, he urged the VC, IKGPTU, to conduct the pending exams through the online mode so that the semesters could be streamlined.As per a notice, it was stated that those students who were not able to appear in the December-January exams (conducted from January 4), they could appear in the March 2021 exams.Further, due to the rising number of Covid cases, the university has again issued a notice and given a chance again to the students who were still not able to appear in the March exams, which were again postponed due to the spread of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unaided-colleges-assn-demands-online-exams-237525
11-04-2021||Jalandhar||Lok Adalat: 1,268 cases settled||As per directions of the National Legal Services Authority and the Punjab Legal Services Authority, the National Lok Adalat was organised in Jalandhar, Nakodar and Phillaur on Saturday. Rupinderjit Chahal, District & Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Jalandhar, said 15 Benches in Jalandhar, two in Nakodar and two in Phillaur were constituted.  He said cases pertaining to civil, criminal, matrimonial and financial matters pending in courts, matters related to banks, companies and departments, were taken up. A total of 3,212 matters were taken up out which 1,268 cases were settled. He said the decision of the lok adalat was final and no appeal can be filed. In addition, the court fee affixed by the person filing the case was refunded. Moreover, amicable solution of a dispute promotes brotherhood among litigants. Dr Gagandeep Kaur, CJM-cum-Secretary, DLSA, Jalandhar, said such lok adalats are organised from time to time and one call on toll-free number (1968) for more information. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lok-adalat-1-268-cases-settled-237526
11-04-2021||---||Woman ‘denied treatment’ under Ayushman Bharat||Jalandhar, April 10In what seemed to be a case of negligence, a woman was ‘denied treatment’ under the Ayushman Bharat scheme by two private hospitals.The matter came to light after the woman, a kidney patient, and her husband came to the DC office on Friday. A video of the incident was viral on social media. In the video, the victim, Sunita, stated that her kidneys had stopped working due to which there were swelling in the legs. She needed dialysis for treatment.Talking to mediapersons, her husband, Vijay Kumar, stated that they had first gone to the Civil Hospital for treatment, however due to a surge in Covid cases, staff at the Civil Hospital asked them to visit some private hospital. Then they visited two private hospitals. “Even after having the Ayushman cards, they were denied treatment and were asked to pay for the treatment cost,” added Kumar.Subsequently, unable to bears the expenses, the couple approached the DC office. Vijay took his wife in a wheelchair. Taking cognizance of the matter, SDM Jai Inder Singh referred the woman to another hospital, which was empanelled under the scheme and assured them of taking action against the private hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-denied-treatment-under-ayushman-bharat-237527
11-04-2021||---||Jalandhar district reports 6 deaths, 407 new virus cases||Jalandhar, April 10The district reported 407 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the infection tally to 33,768. Of these 407, as many as 30 belong to other districts. Six people also died of Covid in the district on Saturday, taking the death toll to 979. While 29,457 people have so far been discharged, there are 3,332 active cases in the district.In Kapurthala, 152 people tested positive for Covid on Saturday. Two deaths were also reported at Kapurthala. The deceased include a 68-year-old woman of Phagwara, who died at Military Hospital in Jalandhar; a 71-year-old man of Nadali village also died at Military Hospital in Jalandhar. Kapurthala cases crossed the 10,000 mark on Saturday with the tally reaching 10,038.10 die, 149 +ve in Hoshiarpur districtThe district reported 10 more deaths due to Covid-19 taking the toll to 627 on Saturday.Besides, 149 fresh cases were also witnessed in the district, taking the tally to 15,094.Giving information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,250 and 14,418 patients had recovered from the virus. Of today’s 141 positive cases, 19 patients were from Hoshiarpur city and the remaining from various health blocks of the district. Two patients died at home, two patients died at a private hospital in Nawanshahr, five patients died at Jalandhar hospitals, while one died at Dasuya Civil Hospital. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-6-deaths-407-new-virus-cases-237528
11-04-2021||Jalandhar||Woman ends life, husband booked||AAP protests high power chargesJalandhar: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) activists gathered at Dayanand Model School and burnt bills in protest against hefty electricity charges on Saturday. Rajwinder Kaur and Prem Kumar, AAP’s urban and rural chiefs, said Punjabis were fed up of expensive electricity. They said to take the issue of costly electricity door-to-door, a committee of over 150 volunteers was formed. The primary aim for constituting the committee is to align people with the ‘Bijli andolan’. They said in every village and mohalla of the district, public gatherings would be held to mobilise residents. Rajwinder said keeping in mind the Covid protocol, AAP would hold more than 16,000 jan sabhas and burn electricity bills. She said the CM had promised electricity at Rs5 per unit to small traders, which termed a false promise. Prem said if the AAP can provide free electricity in Delhi, why cannot the Punjab Government. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-ends-life-husband-booked-237535
