12-04-2021||As circumstances are dancing on razor’s edge||Govt must find a middle path in consultation with parents||Nothing important than students’ safetyAmong others, the education sector was also seriously impacted by the outbreak of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown when all educational institutions across the state were indefinitely closed. With the gradual lifting of restrictions, schools resorted to online teaching to make up for the loss of students’ studies. But parents, especially from economically weaker sections and those from remote and rural areas, resented the move for non-availability of smartphones and internet connectivity, and demanded offline classes to ensure the educational, physical, mental and social well-being of their children. The schools were reopened after nine months in January this year on the strong collective demand of parents, pupils and private managements with strict anti-Covid guidelines. A majority of parents were not ready to send their wards for offline classes, fearing that most school administrations were incapable to operate safely. And their contention proved true. As many students, teachers and staff of several schools tested positive, the state government again shut them down on March 19 in the backdrop of growing clamour by parents. But their expression of ire and resentment over government’s latest decision to postpone board exams for Classes X and XII due to surge in cases is totally irrational and unjustified. In view of the infections showing an upward trajectory over the last few weeks, it is wise to choose the safety of children over higher studies. Rather than unnecessarily criticising the state authorities for announcing precautionary measures from time to time, parents should behave like responsible citizens and cooperate to slow the spread of the fatal disease. Consensus is fast emerging that a marked improvement in the Covid situation is imperative for the smooth functioning of academic institutions and the regular conduct of final examinations.DS Kang QUESTIONIn the past few months, there has been an increase in crime incidents such as firing, snatching, robbery. Do you feel unsafe amid the scenario and think that the police need to take drastic steps to curb such incidents in the city?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (April 15).Lives more important than examinations“To be or not to be is the question” – so wrote the Bard of Avon, William Shakespeare, four centuries ago. This, again, is the question for the government whether to open the schools for exams or not. Punjab is already suffering from the resurge of Covid-19 infections, more so because the new variant from the UK is more lethal, contagious and spreads rapidly. Daily the number of cases and deaths are rising. Even beds and ventilators are falling short and more beds are being commissioned. The parents should not insist on not postponing the exams. Already many teachers and students have been infected with this virus at many schools. The lives are more important than exams and education. The latter can be done again in future but the former once gone can’t be retrieved. But irony of the situation is that shops, businesses, bars and restaurants are open till 9 pm every day. Though the night curfew has been imposed and the lockdown may be in the offing, though Punjab CM has denied it, if the Covid-19 surge doesn’t abate. The government must find a middle path in consultation and consensus with all the stakeholders. The parents should not insist on taking exams of students for the time being.Dr JS WadhwaCovid behaviour must be followedFew weeks back we were in a jubilant mood that the menace of Covid-19 has been suppressed with our sincere efforts by adopting all the measures to keep ourselves safe from it as prescribed by the Ministry of Health. Malls, cinemas, colleges and schools were opened, numbers of guests for marriage ceremonies were increased and the fear of virus vanished from the minds of the masses. As the schools and colleges demanded tuition fee from the parents of the students, resentment to a great extent was witnessed; even demonstration was being carried handing over memorandums to administration for exemption of school/college fee during the days of the lockdown. The demand for opening of schools was witnessed from various sections of the society without any fear and severity of the second wave. As earlier, the second wave had been witnessed in the West and is now in India. The administration immediately came into action for closure of schools after sedulous testing of school staff and students. In order to safeguard the students from the menace, the administration had to take harsh decision in public interest by announcing closure of schools, as even though vaccination drive is at its peak but the qualifying age is above 45. Until and unless 70 per cent of the masses get vaccinated, the parents of the students can be in dilemma if the schools should be reopened or conducting of exams. If the schools conduct exams, Covid-appropriate behaviour must be followed. But if it all nosedives south, who will be blamed for the negligence?RAJAT KUMAR MOHINDRUOpening schools is inviting more miserySchools and colleges have been closed and the order is applicable on all, as well as coaching centres and exams have been postponed. The second wave is steadily increasing the infection and death rate is alarmingly high. Parents are protesting that the schools should be opened as their children have already suffered their studies and moreover most of the exams have been done, only two-three exams are left. The delay in exams is diverting the attention from competitive exams because of no regularity in online classes. It’s very shocking to see parents’ resentment to open the schools as they prefer bookish study rather than the precious lives of their children, in a way they are welcoming the virus in their lives by sending their wards to schools. Their concern is also genuine that the school authorities are charging full fee and other charges so let the schools be opened. Taking all the precautions schools should be opened as all other activities are opened. All malls and theatres and other places are opened and life is normal. The government should give more emphasis on vaccination.SHASHI KIRANThe current situation is very delicateThe spell of second wave of virus’ variant is undoubtedly very dangerous, throwing bigger challenges for both the people and the government to tackle with. The schoolchildren are most vulnerable section required to be dealt with utmost care and responsibility at the ends of both their parents and the administration. As such, the parents’ complaints in the matter of taking certain measures especially postponing the ensuing examinations are not tenable. The peculiar circumstances require that the parents must show unbiased and complete understanding of the situation so that there are no hindrances in taking all precautions vital to prevent further spread, containment and treatment of virus at all levels. The value of human lives, especially our wards cannot be taken for granted. The studies and examinations can wait till the scenario is conducive and totally safe. The situation is very precarious and painfully abnormal and as such we have to bear and deal with extraordinary measures only.JAGDISH CHANDERPostponement is not the remedyThe resurge is again taking a toll on the education and future prospects of children. There can be no substitute to the classroom teaching demanding the physical presence of students. The pandemic has already affected the pedagogy adversely. Virtual teaching in no way to match the standards of the traditional ways.The real classroom engages the pupils with student-teacher participation and interaction. This definitely promotes scientific abilities, cognitive attitude and ingenuity. Virtual teaching doesn't match the attentiveness, interest and participation of students. Some are even faking to be present while being engaged in another activity. Even it's difficult for the tutor to maintain the decorum and discipline. Internet speed, poor connectivity, lack of proper armamentarium is other issue. No doubt parents are concerned and worried for the well-being of their wards. Shutting down of schools/colleges, postponement of exams is not the remedy. It will add to the woes of the already-wounded education system and further lag in the didactic and learning methodology. Need of the hour is the judicious and diligent adoption of all the safety measures and precautions.Dr Raman GuptaBe careful of what you wish forNo, resentment of parents on exams postponement is not at all justified. Increase in cases amongst mass students created need for postponement of exams and it was on their demand that only exams were ultimately postponed. As coronavirus is deadly, parents got fearful and when administration postponed the dates they breathed fire for no logical reason. The parents' resentment is totally unjustified and uncalled for.SANJAY CHAWLAHold exams as Our future is in jeopardyParents are very thoughtful about the health and wellness of their wards. No doubt, they themselves clamoured for closure of schools and other educational institutions after mass students got Covid-positive but they are also bothered about the future of their kids. The career of the students rely on the percentile and marks in their board classes. So, the worrisome parents for their students' future give the justification for the postponement of board exams. The schools can take examinations under safe circumstances and can let the students sit individually in one class without any social gatherings. In my perspective, parents are justified in resenting the postponement of board exams as it is delaying the next session 2021-2022. Also, examinations should be conducted as soon as possible under strict circumstances. The educational authorities can also create a sort of system that would help in conducting exams in the safest way possible. Being a student, I have always been worried about my future and my career. I, on the behalf of parents and students, waiting to appear for delayed examinations, would suggest the education committee to consider the issue and help in conducting examinations as soon as possible.IzleenNo restrictions on other sectorsFrom the last one year I notified that our education sector is highly impacted by the pandemic. Undoubtedly, parents' resentment regarding exam postponement is quite genuine. So here, it's our states' education ministries' responsibility to make ensure that students would never suffer from education loss. A point to keep in mind is that our society knows there are no strict restrictions imposed by the government on other sectors like marketing, transportation, tour and travel, etc. Moreover, public gathering, marriages, parties, malls, theaters and restaurants all are enjoying freedom under certain norms. Even election campaigns under huge gathering are on full swing. Are they not a cause to spread virus? Why government is not agreeing to conduct offline exam by following some basic instructions and safety measures? Every day the Covid threat is increasing and the lockdown seems inevitable. On the other hand, if any family member is positive how will the student appear for the paper? In Punjab's various districts many school teachers and students tested positive. Also, there is no vaccine for children. That's why parents were in favor of school closure. We are also hoping that teachers get the vaccination before the examinations so that everyone is safe while the offline exams are conducted.PARAMPREET KAURResentment of parents justified Ankur Gupta||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-must-find-a-middle-path-in-consultation-with-parents-238069
12-04-2021||Our Correspondent||6 deaths, 125 new +ve cases in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, April 11The district reported six more Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday, taking the death toll to 633, while 125 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 15,219. Giving information about the Covid cases in the district, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,207 and 15,585 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of today’s 125 positive cases, 20 patients were from Hoshiarpur city and the remaining patients were from other health blocks of the district. Three patients died at Hoshiarpur hospitals, while two more died at Jalandhar hospitals and one died at an Amritsar hospital.Meanwhile, actor Sonu Sood has been made the brand ambassador for Punjab’s anti-coronavirus vaccination programme. During the coronavirus-induced lockdown last year, the actor had helped migrants reach their home states. Sood catapulted to the national spotlight for feeding thousands of underprivileged people amid the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-deaths-125-new-ve-cases-in-hoshiarpur-238068
12-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar’s Dr Saloni Pal is assistant lecturer at University of Canterbury||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 11She has conducted astronomical research at an observatory at Lake Tekapo and now is an assistant lecturer at University of Canterbury.City’s Dr Saloni Pal (35) stands out as a shining example of women empowerment. Six years after her wedding in Jalandhar, she is setting precedents in science and research. She absolutely admits that she achieved her goal due to great family support otherwise it was nearly impossible.Hailing from Jalandhar Cantt and married at Sofi Pind in the district, she left to for further studies with her husband Aman Samrat in 2015. Today, she is an ace scientist having presented papers for various prestigious conferences and symposiums. A former student of NIT Jalandhar, Dr Pal conducted her novel PhD research on ‘multi-scale methods for deconvolution from wavefront sensing’ under the supervision of assistant professor Steve Weddell of the university in New Zealand.Her research method focused on how to improve the quality of astronomical images by using software approach. Prior to this, she had completed her master’s degree in signal and image processing from Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar.Buoyed by resources and support offered by the varsity during her PhD journey and complete support from her in-laws family. For her extensive research, she performed multiple observational runs to collect field data at University of Canterbury Mount John Observatory (UCMJO) based at the Lake Tekapo in Mackenzie Basin in South Island. The UCMJO is the continent’s premier astronomical research observatory. In addition, university-based adaptive optics laboratory was also a great resource for her to perform experiments and collect data in a controlled environment. Soon after completion of her PhD, she was appointed assistant lecturer at the university.Family’s prideHer parents and in-laws’ family members are proud as she is the first female in family who reached such levels of education. Father-in-law Gurmeet Lal, a Sofi Pind resident, said, “Right after her wedding she expressed the aspiration for higher studies. Our son had already gone to New Zealand in 2010. In 2015 both of them left for the ‘land of the long white cloud’. In little time, she has established herself as a great scientist. She spent years researching at the secluded observatory. We are lucky to have such a genius in the family.”Dr Pal’s husband also works in New Zealand and the couple has a son Biraaj Samrat, who was born during the course of her doctorate research.While pursuing her doctorate, she presented her novel work at the international conferences and symposiums she attended time to time – Optical Society Of America (OSA), 2015, in Heidelberg (Germany), Image and Vision Computing New Zealand (IVCNZ), 2017 and 2018, in New Zealand, Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE), 2018, Texas, and a symposium organised at Australian Defence Academy, Canberra, to name a few.With research work done and thesis submitted in February, soon she’ll get her hands on the PhD doctorate degree on April 14. She expressed happiness at the importance of the day which is the birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar and she is highly influenced by his work to promote education, human rights and women welfare.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-dr-saloni-pal-is-assistant-lecturer-at-university-of-canterbury-238067
12-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Football: Students get tips on ball possession||Mahilpur, April 11The seven-day ‘national football workshop’ conducted by the physical education department of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa College, Mahilpur, concluded on Sunday. Sikh Education Council president Surinder Singh Bhullewal Rathan presided over the function. Football coach Ali Hassan attended the first technical session of the last day of the conference today as keynote speaker. During the theory and practical sessions coach Surinder Singh spoke to the other coaches and players on various aspects related to the judgment in football. On the occasion, Hassan shared tips on how to keep the ball during the game. In his presidential speech of the session, principal Dr Jaspal Singh highlighted the important facts regarding football coaching and shared his impressions about the entire workshop. The entire report of the conference was presented by a 30-minute video which was applauded by the delegates present.Letters of appreciation were distributed to the coaches, players and delegates present on the occasion of the second session of the conference. On this occasion, chief guest Harjinder Singh praised the management, principal and staff of the college for the excellent organisation of the workshop and said such workshops are a boon for coaches and players. Senior vice-president of the Council Wing Commander (retd) Hardev Singh Dhillon said such events should be held in the college regularly for the promotion of football.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/football-students-get-tips-on-ball-possession-238066
12-04-2021||---||Merchant navy officer among 2 arrested for thrashing SHO in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 11 A Station House Officer (SHO) was reportedly thrashed by a group of four persons here on Saturday midnight. The victim was admitted to the Civil Hospital. The police also managed to arrest two of the accused persons, including a merchant navy officer. At around 1.45 am on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, four men manhandled the SHO posted at the Bhargo Camp police station. The SHO, Inspector Bhagwant Singh Bhullar, was covering his midnight domination duty when the incident took place. “With just 15 minutes left for my duty to end, I saw four men standing outside their friend’s house near Mata Rani Chowk. Subsequently, I went up to them and inquired as to why they were out during the curfew hours. They started arguing and hurled abuses at me.  “While I tried to take them into police custody, one of the youths punched me on my nose and I started bleeding. Within a few seconds all of them attacked me. Meanwhile, my gunman and the driver who were at a distance reached the spot and caught hold of the accused. One of the accused also tried to snatch the AK-47 rifle of my gunman. A PCR van and ACP (Traffic) Harwinder Singh reached the spot and took control of the situation,” narrated the SHO. Taking stern cognisance of the assault on the SHO, the Commissionerate Police have arrested two of the attackers whereas Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar has constituted special teams to nab the other attackers. Those arrested have been identified as Manpreet Singh, a merchant navy officer, and Kamaldeep Singh, both are residents of Model House. The absconding accused were identified as Harmandeep Singh and Avtar Singh. Bhullar said raids were on to nab the remaining two culprits. A case under Sections 332, 333, 186, 353, 188 and 34-B of the IPC had been registered against all the accused at the Bhargo Camp police station. An ASI of rural police was allegedly thrashed by a local resident on April 3 during the curfew hours. The victim, ASI Manjit Singh, deployed as Munshi at the Kartarpur police station was reportedly going to attend his duty at around 10 pm from his village in Talhan. After covering a few kilometres, he saw the accused standing on the road with his friend. He pressed the horn of his car to cross the road which was blocked by the accused.  The accused not only thrashed the cop but also plugged his stars from his uniform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/merchant-navy-officer-among-2-arrested-for-thrashing-sho-in-jalandhar-238051
12-04-2021||---||800 MT of wheat procured at 78 grain markets on Day 2||Jalandhar, April 11 Against the expectations of farmers, the procurement process has started at a slow pace in the grain markets of the district. As per officials of the Mandi Board, around 800 metric tonnes (MT) of wheat, brought to the 78 grain markets of the district, was procured on Sunday, the second day of the procurement. However, after observing a state-wide protest on Saturday (day one of the procurement drive), the arhtiyas (commission agents) were seen busy in getting the produce cleaned, packed and stored. Parminder Kaur, an official of the Mandi Board at Dana Mandi near Workshop Chowk, said while the exact figures would be received on Monday, nearly 700-800 MT of crops was procured by various government agencies. Major procurement was conducted at the eight grain market committees in cities. Farmers will receive Rs 1,975 as the MSP on their crop. The government agencies procuring their crops include PUNSUP, Pungrain, Markfed and Warehouse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/800-mt-of-wheat-procured-at-78-grain-markets-on-day-2-238052
12-04-2021||---||Jalandhar: 1,790 FIRs registered against Covid violators in last 1 year||Jalandhar, April 11As per the information provided by the Police Commissionerate, the city police have registered as many as 1,790 FIRs against the Covid-19 violators ever since the pandemic began.Besides, 1,252 persons have also been arrested and a penalty of over Rs3.92 crore on 68,061 offenders has also been imposed to ensure strict compliance with the government’s guidelines in the city.The FIRs, arrests, and penalties comprise flouting of norms such as wearing of masks, skipping home quarantine, spitting at public places, not observing social distancing and holding political and social gatherings among others.Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the police have also lent a helping hand in the Covid-19 testing drive by integrating police nakas with sampling teams at various locations in the city. He said a total of 30,067 RT-PCR tests of those flouting Covid appropriate behaviour have been conducted across the city with the help of the Police Department. About 1,080 cops have also undergone RT-PCR tests and 2,731 of them have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination and 1,273 have received the second dose.A decisive action against bootleggers and smugglers was also taken last year. As per the figures, as many as 655 FIRs have been lodged, including the arrest of 721 persons from March 22, 2020, to April 10, 2021, along with the recovery of 14,625-ml illicit liquor, 1,97,54,225-ml licit liquor, 1,448 litres of lahan, and 19 boxes of beer. Similarly, under operation Red Rose 547 FIRs and 603 arrests were made last year with massive recovery. 5 deaths, 226 new cases in Jalandhar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-1-790-firs-registered-against-covid-violators-in-last-1-year-238053
12-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Mystery shrouds death of undertrial prisoner in Hoshiarpur Central Jail||Hoshiarpur, April 11An undertrial Mani Partap, alias Mani alias Chetan Partap, a resident of Amritsar, who was lodged in Hoshiarpur Central Jail in connection with the murder of son of an ASI of Amritsar, died under mysterious circumstances this morning. Although jail authorities didn’t utter a word over his death but according to sources, it has been recorded as ‘death due to a heart attack’. Meanwhile, deceased’s family alleged that he was being harassed by the jail authorities.According to information, Mani was rushed to the Civil Hospital this morning by jail officials after his health deteriorated suddenly. He later died at the hospital. Getting information about Mani's death, his family members reached the Civil Hospital. Alleging that Mani was being harassed by some jail officials and employees and he was being tortured due to which he was in mental distress.Levelling serious allegations against the jail administration Mani's wife Prabha said a day before they had deposited a sum of Rs 30,000 in a jail employee’s account because Mani had asked for it saying that he was in dire need of money. She alleged that Mani had told them that he was being kept in the cell for long hours and had expressed apprehension that he could be killed. “He was mentally disturbed but the jail administration was not providing proper treatment to Mani,” alleged Prabha. Meanwhile, family members of Mani and some other persons raised slogans against the jail administration seeking immediate removal of jail superintendent and demanded strict action against those responsible for Mani’s death. They alleged that Mani was tortured last night in the jail which led to his death.Assistant Jail Superintendent Des Singh said, “I have just come here for the postmortem of the deceased and I know nothing about it. I was on leave and have returned to duty at 10 am this morning. Only those on duty last night may tell what had happened last night.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mystery-shrouds-death-of-undertrial-prisoner-in-hoshiarpur-central-jail-238054
12-04-2021||Our Correspondent||18 shanties reduced to ashes in Hoshiarpur village||Hoshiarpur, April 10As many as 18 shanties of migrant labourers were reduced to ashes in Bassi Ghulam Hussain village here this afternoon.However, no casualties were reported. One bike, cash and other household items lying in the shanties also burnt in fire. Fire also broke out at two more places in the district. This afternoon a fire broke out in a shanty and due to strong winds the fire spread in surrounding area. Fire tenders took four hours to extinguish the fire. The district administration and the Red Cross provided tarpaulin and food items for the affected families. The cause of the fire could not be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/18-shanties-reduced-to-ashes-in-hoshiarpur-village-237521
12-04-2021||---||Administration assures support to pvt hospitals||Jalandhar, April 10The Jalandhar district administration on Saturday assured best possible assistance to all 55 private hospitals in Covid-care management by ensuring better coordination between all authorities and other stakeholders.Participating in a virtual review meeting convened by the Health Department, ADC Vishesh Sarangal said around 25 per cent of the private Covid care institutions of the state belong to Jalandhar district and the administration was extending fulsome support in their day to day operations.He said these hospitals have arranged as many as 1,200 beds for patients of level-II and level-III categories, adding that he apprised the authorities about the steps being taken by administration for providing quality treatment to patients across the facilities.The ADC said the administration had already extended a helping hand to these institutions by providing free-of-cost ventilators, oxygen, and other assistance. He mentioned that special nodal officers have also been appointed to ensure smooth coordination between these institutions, and the Health Department and the district administration.Sarangal lauded the role of private Covid care institutions in tacking the first wave besides expressing hope to combat the second one on similar lines. He said the administration would leave no stone unturned to tackle this pandemic as concerted efforts were being made at war-footing. He urged all stakeholders to make vigorous efforts in winning this ongoing battle against the virus.Meanwhile, the private healthcare institutions also hailed the assistance and efforts being made by the Jalandhar administration in the war against Covid-19. Expressing satisfaction, some of the institutions categorically mentioned that the district administration was making all-out efforts to contain the spread in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/administration-assures-support-to-pvt-hospitals-237523
