13-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Surinder Kumar Shinda is Hoshiarpur Mayor||Hoshiarpur, April 12Four-time councillor Surinder Kumar Shinda was sworn in as the Mayor of the Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation in the presence of Industries & Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora and Food & Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu here on Monday. Councillor from Ward No.3 Parveen Saini and councillor from Ward No.11 Ranjeet Chaudhary were elected as Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor.The newly elected Mayor, Surinder Kumar Shinda, had earlier served three-time as councillor and at present he is representing Ward No.18, where he registered a victory by getting 1,032 votes. After being elected as the Mayor, Surinder Kumar Shinda thanked Cabinet Minister Sunder Sham Arora and all councillors for giving him a huge responsibility and said he would leave no stone unturned to ensure development and basic amenities in the city. He said besides ongoing projects the new works would also be initiated in the areas where needed by ensuring timely completion of these works.Earlier, Commissioner, Jalandhar Division, Gurpreet Kaur Sapra presided over the oath-taking ceremony, besides administering the oath of office and secrecy to the newly elected Mayor, the Senior Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor. Apart from all councillors, MC Commissioner Amit Kumar Panchal was also present on the occasion.Balwinder Kumar Bindi, councillor from Ward No.14, was elected the chairman of the finance committee with Ward No.1 councillor Rajni Dadwal and Ward No.45 councillor Kulwinder Kaur Kapoor elected its members.Prior to the election of the Mayor, Food & Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Industries & Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora held a meeting with all councillors and gave them a call to get the development works done in their respective areas to facilitate the residents of Hoshiarpur.Will work in unison: AroraCongratulating all 50 councillors along the newly elected Mayor, the Senior Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor, Industries & Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora asserted that Hoshiarpur would witness unprecedented and massive development in time to come with the support and cooperation of all councillors and residents. He said development at various levels was already going on and new projects would be launched in months to come so that basic amenities as well as modern infrastructure could be provided.Fulfil people’s aspirations: AshuWhile congratulating the Mayor, the Senior Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor as well as all councillors, Food & Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu exhorted them to fulfil the aspirations of people by getting works done in their respective wards. He said the councillors always played a significant role in the development works, building and strengthening of infrastructure. He said the state government was providing adequate funds for development works in urban areas and they should make a plan of their wards to utilise these funds properly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surinder-kumar-shinda-is-hoshiarpur-mayor-238473
13-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar dentist with a green thumb||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 12“Nothing beats the comfort that you get in your home. Waking up to a beautiful day and sipping a cup of tea in the company of flowers and trees while savouring the gentle breeze that touches your skin is certainly a life that anyone would hope for,” says Gurpreet Saini, who is an ardent nature lover and a dentist by profession.Her lush green lawn with a spectacular flowerbed is a sight to behold. Even a smaller corner in her 10,000-sq feet garden has something unusual to offer. Over two dozen varieties of flowers planted in a systematic order would capture any visitor’s attention. The aroma of flowers wouldn’t let you leave the garden.Wooden fencing and decorative flowering plants at her garden make the view more eye-catching. Saini said, “Though I always had a green thumb, I could fulfill my dream of having a big garden around six years ago, after I moved into our new place of residence in Khambda.”“Being a science student and having studied botany as a subject, I always wanted to nurture plants. However, being engaged in academic and professional life you are not left with enough time to practice your hobbies. Now that I have settled a bit, I try to devote around one to two hours daily in gardening,” she said.Saini said, “While my family also supports me maintaining the charm in my garden, we have also hired two gardeners to take care of our garden. Apart from various species of flowers, we have several fruit trees such as mango, peach, leechi, mulberry, orange, kinnow, lemon, guava, avocado, banana and papaya in our garden. Every season we eat fruits from our garden only.”“An organic garden comprising all seasonal vegetables also has a corner in our garden, for which we only use organic fertilisers. After acquiring more knowledge on gardening, I developed a compost pit at my house to produce fertilisers from kitchen and garden waste. I believe, fencing and proper space for every plant is what we should focus on while maintaining a garden. Many variables are involved in the growth and maintenance of grass and water content and fertilisers are among the most important components,” said Saini.Besides her love for plants, she also adds sculptures, lights and carved paintings to give her garden more appealing look.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dentist-with-a-green-thumb-238475
13-04-2021||Our Correspondent||NCC cadets remember Bhagat Singh||Jalandhar, April 12To honour the supreme sacrifice made by Shaheed Bhagat Singh for the sake of our motherland, Jalandhar NCC Group led by Brigadier Advitya Madan organised a function in his remembrance on the eve of Baisakhi here.Brig Advitya Madan eulogised Bhagat Singh and his unmatched deeds and said that Bhagat Singh, a freedom fighter and a social revolutionary of Punjab who became a great symbol for whole of our country. He said, “Bhagat Singh proved himself to be the youngest revolutionary in the world in his era, wherein, he made the greatest impact on the then Indian freedom fighters by his brave and courageous deeds. He was no less than a General”.He said that he not only possessed exceptional soldierly qualities but also impressed everyone with his scholastic attributes. Not many know that Bhagat Singh won several literary awards during his school and college days including a prestigious prize of the best essay in which he had amplified all the problems being confronted by Punjab at that point of time. Even during the days when he was in prison, his writings prove that he had a flair for pen, too. This commemoration of Bhagat Singh at Jalandhar was part of overall celebrations of 75 years of independence being organised at national level. The scope of the function was expanded to include a plog run and a motivational talk on ‘No to Plastics’ by Sonia. Mrs Ashu also left the audience spellbound by her inspiring talk on our independence movement. Other dignitaries who graced this well organised function were Col Narinder, Commanding Officer of Girls Bn and the Principal of Lyalpur Khalsa College of Engineering, Jalandhar. The audience comprising mainly, the youths of NCC ended the day with the pledge to fire on all cylinders to live up to the reputation of our heroes of the likes of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, one of the great heroes of our state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ncc-cadets-remember-bhagat-singh-238477
13-04-2021||---||Lover couple absconding from home commits suicide||Jalandhar, April 12An unmarried young couple allegedly committed suicide here on Sunday night after consuming some poisonous substance apparently due to their families’ objection to their relationship.Sunny (21) and a 14-year-old girl consumed poison last night. The duo, hailing from Nauwal village, were absconding from their homes. The family of the girl had lodged a complaint against the youth with the Nakodar police. A case had been registered against the youth under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC at the Nakodar City police station a week ago.Absconding from  , both were seen by residents at Phillaur last night.Earlier thought to be in an inebriated condition, the duo fell unconscious in public view last night following which the police were informed. They were rushed to CMC, Ludhiana, where both of them died late in the night.SHO, Nakodar City police station, Jatinder Singh said, “The duo had been absconding for the past one week. While the girl’s parents had lodged an FIR, the two were nowhere to be found. But last evening we got reports that a couple was found in Phillaur. They were hiding away from their families. It is there that they apparently consumed some poisonous substance. The FIR against the youth was also lodged by the girl’s parents about a week ago at our police station.”After the postmortem, the body of the girl was handed over to her parents and her last rites were conducted today.The SHO said the youth’s body was kept at the hospital. After the postmortem, his body would be handed to his parents tomorrow. The postmortem report of the girl is awaited.The police said no suicide note was found from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lover-couple-absconding-from-home-commits-suicide-238479
13-04-2021||---||5 deaths, 366 new cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, April 12The district reported five casualties due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 989 on Monday. Besides, the district witnessed 366 new cases, taking the tally to 34,360. Of the fresh cases, 26 belong to other districts. Around 30,283 people have so far been discharged. There are 3,088 active cases in the district.Kapurthala district reported two deaths due to Covid-19. The district witnessed 105 fresh cases, taking the tally to 10,324. The deceased are: a 71-year-old man, a resident of Phagwara, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar and a 57-year-old woman of Kapurthala who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.Following the night curfew violation by two restaurants in the city, the police have registered FIRs against the owners of both the restaurants.As per the reports, food was being served by both the restaurants — Chick-Chick Corner and Babul Chicken Corner even — after 9 pm on Sunday. The restaurants are located in PPR market. The police received the information regarding the violation by them. A case under Section 188 (Epidemic Disease Act) of the IPC has been registered against the restaurant owners at Police Division Number 7.Similarly, policemen on patrolling booked the owner of Bravest Family Marketting Private Limited for gathering 80-100 people. The company has its office in Choti Baradari, Crystal Plaza. He was booked under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-deaths-366-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-238481
13-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Garhshankar: Paramour arrested for murdering woman||Garhshankar, April 12The Garhshankar police claimed to have solved the case of a woman who was found naked in the Choe near Ladhewal Gurdwara, Mahilpur, under Garhashankar subdivision by arresting an accused.ASP Gadhashankar Tushar Gupta told the reporters this evening that the victim was identified as Seema Mohammed, a resident of ward No 6, Langeri Road, Mahilpur. After identification, the son of the deceased, Sukhdeen alias Zayed Mohammed, told the police that Seema had got divorced from her husband ten years ago and Seema Rani married a Amritsar resident young man named Rahul about four years ago. At that time, they had suspected that it was Rahul who would have killed Seema with the help of his companions.The Mahilpur police had registered a case against Rahul and unknown under various sections on the statement of deceased’s son and the investigation of the case was ongoing. ASP Tushar Gupta said that investigations have revealed that the deceased Seema Rani had an extra marital relationship with Rampal of the same village. Rampal was questioned by the police and he confessed that Seema Rani had demanded Rs 20,000 from him. The quarrel grew to such an extent that he killed Seema with a knife and threw her body into Choe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garhshankar-paramour-arrested-for-murdering-woman-238483
13-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Mother, two-year-old son die as trolley hits bike at Garhshankar railway crossing||Garhshankar, April 12A motorcycle riding woman and her two-year-old son died on the spot in an accident that occured late this evening at the Garhshankar railway crossing, while the woman's other son got injured and the husband escaped safe.Sanjeev Kumar, son of Dalveer Singh, along with his wife Meenakshi Verma, seven-year-old son Raghav Kumar and two-year-old son Arunav Kumar had come to market riding his motorcycle. When he was returning home, the motorcycle was hit from side by a tractor-trolley at the railway crossing.Sanjeev Kumar's wife Meenakshi Verma and two-year-old son Arunav Kumar died on the spot, while the other seven-year-old son Raghav suffered serious injuries. while Sanjeev Kumar escaped safe. People immediately rushed them to the hospital where doctors declared mother-son duo dead while treatment of the injured Raghav Kumar was started. By the time of filing this news, police were chasing the tractor-trolley.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mother-two-year-old-son-die-as-trolley-hits-bike-at-garhshankar-railway-crossing-238484
13-04-2021||---||9 months after booth allotment, Kapurthala vends sans power||Jalandhar, April 12A year after they were allotted booths at the new District Administrative Complex on Kartarpur Road in Kapurthala, a number of vendors and notaries are forced to continue working out of the old tehsil and old court complexes. The reason: no electricity. On the other hand, a majority of officials of the district administration have moved to the new complex.There are about 66 booths at the new District Administrative Complex in Kapurthala which await power connections.Owners of the booths claim that it has been over six months since they applied for electricity meters for their booths but nothing has been done in this regard. Stamp paper vendors, typists, notaries, deed writers, among others are forced to stay at their old offices. The old tehsil complex is in the city centre (opposite erstwhile Jagatjit Cinema) which is 4 km from Kartarpur Road where the New DAC Complex is located. Clients have to cover 4 kilometres extra just to procure a stamp paper or get a deed.Kewal Krishan, a deed writer, who sits at the old tehsil complex, says, “The administration and officials have moved to the new complex but we are still here. We deposited our securities in 2019 and were allotted the booths in July 2020. It has been over six months since we applied for electricity meters and also deposited security for the same. But none of the booths have received electricity. Be it winter or summer, we cannot operate without power. Our printers, computers, photostat machines would not work. Despite regular complaints to the electricity department, our booths have not received electricity.”Kishore added, “We have repeatedly visited the power department with the request but to no avail. Many people have even spent a lot of money on the new booths, got new tiles laid, installed aluminium or wooden doors and windows, laid new tiles. But with no electricity they are forced to work from older booths four kilometres away.”The DAC Permission Holders’ Association of the New DAC Complex has also written several times to PSPCL demanding that power connections should be installed at their booths. A letter to PSPCL submitted on September 30, 2020, said, “Sir, most of us have applied for electricity meters for over the past over 15 days, but till date no action has been taken…”Sanjiv Kumar, a stamp paper vendor, said, “Both we and people face inconvenience in this arrangement. It is ironic that electricity is there for key officials but no power connections could be arranged for us as yet. While one of our associates had shifted to the new booth, he currently uses a generator.”Inderpal Singh, Deputy Chief Engineer, PSPCL, Kapurthala, said, “The hotline, which would provide power to the booths, is already paid for by a District Sessions Judge for connection to the court complex. Without his permission, we cannot use the same line elsewhere. But the permission has not been received by us due to apprehensions of excessive burden on the line. Due to this the matter has been on hold for long. However, we are trying to find a solution to the problem. While it is not feasible to get a line from a new source for another complex on the same premises, we are trying our best to resolve the problem. We are trying to receive permission from the Sessions Judge, failing which we are also working on arranging power from a new source. The matter is a priority and a solution would be found soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-months-after-booth-allotment-kapurthala-vends-sans-power-238485
13-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Duke of Edinburgh’s demise flashbacked Sikh leaders to the time he shared ecological concerns with them||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 12While the Duke of Edinburgh, Prince Philip, breathed his last on Friday, his demise also sparked nostalgia among Sikh leaders who found common cause with him in the endeavour to link religions and environmental concerns. Hailed as a Royal keen on environmental concerns, he also served as president of global conservation organisation and was also WWF’s (World Wide Fund for Nature) international president emeritus.Punjab Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal was an invitee at the ‘Many Heavens, One Planet’ celebration held at the Windsor Castle in 2019 by the ARC and UNDP, which saw representatives of various world faiths deliberating on ‘long term commitment plans for protecting the planet’.In the same year, Seechewal was invited to the Copenhagen conference on climate change, before attending the climate summit he stopped over at the Windsor Castle for the aforesaid event. The attendees were all honoured during a special ceremony there which was hosted by Price Philip with then UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.A photograph of Seechewal, Eco Sikh founder Rajwant Singh sharing a moment with the Duke of Edinburgh and Ban ki-moon has also gone viral on social media.Rajwant Singh, president and founder of Eco Sikh also took to Twitter to condole the recent demise. He wrote, “The Sikh community mourns the loss of Prince Philp. We had worked with him on environmental issues and had presented our plans to fight climate crisis at the Windsor Castle. In fact, Eco Sikh came into being due to this effort! His legacy will live!”The Sikh community mourns the loss of #PrincePhilip. We had worked with him on environmental issues & had the presented the Sikh plans to fight climate crisis at Windsor castle. In fact @ecosikh came into being due to this effort! His legacy will live! @EcoSikhUK @RoyalFamily pic.twitter.com/XP64H5KGV0  He also reminisced, “Prince Philip had hosted world’s faiths at the Windsor Castle to present concrete plans to work on environmental issues in 1995 and this meet prompted all to look at their own theology on environment. This was the first time Sikhs joined global environmental effort.”Prince Philip had hosted world’s faiths at Windsor Castle to present concrete plans to work on environmental issues in 1995 & this meet prompted faiths to look at their own theology on environment. This was the first time Sikhs joined global environmental effort. @guardianeco  Clad in his characteristic orange robes (his go-to attire every time), Seechewal, at the 2019 Windsor Castle event shared space with the other religious leaders like the Archbishop Seraphim of the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Alexandria and All Africa in Johannesburg and Pretoria; the Bishop of London; the Grand Mufti of Egypt, among others.Later in 2009, Prince Philip again hosted the UN Chief Ban Ki Moon and world faiths at Windsor castle to initiate global action by the world religions on climate. EcoSikh is indebted to Prince Philip for bringing all faiths together on this threat facing the world! @BBCWorld pic.twitter.com/VChonCEylj  Speaking to The Tribune, Seechewal said, “It was a rare occasion in which an initiative was taken for the world’s religions and faiths to speak on environmental concerns. The UN invited us all and the Duke of Edinburgh hosted the ceremony and honoured us all at the Windsor Castle. It goes to show the environmental concerns held for him. It is truer than ever that since religious figures are revered and followed, the world religious leaders have a greater responsibility than ever to speak up and work on such concerns. The same thoughts were echoed by the President of India APJ Abdul Kalam, when he visited us at Sultanpur Lodhi. Prince Philip’s demise is a sombre reminder of these concerns.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/duke-of-edinburghs-demise-flashbacked-sikh-leaders-to-the-time-he-shared-ecological-concerns-with-them-238490
13-04-2021||Jalandhar||Ambedkar’s birth anniversary celebrated at Jalandhar Roadways Depot||MGNREGA workers demand workJalandhar: MGNREGA workers on Monday met the Nakodar SDM and demanded employment for labourers. Under leaders Bakhsho Rani and Baljit Kaur, MGNREGA labourers said for a long time, demand letters and requests are being given to the Mehatpur block leaders regarding the demand for employment. They said either labourers should be given jobs or unemployment allowance. Labourers’ leaders said while on one hand job fairs were being held in blocks, on the other MGNREGA workers are not being given jobs despite 100-day guarantee for work. Khairsadpur MGNREGA worker said she had done work but not paid wages. After hearing out MGNREGA workers, the Nakodar SDM issued orders to the Nakodar BDPO to ensure 100 days of MGNREGA work for labourers. TNSAssocham all praise for govtJalandhar: Assocham has applauded the Punjab Government’s step to scrap 479 compliances required for seeking approvals and renewals by industrialists. This step will definitely promote more trade and improve ease of doing business in the state. These compliances were part of total 541 age-old mandatory approvals identified to be scrapped for reducing burden. Kulwin Seehra, Chairman, ASSOCHAM, Punjab State Development Council, and Executive Director, GNA Axles Ltd, praised the step taken by the government. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ambedkars-birth-anniversary-celebrated-at-jalandhar-roadways-depot-238494
13-04-2021||Jalandhar||LPU signs MoU with Alliance Française||Arya Samaj foundation dayFoundation day of the Arya Samaj was celebrated at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya here. Legacy of the Arya Samaj and the institutions started by it were also remembered on the occasion. The Arya Samaj’s contributions towards women education were also highlighted. A havan was organised by the Vedic Adhyayan Society of the college. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen said the institutions started by the Arya Samaj are playing a significant role in women education. “They started women education institutes because they knew that women can educate the whole society,” he said. Dean Academics Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur also congratulated all on the occasion. Head of the Hindi Department Dr Jyoti Gogia said the Arya Samaj is the basis of a new era. All members of teaching and non-teaching staff were present. The stage was conducted by Head of the Sanskrit Department Dr Meenu Talwar.Cosmonautics Day celebratedEklavya School celebrated Cosmonautics Day. As Cosmonautics Day is an anniversary celebrated in Russia and in some other former USSR countries. This day is also celebrated as international day of human space flight in dedication of the first manned space flight made on 12th April 1961.To celebrate this day Eklavya School organised some activities. Speech was given by Anoopdeep Kaur of Class VI in which she highlighted how this day is treated as celebration to commemorate the first man in space. Videos were shown to students through which they came to understand the several aspects of science and technology and its growth in the last few decades. To celebrate this day students made creative collages and shared their thoughts regarding this day. Chairman JK Gupta said such kind of awareness motivates students to do some extraordinary in life. Director of the Eklavya School Seema Handa and the Principal appreciated the efforts done by students.Webinar on Jallianwala MassacreThe department of history, Kamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara, organised a webinar on Jallianwala Bagh massacre to pay homage to the martyrs of the freedom movement. Dr Savinder Pal, the college principal was the keynote speaker. She discussed all the aspects of this tragedy. She shed some light on the establishment of British rule and how they annexed the Indian territory slowly and gradually. She also talked about the legal framework of the country. While discussing the impact and importance of Jallianwala Bagh, she also enlightened the literary aspect of this incident. She expressed her desire that for the smooth running of an administration we must learn a lesson from history. The system must not misuse its powers rather proper coordination and cooperation should be there. Kamlesh, convenor of the webinar, expressed her gratitude to the speaker and all participants. Dr Asha, HoD, Department of Hindi, KNCW thanked Dr Savinder for the knowledgeable webinar. Prof Neelam Sethi also congratulated and praised Dr Savinder for providing a modern perspective to the existing scenario.Webinar on plant genome engineeringThe faculty of Agricultural Sciences at DAV University Jalandhar organised a webinar on “Recent Advances in Plant Genome Engineering”. The lecture was delivered by Dr K C Bansal, Ex-Director, National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, ICAR-DARE, New Delhi. Dr Rahul Kumar, Assistant Prof, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences welcomed the speaker and all the participants. The webinar was inaugurated with introductory note of the officiating dean academics, Dr Raj Kumar Seth. Dr Bansal initiated his lecture with the historical aspects, advantage, challenges and techniques of traditional breeding methods to improve plant characters. Later he emphasised on the applications of emerging tools of plant biotechnology to raise agriculture production and to mitigate biotic and abiotic stresses. He explained the relevance of transgenic crops and molecular breeding approaches.WCCF membership for GNA varsityThe Faculty of Hospitality of GNA University bagged a lifetime membership of World Chefs Choice Federation (WCCF) and a lifetime subscription to the Chefs Choice magazine. WCCF awarded this certificate to GNA University. The lifetime corporate membership certificate was presented by Chef Jatinder Dhir – Acting president of WCCF India and Chef Subhadip Mazumdar - Sr vice-president of WCCF India to Gurdeep Singh Sihra – president and Pro –Chancellor, GNA University. World Chef Choice Federation is an association of new era which enables connectivity between professional chefs, academicians, bloggers, students and home chefs. WCCF believes in growing the chefs’ community by providing a platform where they can express their culinary thoughts. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-signs-mou-with-alliance-fran%C3%A7aise-238498
13-04-2021||---||Jalandhar NGO offers free Covid jab||Jalandhar, April 12In order to speed up vaccination drive in the city, Mahavir Jain Navyuvak Sangh, a city-based NGO, has come up with a noble initiative of providing free Covid vaccine to the residents.President of the organisation Ashish Jain said the innoculation camp was being organised at Parwati Jain Senior Secondary School in Vijay Nagar. “On Day 1 of the camp on Sunday, 300 beneficiaries above 45 years of age were administered the dose. The camp is being organised between 10 am to 2 pm,” added Jain. He also appealed the residents above 45 years of age to visit the camp and get innoculated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-ngo-offers-free-covid-jab-238499
13-04-2021||---||‘Covid more lethal among people with non-communicable diseases’||Jalandhar, April 12With over 3,500 people testing Covid-positive in the past month, there seems to be no respite from the soaring Covid-19 cases in the city. The surge in number of cases and fatalities among doctors and other frontline workers has also made medicos cautious of the mutation in the virus. The doctors at both — government and private health centres — are encouraging people to get vaccinated.While mentioning the complications associated with the new Covid strain, Dr Ravinder Bharadwaj, a cardiovascular researcher and a cardiologist at Tagore Hospital, stated that a large number of people infected with the virus were experiencing mild to moderate respiratory illness and lung congestion. The elderly and those with non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, kidney disease and cancer were more likely to develop serious illness. “There is no end to the patient count at our hospital. The demand for oxygen cylinders and ventilators has also gone up. The virus’ mutant is mainly affecting heart and lungs. In people suffering from cardiovascular diseases, the mutant is causing myocarditis, heart attack or myocardial infarction and atrial fibrillation,” he said. Dr Bharadwaj said, “People who have NCDs are 10 times more predisposed to getting infected with Covid. While the chances of the virus turning fatal in healthy persons is only 1.2 per cent, in persons with NCDs it rises to six to eight per cent as they have poor immunological response and are prone to lung infection, heart attacks and acute respiratory distress syndrome. When patients with NCDs turn critical and need to be put on ventilator support, their chance of fatality increases to 80 per cent.” Throwing light on the possibility of Covid mutation, he said a virus mutates when it had been exposed to a large number of people. He said the best ways to reduce transmission included washing hands frequently, wearing a mask, physical distancing, good ventilation and avoiding crowded places adding that vaccination could protect the people from the disease and also lower the risk of mutations in the virus.Manipal Kasturba Medical College alumnus Dr Bhardwaj is a certified cardiologist. He has won several research awards, including a national-level award for excellence in research in USA — 2013 Tinsley Harrison Award.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-more-lethal-among-people-with-non-communicable-diseases-238501
