14-04-2021||Jalandhar||Workshop on NAAC Accreditation||GNA University students get jobsStudents of the GNA University grabbed positions in HCL, an Indian Multinational Information Technology (IT) services and consulting company, headquartered in Noida. Muskan and Sushant of BSc Information Technology Semester VI proved their acumen by getting placed in HCL Technologies, a subsidiary of HCL Enterprise. Both the students have been placed for the post of Support Engineer-Networking. Both these students have participated in various inter-college technical fests and brought laurels to the university by securing different positions during their o-going degree. The company’s officials appreciated the management, faculty and students for their proper organisation and full dedication in grabbing the most priced position.KMV pays tribute to martyrsKMV paid a glorious tribute to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh massacre on the occasion of Baisakhi. The activity was organised by the department of student welfare. The students from all streams designed beautiful posters in order to pay their tribute to the great martyrs. Through their posters, students depicted the great sacrifices that people gave on April 13, 1919, at Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar when they were all gathered peacefully in order to protest against the tyrant British rule. The posters designed by the students namely Gurdev Kaur, Yashika, Aakriti, Khushboo and Shruti received special appreciation. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that the students should always remember the contributions of great martyrs of this country so that they can learn the lessons of sacrifice and patriotism from them in order to serve their country selflessly.Covid vaccination at IKGPTUCovid vaccination started at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University from this week. According to the government instructions, in the first phase, the age group of 45 years and above is being vaccinated. The Covid-19 protection management team of the university organised it with support of the team of the Health Department. University Vice Chancellor Prof (Dr) Ajay Kumar Sharma and Registrar Sandeep Kumar Kazal lead the team and in their message both authorities motivated all the employees, officers and faculty members of this age group to get vaccinated. VC Prof (Dr) Sharma said that IKGPTU has been very pro-active in Covid-19 protection management ever since the outbreak of this pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-on-naac-accreditation-238690
14-04-2021||---||Jalandhar schools celebrate Baisakhi with gusto||Jalandhar, April 13Baisakhi was celebrated with fervour and gaiety in city schools. The festival of harvest was celebrated to acquaint students with cultural heritage, however, unlike previous years because of the covid, as it dampened the actual spirit of the festival. Several schools celebrated Baisakhi virtually with kids all decked up in beautiful attires and sharing pictures online.Number of activities were also organised online to uplift the mood of the students and make them enthusiastic about the festival. Some other schools decided to keep the feel of the festival alive by dressing the students in traditional attire and performing folk dances and clicking pictures in the fields.IVY World SchoolIVY World School, under the ageis of the Vasal Education Society, celebrated Baisakhi. Ivyians celebrated Baisakhi with full enthusiasm and zeal with a special virtual assembly. A virtual cultural show depicting the significance of Baisakhi was held. The students were reminded of the sacrifices made by our freedom fighters in Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar. The beats of the dhol brought vibrancy to the environment. Tiny tots were dressed in colorful Punjabi attire. They were engaged in creating Baisakhi crafts. The students of KI sang Punjabi folk songs and children of KII enjoyed making dholak craft. Reflecting on Baisakhi, few children researched and recorded the hard work of farmers and the food they grow for us and also expressed gratitude towards the farmers. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, applauded the students for their performance and extended her wishes to parents and children. The president of Vasal Educational Society, K K Vasal, chairman Sanjeev Kumar Vasal, director Ena Vasal, and CEO Raghav Vasal wished all a very Happy Baisakhi.Innocent HeartsThe harvest festival of Punjab was celebrated at Innocent Hearts. A number of online activities were organised under the theme of ‘Golden Fields and Rich Harvest’. Several activities were organised to celebrate Baisakhi, the beginning of New Year and the foundation of Khalsa Panth. Activities of Punjabi Gabru and Mutiyaar were organised for the little ones of INNOKIDS. The tiny tots were looking adorable in the attire of Punjabi Gabru and Mutiyaar, the teachers said.St Soldier Nursing InstituteBaisakhi, the foundation day of Khalsa Panth by Guru Gobind Singh was celebrated by students of St Soldier Nursing Training Institute Kambra. The students were dressed up in traditional Punjabi attire. On this occasion, the students performed bhangra, gidda dal folk songs “jugni”, “jind mahi” etc on the beat of dhol. Chairman Anil Chopra, Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra congratulated everyone on this precious day.DIPS institutionsBaisakhi was celebrated with zeal and enthusiasm by various schools of DIPS institutions. In colorful traditional clothes, the students were looking at golden fields. The senior students stood in the middle of the fields and talked with full fervour and pride about the rich heritage of Punjab, talked about crops and the hard work of the farmers. On this occasion, MD of DIPS Institutions, Sardar Tarvinder Singh said that schools are also like fields where the future plants of the country are watered by providing information, confidence and the students are ready to serve the country by taking a degree.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-schools-celebrate-baisakhi-with-gusto-238683
14-04-2021||Jalandhar||Mumbai family loses daughter to superstitious beliefs in Jalandhar||A Mumbai-based family has reportedly fallen prey to superstitious beliefs. In order to get a better treatment for his sister (a cancer patient), Shubham Pandit came to Jalandhar with his mother to meet pastor Balwinder Singh. He allegedly not only converted their religion, but also duped them of Rs 80,000. The matter came to the fore after the victim approached the SSP office.After being approached by a disciple of Balwinder Singh in Mumbai, the victim was told that the pastor has power to cure any disease.Pandit agreed to meet the pastor at a church in Tajpur village.Balwinder asked Pandit to pay Rs 1 lakh for the treatment, which he could not afford, and the deal was fixed at Rs 80,000. “After making us stay here for 12 days, the pastor gave us oil and water. He termed it as a holy water. He forcefully converted our religion as well. Neither my sister could be saved nor our money was given back,” said Pandit.The SHO, Lambra police station, said they had received the complaint and were investigating the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mumbai-family-loses-daughter-to-superstitious-beliefs-in-jalandhar-238685
14-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Central team asks to ramp up Covid testing||Hoshiarpur, April 13A Central team, led by Additional Secretary VK Singh, on Tuesday, took stock of the situation in the district, besides directing to further expedite the pace of the ongoing testing and vaccination drives.Holding a meeting with officials of the district administration and the Health Department, the Additional Secretary asked them to ramp up contact tracing so that the chain of transmission could be contained effectively. The team also expressed satisfaction over the concerted efforts being made by the administration for controlling the spread of the virus.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait apprised the team that all requisite arrangements had been put in place to assist Covid patients as there were 212 level-II beds and 110 level-III beds available in the district. Efforts were afoot to increase the number of beds in private hospitals too, said Riyait, adding that special focus would be on isolation monitoring. Besides, the Covid patients would get support from the Punjab Government, including mission fateh kits and health enquiries on telephone.The Deputy Commissioner informed that the vaccination drive was going on smoothly on a large scale as the administration had solicited wholehearted support and cooperation from social, religious organisations, NGOs, elected representatives and other prominent personalities, which received an enthusiastic response.She pointed out that more than 90 per cent beneficiaries were inoculated with the first dose of Covid vaccine in which the district police played a significant role to ensure the vaccination.The team stressed that maximum people both in urban and rural areas should be apprised that they should wear mask properly, wash hands frequently, avoid unnecessary travelling, and maintain social distancing as these were the keys to keep the virus at bay.2,138 inoculated on BaisakhiOn the occasion of Baisakhi, the district administration organised special camps in different gurdwaras, where devotees received the jab of Covid vaccine in a large number. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait and all SDMs visited these special camps to boost the morale of health teams and beneficiaries. While extending greetings to people on Baisakhi, Apneet Riyait lauded the tireless efforts of health teams and others who were working day and night to contain the spread of the virus. She said as many as 58 teams were deployed to inoculate eligible beneficiaries in the district, which administered the vaccine to 2,138 people. Of these beneficiaries, 687 were vaccinated in different gurdwaras. She urged people that vaccination was must in the present circumstances. She appealed to people to follow the Covid safety protocols and behaviour strictly as per the guidelines of the government and the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/central-team-asks-to-ramp-up-covid-testing-238686
14-04-2021||Jalandhar||MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary takes stock of procurement||Classes at agri college from AugJalandhar: MP Manish Tewari assured that classes at the Agricultural College being set up at Ballowal Saunkhari, Regional Research Centre, would start from August. He stated this during a meeting with officials at the Regional Research Centre in presence of Balachaur MLA Darshan Lal Mangupur and Punjab Large Industrial Development Board Chairman Pawan Dewan. He said the first instalment of Rs 13.7 crore had been released by the government for the construction of the college. The college would offer BSc and MSc degrees. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-santokh-singh-chaudhary-takes-stock-of-procurement-238689
14-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Experts: New Covid strain more dangerous for youth||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 13The second wave is proving more disastrous and recent findings have made medical experts more concerned than before.As positive cases are on the rise, doctors said new strain has got different characteristics and it’s affecting youngsters as well. They said they were seeing more infections in youngsters and children, unlike the first wave.Senior Medical Officer AS Duggal said a high number of youngsters were being tested positive. “Even kids below the age of 10 and those below 30 years are getting infected,” he said.Jalandhar Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said during the first wave, mostly elderly were affected, but this time, the virus has been proving fatal for youngsters as well. “Also, infection is spreading quickly and patients are getting serious at early stages,” he said.Nawanshahr Civil Surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapur said the new strain was spreading rapidly and mortality rate was very high. “This time, we have seen children contracting the virus, which was not the case before,” the Civil Surgeon said.Why are some Covid-19 survivors at risk of blood clotNotably, in Nawanshahr, a high number of school students had got infected.Duggal said even after a year, people were not coming forward to get tested. “People are still adopting delaying tactics so that they don’t have to undergo testing. They still don’t accept that their symptoms might be related to Covid. Residents take medication by their own, which is not right. A person who is aged 30 and contracts the virus, but doesn’t gets tested becomes a carrier. Even if fever does not lasts morwe than three days, the persons will go out and spread the virus,” he said.If every person who has fever gets tested, positivity rate would be much higher, said the doctors.Apart from this, experts in the Health Department said there were still some inhibitions among people regarding vaccination. “They (people) still see if those getting vaccinated in their neighbourhood are safe or not and get inoculated after gaining a little confidence,” said a doctor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/experts-new-covid-strain-more-dangerous-for-youth-238691
14-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid-19: 7 die, 89 test positive in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, April 13The district reported seven more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 645 on Tuesday. Besides, the district also witnessed 89 fresh cases taking the tally to 15,451.Giving information about the Covid cases in the district, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 954 and 15,087 patients had recovered from the virus.Of 89 positive cases, 18 were reported from other districts, 12 from Hoshiarpur city and the remaining from other health blocks of the district. Four patients of the district died in Jalandhar hospitals while two more died at Amritsar hospitals and one more died on way to hospital from Khaibran village in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-7-die-89-test-positive-in-hoshiarpur-238692
14-04-2021||---||Jalandhar resident never got himself tested, but gets a +ve RT-PCR report||Jalandhar, April 13Alleging negligence on the part of medical teams, Harvinder Singh, a city-based resident, on Tuesday reported that he had received the RT-PCR report of an unidentified person on his mobile number. He did not even get his RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerace Chain Reaction) test done, the report he received was positive for Covid-19. Apart from delayed reports, many other serious lapses related to Covid testing have come to light in the past few weeks.On the one hand, the gross negligence is being reported but on the other the administration is taking the credit for conducting rampant Covid testing (2,501 tests per million population) on a daily basis.“Prior to receiving the Covid report, I also obtained a text with the state government’s logo that your (Baljit Singh) sample for the RT-PCR test was taken on April 9, for which the SRF Id is 0302700575967. Subsequently, on Monday evening, I got another text with the same logo that your (Baljit Singh) sample has tested positive for the virus and you are advised to isolate yourself. Teams of the Health Department will contact you shortly,” stated Harvinder, who also shared the screenshots of both the messages.Likewise, Navdeep Kumar Sharma, another resident of the city, said last week his wife received a similar message. “While my wife and I got our RT-PCR tests done at a joint naka (checkpost) by the police and health officials, my wife received the reports and test confirmation messages of an unidentified person.While she had developed no symptoms of the coronavirus, the test report came back positive,” added Navdeep. At the Civil Hospital, when I enquired about the issue, an official confirmed that people were complaining them about cross delivery of the messages. “As the testing laboratories are getting several samples in a day and testing is being conducted rampantly, we are receiving complaints of wrong reports,” said the official.5 deaths, 391 new cases in districtWebsite for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-resident-never-got-himself-tested-but-gets-a-ve-rt-pcr-report-238680
