15-04-2021||Jalandhar||Baisakhi celebrated at Eklavya School in Jalandhar||Foundation Day observedOn the commemoration of 34th foundation day of Shiv Jyoti Public School and on the auspicious day of Baisakhi the Shiv Jyoti Public school observed these days with great fervour. Co associate teachers of Kirti House Ritu Devgun, Megha Arora, Ranju Sharma made the students aware about the day. It was technically supervised by Guninder Kaur. Anushka Sharma of Class X also participated in the activity. Students and teachers participated in the activity with enthusiasm. The activity was performed under the supervision of Neeru Bala, house master of Kirti House. Krishna Jyoti (chairperson), Dr Vidur Jyoti (chairman trust) and Dr Suvikram Jyoti (manager, managing committee and general secretary, trust) Principal Neeru Nayyar, vice-principal Parveen Saili sent greetings and warm wishes to all. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/baisakhi-celebrated-at-eklavya-school-in-jalandhar-239152
15-04-2021||---||Kotkapura verdict: Sukhpal Singh Khaira terms it miscarriage of justice||Jalandhar, April 14MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira termed the Punjab and Haryana High Court decision to quash the SIT, which was investigating Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan firing cases, against basic principles of natural justice. Khaira said such petty decisions cannot supress the truth. He said, “Had Sukhbir Badal been a true Akali, the SAD government should have punished the guilty during their tenure. Since they are themselves involved, they have remained mute spectators and have defended culprits.” Khaira said he was amused at the quashing, especially when the SIT had filed nine challans at a trial court in Faridkot.Khaira said if at all there was any discrepancy in the investigations, it was for the trial court to decide and not the high court. The high court has virtually become a party with the accused, which is nothing but a classic case of ‘miscarriage of justice’, he said.Khaira said if at all the high court had any doubt about the partisan working of IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, it could have simply asked the Punjab Government to replace him as the head of the SIT, rather than derailing the entire case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kotkapura-verdict-sukhpal-singh-khaira-terms-it-miscarriage-of-justice-239142
15-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Chabbewal MLA: Start scholarship scheme for overseas SC students||On the occasion of 130th birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna Dr BR Ambedkar, Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar has requested the Punjab Government to come up with Overseas Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme for SC Students, who after pursuing higher education in foreign shores returned to serve the nation.While participating in a virtual event to mark the 130th birth anniversary of architecture of Indian constitution BR Ambedkar said this move would not only fulfil the aspirations of SC students but also enable them to contribute in Punjab’s development after getting higher education from abroad. He recalled that the then Maharaja of Baroda had facilitated Dr Ambedkar with higher studies in foreign country, who fulfilling the aspiration of underprivileged sections proved his mettle across the globe. He urged the Chief Minister to start this scheme with personal initiative as this would be a real tribute to Dr Ambedkar and his ideology. Preliminary, the scheme could be started with a group of 10 students with a gradual increase in numbers, he added.He said that the state government’s initiative of its own Dr BR Ambedkar Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme was a landmark decision, which secured the future of lakhs of eligible students as the Centre left the scheme in lurch. Lashing out at the BJP-led Central government for discontinuing the scholarship scheme, the MLA said Punjab’s scheme also forced the Centre to revisit the scheme and re-launched the same with 60:40 ratio, which in fact immensely beneficial for the students of entire nation. He said implementing Dr Ambedkar’s message of social, economical and religious equality in society in letter and spirit would be a real tribute to him.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh assured Chabbewal of giving due consideration to his suggestions to start this overseas scholarship scheme for SC students. Industry and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora while paying floral tribute to Dr Ambedkar at the District Administrative Complex said he was an institution in itself who spent his entire life serving humanity and advocating for human rights. MLA from Shamchurasi Assembly constituency Pawan Kumar Aadiya said Ambedkar was a messiah for people fighting for weaker sections and social equality who always laid emphasis on elevating the life standard of underprivileged. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chabbewal-mla-start-scholarship-scheme-for-overseas-sc-students-239143
15-04-2021||Our Correspondent||U-19 cricket: Hoshiarpur registers win||Hoshiarpur, April 14In the Under-19 Inter-District Cricket Competition organised by the Punjab Cricket Association, Hoshiarpur registered a win by defeating Jalandhar on the basis of first innings lead.Giving this information, HDCA secretary Raman Ghai said that in the two-day match played in Hoshiarpur, the team of Hoshiarpur won the toss and scored 195 runs. In which Gadharv contributed 42 runs, Paramjeet 34 runs, Sourav Malik 28 runs and Mayank Malhotra contributed 27 runs. While bowling for Jalandhar, Jatin Sahota dismissed 6 and Akshjeet Dhillon dismissed 2 players. Playing its first innings, Jalandhar’s team could score just 105 runs, in which 27 runs were contributed by Akshjeet Dhillon and 21 runs by Krantik Chaddha.For Hoshiarpur, Raghu Kumar took seven wickets giving 46 runs and Vishal dismissed 3 players for 24 runs. Starting the second innings with a lead of 90 runs in the first innings, the Hoshiarpur declared its innings by scoring 169 runs at the loss of 8 wickets in the second innings. Batting brilliantly for Hoshiarpur, Gadharv scored not out 101 runs and captain Kulathar Singh scored 23 runs. Jalandhar’s team came out with a target of 260 runs to win and scored 23 runs after losing a wicket till the end of second day’s play. Thus Hoshiarpur beat Jalandhar on the basis of a lead in the first innings and got three points. HDCA president Daljit Singh Khela honoured team players Gadharav and Raghu Kumar for their outstanding performance in the match. Chairman tournament committee Pankaj Shiv said that it was a great achievement for Hoshiarpur team and hoped that Hoshiarpur team would continue to perform well. HDCA secretary Raman Ghai said that Hoshiarpur would play its next match against Nawanshahr on April 16 and 17 in Nawanshahr. BCCI panel umpire Anmol Sharda, PCA umpire Amandeep and former BCCI match referee Jasvir Singh were also present in the match.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/u-19-cricket-hoshiarpur-registers-win-239144
15-04-2021||---||Dr BR Ambedkar’s 130th birth anniversary celebrated||Jalandhar, April 14On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar, members of the Pendu Mazdoor Union, Punjab, and the Naujawan Bharat Sabha held a meeting on the issue of ‘Jaat Paat Ate Dalit Mukti Da Sawal’ (Caste and the question of Dalit Emancipation) here on Wednesday. After the discussion on the issue, a march up to Ambedkar Chowk was held.Leaders of the organisations said the voice of Dalits and farmers as well as labourers had been strengthened and now their demands needed to be implemented at the ground level. They said the farmers needed to support the demands of the Dalits and labourers such as according a third of panchyati land to needy families for residential plots, merging village shamshan ghats and merging of village gurdwaras into one. They said if the farmers and labourers together supported these issues, then the Mazdoor-Kisan Ekta would be strengthened. They said the policies of the Central Government which were attacking labourer-farmer unity could be curbed with these measures.The leaders said BJP leaders were showing false affection towards Dr BR Ambedkar even though their policies were the exact opposite of the message propagated by Dr. Ambedkar.They said caste-based violence in the country had increased ever since the BJP government came to power. They said Covid-19 had also become a means to exploit labourers and farmers and numerous bills which are diametrically opposite to the needs and wants of these sections were being introduced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dr-br-ambedkars-130th-birth-anniversary-celebrated-239145
15-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Capt Amarinder Singh to lay foundation stone of Hoshiarpur Medical College in July||Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni on Wednesday said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh would lay foundation stone of Rs 375-crore Hoshiarpur Medical College in the first week of July.Accompanied by Industry and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, Soni paid floral tributes to Dr BR Ambedkar on his 130th birth anniversary and said decks have been cleared to start and timely completion of this medical college, besides upgrading the Civil Hospital’s bed capacity from 200 to 500.He said the Punjab Government has fixed a timeline to accomplish the project by December 2022 and start first session in 2023, which would give a boost to medical education and healthcare facilities in the region.He said 20 acres would be required for establishing the medical college. Soni said Rs 325 crore would be incurred on the construction of the building and Rs 50 crore would be spent state-of-the-art machinery. He also pointed out that super speciality doctors would be appointed at the medical college.Giving information about three upcoming medical colleges, Soni said the Mohali Medical College is all set to start classes from this session while construction at Hoshiapur and Kapurthala was on the anvil.He said the government would also set up two more medical colleges in Gurdaspur and Malerkotla.Soni, Arora along with Principal Secretary Medical Education and Research DK Tiwari and Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, among others, were also present. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/capt-amarinder-singh-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-hoshiarpur-medical-college-in-july-239146
15-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Jalandhar's Rurka Kalan shows way to conserve natural water||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 14Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February made an appeal to people to start a 100-day ‘Catch the Rain’ campaign to conserve water ahead of the summer, but Rurka Kalan village in Jalandhar district had already constructed a rooftop water recharge plant at a cost of nearly Rs 1.5 lakh.Seven houses have been connected to the plant. Set up outside an aaganwari centre in the village, the tank has a capacity to store nearly one lakh litre rainwater and is 80 ft deep to mix it with the groundwater. The unit has been installed with the joint effort of the nagar panchayat, youth Football Club (YFC) and NRIs from the village. At least 19 more such rooftop water recharge plants are likely to come up in the village.Soil Conservation Officer, Jalandhar, Lupinder Kumar, said: “Rurka Kalan used to be in the dark zone category of the depleting water level. However, with the construction of rooftop water recharge unit and community ponds, the village has seen a turnaround. Besides, the model can be adopted in other villages to promote the conservation of natural water.”The Pond Irrigation Scheme has also benefitted farmers in Rurka Kalan village. The village pond fulfil the irrigational needs of the nearby fields. While shrinking groundwater reserves and the treatment of sewage water remain prime concerns in the state’s depleting aquifers, projects like these deal help retain a healthy groundwater table.In three simple steps — desilting, purification and filtration — the sewage water of the village gets collected in a huge pond, which is further pumped out for irrigation with the help of a pump run by 24 solar panels power.Gurmangal Das, founder, YFC, Rurka Kalan, says: “As part of the action plan for ‘Mission 2024’, six more ponds to irrigate 800 acres through solar-powered uplifting devices and the laying of 5 km HDP underground pipelines are on the cards. In addition, 200 soak pits would be constructed. The total budget for these projects is estimated to be around Rs 3 crore.Lupinder said, while the fund was collected by YFC and panchayat village, under the direction of Rajesh Vashist, Chief Conservator of Soil, we designed the models of water conservation for the village. “This was for the first time that there was optimum utilisation of local resources. The National Horticulture Mission also approved and appreciated the model,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-rurka-kalan-shows-way-to-conserve-natural-water-239138
15-04-2021||Jalandhar||Tributes paid to Dr BR Ambedkar in Jalandhar||Drones to check illegal miningNawanshahr: In order to stop illegal mining in the state, drone will be used by the police and the Mining Department. RN Dhoke of the Mining Dept has directed to study the extent of illegal mining done in Rahon. The Khanna police have arrested Gurinder Singh, alias Ginda, who found to be involved in illegal sand mining in Rahon. His accomplice Karanvir Singh was nabbed by the police on Wednesday. During probe, names of Raju Gujjar, Dharamjit Singh, Dalvir Singh and Pawan Singh, also popped up for carrying out sand mining in Sutlej river near Shamshpur and Hadiwal villages. The joint team led by Gurtej Singh Garcha, XEN-cum-District Mining Officer, Nawanshahr, and Samrala DSP Jaswinder Singh visited Shamshpur and Hadiwal and used drones to know the extent of illegal mining. TNSKapurthala DC visits grain marketsKapurthala: DC Deepti Uppal visited grain markets in Kapurthala, Sultanpur Lodhi, Talwandi Chaudhary and Fatudhinga to review procurement process. The district witnessed smooth procurement as arhtiyas across the state withdrew their agitation. The authorities would purchase 3.59 Lakh MT wheat during the ongoing season and on Tuesday, 2,280 MT wheat arrived in various mandis , out of which 1,860 MT was purchased by the government agencies. The district has 42 permanent grain markets and more than 23 temporary mandis have been set up. Provision of handwash stations, 30×30 feet boxes to ensure social distancing and introduction of e- pass system has been commenced to avoid rush in grain markets. Urging farmers to bring only dry wheat in mandis for hassle-free procurement , the DC said the government was committed to purchase every grain of wheat. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tributes-paid-to-dr-br-ambedkar-in-jalandhar-239149
15-04-2021||---||1 dead, three injured in LPG cylinder blast in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 14Mohan Thakur (56) was killed and three persons were left injured after a gas cylinder exploded on Wednesday.Those who suffered injuries include Pintu, his wife Pinky and their five-year-old son. Both Pinky and Pintu are said to be out of danger.Rama Mandi police station SHO Sulakhan Singh said “Mohan Thakur was a deliveryman. While delivering a cyclinder in Qazi Mandi, a gas cylinder exploded. Three persons standing nearby suffered injuries. Things will get clear after we record statements of injured persons. So far, it seems an accident. Thakur was employed with a gas agency situated in Basti Gujan.”The body of the vicitm has been sent for the post-mortem, said the police.The SHO said no FIR has been registered in the case so far and it seems that the blast occurred while unloading the gas cylinder. He said all four persons were native of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-dead-three-injured-in-lpg-cylinder-blast-in-jalandhar-239147
15-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Low wages driving Jalandhar brick kiln workers to other states||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 14Pushpinder and his brothers Yash Kumar and Dimple Kumar have been working at brick kilns in Jalandhar for the past 20 years. But this year, he is keen on returning to his native village in another state.There are over 80 brick kilns in the district with each having between 100 and 250 employees. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, labourers have been getting low wages. Some of them have already returned to their native places.Ghanshyam Thori, Jalandhar DCThe fear of another lockdown is unfounded because we are not going to impose it. As far as prices are concerned, they are market controlled and we do not have a say in them. As far as fear of another lockdown is concerned, I can assure you that it is baseless.Hailing from Muzaffarnagar in UP, Pushpinder works at a kiln at Shekhupur in Jalandhar and has been trying to go back to home since April 6. He says five to six families working with him at the same brick kiln have already returned to their places, adding to his unease. Brick kiln labourers complain that they are not being paid proper wages this year. This coupled with fear of exorbitant bus fares, being charged since the lockdown was imposed last year, has left labourers on edge.Pushpinder says: Je enni dihari ghare mil jave enni door aun da ki fayeda (If we were to get this much wages back at our native places, what is the point of coming to far-off districts like here.” We are six members here — me, my two brothers and our wives. We were paid only Rs 600 for making 1,000 bricks last year. This year we are getting Rs 730. But this is not enough. If we were to be paid as much near our native states, why should we come here. I went to the Jalandhar railway station on April 6 and 9, but there was no seat in the train. Not wanting to pay for being put on the waiting list, I came back. I will go to the station again on Friday. We can’t afford that much money for the waiting ticket nor can we afford expensive bus travel. We poor people cannot pay as much as Rs 10,000 for travelling in a bus. So, it would be better if we leave now.”Sukhdev, who also hails from Muzzafarnagar and works at the same brick kiln, says, “Bahut aukha hai ji, sade vaste kujh nahi bachda. (Now it has become very difficult to survive and spare any money for ourselves). There are 10 members in our family. As the wages are very low, we think going back to home is a better option. Many of our fellow labourers have already left. If we try to travel by bus later, they would charge exorbitant fare.”Sunil Kumar, a contractor who oversees four brick kilns where 200 labourers work, says, “This year will also prove to be a very tough one for labourers. I have had many requests from my labourers who are keen on returning but I am somehow holding them back. While brick kilns in Jammu are paying from Rs 900 to 950 for the same work, here they are getting Rs 730 or less. So, they want to go back and take jobs in states near their homes. Meanwhile, with partial lockdowns in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra, labourers are getting edgy. A bus carrying 40 to 50 labourers charges around Rs 1 lakh. We have been imploring brick kiln owners to increase their wages otherwise it would be difficult for them to stay here.”Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “The fear of another lockdown is unfounded because we are not going to impose it. As far as prices are concerned, they are market controlled and we do not have a say in them. As far as fear of another lockdown is concerned, I can assure you that it is baseless.”On the other hand, Northern Railway in its official statements has time and again stated that there has been “no unprecedented rush of passengers at railway stations”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/low-wages-driving-jalandhar-brick-kiln-workers-to-other-states-239148
15-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Pandemic brings another unwanted surprise for students||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 14Aishwarya Sharma, a student of Class X, was up till 3 am on Tuesday.Reason: She was preparing for her board exams, which she thought would happen in May. On Wednesday, after she heard the news of cancellation of the CBSE board exams, she didn’t know how to react. She’s among lakhs of students who were awaiting the announcement related to their board exams.Aishwarya remained glued to the TV the entire day. Students made frantic phone calls to each other, posted messages in their school groups, just to confirm it was true or not. The pandemic has been bringing unwanted surprises for students, but this was the strangest of them.As for now, according to the announcement, result of Class X student will be prepared on the basis of ‘objective criterion’.Aishwarya said: “Suddenly, my relatives started sending me congratulatory messages as we will be promoted to the next class without appearing for exams. I don’t know what criteria will be followed, but I had been studying a lot, thus I am a bit disappointed.”Those excellent in studies said there would be no difference between them and their counterparts.Another student, Dhwani Sharma of Class X, also felt the same. Although she’s a bit glad that they won’t have to wait for another month for the exams to start, but she said the charm of appearing for exams cannot be replaced.Meanwhile, postponement of Class XII exams has further confused students. They were hoping for some good news related to their date sheet, but they have been on tenterhooks.Yuvraj Trikha, a Class XII student, said the delay was like torture for him. “I am a student of commerce stream. It’s very important that exams are held at the earliest and I get admission in a good college,” he said.Jatinder Singh, Principal, MGN School Urban Estate, said parents of students studying in Class X used to ask him to conduct classes for XI. “Parents were worried that if exams are held in May, then classes will start in June. They were concerned about completion of syllabus,” he said.Jatinder said he has been in the education field for the past 33 years and such a thing has never happened before. “As an educationist, I feel that proper evaluation is always important for students to grow, but as a human being, I think that the decision is definitely in favour of students because the situation is worrisome,” he added.Rachna Monga, Principal of Sanskriti KMV School, said: “CBSE should have organised a survey where we could have expressed our views on the decision. It is a confused state now, both for the students and the teachers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-brings-another-unwanted-surprise-for-students-239150
15-04-2021||---||Contact tracing ‘breaks the chain’ in Nawanshahr district||Nawanshahr, April 14It seems that the health authorities in Nawanshahr district have been able to break the chain. On Wednesday, 46 cases were reported in the district. Whereas on April 13, only six new cases were reported and a 66-year-old patient from Muzaffarpur block died in the district. On April 12, as many as 49 patients tested positive and one person fell prey to the virus.The situation in the district is under control for now and the administration and the Health Department were working day and night to tackle the pandemic. At present, recovery rate in the district stands at 92.94 per cent and death rate at 2.70 per cent.Nawanshahr Civil Surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapur said active contact tracing since last few days has made it possible to bring situation under control in the district.“We have largely focused on contact tracing. If a person is positive, we try to trace his 20 contacts. We get successful in tracing at least 14 contacts and then we isolate them at their homes. This is how we are breaking the chain,” said the Civil Surgeon and added that vaccination of beneficiaries has also picked up pace.The administration has been helping us at every step. We refer patient to higher institutes at the earliest,.Muzzafarpur Senior Medical officer Geetanjali Singh said they have started ‘vaccination at doorstep’ drive and beneficiaries will be inoculated nearby their homes. The health teams have been visiting factories, villages and residential societies, said the SMO. At present, the district has 360 active cases and four- containment zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/contact-tracing-breaks-the-chain-in-nawanshahr-district-239137
15-04-2021||---||Oxygen cylinders: Hospitals first, then industry, orders Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner||Jalandhar, April 14Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday ordered that the supply of oxygen cylinders would first be provided to hospitals and then to industry.The oxygen supply in the district comes from three plants. As per the order, if any oxygen supplier (from the three plants) tries to supply oxygen cylinders first to industry over hospitals in need would be liable to action under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897.The orders come at a time when the district’s oxygen supply needs have almost doubled. As per suppliers, while 1,500 to 2,000 cylinders were required per day during the peak last year, this year the demand has risen to 3,000 per day.However, suppliers and hospitals admit that the oxygen supply this year was smooth and no shortages were felt. While the Civil Hospital faced no problem of supplies after it got its own oxygen plant this year, other hospitals also claimed a relative smooth sailing compared to last year.However, sources said the DC’s orders came as some suppliers were used to routing gas supplies to industries. But after this order, they would not be able to supply cylinders to industry first.Udit Bhandari, one of the proprietors of Shakti Cryogenics (which are also the chief suppliers to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar), said, “The majority of cases this year are asymptomatic. However, the caseload is certainly much. While we needed 1,500 to 2,000 cylinders per day during the peak last year, this year we needed almost double the amount. For the Jalandhar area, the current demand is 3,000 cylinders per day. Unlike this year, there was a shortage of cylinders last year. As we made all arrangements beforehand, we did not face any shortage.”Dr BS Johal of Johal Hospital said, “Demand for cylinders has obviously doubled this year. At present, cases are on the wane. But during the peak a few days ago, we needed 250 cylinders per day. We have four high flow nasal oxygen canolas (HFNCs), each of which needs 10 to 12 cylinders every 24 hour.But since the arrangements had been made, it was a smooth transition into the peak this year compared to last year when the cases were peaking. Last year we had sleepless nights over arranging supplies. While the caseload of Covid did increase, the suppliers are ensuring smooth supplies to us.”Dr Neelkanth Singh Bhagat, anaesthetist, Civil Hospital, said, “We are facing no problem due to the in-house oxygen plant which produces 700 to 800 litres of oxygen per minute. It eases supply and provides us with 130 to 140 D type cylinders per day. While our ICU demand is 300 to 350 cylinders per day, 130 to 140 plant cylinders are used in the wards. So the per day demand of 400 to 450 cylinders is being met easily. Last year we were dependent on outside suppliers for 400 to 500 cylinders we needed during the peak. However, Covid is seeing a downward swing.”Hoshiarpur logs four deaths, 195 new casesThe district on Wednesday reported four deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 649. Besides, the district witnessed 195 fresh cases, taking the tally to 15,629.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the reports of 1,626 samples were received and of them, 178 new cases were reported while 17 more patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases stood at 1,016 while 15,216 patients recovered from the infection.Hoshiarpur city reported 18 new cases while the remaining ones were reported from various health blocks. Two patients died at Hoshiarpur hospitals, one at a Jalandhar hospital and one more died on way from Dasuya to Jalandhar.Death toll crosses 1,000 mark in districtWebsite for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-cylinders-hospitals-first-then-industry-orders-jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-239151
