16-04-2021||Jalandhar||2 more deaths, toll 1,003 now in Jalandhar||The district reported two more Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll to 1,003, while 399 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 35,426. Of these 399, as many as 40 belong to other districts, while 31,257 people have so far been discharged, there are 3,166 active cases in the district.In Kapurthala, 147 people tested positive for Covid on Thursday, taking the infection count to 10,596, while three persons died of virus on Thursday. The deceased include a 71-year-old resident of Kala Sanghian, who died at the GMC in Amritsar, a 65-year-old woman of Mansoorwal Dona village, who died at the GMC in Amritsar, and a 78-year- old woman of Kapurthala, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.Vaccination picks up paceThe vaccination drive in Jalandhar district is also going on at full pace. So far over 2.6 lakh Covishield vaccine doses have been administrated to beneficiaries. At the Civil Hospital centre as many as 140 people received the vaccines on Thursday. Elderly (for their second dose) and those over 45 years of age for their first dose continue to flock the centres for the vaccine. In many government and private centres vaccines are being administered.Nine die in HoshiarpurThe district reported nine more deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the toll to 658. Besides, the district also witnessed 152 fresh cases taking the tally to 15,745.Giving information about the cases, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 981 and 15,394 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of the total cases reported today, 14 were from Hoshiarpur city, 36 from other districts and the remaining were from various health blocks of the district. Four patients of the district died at the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital, two at Jalandhar hospitals while three (one each) died at various hospitals in Chandigarh, Mohali and Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-more-deaths-toll-1-003-now-in-jalandhar-239769
16-04-2021||Jalandhar||Father-son duo held for selling fake Ayushman Bharat cards||The Special Operation Unit of the police on Thursday held two men for printing fake Ayushman Bharat Health Insurance Scheme cards. Around 161 fake insurance cards were seized from their possession. They used to sell the cards to non-beneficiaries for Rs 500- Rs1,500.PPS Kanwaljit Singh, ACP Detective, while briefing about the arrest stated, SI Ashwini Kumar, in-charge, special operation unit, had received an information that two men were illegally distributing Ayushman Bharat Health Insurance Scheme cards. Subsequently, after arranging a checkpost at the Civil Hospital, the police managed to nab both the accused.The accused have been indentified as Satpal Singh of Ajnala, Amritsar, and his son Anmol. A case under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC has been registered against the accused at police division number 4.The police also recovered 161 fake health cards, a laptop and a printer from the possession of the accused.While Satpal (45) is a Class X passout, his son has done a course in computer application. They purchased a common service centre (CSC) in November to make Aadhaar cards and Blue cards. Later they planned to make fake Ayushman health cards to provide them to the non-beneficiaries of the scheme. They used to sell these cards for Rs 500- Rs 1,500.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-son-duo-held-for-selling-fake-ayushman-bharat-cards-239773
16-04-2021||Tribune New ServiceJalandhar||Phagwara teacher held for making obscene gestures||A teacher of a private school in Phagwara was arrested by the police on Thursday after a complaint of making obscene gestures was filed against him by a girl student.The teacher who is a native of Himachal Pradesh was thrashed by parents and the irked family members sprayed black colour on his face. The parents alleged that the teacher used to show obscene films and make gestures to their daughter in the garb of teaching her at school.When the girl informed her parents regarding the same, family members of students gathered at the school and beat up the teacher..The police have also questioned the school management as how come the institute was open during the pandemic.SHO Navdeep Singh reached the spot and said, “The complaint has been filed on the basis of a statement of the girl who is a teenager. We are also looking into why the school was open amid the pandemic. While no material has been found from mobile phone of the teacher, investigation is on. The school management will be questioned tomorrow.” An FIR has been registered under Section 354 of the IPC against the teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-teacher-held-for-making-obscene-gestures-239780
16-04-2021||Jalandhar||Khed mela at Tikri to boost morale of farmers||A khed mela was held on the occasion of Baisakhi at Tikri border. Several events, including wrestling, kabaddi, volleyball, turban tying, running, yoga, tug-of-war, gatka and horse racing, were held to instill enthusiasm among protesting farmer.To uplift the morale of farmers who have been agitating for the last five months, Kartar Singh Pehelwan, a Padma Shri and president of the Punjab Wrestling Association, had earlier announced to organise wrestling competitions at Singhu border on February 3.Arjuna awardees Kartar Singh, Rajbir Kaur and Sajjan Singh Cheema, and Olympians Gurmel Singh and Davinder Singh Garja had announced their support after an unfortunate incident at red fort. “We support farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. To infuse more energy, motivation and power in farmers and youngsters who are spending days and nights at Delhi borders, wrestling competitions will be organised,” they had said earlier.Now, the competitions were organised to make the atmosphere at border lively.Pehelwan said to destroy cruelty of the powerful and create a peaceful society, the 6th master, Guru Har Gobind Singh wanted youngsters to be full of energy and motivation. So, he started an akhara outside Akal Takht, where several pehelwans would visit and perform.“Our farmers, too, are fighting the cruelty of the Centre and youngsters can be seen making their presence felt. Thus, it’s very important to keep them upbeat, which is why we decided to organise such events,” he said.He said farmers were away from their homes and were living in such harsh conditions, which is why such steps were being taken to boost their morale. Medical camps were also held at Tikri border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/khed-mela-at-tikri-to-boost-morale-of-farmers-239789
16-04-2021||Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr girl tops UP civil services exam||Life mein kuch bada karna tha bachpan se hi, says Sanchita Sharma (29) from Nawanshahr who has topped the UP civil services exam in her second attempt. As nobody in her family has been in the services or in this field, her selection has brought a bundle of joy and an enormous amount of happiness for her parents. For Sanchita, it has given a purpose and meaning to her life.Sanchita completed her studies in 2013 from Panjab University. She has done dual degree courses in BE (Chemical Engineering) and MBA. Because of some issues in the family, she didn’t do any job after she passed out of the university. So, it was in 2016, she started preparing for civil services as she wanted to do something ‘meaningful’ in her life.“While doing my degree courses, I just wanted to do a job in a corporate house. But when I joined the internship, it wasn’t satisfying and fulfilling at all. It was then I realised that this was not something I always wished for. My dream was to achieve something big and do better for society,” Sanchita shared.Sanchita’s father is running a Jan Aushadhi Kendra store in Nawanshahr, while her mother has worked as a lecturer in a college in Banga. Her sister is a dentist who has her clinic in the district itself.The proud father of Sanchita said: ‘Asi te vyapari aadmi haan. Saade ghar vich kade koi nai si is taraf.’ He felt glad to get such recognition after his daughter’s achievement.“My parents feel that they have got honour in society after the news and I feel proud that I could give this happiness to them,” the topper said. “Now, I am just looking forward to serving my nation,” Sanchita added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-girl-tops-up-civil-services-exam-239794
16-04-2021||Sultanpur Lodhi||Progressive farmer produces muskmelon 1-month advance||Progressive farmer Ajit Singh Aujla from Sultanpur Lodhi is all set to sell his muskmelon crop in market, which he produced nearly a month earlier than traditional method with the help of ‘plastic mulch and polytunnel’ techniques. After studying market, Aujla came to know about high price of muskmelon crop during Ramzan (April 14) in Jammu and Kashmir as regular crop hits the market in mid May.Aujla cultivates wheat, potato and muskmelon on his 12 acres. Talking about the new techniques to raise his crop, he said the Agriculture Department played a major role by selecting his land for demonstrations under the crop diversification scheme.He said he first raised nursery by using cocopeat, followed by transplanting seedlings in field after laying plastic mulch. “To save crop from frost injury, plastic sheets were used to protect crop,” he said and added that drip irrigation was used to save groundwater and supply nutrients in an efficient way to the crop.Agriculture Development Officer Dr Jaspal Singh Dhanju said Aujla was selected as founding chairman of the Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) scheme in Sultanpur Lodhi due to his progressive attitude towards agriculture techniques.Dr Dhanju said as Sultanpur Lodhi is known as a vegetable belt and the department used to arrange farmer exposure visits at Aujla’s fields to encourage others to adopt crop diversification for higher income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/progressive-farmer-produces-muskmelon-1-month-advance-239795
16-04-2021||Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr Nagar Council prez elected||Stone laid for smart schoolJalandhar: MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary, along with Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri, on Thursday laid foundation stone of the building of Government Senior Secondary School, Chogitti. The building of the smart school would be constructed at a cost of over Rs1 crore. Speaking on the occasion, MP Chaudhary said the construction of the building was a long pending demand of the local people, which has now been fulfilled. “We had made a promise that our government would construct the new building of the school, which we have fulfilled now,” he said. On the occasion, he also announced the development of three parks at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore. MLA Beri said: “Capt Amarinder Singh government is focused on all round development of the entire state and is providing ample grants.” TNSWoman shot by sister’s in-lawsJalandhar: A woman (22) was killed after her sister’s father-in- law fired at her on Thursday. The victim had come with her parents to sort marital discord at her sister’s home in Phagwara. Victim’s sister Prabhjot Kaur, who was married to Sunny Gogna, alleged that the latter had an affair with another woman. Prabhjot’s father Amrik Singh and her sister Meharjot Kaur, along with their mother, had come to Paghwara. As both families were discussing the issue, Suresh Gogna, father-in-law of Prabhjot fired shots, which hit Meharjot. Amrik also sustained two bullet injuries in the incident. A case under Sections 302, 307, 498 and 120 B of the IPC and Sections 25, 27 and 54 of the Arms Act has been filed against in-laws of Prabhjot. TNSWhy not Dalit CM, asks TiwariNawanshahr: Responding to a statement of former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, MP Manish Tewari advised him to desist from indulging in politics of identity. Badal had recently promised to give the post of Deputy Chief Minister to a Dalit if his party was voted to power in the Assembly polls next year. Reacting to the statement, Tewari asked Badal, “Why only Deputy Chief Minister, why not a Dalit as Chief Minister?” He asked him whether the position of Chief Minister was reserved for someone. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-nagar-council-prez-elected-239796
