17-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj---||Move to promote students doesn’t go down well with teachers, parents||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, April 16 First Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and now Punjab School Education Board (PSEB)! Students who were to appear for board exams will be promoted. This move has certainly not been appreciated by number of teachers and even parents.  Although most teachers spoke on condition of anonymity, some openly said exams could have been conducted by following the health guidelines. They said this would only discourage students and will reduce their enthusiasm when it comes to study. Amid the Covid-19 surge, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday had announced that all Class V, Class VIII and Class X students would be promoted to the next class. “Students were already not studying properly. Now, they are getting promoted. No one knows where they stand. The level of education among students is decreasing drastically,” said a teacher. Former District Education Officer (DEO) Massa Singh, who  served in the department for 30 years, said no matter what, promoting students without conducting exams was not right. “Students studying in board classes should have appeared for exams. Conducting exams by following proper guidelines was not that difficult. With such steps, importance of education will reduce.”  Kulwinder Singh, president, Democratic Teachers’ Front, said, “No teacher is in favour of the decision. Exams can be held by practising social distancing. Even last year, exams were not held properly. Numerous parents have shown dissatisfaction saying that they don’t know where their stands and what are they up to.” Principal of Government Senior Secondary School (Girls), Adarsh Nagar, said there were mixed reactions related to to the decision. “On the one hand, parents are glad that it was necessary to take such a decision during the pandemic and on the other hand, students who prepared hard for exams have shown dissatisfaction,” said the Principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/move-to-promote-students-doesnt-go-down-well-with-teachers-parents-240305
17-04-2021||---||Kapurthala gets first mayor||Jalandhar, April 16A woman has become the first Mayor of the Kapurthala Municipal Corporation.Two-time councillor Kulwant Kaur has been elected the first Mayor of the MC here on Friday. Kulwant Kaur’s husband Bakhshish Singh Labbha, who died in 2013, was a three-time councillor and one-time vice-president and one-time president of the Kapurthala nagar council.Kulwant Kaur has been councillor of the municipal corporation twice. After she was appointed the Mayor, party workers danced to the beats of dhol and distributed sweets. Since Bakshish Singh’s death, her son Rajvir ‘Bawa’ Labbha has been supporting his mother all through the campaign.Garlanded by supporters, Kulwant was embraced and congratulated by co-workers. Kulwant, who was councillor from Ward No.3, won by a margin of 1,070 votes. The Kapurthala Municipal Corporation has 50 wards, of which 45 councillors are from the Congress and three from the Akali Dal and two are Independents.Kulwant Kaur said, “We are thankful for the support of all our voters and MLA Rana Gurjit Singh for their support. I have planned to get all the works of the municipal corporation, which were hitherto taking a backseat, completed. We will motivate people in our area and in the city towards vaccination. A campaign in this regard was already being run in our area.”Besides, Rahul Kumar Mansoo (whose father Narinder Mansoo was a three-time councillor) was elected senior deputy mayor and retired school teacher Master Vinod Sood as deputy mayor. Vinod Sood’s wife Sunita Sood was elected councillor twice.On the occasion, the Mayor asked all her colleagues to get vaccinated. MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, who was present on the occasion, administered oath to the Mayor and other members in the presence of Deputy Commmissioner Deepti Uppal.All the councillors were asked to get vaccinated before the first meeting of the civic body takes place. Notably, the nagar council which had 29 wards, formerly called nagar council, became a municipal corporation only in February 2019. It had been functioning without a mayor so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-gets-first-mayor-240306
17-04-2021||---||3 die, 405 new infections in Jalandhar; active cases 3,169||Jalandhar, April 16With 405 new cases reported in Jalandhar on Friday, the district tally reached 35,831. The health authorities reported three deaths in the district, thus taking the death toll to 1,006. At present, the district has 3,169 active cases and a total of 31,656 people have been discharged so far.108 +ve cases, three casualties in KapurthalaA total of 108 people tested positive in Kapurthala district. With this, the tally reached 10,704 cases. Three deaths were also reported in the district. The deceased include a 74-year-old man, resident of Pandori Rajputa village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, a 40- year-old woman, resident of Kapurthala, who died at the Civil Hospital and a 78-year-old woman of Saidowal village, who died at DMC, Ludhiana.Special vaccination camps on weekendsKapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal directed the health officials to conduct special camps at sub- division level hospitals during the weekends for vaccinating staff of various departments.She asked heads of all the departments to submit details of their employees so that they too could be administered the vaccine.She said departments, including revenue, cooperation, education, rural development and panchayat, social security, food supply, agriculture and public works has maximum staff, besides having direct dealing with masses. Uppal said they all fall into ‘Super Spreader’ category and all of them should be vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-die-405-new-infections-in-jalandhar-active-cases-3-169-240307
17-04-2021||---||Practical exam held at Jalandhar's SVM School, principal booked||Jalandhar, April 16An FIR has been filed against a school principal in Jalandhar for allowing her school to open and conducting an exam during pandemic restrictions. Notably, the state government has ordered the closure of all government and private schools during the pandemic. No student can be asked to come to school during this period.Sunita Rana, principal of SVM Senior Secondary School, was booked on April 14 for allowing her school to open amid the pandemic and also calling students to appear in the exam.An FIR has been registered against the principal under Section 188 of the IPC, Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.Upon inspection, police teams found the school open, gates ajar and students writing on the table and some of them sitting on stairs.Ajaib Singh, SHO of the Cantt police station, said, “As per the pandemic protocols, students cannot be called to attend school. But in the said school a practical exam was being conducted at great risk to children’s life. At least 25 students were present in the school in violation of the guidelines. While a case was registered against principal Sunita Rana on April 14, she secured bail soon after.”Sources said government schools were abiding by guidelines and only calling staff, but some private schools were repeatedly calling students to school. Objections were raised by some parents and residents when schools were ordered to be closed by the government last month. They said amidst the pandemic, the fear of huge losses was also prompting some private schools to call students.Meanwhile, following a furore raised by parents at a school in Kapurthala on Thursday, a teacher was booked for alleged obscene behaviour with a student. The police said the school was open during the pandemic at which the Kapurthala police expressed surprise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/practical-exam-held-at-jalandhars-svm-school-principal-booked-240308
17-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Vaccination drive begins in Hoshiarpur mandis, 60 inoculated in grain market||Hoshiarpur, April 16Expanding the ambit of ongoing Covid vaccine, the district administration on Friday kicked off the special vaccination camps in all grain markets in the district from local Dana Mandi Rahimpur to administer vaccine to all stakeholders during the procurement season.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said a team of Health Department led by District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh conducted a special camp on the first day of the drive in Dana Mandi Rahimpur, where as many as 60 beneficiaries including farmers, who were there to get their crop procured, arthiyas, labourers and other eligible persons were vaccinated. Riyait also pointed out that this campaign would remain functional in other mandis too for the facilitation of beneficiaries in sub-divisions Mukerian, Garhshankar, Dasuya and its respective jurisdictions.Giving details of the ongoing vaccination, the Deputy Commissioner said that more than 1.65 lakh beneficiaries had been administered Covid vaccine so far and on Friday 9,494 beneficiaries were inoculated in a single day. She said that all sectors were being covered so that the eligible beneficiaries could be vaccinated as soon as possible.The Deputy Commissioner also stated that all inmates of Old Age Home at Ram Colony Camp were vaccinated by holding a special camp. She also exhorted the other eligible people to come forward for vaccination without any hesitation and fear as it was must in the present circumstance amid surge in cases.BSF STC Kharkan declared micro-containment zoneDistrict Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait has declared BSF Sub Training Centre (STC) as micro-containment zone. As per orders issued in this regard, she said only medical emergency and essential works would be allowed in the micro containment zone. Health Department teams would go door-to-door in the micro containment zones and conduct survey tracing of contacts. In addition, according to the health protocol, all positive cases will be converted into health facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-drive-begins-in-hoshiarpur-mandis-60-inoculated-in-grain-market-240309
17-04-2021||Our Correspondent||3 deaths, 225 new cases in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, April 16The district reported three more Covid-19 fatalities on Friday, taking the death toll to 661, while 225 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 15,949. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the reports of 1,802 samples were received and of them, 204 new cases were from the district, while 21 patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases is 1,078, while 1,519 patients have recovered. Hoshiarpur city reported 19 new cases, while the others were reported from various health blocks of the district. The deceased have been identified as 65-year-old woman of Parowal village, 62-year-old woman of Islamabad, and a 72-year-old patient of Masitpalkot, who died at Medical College, Chandigarh, Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur and a private hospital in Jalandhar, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-deaths-225-new-cases-in-hoshiarpur-240310
17-04-2021||---||Covid-positive woman delivers healthy baby girl in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 16The pandemic has brought challenges in everyone’s life and amid Covid, doctors and health workers, who have been on the forefront, are the first to take risks.Setting an example, when various private hospitals are not performing any surgery, Dr Sandali Ghai Bhutani, gynaecologist at Ghai Hospital performed a successful C-section of a Covid positive woman, who delivered a baby girl on Wednesday.The 30-year-old woman from Jalandhar was taking her prenatal treatment from Dr Sandali. It was in her ninth month of pregnancy that she tested Covid-positive. “She had cold and fever. I immediately advised her to go for a Covid test. When the report came out to be positive, a scan was done, where it was found that the amniotic fluid was also less. So, I advised her to go to a hospital where such cases were being treated, but she insisted that she had her faith in me and that I should perform the surgery,” said the doctor.Following a lot of discussions and taking advice from her family members. The doctor shared that the patient’s husband, father and other family members boosted her confidence and asked to go for the surgery.The doctor said her seniors too told her about the precautions to take, and she also counselled the patient before the delivery. Not only this, the doctor also had to counsel the staff who were a little reluctant earlier but then got ready. Wearing PPE kits and taking full precautions, the team performed the C-section.Finally, the patient delivered a healthy baby girl who also tested Covid-negative. The doctor shared that it was the first time in her practice that she had to make such a decision, and it was because of her family that she was able to take the decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-positive-woman-delivers-healthy-baby-girl-in-jalandhar-240316
17-04-2021||Kapurthala||‘No shortage of gunny bags’||Plan to conserve water releasedJalandhar: An action plan has been released by the School Education Department regarding the activities to be conducted at various schools under the JaI Shakti Abhiyan. The events that will be held under the plan include students giving out innovative ideas to reduce water pollution in the nation and awareness programme on natural water bodies and watersheds of state. Apart from this, seminars and webinars among various institutions will also be held to learn water conservation techniques. TNSWheat Crop on 8-acres guttedNawanshahr: Wheat crop on eight-acres of field was destroyed in a fire at Mahalo village here. Though fire brigade teams tried to douse the flames, the entire crop was destroyed in the incident. Even some villagers made efforts to control the fire but in vain. Notably, such incidents of crop being destroyed in fire have become common in the villages. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-shortage-of-gunny-bags-240319
