18-04-2021||---||Aakhri Umeed’ to cremate Covid victims||Jalandhar, April 17A city-based NGO under the banner of “Aakhri Umeed Welfare Society” is providing free of cost assistance for cremating bodies of persons who die of Covid.In the recent past, there have been incidents where due to the virus scare, kin of the deceased do not come forward to cremate the bodies of the victims. A team of 15-20 members of the NGO has been lending its helping hand to perform the last rites of such persons since last year.Diler Singh, a volunteer, said owing to a huge spike in number of infections and deaths due to the virus, people had become panicky and the kin of persons who had lost their lives to Covid were found hesitating to perform their last rites. “Besides, in some cases when the administration came forward for the purpose, some locals had also been found restricting them from cremating the bodies of Covid victims,” he said.Founded by its president Jatinder Singh, the NGO operates from Babreek Chowk, near Football Chowk, and the voluteers do not draw any salary.The family members attending the funeral of Covid-hit are also given free PPE kits. Whereas, as per reports, some private hospitals have been charging family members of the deceased Rs8,000-10,000 for making arrangements for cremation of Covid patients.“Initially our volunteers found the task hard and at times we ourselves used to get scared, but fortunately, none of us caught the virus. Last year, we even cremated six to eight bodies in a day and in the second phase of the outbreak, the maximum number of cremations went up to five only,” said Diler Singh.Increasing toll mounts pressure on Hospital staffWith the surge in Covid fatalities, (215 last month and 90 in the last 16 days), the pressure to handle bodies of Covid patients has also gone up. Dr Kamraj, in-charge, Civil Hospital morgue, said: "Owing to the surge, we had to increase the staff. The bodies need to be sanitised completely and packed in two layers before cremation. Before handing over the bodies, PPE kits were also given to the family members as a mandatory safety protocol."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aakhri-umeed-to-cremate-covid-victims-240666
18-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur resident dies in Indianapolis firing incident||Seventyone-year-old Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Kotla Naudh Singh village in the district, on Thursday was killed in a shooting incident in Indianapolis, US.According to the information received, Jaswinder Singh (see pic) had gone to the US with his son Gurvinder Singh. According to the deceased’s kin, having bored of staying at home there, Jaswinder had started working at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis a week ago. On Thursday, he went to the Fed-Ex facility to get the cheque of his first salary. He was excited about getting his first salary cheque.While he was there, a former Fed-Ex employee fired indiscriminately there and Jaswinder was killed on the spot. Jatinder Singh, the younger son of the deceased, said on Saturday morning his elder brother Gurvinder informed the family about the death of his father in the said shooting on the phone.In the incident, a young man fired indiscriminately in Indianapolis, killing eight persons, out of which four were of Punjabi origin, including Jaswinder Singh. As soon as villagers came to know about Jaswinder Singh’s death at his ancestral village here, a large number of villagers and local residents started coming to his house to express condolences. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-resident-dies-in-indianapolis-firing-incident-240667
18-04-2021||---||Passengers to be tested at railway station from now on||Jalandhar, April 17 In the wake of rising Covid cases across the district, the district administration on Saturday started the Covid testing drive at the city railway station. A team of doctors and nurses will remain seated at the entrance of the station to monitor passengers coming in and out of the city. Now onwards, passengers will have to undergo a mandatory RT-PCR test at the station. The drive was initiated to trace Covid positive individuals. Moreover, the staff and workers at the railway station were also asked to get their RT-PCR tests done. Nearly 66 trains are running from the city railway station at present. Hence, it has become the need of the hour to keep a tab on the health status of passengers. “Those who test positive will be asked to isolate themselves. Mobile numbers and other contact details of patients are being registered to trace them. The details of their tests will be sent on their registered mobile numbers,” Deepti Bains, conducting the Covind tests at the station, said. Apart from intensified Covid testing, the Indian Railways on Saturday also announced that it would impose a fine of up to Rs500 on passengers for not wearing face masks on the railway premises or during travel in trains for a period of six months, said Vikas Jaitley, an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/passengers-to-be-tested-at-railway-station-from-now-on-240668
18-04-2021||---||Jalandhar district logs 4 deaths, 449 new infections||Jalandhar, April 17With 449 persons testing positive for Covid, the district tally reached 36,280 in Jalandhar on Saturday. Of these 449, as many as 39 belong to other districts. Four people also died of Covid in the district, taking the death toll to 1,010. While 32,076 people have been discharged so far, there are 3,194 active cases in the district.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 149 persons tested positive for Covid on Saturday taking the district tally to 10,852 cases. Two deaths were also reported in Kapurthala. The deceased include a 65-year-old woman, resident of Sarai Jatta village, who died at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar and a 68-year-old woman resident of Kala Sanghian, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.Hoshiarpur logs four deaths, 284 +ve casesWith the arrival of 284 new positive patients, the tally ofcontinued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-logs-4-deaths-449-new-infections-240669
18-04-2021||---||48K ltrs lahan destroyed, 250 bottles of illicit liquor seized||Jalandhar, April 17In a crackdown against bootlegging and smuggling of illicit liquor, joint teams of the Jalandhar and Ludhiana Excise Department launched Operation Red Rose and raided various hideouts along the Sutlej on Friday. The teams succeeded in destroying 48,000 litres of lahan and seized 250 bottles of illicit liquor, 10 iron drums, plastic tarpaulins, rubber tubes and other utensils.Giving more details, Assistant Commissioner (Excise), Jalandhar, Harsimrat Kaur Grewal said under the zero tolerance policy against the illicit liquor trade, teams of the Excise Department conducted raids along the Sutlej and subsequently seized and destroyed a huge amount of lahan and illicit liquor.She said officials of both districts conducted raids in the Sidhwa Bait area falling in both sides of the river including Akuwal, Chandigarh Dia Channa, Behran, Thali Dia Channa, Gorsian Khan Muhammad and Madepur villages.Grewal further said the department had initiated the procedure of filing an FIR against the cartels of this illegal trade. She said the department was on its mission against smuggling, bootlegging and manufacturing of illegal liquor as a large number of raids had been conducted recently after a huge recovery of illicit liquor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/48k-ltrs-lahan-destroyed-250-bottles-of-illicit-liquor-seized-240670
18-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Minors accuse SHO of extortion||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 17Two minor children have made some serious allegations against Bholath SHO Amandeep Kaur. The children, who are siblings (aged 15 and 16), alleged that the SHO extorted Rs1,86,000 from them and framed their father in a false drugs case.The Kapurthala SSP has marked an inquiry into the case. Addressing mediapersons here on Thursday, the siblings alleged that on March 25, the SHO came to their house at Khassan village in Bholath on the pretext of making a search regarding a drug-related case against her father but took away Rs 86,000 which was kept in the house at that time. They said the money was to be spent on their father’s treatment. They alleged an additional Rs 1 lakh was also given to the SHO at her insistence.Gurvinder Kaur (16), a student of Class XI, alleged, “The SHO came to our house on March 25. While she kept saying she had to conduct a search we kept asking her for the reason. On asking that senior members of the village should have been brought along with her, she slapped me. She searched the entire house, asked for the almirah keys and took away Rs 80,000 lying in the almirah and Rs 6,000 under my pillow. These were meant for my father’s treatment.”Gurvinder said earlier her father had been booked in a drugs case and had been taking injectibles previously. At present, he was indisposed and bed-ridden.She said, “My father was suffering from a severe knee problem for which he was operated upon. My mother died in May last year after which he was left bed-ridden. He couldn’t even go to bathroom and kept a bucket with him. We were keeping this money for his treatment. The SHO sought Rs 1 lakh from us to release our father. She said if we would give her Rs 86,000 house money and an additional Rs 1 lakh, they would let him go but they didn’t. Rather we withdrew Rs 1,10,000 more from bank and gave her Rs 1 lakh of that.Despite this, our father was taken to the police station that day and a case was lodged against him and he was arrested. When we reminded her of her assurance, she asked us to keep quiet failing which she would file a case against my brother too.”Gurvinder, who is in Class XI and received 97 per cent marks in 10th standard pre-boards. Her brother (15) is in Class X. Her mother died last year. While her relatives, who live in the US, support the family, she said her next-door uncle currently feeds both the siblings.Her father Rajwant Singh (40) is in Gurdaspur jail.While an enquiry into the case was marked by Kapurthala SSP Kanwardeep Kaur to SP Vashaljit Singh, the enquiry is currently under way. Meanwhile, the SHO continues to officiate at the same police station.Speaking to The Tribune, SHO Amandeep Kaur said, “There is no truth in the allegations levelled by the children.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minors-accuse-sho-of-extortion-240671
18-04-2021||Jalandhar||Police DAV Public School celebrates silver jubilee||Police DAV Public School celebrated its silver jubilee on Friday. A paath of Sukhmani Sahib was held to seek the blessing of the Almighty. Rajatam Utsav- a series of online and offline competition was formally launched online to mark the occasion.  In the beginning only four competitions were held online in which a large number of students from various schools of Punjab and Haryana participated and submitted their videos. The inaugural function on zoom was joined by principals, teachers and students in large numbers.  It commenced with videos on the school, followed by lighting of the lamp and address by Principal Dr Rashmi Vij. The school alumni especially filmed their bhangra performance for this occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-dav-public-school-celebrates-silver-jubilee-240672
18-04-2021||Ashok Kaura---||Soon, Phagwara MC to launch compulsory registration of pets||Phagwara, April 17  After the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation, Phagwara Municipal Corporation authorities are working to make online registration of pets compulsory. ADC-cum-Phagwara MC Commissioner Rajeev Verma said on Saturday that the civic body would commence online registration of pets on the pattern of Ludhiana Municipal Corporationand the residents would have to pay Rs400 per annum for registration of a pet. Verma said a token would be issued which could be tied to the neck of the pet and pet’s name would also be included in the Aadhaar card of the owner. He said the owner would also have to bear the expenses if the pet bites anyone. Only pet dogs and cats would be registered under the first phase. ADC Verma said as per the terms and conditions laid down by the MC, it would be mandatory for every dog/cat owner to get their pets registered with the MC. “Otherwise, they will have to pay Rs 4,000 as a penalty on being caught without registration,” he siad. He said a pro forma would be prepared and uploaded on the MC’s official website to facilitate the people. Pet owners will have to visit the MC’s website and fill it giving details and uploading photographs of the pet and the owner. Following this, a licence will be issued online and the owner will have to take a copy of that to the office of the MC, for getting a token for their pet. MC Commissioner said, “If any pet is caught without token, the pet would be taken into custody and the owner will have to pay a fine of Rs 100 per day till the time he/she gets it registered.” “The licence will be renewed every year in April. The owner will bear the expenses on medication, if the pet bites anyone. Pets will not be allowed to defecate on public places and the owner would be responsible for cleaning the area if the pet defecates,” he added. The MC would cover animal breeders, cattle and other animals in the next phase, said the ADC, adding that the MC finds it difficult to locate the pet owner in absence of registration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/soon-phagwara-mc-to-launch-compulsory-registration-of-pets-240674
18-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||Surgery saves life of quadragenarian||Hoshiarpur, April 17 A 45-year-old woman suffering from aneurysm arising from a cavernous segment of right internal carotid artery (ballooning of artery) was treated successfully with endovascular neurosurgery at Ivy Hospital recently. The patient from Bathinda was having severe headache and drooping right eyelid. During an MRI scan, a 2.5 cm aneurysm was discovered in her right internal carotid artery, which was causing her these ailments. Earlier, such discomforts were treated with an open surgery, but Dr Vineet Saggar, Head of Neuro-interventional and Endovascular Neurosurgery, is successfully treating such patients with an endovascular neurosurgery from the past five years at the hospital. Giving information, Dr Saggar said in that technique a catheter through the femoral artery is passed up to aneurysm, which is then sealed with coils. Nowadays, flow divertor or stent-assisted coiling is used to treat such aneurysms, he said.  It was a complicated case as the affected artery of the patient was in bad shape and it was difficult to place a flow divertor or stent in it owing to high chances of them getting blocked, he said.  Dr Saggar further said the affected artery was blocked following a balloon occlusion test to check any adverse effect of artery occlusion on the patient. If a patient experiences no abnormality on the test, then the artery is blocked.  He said brain stroke patients could also be treated using that procedure. “If a patient suffering from stroke is brought to the hospital within four to five hours of a stroke, the affected area can be opened by mechanical thrombectomy and the patient’s life can be saved,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surgery-saves-life-of-quadragenarian-240675
18-04-2021||---||Tarpaulin sheets provided at all purchase centres||Jalandhar, April 17 To ensure that ‘golden grains’ of farmers remain unaffected from inclement weather, the administration has provided enough quantity of tarpaulins at the grain markets to the market committees and procurement agencies’ officials to cover heaps of crops brought by farmers. Divulging details, District Food and Civil Supplies Controller (DFSC) Narinder Singh said on the directives of Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, all necessary arrangements were already put in place in the morning in the wake of forecast of stormy weather and rain.  He said sufficient availability of tarpaulins was made at the grain markets before the untimely rain hit the district, adding that the staff of Mandi Board and agencies covered all heaps and purchased bags of wheat to prevent any kind of damage. He said duties of the entire staff have already been fixed to ensure farmers do not face any kind of the problem due to unseasonal rain. The DFSC said the district administration was committed to ensuring a smooth and hassle-free procurement season in Jalandhar. He said no stone would be left unturned to assist farmers during the whole procurement operation as purchase, lifting and payment of crops was going on full throttle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tarpaulin-sheets-provided-at-all-purchase-centres-240676
18-04-2021||---||Higher education opportunities in post-Covid world discussed||Jalandhar, April 17Education Minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ addressed an international conference virtually at Lovely Professional University (LPU) on Friday comprising management of top global universities. Occasion was one-day long virtual ‘Conference on International Higher Education Opportunities in the Post-Covid World’ organised by LPU at its campus. The Minister of Education, Government of India, Dr Pokhriyal graced the event as the chief guest.During the conference, 12 senior academicians of the ranks of Pro Vice-Chancellors, Vice-Rectors, Directors and more from the universities of top countries, including the USA, UK, Canada, Australia, and Cyprus participated as the panellists. Senior management from top 9 universities of the world, including University of Pennsylvania (USA), Nottingham Trent University (UK), University of Newcastle and Curtin University (Australia), Lake head University (Canada), and AusTrade and more attended the conference for stimulating discussions.Talking about New Education Policy of India (NEP-2020), Dr Nishank shared, “India has updated its New Education Policy for 33 crore Indian students, studying in 1,000 universities and 45,000 degree colleges- their aspirations are reflected in this NEP. This policy has been made in consultation with all the stakeholders ranging from students, teachers, scientists, NGOs. It is the biggest innovation, where participation is from everyone. It is the policy of the country for the country, by the country and of the country and we are the harbingers of the good and excellent future for every student of the country. We believe in the phrase “Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam” (the world is one family), that’s why we worry about the entire world.”The Minister said “I am very happy that LPU has organised this dialogue with the senior policymakers of the world, and has been doing so much work in the internationalisation of education. In fact, internationalisation is a very important element in the growth and development of a university and its contribution to the country.”While commencing on the conference, LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal greeted Dr Pokhriyal and welcomed all delegates and participants from across the world. Mittal mentioned the pandemic as a ‘truly global crisis’; however, during this ‘online’ education has been promoted at large.Important dialogues among the panellists, moderators and audience were held on combating the pandemic crisis; envisioning new higher education models; accepting vaccines; and, to live together afresh and stably in the post-Covid world.Panellists were Pro Vice-Chancellor Prof Leigh Robinson of Cardiff Metropolitan University, UK; Director, English Language Programmes, Jack Sullivan from University of Pennsylvania, USA; Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Global Engagement and Partnership, Dr Tony Travaglione from University of Newcastle, Australia; Pro Vice-Chancellor International, Prof Cillian Ryan from Nottingham Trent University, UK among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/higher-education-opportunities-in-post-covid-world-discussed-240677
18-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Police install 40 ‘nakas’ in Hoshiarpur district||Amid rising Covid cases, the district police on Saturday launched a special awareness drive by installing 40 nakas across Hoshiapur to make aware people about the significance of masks, social distancing and virus appropriate behavior. SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, while giving details in this regard, said that these nakas were being supervised by the SPs and DSPs rank officers so that maximum people could be sensitised about the fresh guidelines in view of surge in Covid infection, besides these teams also issuing challans to the violators of said directives of government. He said that SP (D) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu, SP(PBI) Mandeep Singh, DSP Gurpreet Singh Gill, DSP Amar Nath led the special naka at local Government College Chowk where the people following Covid appropriate behavior especially wearing masks properly were welcomed by giving a flower of rose while those without masks were distributed masks by the police.  The city area has been divided in four sectors for the effective management of Covid safety protocols, said the SSP adding that on Saturday only the district police issued as many as 220 challans for violations of masks with total 2,662 challans so far from April 1, 2021. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-install-40-nakas-in-hoshiarpur-district-240678
18-04-2021||---||30-yr-old biker run over by train||Jalandhar, April 17A bike-borne man was run over by a train here on Saturday morning. The incident happened at the Sodal railway crossing at around 9 am.As per the report, the deceased, identified as Gurmail (30), was trying to cross the manned railway crossing on his bike.ASI Hira Lal, investigation officer, Government Railway Police, who reached the spot after the incident, said, “When the victim was crossing the railways tracks, he failed to see the train coming from the opposite direction. Eyewitnesses and the gateman also tried to alert the man when he bent down to cross the railway crossing, but to no avail. After checking the body, we discovered that he was wearing the earphones when the train hit him. He couldn't even hear the horn of the train.” A resident of Nangal Salempur, Gurmail was run over by the Amritsar-Mumbai Paschim Delux (2926) train. The train stopped immediately after dragging him nearly 500m with his bike. He suffered injuries on his head and face and suffered multiple fractures.“The victim is survived by four children and his wife. His identity was traced after the police used his Sim card to call his family. The Government Railway Police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC in the matter,” added Hira Singh. The body has been sent to the Civil Hospital for a postmortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/30-yr-old-biker-run-over-by-train-240682
18-04-2021||Jalandhar||Webinar on ‘Kisani Sangharsh’||World Haemophilia Day observedEklavya School observed World Hemophilia Day. World Hemophilia Day is recognised worldwide to increase awareness of hemophilia and other inherited bleeding disorders. This is a critical effort since with increased awareness comes better diagnosis and access to care for the millions who remain without treatment. World Haemophilia Day was started in 1989 by the World Federation of Hemophilia (WFH) which chose to bring the community together on April 17 in honour of WFH founder Frank Schnabel's birthday. Activities were undertaken by the teachers and students of the Eklavya School to mark the occasion. The celebration began with the informative speech given by teachers online on Google meet to highlight the history of this day. Teachers educated the students about hemophilia problem and said we should help people near us who are suffering from this illness by providing them basic treatment facilities. Students took initiatives and they made beautiful charts to aware the people and prevent complications arising due to hemophilia.CT Group signs MoU with ihroThe CT Group of Institutions, South Campus, Shahpur, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with International Human Rights Organisation (IHRO). The MoU was signed in the presence of dignitaries advocate Vikrant Rana, Director Legal Punjab International Human Rights Organisation; Dr GS Kalra, Campus Director, Shahpur Campus; Dr Anupamdeep Sharma, Dean Academics; Vansh Raheja, manager CCPC; Maninder Kaur, Joint Secretary International Human Rights Organisation and Bhavna Kapoor. Advocate Vikrant Rana emphasised on the legal rights and the framework on which both the parties will solve the problems that are related to different sectors. This MoU holds a great importance in many aspects as it is not only an association of two organisations but also a great platform for the students' professional upliftment. This MoU will have a great benefit to all the students especially for Law students.Megha shines in gndu MEd examsRamgarhia College of Education, Phagwara, outshined in the MEd result declared by Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. Megha Ghai made the institution proud by securing first position in the university. She topped GNDU MEd result by scoring 1667/2000. She paid heartfelt gratitude to her teachers and parents. Overall result of the college is commendable. Manpreet Kaur Bhogal, president-cum-chairperson, Ramgarhia Educational Council and Dr Vyoma Bhogal Dhatt, Director, Ramgarhia Educational Institutions congratulated Principal Dr Surinder Jit Kaur, the position holder and her parents, teachers and students of the college. Chairperson Manpreet Kaur Bhogal remarked that the college has been a hub of excellence since its inception in 1956. The collaborative and constant efforts of all involved help the college in achieving milestones in the field of education. Principal Dr Surinder Jit Kaur articulated that prospective teachers are not only groomed in co-curricular aspects in the college but they are unsurpassed in academics also. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-kisani-sangharsh-240686
18-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Bhagat Singh's statue in Jalandhar: Cheaper material, no likeness||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 17The row over the newly erected statue of Shaheed Bhagat Singh at a junction in the city refuses to die down. Built at a cost of Rs 5.59 lakh, the statue has been in controversy over its height and likeness to the martyr.A fortnight after writing to the CM seeking an inquiry into the “unauthentic” statue of the martyr, installed at Bhagat Singh Chowk, BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia has yet again sent a letter to the CM. Pointing out that the statue has no resemblance with the martyr, Kalia has demanded an inquiry into use of ‘cheaper’ material in violation of the terms of the tender.While the CM had ordered action on the basis of Kalia’s March 24 letter and sought a report, the BJP leader said some of the issues remained unaddressed. In his fresh letter to the CM on Friday, Kalia says: “I have raised the issue that the statue does not resemble with the authenticated photograph of Shaheed Bhagat Singh available in public domain, but the same has not been mentioned in the letter marked by your office to Principal Secretary, Local Government, for inquiry.“The Principal Secretary may kindly be directed to inquire whether the same quality of marble has been used as prescribed in the tender. I was given to understand that instead of marble, polystone material has been used to carve out the statue. The material is cheaper than the marble.”A 20-year-old bust of the martyr, erected on a pedestal, was replaced with the white statue on March 22, the eve of his death anniversary.Mayor Jagdish Raja said: “The statue had been made by a private company in Lucknow. It has been fashioned after the one in Parliament. Including the pedestal, the statue cost Rs 5.59 lakh. The issue regarding authenticity has come to our notice and we are looking into it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bhagat-singhs-statue-in-jalandhar-cheaper-material-no-likeness-240537
