20-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Prices of oxygen cylinders spiral in Jalandhar amid high demand||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 19Hospitals in the district are facing the shortage of medical oxygen to treat Covid patients. As demand for oxygen cylinders has increased manifold due to the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, a jump in the prices of oxygen cylinders has been witnessed of late.“One oxygen cylinder that was sold at around Rs 180-Rs 200 in the month of February this year is now being sold at Rs 450,” confirmed Dr Navjot Dahiya, president of the India Medical Association, Punjab.‘Will install plants in Gadaipur, Pathankot’While talking to The Tribune, he stated that the situation had become critical. “The consumption rate of oxygen cylinders has shot up by 3-5 times and hospital authorities are running from pillar to post to meet the rising demand. Owing to High Nasal Flow Oxygen (HNFO), a Covid patient these days needs 40 litres of oxygen per minute, which is around four cylinders per day.“In the pre-pandemic phase, a 7 cubic meter oxygen cylinder used to cost around Rs 135. Owing to the pandemic, the cost went up to Rs 350, especially during the peak of the first wave of Covid-19 in September last year. However, a fall in the number of cases lowered the price of oxygen cylinders to Rs 185-200. Till the first week of last month, the prices remained low, but the sudden spike in cases not only increased demand for the cylinders but also their prices,” added Dr Dahiya.Surprisingly, the district Civil Hospital is also finding it difficult to meet the demand with its own oxygen manufacturing unit. Despite producing nearly 135 cylinders daily, the hospital has to rely on private manufactures for meeting the rising demand.Though Dr Seema, Medical Superintendent of the hospital, claimed that there was no shortage of medical oxygen, the consumption rate was 400-450 cylinders per day.Against the demand of over 5,000 oxygen cylinders, the companies engaged in oxygen production are unable to meet the rising demand and supplying nearly 2,000 cylinders per day.Unable to meet demand due to shortage of liquid gasVikas Huriya, one of the proprietors of Shakti Cryogenics (a firm which deals in manufacturing and supply of oxygen in Jalandhar and neighbouring districts), said amid the shortage of liquid gas they were dependent on machined gas only. “In spite of approaching the government several times, we could not get liquid gas to increase the production of oxygen cylinder. Against the consumption of 20 ton gas, we got only 8 ton gas on Sunday. Our machined gas plant has the capacity to produce 1,200 oxygen cylinders per day but we are managing to produce over 1,200. If liquid gas is provided, we can produce nearly 800 more cylinders. Before the outbreak of the pandemic, demand for oxygen cylinders was only around 600-700 cylinders per day — both in government and private hospitals. About 2,500-3,000 cylinders were in demand at the peak of the pandemic in August and September,” said Huriya.Owing to the hike in fuel rates, the cost of raw material for the production of oxygen cylinders has gone up, over double the previous rates, says Huriya. Citing the recent emergency of oxygen cylinders at Military Hospital in Jalandhar Cantt, he said if we did not have enough liquid gas then things could turn differently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/prices-of-oxygen-cylinders-spiral-in-jalandhar-amid-high-demand-241366
20-04-2021||---||Teenager crushed to death under truck on DAV flyover||Jalandhar, April 19A 15-year-old boy on Monday was crushed to death under the wheels of a speeding truck. The accident occurred around 2 pm on the DAV College flyover, when the boy was returning home with his father on their Activa scooter.The victim was identified as Dikshant Sabharwal, a resident of Ali Mohalla. The teenager was killed on the spot and his father received grievous injuries.SHO police division one Rajesh Kumar said they were intimated about the incident around 2.30 pm. “We immediately rushed to the spot and took the injured to the hospital. The boy died even before reaching the hospital. His father, Jitender Singh Sabharwal, is in critical state and is admitted at a private hospital. He has suffered multiple injuries and is in ICU”, added the SHO.Dikshant, the only son of his parents, was aspiring to become a cricketer and even before the accident, he was going to his home after his practice. He was a Class X student of a private school. The police, with the help of commuters, caught the accused truck driver, who hit their scooter from the rear. The truck driver was identified as Nata Ram, a native of Kathua in Jammu. He was reportedly in an inebriated state while driving.The police have registered a cased against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teenager-crushed-to-death-under-truck-on-dav-flyover-241367
20-04-2021||---||Cleaning Kala Sanghian drain, early fogging need of the hour: Councillor||Jalandhar, April 19Apart from making his people aware of the vaccination drive and trying to ensure that they remain safe, the concern of breeding mosquitoes is troubling him now. Jagdish Samrai, councillor of Ward No.78 where 80 per cent of the population lives in slum areas, has approached the municipal corporation to start fogging in the ward early this year. As the area is a little congested, there are greater chances of the spread of the virus and other diseases. So, residents and the councillor of the ward want early fogging.After rain, a large number of sites turn into mosquito-breeding grounds increasing the chances of outbreak of diseases. “Amid the pandemic, the cleaning of Kala Sanghian drain is the need of the hour and must be looked into as soon as possible,” Samrai said. The drain is spread across 2 km in the ward. The councillor said, “Normally, fogging starts in the month of June or July, but this time it is necessary to start it a little early because the second wave is more dangerous. I do not want my ward residents to suffer from more health problems because of mosquitoes. At this time, it is very important to provide proper hygiene to them,” the councillor said.“The pandemic has already worsened the situation and the poor condition of the drain will only add to the health problems of people. Work on the beautification of the drain has started, but the drain has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes,” said the councillor.Notably, such congested areas and vehras (clusters of small dwelling units) at such places are a cause for concern for residents. These clusters in the Industrial Area, Focal Point, Sanjay Gandhi Nagar, Shiv Nagar and Gadaipur in Jalandhar offer similar living conditions to migrants, who are staying in cramped quarters. If the infection spreads, these crowded quarters could cause a big trouble.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cleaning-kala-sanghian-drain-early-fogging-need-of-the-hour-councillor-241368
20-04-2021||Our Correspondent||134 get employment at Hajipur rozgar mela||Hoshiarpur, April 19Under the state government’s ambitious programme ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar & Karobar’, the district administration facilitated 134 youngsters with jobs in various sectors during a job fair held at Hajipur.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait, while disclosing this, said the ongoing spree of job fairs in almost every block got an enthusiastic response and hundreds of unemployed youngsters got job offer letter according to their qualification and experience. She said under the series of seventh mega job fairs, a rozgar mela was organised at Hajipur BDPO where 184 youths appeared of which 134 secured jobs.During the job fair, MLA Mukerian Indu Bala gave away offer letters to candidates who got selected on the occasion. She also exhorted them to work hard at their respective jobs thus paving a way for excellence in future.The Deputy Commissioner said renowned companies namely PNB Life Insurance, Orane, Verma Motors, Modern Automotive and Agile Herbal etc selected the candidates at the job fair. She also said another job fair would be held at the District Employment Bureau in Multi-Skill Development Centre, Hoshiarpur, on Monday, where companies, including Airtel payment bank, PhonePe, Havells, Daiken, Easy Day, Vishal Mega Mart, Big Bazaar and Luminous etc would come up to select 2,000 candidates. She said candidates with educational qualification of matriculation, Class XII, graduation and diploma holders can participate to get jobs of their suitability. She exhorted them to take advantage of the state government’s noble endeavour to have employment without any hassle.District Employment Officer Gurmel Singh candidates can get more information and details regarding ongoing job fairs from Facebook page of the department and their phone no. 62801-97708.329 youths get jobsJalandhar: Under the Ghar Ghar Rojgar Yojna, 329 unemployed youths got on-the-spot job placement during a special camp held at the Bhogpur BDPO office on Friday as a part of the mega job fair.The DC said a total of 13 companies participated in the job fair with a large number of employment opportunities for the youths. As many as 367 unemployed youths participated in the camp of which 329 were shortlisted.The companies that participated in the fair included A-One international, LIC, CSC, Pukhraj Health care, SBI, ICICI Bank, Narayani Herbal, Herbalife Nutrition, Agile Company and Future Generalli. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/134-get-employment-at-hajipur-rozgar-mela-241369
20-04-2021||---||Encroachments removed in Jalandhar's Qazi Mandi, plot owners to get possession soon||Jalandhar, April 19Encroachments along the road starting from Surya Enclave to Qazi Mandi were removed by the Jalandhar Improvement Trust here on Monday.ML Sehgal, chief, Surya Enclave Extension Welfare Society, had been holding a dharna against the JIT saying that in 2011, the JIT had launched a freehold residential plot scheme for which final payments were given in 2014. “The JIT did not do any development and the scheme almost failed. Despite having spent lakhs of rupees on buying a plot in Surya Enclave Extension, a scheme launched by the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) in 2011, owners were yet to get possession of the land,” he had said earlier. JIT officials said possession of the plots would be handed over to the owners by tomorrow.Daljit Singh Ahluwalia, Chairman, JIT, said that work would continue. “Also, the construction of a 120-ft road will also be started which will connect Domoria bridge and the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway and work will be completed in a month,” he said.Around 40 families were given two-marla plots and were shifted there. Ahluwalia said, “This was one of the major projects on my priority when I had taken the charge and it has been completed today.”JIT officials who carried out the procedure today were Superintendent Engineer Satinder Singh, Executive Officer Rajesh Chaudhary, XEN Jaswant Singh, Draftsmen Inderjit Singh and Vinod.Work on recarpeting flyover approach road beginsThe work of recarpeting the approach road of the BMC flyover started on Monday. The flyover had developed a crack in the month of February after which it had to be closed and the movement of vehicles was also restricted.As per the information, the flyover will open to traffic from Wednesday onwards.Recently, work on the retaining walls was started and it had been decided that once the company finishes repairing the bulge and fixes the protruding tiles of the retaining walls of the flyover, the municipal corporation will relay the flyover road.Mayor Jagdish Raja visited the site along with Building and Roads Committee chairman Jagdish Gag and councillor of the area Gurwinder Singh Bunty Nilkanth. The Mayor asked those involved in the work to ensure that no such problem arises in the future.Notably, after the incident, or over three weeks, officials of the Jalandhar Improvement Trust, who got the bridge constructed in 2011, and the unicipal corporation kept on shifting the onus of maintenance on each other.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/encroachments-removed-in-jalandhars-qazi-mandi-plot-owners-to-get-possession-soon-241372
20-04-2021||Chabbewal||MLA launches 'Mandi vich Manji' programme in Chabbewal||In order to facilitate farmers, arthiyas, labourers and other stakeholders in case of any trouble being faced by them regarding procurement and arrangements, Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar on Monday launched “Mandi vich Manji” programme from local grain market and said that this initiative would further ensure seamless procurement besides timely payments and lifting from all mandis. After unveiling the programme, the MLA along with administrative officers, took a round of the grain market where he interacted with the farmers who came to get their crops procured.Dr Chabbewal said that under “Mandi Ch Manji” programme the contact numbers have been given to all stakeholders to flag the issues, if any, to their notice, which could be sorted out amicably within minimum time. He said that the teams of Administration, District Food and Civil Supplies and Mandi Board were working round the clock to ensure the hassle-free procurement with availability of all basic amenities and requisite arrangement.On this occasion farmers Ashok Singh Chabbewal (65) and Avtar Singh (77) of village Mehna’s crops get procured in the presence of MLA Chabbewal. Both farmers while speaking with MLA expressed immense satisfaction over the arrangement and prompt purchase of crop.During special vaccination camp in the mandi eligible persons got vaccinated in the presence of MLA, who also informed that a fire tender has been stationed in the mandi which can be utilised in case of any exigency. The MLA was also informed that 880 metric tonne of crop has been procured in the mandis of Chabbewal so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-launches-mandi-vich-manji-programme-in-chabbewal-241373
20-04-2021||---||6 deaths, 381 new cases reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, April 19With 381 new cases of Covid reported in Jalandhar today, the district tally reached 37,106. Of these 381 cases, as many as 67 belong to other districts. Six persons also died of Covid in Jalandhar today taking the death toll to 1,020. While 32,879 persons have so far been discharged, there are 3,207 active cases in the district.Meanwhile, in view of the rising cases eight containment zones have been declared in rural and urban areas of the district. Notably, it is for the first time during this year that containment zones in the district have been declared. These include one micro- containment zone in a rural area (with six active Covid cases), six micro-containment zones in urban areas (with total 31 active Covid cases) and one urban-containment zone with 16 active cases.The rural micro-containment zone is at Fazalpur village in Shahkot, the six micro-containment zones in rural areas include – New Kartar Nagar, Shahkot (five active cases); Gali Gyani Kharorre Vali, Milap Chowk (five active cases); Khaira Enclave (five active cases); Dyal Nagar (five active cases); Grover Colony, Basti Danishmandan (six active cases); Master Tara Singh Nagar (five active cases) and the one urban-containment zone with 16 active cases is at Mota Singh Nagar.3 die, 137 new cases in KapurthalaAs many as 137 persons tested positive for Covid on Monday taking the district tally to 11,025 cases. Three deaths were reported in the district. The deceased were a 75-year-old woman, a resident of Kala Sanghian, a 55-year-old woman, a resident of Nadala, and a 35-year-old man from Sultanpur Lodhi.Meanwhile, the vaccination drive for the senior citizen category has received an overwhelming response as more than 50,000 persons above the age of 60 have been vaccinated against the virus in Kapurthala district. It will help in protecting the most vulnerable category from contracting the virus. Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said on Monday in the initial phase, health and frontline workers were covered, in which 4,502 health workers and 7,776 frontline workers were being vaccinated, besides giving special attention to senior citizens.Two die, 178 fresh cases recorded in Hoshiarpur distThe district on Monday reported two more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 669. Besides, the district witnessed 178 fresh cases taking the tally to 16,624. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,374 while 15,945 patients had recovered so far.Out of today’s 178 positive cases, 20 patients were from Hoshiarpur city, eight from other districts and the remaining 150 from other health blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-deaths-381-new-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-241374
20-04-2021||Jalandhar||Security guard found dead||Ten honoured under ‘Red Rose’Jalandhar: In a step to recognise the exemplary work in Mission Red Rose started to eliminate illicit liquor from state, the Excise Department on Monday felicitated 10 of its officials with ‘Inspector of the Month’ awards falling in Jalandhar Zone. Those honoured are Gulzar Masih and Harwinder from Gurdaspur, Tarlochan Singh, and Manohar Lal from Hoshiarpur, Ran Bahadur from Kapurthala, Jatinder Singh from Tarn Taran, Navtej Singh and Avtar Singh from Amritsar and Gautam Gobind and Resham Lal from Jalandhar. The mission has been launched to wipe out illicit liquor from the state by keeping a close vigil. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/security-guard-found-dead-241376
20-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Same story a year later: Migrants start returning to their hometowns||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 19Those bad old days are back again when industrialists suffered due to the shortage of labour, were unable to meet the demand of production, urged their workers to stay back and what not. A year ago, when migrants got to know about the sudden lockdown, they were so frightened that they left for their hometowns on their bicycle or on foot because there was no availability of cars and trains for a long time.This time, they do not want to take the chances and have started going back to their native places. Every day double-decker buses can be seen packed with migrant labourers. It’s like a déjà vu situation for industrialists.Deja vu for industrialistsWith news of another lockdown doing the round on TV channels, social media and newspapers, a large number of migrants have started returning to their original homes as they do not want to face the hardships they faced last year.Gursharan Singh, president, Jalandhar Industrial and Traders’ Association, said, “There is again labour crunch in factories. Migrant labourers feel that if another lockdown is imposed, what they will do here. There is a shortage of labourers to load and unload goods too,” he said.He said small-scale industrial units were already on ventilator and exodus of migrant workers would prove to be a double whammy for them.Notably, last year several industrialists had offered increased wages to labourers to make them stay here. Since workers are the primary need of every establishment, those who stayed back were given more respect due to the shortage of labourers. This time again, the situation is the same.As Jalandhar district is witnessing a large number of Covid cases, industrialists — who run pipe fitting, valves and cocks, sports, nut and bolts and rubber chappal manufacturing units — are a harried lot. These industries have a huge concentration here and they supply products across the length and breadth of the country.But the lockdown in Delhi, Maharashtra and some parts of Ludhiana has greatly affected their business.Ravinder Dhir, president, Veopar Sena, said, “We have been struggling to bring our units back on track, but another lockdown would dash industrial unit owners’ hopes of recovery. Aane waale din pareshaani waale hi hain ab toh,” he said.Rakesh Chawla, a unit owner, said migrant labourers were giving several excuses to return to their villages. “While some tell us, some do not that they are returning to their villages. Even we do not force them to stay back. I do not know what will happen next,” Chawla shared.Some industrialists say these days, workers normally go back to their villages because there are weddings in their native places and they have to look after their crops too. “For now, it cannot be said that workers are in panic, but the coming days will tell the exact picture,” said city industrialist Balram Kapur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/same-story-a-year-later-migrants-start-returning-to-their-hometowns-241377
20-04-2021||Jalandhar||Two held with 25 cartons of liquor in Jalandhar||The Adampur police on Sunday arrested two persons with 25 cartons of illicit liquor Both are acccomplice of another smuggler who was caught with 30 cartons of liquor a week ago and was out on bail.While talking to mediapersons, SSP (Rural) Sandeep Kumar Garg said, ASI Harjinder Singh along with police party, arrested Nikku, a resident of Wadala Chowk and Rishi Kumar of Shiv Nagar near Nagra village, and seized 25 cartons of liquor from the duo. The police also impounded the car they were travelling in.The duo along with their another accomplice Manpreet, alias Goldy, a resident of Tower Enclave were going to Adampur from Alawalpur with a heavy quantity of liquor. A case under Sections 61,1,14 and 78 (2) of the Excise Act was registered against them.Manpreet, alias Goldy, a resident of Tower Enclave managed to escape from the spot in his car. Detailed investigation is being carried out, the police said. Manpreet along with his friend Nikku and Rishi Kumar was into the business of selling illicit liquor. Both Nikku and Rishi helped Manpreet in the trade. Notably, there are four cases pending against Manpreet Singh at the division number five police station and at police station Bhargo Camp. As many as 30 cartons of liquor had also been recovered from him in a Scorpio car, a week ago by the Bhargo Camp police. Released on bail, the police said he was again back to the same business of illicit liquor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-25-cartons-of-liquor-in-jalandhar-241378
20-04-2021||Jalandhar||Punjabi Lok Naach camp in Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar||HMV IIC virtual sessionMembers of Innovation Council, HMV, attended the virtual live session of the AIM-AICTE Collaboration for ATLs and IICs under Principal Dr Ajay Sareen. The session was organised on the occasion of 130th birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar. The session began with a welcome note from R Ramanan, Mission Director, ATL Innovation Mission. He gave his greetings and wishes for the Ambedkar Jayanti and ATL Community Day. Dr Anil, chairman, All India Council for Technical Education, gave a comprehensive view of the outcomes of the collaboration and the significance of the IIC initiative giving practical suggestions. He briefed about the implications of linkages between institutions and National Education policy. The motive of the organisation is to take research to the next level. He emphasised on the appreciation of the past and moving towards innovation.Workshop on StoryboardingGNA University organised a two-day workshop on storyboarding and cartooning. Sanjay Kumar, the renowned animator, cartoonist and illustrator, was the resource person for the workshop. The faculty of animation conducted the workshop with the sole objective to teach the multiple nuances of storyboarding and cartooning. Participants from the faculty of animations presented with the topics like the latest knowledge obtainable to the artists and how to make the most use of it. During the workshop, Sanjay also shared his knowledge about 2D cartooning, tricks and techniques on creating digital storyboard. He also stated the use of expression and character design in 2D. The students were educated on the topics like art of story creation, cartooning and correcting the color in an image. He enlightened students about the latest trends and job opportunities in the multimedia sector. The session concluded with an interactive session where the students raised their queries pertaining to the profession.E-fest organised at DAVIETDAVIET organised E-FEST.The main motive behind organising this festival was to provide a platform to the students to express their views through various performances. The main items of this festival were elocution, essay writing, indoor photography, dance, sketching, digital poster-making, music competition, turban tying, gidda and bhangra, beat busters, and short video, etc. With more than 20 events were organised during the event. Over 700 participants registered across the nation and showed their talent. The E-fest is a national-level platform and anyone from the age of 5 to 25 could participate. In beat busters: Girish from RC College, Bangalore, got got the 1st position. In elocution, Sumeira Bhatti from St. Joseph’s High School, Pune and Ruchika Dhuria from DAVIET bagged the Ist position. In essay writing: Deepti Ahuja from DAV Public School Ludhiana got the Ist position. In bhangra, Yudhveer Singh from Chandigarh got the first position. Genus Preet in poem recitation and Divyan Joshi in rapping from DAVIET got the Ist positions. In short video, Pearl Kakaria from Apeejay School and Diljit Kaur from Khalsa College, Amritsar bageed positions.World Heritage Day observedFive schools of Innocent Hearts Green Model Town, Loharan, Cantt.-Jandiala Road, Kapurthala Road and Royal World International School, observed World Heritage Day. On the occasion, a PowerPoint presentation on World Heritage Day was shared with the students from Class I to VIII. Students were taught how to take care of the heritage. The inter-school online extempore competition was organised for the students of grade IX. Topics were given on the spot. Result of the competition is First Position: Gunika (CJR), second position, Yuvika (Green Model Town); third position; Hisham Jairath (RWIS) and Amay Kapoor (Green Model Town). Consolation prize was given to Sehajpreet Kaur (GMT) and Navya (Loharan). The students kept their thoughts forward on the heritage of India and promised to honour the rich heritage of the nation and preserve and conserve for the future generation. tnsTeaching Aid Preparation contestHoshiarpur: The Aryabhatta Mathematics Club of DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised an online Teaching Aid Preparation and Presentation Contest. All the students of pedagogy of mathematics participated in the competition and showcased their efforts in developing innovative teaching aids. The aids were assessed by the subject expert Prof Roma Ralhan. Results: Jasmine Kaur got the first prize, Mukul Sharma and Simranpreet Kaur jointly got the second prize, Riya Thakur and Baljinder Singh got the third prize and Manpreet Kaur and Priya Sharma got the appreciation prizes. Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla congratulated the winners and appreciated the efforts of the teacher-in-charge Prof Roma Ralhan for the success of the event. The models of the Pardeep Sethi, Radhika, Manpreet Kaur and Kamaljeet Kaur were also appreciated. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjabi-lok-naach-camp-in-lyallpur-khalsa-college-jalandhar-241379
20-04-2021||---||Webinar held on UN’s handling of global challenges||Jalandhar, April 19The Department of Government and Public Administration at the School of Humanities, Lovely Professional University (LPU), organised a webinar on “United Nations Contribution in Handling Global Challenges”. Resource person for the virtual programme was the United Nations’ World Food Programme (WFP) Representative and Country Director to India Bishow Parajuli. He has experience of 35 years in development, humanitarian affairs, diplomacy, fundraising and management in over 10 countries in Asia, the Middle East and Africa including WFP headquarters in Rome.Bishow Parajuli conversed about the role of UN in handling the global issues like refugees’ crisis, climate, diseases, Covid outbreak, food issues, poverty, technology, migration, safeguarding peace, protecting human rights, justice, and problems of governance and rule of law, atomic nuclear weapons, and many other concerns all over the world for UN. He elaborated various dimensions of the topic and discussed the challenges that the UN is currently facing, and also cited examples where the UN played a significant role in peace and security maintenance. He informed that the UN works at a country level, and operates in almost all countries of the world through its various bodies.Parajuli also accorded thanks to LPU Executive Dean Prof Dr Sanjay Modi, faculty and students for the opportunity meted out to him.Bishow Parajuli has brought huge honour to the Punjab, with the WFP winning the Nobel Peace Prize 2020. He completed his graduation from Punjab, with Master’s degree in rural development from Imperial College, London. Prestigious prize to WFP is for its effort to combat hunger; contribution to bettering conditions for peace in conflict-affected areas; and, for acting as a driving force in efforts to prevent the use of hunger as a weapon of war and conflict.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-held-on-uns-handling-of-global-challenges-241380
