21-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Hospitals finding it difficult to handle rising Covid-19 waste||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 20In the wake of the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, it has become difficult for hospitals to manage garbage contaminated with bodily fluids or other infectious materials.Colour coding: classification of wasteMedical supplies and disposable personal protective equipment (PPE) kits used by health-care workers and patients could be seen piled up on the premises of hospitals. At present, the medical waste generation in hospitals is three times the amount the hospitals would have before the outbreak of the pandemic. The daily output has reached 4.50-5 metric tonnes.Sarabjit Singh, an official of Rainbow Environments Pvt Ltd that treats bio-medical waste (BMW), stated that Covid waste generation had increased manifold in Jalandhar district, which is considered the hub of hospitals, in the last two months. “In February, the accumulated amount of Covid waste from the hospitals was around 10,520 kg (375 kg per day), which shot up to 18,198 kg in March (587 kg per day). The waste amount was 19,242 kg up to April 18, which means the daily waste generation rose to 1,012 kg,” said Sarabjit.It is pertinent to mention here that this is not the only company working for the treatment of Covid waste in the city. Though the Covid waste is being generated in large numbers, the regular medical waste generation has reduced.Owing to the highly infectious nature of the coronavirus, a more sophisticated method of managing the generated waste is being adopted by the hospitals. Apart from establishing testing centres, treatment centres and isolation facilities, the establishment of safe disposal facilities for infectious waste has put extra burden on hospital administrations.Dr Monika Aggarwal, microbiologist at Patel Hospital, said, “Before disposing the BMW and Covid waste, the hospital staff segregates it into four following categories — red, blue, yellow and white. A large sum was being spent on cleaning and sanitising the waste produced in the hospital.”Similarly, Dr Manpreet Singh Ghuman, who handles the disposal of waste generated at the Civil Hospital, said, “The production of Covid waste in the hospital has almost doubled. In the months of January, February and March, the wastegenerated at the Civil Hospital was 1,000 kg, 1,100 kg and 1,600 kg, respectively. At present, nearly 60-70 kg waste is being produced on a daily basis in the month of April.”“Considering the spike in waste generation, the hospital is shortly going to install a separate portion for keeping all bio-medical waste and its treatment. The company lifting the waste from the hospital has also increased the rate by 30 to 40 per cent,” added Ghuman.Dr Baljit Singh Johal at Johal Hospital said the hospital was paying Rs 1,500 extra for treating Covid waste. “While 1,081.68 kg bio-medical waste was generated in the month of January, it rose to 1,334.63 in February and 1,796.49 in March,” added Dr Johal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hospitals-finding-it-difficult-to-handle-rising-covid-19-waste-242039
21-04-2021||---||4 die, 454 new cases in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 20With 454 new cases of Covid-19 reported in the district on Tuesday, the district tally has reached 37,560. Of these 454 cases, as many as 40 belong to other districts. Four Covid patients also succumbed to the virus today taking the death toll to 1,024. While 33,162 persons have so far been discharged, there are 3,374 active cases in the district. Among the deceased were two persons were below the age of 40.In Kapurthala, 63 positive cases were reported today. Three patients lost their lives — two women and a 66-year-old man. To date, a total of 11,088 positive cases have been reported, of which 707 are active. Samples of as many as 1,647 were collected today.Three deaths, 112 new cases in HoshiarpurThe health authorities reported 3 Covid-19 related deaths on Tuesday. As a result, the deaths reached 672. The deceased include a 72-year-old resident of Pajjo Ditta village, who died at the Civil Hospital Hoshiarpur, a 73- year-old man of Fatehgarh road died at a private hospital in Jalandhar while a 70-year-old woman of Sunder Nagar died at Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,428 while the count of recovered patients reached 16,000. Today, 112 new positive patients were reported, including 18 from Hoshiarpur, 14 reported from other districts and 80 from various blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-die-454-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-242040
21-04-2021||---||Jalandhar DC flags liquid O2 shortage||Jalandhar, April 20Taking a cue from Delhi and other big states facing rising demand for oxygen, the district administration on Tuesday said that there was a requirement of liquid oxygen here.In a letter released by Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori to the Managing Director of Punjab Health System Corporation, it is mentioned that the district has a total requirement of 3,000-3,500 cylinders on a daily basis as cylinders are also being supplied to the neighbouring districts of Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur.The letter reads, “Jalandhar district has a daily requirement of 3,000-3,500 cylinders. Of them, 400-500 cylinders are being supplied to Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr districts. Thus, the district has a total requirement of approximately 4,000 cylinders per day. The district can now produce only 2,400 cylinders daily from atmospheric oxygen at two of its plants — Shakti Cryogenics and Indian Air Products, Jalandhar.”The letter further mentions that the remaining requirement is met from the liquid oxygen which is supplied through vendors from Panipat, Sonipat, Rajpura and Bathinda districts. “Therefore, we need approximately one liquid oxygen tanker (16MT) per day to meet our daily demand,” reads the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-flags-liquid-o2-shortage-242041
21-04-2021||---||Jalandhar boy Balraj Khehra to solve murder mystery in Punjabi web series Lazeez||Jalandhar, April 20City boy Balraj Singh Khehra, Roadie’s winner (2016) and former Mr Punjab runner-up, is now going to step up into new shoes as he will now be seen in a Punjabi web series Lazeez. It’s a murder mystery and Balraj will be playing a ‘cop’ in the series, releasing on April 22.Sharing about preparation for the role, he said his habit of observing people has always helped him. “I observe a lot and being an actor, this has been a strong point,” he said.Balraj also shared that mostly comedy movies are being produced in Punjabi cinema. “But this is a completely different genre and people will get to watch a complete new cinema,” he said.Balraj, who has already worked in Bollywood, has just started his stint in Punjabi cinema and with ‘Lazeez’ , he is confident that chances will be given to new faces too as there is a lot of talent in Punjab.While growing up in a small village, a dream of becoming an actor was always nurturing in his mind. To achieve them, he took part in Mr Punjab in 2014 and finished second in the competition. Thereafter, he set sail and gave auditions in the Punjabi film industry.Balraj had then developed a grouse that people from the Punjabi film industry would say that he was not a ‘known face’ so he could not get a chance to appear in the films. Later, he took it as a challenge and headed to accomplish his ultimate dream. Then Roadies happened and he won the show.Balraj is a trained fitness trainer and has a team called ‘fitness freaks’ that gives training to celebrities and businessmen. He has also played the role of Boota Singh in a show based on Battle of Saragarhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-boy-balraj-khehra-to-solve-murder-mystery-in-punjabi-web-series-lazeez-242042
21-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Not even a single student is enrolled in this school||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 20Amid the pandemic, a school in Lohian block in Jalandhar district had not even a single student last year. The situation is still the same after a year. There is not even a single student in Government Primary School (GPS) Heran Boop Singh. Reason: there is no permanent teacher in the school. The school is lying closed and officially it is still on paper. Officials of the Education Department are awaiting transfers and recruitment of teachers so that this school could get one.There were as many as eight students in the school in the session before the outbreak of the pandemic. But in the absence of a regular teacher, the strength kept on decreasing, and last year, not even a single student was admitted to the school.As per information, a letter was written in this regard to the Lohian Khas Block Primary Education Officer (BPEO) in which it was mentioned that because teachers used to come on deputation in the school, the parents of students this session decided to admit their wards in a nearby school. A request to appoint a permanent teacher was also made in the letter so that students could be brought back to school. It is reported that until 2019 there was a permanent teacher in the school who was transferred and then every teacher came on deputation.District Education Officer (Primary) Rampal had earlier said that the matter was in his knowledge. “The parents have shifted their wards to other nearby government schools,” he had said.The District Education Officer on Tuesday said every information regarding the schools remained available on the e-Punjab portal and thus the matter might be in the notice of higher officials. “Now, we are waiting for the recruitment and transfer process of teachers which is going on and thus my priority will be to depute a permanent teacher in such teacher-less schools,” he said.The officials hope that once the school gets a permanent teacher, students will definitely come.Notably, there are several schools in the district where there are no permanent teachers and education providers are teaching instead. And there are schools where teachers come on a deputation basis (on rosters). The teachers teach for 10-15 days, and then another teacher joins, which creates problems for the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/not-even-a-single-student-is-enrolled-in-this-school-242043
21-04-2021||---||SAD MLA Pawan Tinu rues delayed payment to farmers, holds protest||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 20Shiromani Akali Dal MLA from Adampur, Pawan Tinu on Tuesday held a protest at the District Food Supplies office. He along with arthiyas (commission agents) and other party members observed the protest against the delayed payment to the farmers amid wheat procurement drive in the grain markets of the district.While raising slogans against the Capt government, he said, its been over 10 days since the procurement begun, but the farmers who have sold their crop were yet to receive the payments under Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme. Moreover the shortage of gunny bags at the grain markets has added to the woes of the farmers who have to remain seated in the mandis for long hours until their crops in packed.“Till now only 25-30 percent produce has been brought into the mandis and in few days the wheat arrival will double, but there are no arrangements in the grain market to accomodate the crop. Arthiyas have also been complaining about the pending payment from the government for the last two years and this time they have refused to make arrangements for gunny bags, eventually putting farmers on the receiving end. Hence we demand that immediate arrangements were made to prevent farmers from facing the ordeal at grain markets. In addition transportation should also be arranged for farmers who are bringing their crop from small mandis to bigger mandis”, added Tinu.The arthiyas also stated that there are arrangements in the grain markets for preventing crops from rain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-mla-pawan-tinu-rues-delayed-payment-to-farmers-holds-protest-242044
21-04-2021||---||‘Misutilisation of funds’ by Mayor: BJP leaders seek MC Commissioner’s reply||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 20Failing to meet the MC Commissioner, the BJP leaders on Tuesday pasted a notice outside his office seeking his reply over the statement of the Mayor given to a vernacular paper.The BJP leaders said Mayor Jagdish Raja made a serious allegation that was published in a vernacular newspaper of misutilisation of smart city funds and the double payment to the contractors for the work done. “These are big allegations,” the leaders said.“The MC Commissioner being its executive head is duty bound to reply to the public,” they stated.Former minister Manoranjan Kalia, former MLA KD Bhandari and district president BJP Sushil Sharma, among others, were present.KD Bhandari said, “The Commissioner must reply to the allegations made by the Mayor as the Commissioner being a public servant is answerable to the public for each rupee spent from the public exchequer.”He said the leadership would write to Union Minister Hardeep Puri and would raise the issue with him tomorrow.Sushil Kumar, district president, said they would also meet the Union Minister over the issue. “It was a serious issue that should be looked into. We have taken the note and will keep on putting questions to the authorities who are responsible,” he said.Recently, the former mayor Sunil Jyoti also alleged that there was rampant corruption in the Municipal Corporation of Jalandhar. He had said that the Smart City Mission funds were being used for the MC works but no single project had come up under the mission.“There were several works that were to be done under the Smart City Mission, but it seems that the MC is shut and a front has been opened in the form of the mission. Every work — be it purchase of sweeping machines, jetting machines or machines for the Fire Brigade — is being done with Smart City Mission funds. Nothing is happening according to the vision of the smart city,” Jyoti had said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/misutilisation-of-funds-by-mayor-bjp-leaders-seek-mc-commissioners-reply-242045
21-04-2021||---||Jalandhar DC felicitates 22 anganwadi workers, supervisors||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 20In a bid to encourage frontline workers, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday felicitated 22 anganwadi workers and supervisors for rendering tireless services in vaccination drive and AB- Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna.While bestowing appreciation letters to these workers, the Deputy Commissioner lauded their efforts. He stated that these frontline workers have visited eligible beneficiaries in far-flung areas and took them to the vaccination sites, cover them under the immunisation drive of vulnerable people. Further, these workers have worked round the clock to make Jalandhar a leading district in AB-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna he said adding that the district administration have been continuously honouring the frontline workers since pandemic has hit.Thori said that the selfless services of the frontline workers have saved many precious lives.Notably, since the very beginning of the Covid pandemic and even during the lockdown when everyone was at home, anganwadi workers had been going from home to home to trace and check on patients. In the beginning many workers also carried out the task with meagre equipment and without PPE kits – while later the supply smoothed out. They were the first to trace NRIs returning to India and also the first to begin visiting homes with PPE kits. Many with small kids at home. Last year a worker had also collapsed in the basti areas while visiting during a door to door patient checking driveDistrict Programme Officer GS Randhawa said these anganwadi workers have made valuable contribution in vaccination drive and AB- Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna by ensuring benefit of these pro-people scheme to maximum eligible beneficiaries. The anganwadi workers who got appreciation today included supervisors Reena, Manju, Jaswinder Kaur, Santosh Kaur, Jasbir Kaur, Balbir Kaur, Davinder Kaur, Parveen Bala, Balveer Kaur, Sukhwinder Kaur, Jagminder Kaur, Anganwadi workers Rajwinder Kaur, Ranjit Kumari, Dimple, Satwant Kaur, Bimla, Surjit Kaur, Gurbaksh Kaur, Rajpinder Kaur, Mamta Rani, Davinder Kaur and Renu Bala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-felicitates-22-anganwadi-workers-supervisors-242046
21-04-2021||Jalandhar||Lab opens under CERI||‘No to single use plastic’ stagedUnder the guidance and supervision of Col Yogesh Bhardwaj, 8 Bn Punjab, the NCC cadets of Kamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara staged a street play named ‘No to Single Use Plastic’ in relation to the Swacchh Bharat Abhiyan. The cadets played different roles. The theme of the play was based on discontinuing the use of disposable plastic. The cadets pledged to discontinue the use of single use plastic in their lives. Dr Savinder Pal, the college Principal, appreciated the cadets on this occasion and further discussed the use of plastic and its impact on the environment. She urged the people to minimise the use of plastic in order to conserve the environment.Workshop on machine learningThe department of information technology of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, Jalandhar organised an online workshop on “Machine Learning” for the students of BCA & MCA. Amit Kumar Singh was the resource person for machine learning technology who is a senior Python Corporate Consultant in Ducat Company. He discussed the future perspective of machine learning by major multinational companies around the world. He guided the students with the emerging platforms such as Jupyter with practical oriented knowledge. Over 100 students participated in the event and gained in depth knowledge of this domain. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, Director, Academic Affairs, put forth his views that machine learning is the need of the hour and congratulated the department for conducting such events. Dr SK Sood, Director, LKCTC appreciated the students and motivated them to work hard in their field to acquire excellence. Nidhi Chopra, HoD, IT, appreciated the synergy of the students as well as the efforts of the IT department for organising such workshops.Online skill enhancement coursesApeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar,will start online skill enhancement courses for the students of Class XII from May 3 to May 21. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra shared that since Central government has put forth that the final examinations of 12th standard are not going to be scheduled before the month of June it would be a golden chance for those students to use their time productively and escalate their favourite skills through these courses which are absolutely free of cost. She added there are 15 courses out of which the students can choose. These classes will surely help them to choose the fields of their career as well tomorrow. The courses vary from dance, music, design, management to multimedia, fine arts, communication skills, computers, theatre and anchoring.KMV organised Medical CampKMV organised a medical camp for Covid-19 test for all the staff members as per the government guidelines. A total of 110 staff members from the college gave their sample for the testing. The test conducted was the RT-PCR test. A team under the leadership of Dr Kamalpal Sidhu comprising of Dr Mukesh Kumar, Dr Daljit Kumar, Dr Renu, and Harbhajan conducted the test. All the guidelines and protocols of Covid-19 were properly followed during the test. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that this camp was conducted in order to safeguard the health of the staff members. The students will be allowed to enter college premises after thermal scanning. The college premises have been sanitised and sanitisers have been placed at various places within the college campus. Principal lauded the efforts of the organising committee for successfully organising the camp. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lab-opens-under-ceri-242047
21-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Nirmal elected Sham Chaurasi civic body chief||Sham Chaurasi, April 20Councillor Nirmal Kumar from Ward No. 8 was unanimously elected the president of the Municipal Council (MC) Sham Chaurasi, while councillor Kuljit Singh from Ward No. 4 was elected vice-president of the MC.MLA Pawan Kumar Adia said after the election the development of the area would be accelerated by getting the city council president and vice-president. He said under the leadership of the CM, all-round development of Sham Chaurasi constituency has been ensured and necessary projects will be implemented as per schedule.Talking about the development works in the area, he said a government college was being constructed in Dholwaha and the construction work was almost in its final stage.On the occasion, SDM Hoshiarpur Amit Mahajan, Chairman of Market Committee Rajesh Gupta, councillors Balwinder Kaur, Manjeet Kaur, Harbhajan Kaur and Saurabh Adia were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nirmal-elected-sham-chaurasi-civic-body-chief-242048
