22-04-2021||Jalandhar||School observes Earth Day||Volunteers pledge to fight CovidUnder the guidance of Principal Dr Ajay Sareen, volunteers of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya here pledged to participate wholeheartedly against the Covid pandemic. Volunteers of NSS, NCC, Student Council, teaching and non-teaching staff took the pledge to render services for the fight against Covid. Speaking on the occasion, the Principal said the HMV had always committed itself to safeguard humanity against Covid. She further added that the institute had observed ‘Tika Utsav’ by arranging vaccination camps at the campus. Students of the PG department of Music Vocal under the guidance of Dr Prem Sagar had prepared a video to give strength to the drive which was launched by the Principal. Innovation and Research Dean Dr Anjana Bhatia said we must act responsibly and inspire others to follow the government-issued guidelines.LPU student shoots silverLovely Professional University (LPU) student Gurpreet Singh won two silver medals at the International Shooting Sport Federation World Cup held in New Delhi. He won the medals in 25m rapid fire pistol (mixed team) and 25m rapid fire pistol (men team). He also has many international and national records to his credit. The ISSF World Cup has been introduced by the International Shooting Sport Federation to provide a homogeneous system for qualification to Olympic shooting competitions. Employed with the Indian Army, Gurpreet is pursuing MBA from LPU through distance education mode. Congratulating him, LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal also invoked him to prove his shooting skills at the Olympics. Arjuna Awardee and Olympian Gurpreet has to his credit international medal in 25m standard pistol individual competition (men) at 52nd ISSF World Shooting Championship held in Changwon, South Korea; a silver medal in the senior men’s standard pistol event. He had represented India in Rio Olympics-2016 and secured seventh place in 25m rapid fire pistol event; won gold medals (with games record) in 25m and 10m rapid fire pistol events and bronze medal in 25m individual event in Delhi Commonwealth Games-2010; silver medal in 25m centre fire pistol men’s team event during 2014 Asian Games (incheon); and many medals and distinguished positions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/school-observes-earth-day-242291
22-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Tributes paid to Covid victims||Hoshiarpur, April 21In order to make people aware of the increasing number of Covid-related deaths, Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar paid tributes to Covid victims.Baba Mukhtiar Singh from Angitha Sahib Gurdwara, Jian, also participated in the event. Kumar appealed to the people to follow government-issued norms strictly.He said people must wear mask, use sanitiser, practice social distancing and get vaccinated. The fatality rate in Hoshiarpur has been the highest in the state so far.The legislator also thanked the administration, police, medical and para-medical staff for their significant contribution during this period. He said political leaders and religious leaders should make people aware of the adverse effects of flouting norms.He also said people should not pay attention to rumors and act responsibly to save their families amid the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tributes-paid-to-covid-victims-242283
22-04-2021||GS Paul||Covid surge: SGPC decides to limit 9th Guru’s 400th birth anniversary events||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 21Following surge in Covid-19 cases, the SGPC has decided to curtail the grand function planned to mark the 400th Parkash Purb (birth anniversary) of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Besides, a series of events to mark the occasion would be telecast live.The 400th Parkash Purb centenary celebrations were scheduled to be celebrated at Bhai Gurdas Ji Nagar, New Amritsar. But due to rise in Covid cases, these ceremonies will now be held at the Diwan Hall of Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib at Golden Temple complex.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, "There was a lot of enthusiasm among the sangat for the centenary celebrations but considering the prevailing situation due to the pandemic, no large gathering could be allowed. A series of events , scheduled at Gurdwara Guru Ka Mahal, the birth place of ninth Guru in Amritsar, would be telecast live through various platforms so that the sangat all over the globe could get connected with the historic day celebration while sitting in their homes", she said.During the centenary celebrations, the requisite web links would be provided to the channels for live telecast of the events scheduled from April 29 to May 1. "It would be open for any channel who wishes to do the live coverage", she said.She said the decision was taken after holding discussion with the government officials. To cater the Covid patients exclusively, the SGPC has spared Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital at Chattiwind Gate. A total of 100 beds have been provided here and corona vaccination facility is also being provided free of cost.The SGPC has made arrangements for vaccination at Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College Vallah, Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital Amritsar, Baba Buddha Ji Hospital Bir Sahib and at Fuhara Chowk Amritsar."Despite crisis being faced by the SGPC, it could never step down from performing its duties towards humanity. Our doctors and allied teams have been on job round the clock to treat Covid patients", she said. Lately, the state government has recognised the services of SGPC-run Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College and included its image among the best medical treatment hospitals in the newspapers.However, showing concern over the shortage of oxygen cylinders and vaccines, she said "There is a shortage of oxygen supply for the treatment of Covid patients. Similarly, the availability of vaccine was inadequate. The SGPC had already deposited money in advance for the vaccine. The government should make steadfast mechanism to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen and vaccines. The matter has also been taken up with the Chief Secretary of Punjab", she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-surge-sgpc-decides-to-limit-9th-gurus-400th-birth-anniversary-events-242284
22-04-2021||Kapurthala||Wheat procurement picks up in Kapurthala||Rs 23 cr posted in farmers’ accountsJalandhar: The district administration has made payment of around Rs 23 crore into farmers’ bank accounts during the ongoing wheat procurement season and emerged as a leading district in lifting the produce in the state. Divulging the details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said as many as 2,63,438 metric tonnes (MTs) of wheat had arrived in all 137 purchase centres so far of which 2,61,936 MTs produce had been purchased by the agencies. He further added that a payment of Rs 22.91 crore was directly credited in the farmers’ bank accounts in a smooth and hassle-free manner. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wheat-procurement-picks-up-in-kapurthala-242285
22-04-2021||---||13 booked for flouting night curfew guidelines in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 21With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing at an alarming rate, the city police have intensified the drive against violators. On Tuesday night, the cops booked around 13 offenders for violating night curfew.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar stated that special nakas were installed across the city to ensure strict enforcement of night curfew. He further added that during the checking, two FIRs each were lodged by the Police Division No. 5 police station, Basti Bawa Khel police station and Division No. 7 police station while one FIR each was registered by the police stations of Bhargo Camp, Sadar, Division No. 8 and Division No. 6 respectively. Besides, 298 traffic challans were also issued by the officials.Bhullar further mentioned that 1,872 FIRs had been registered by the police in all 14 police stations along with the arrest of 2,521 violators. He said 736 FIRs had been registered for not wearing mask and 898 accused had been arrested in these cases.Moreover, 115 FIRs were registered last month, including 27 for not wearing mask, 12 for violating social distancing norm and 75 for other violations, wherein 129 accused were arrested during the same period. The police have issued 3,205 challans for not wearing mask and fine worth Rs32,05,000 had been collected, he said.Bhullar: Safety precautions in larger public interestCommissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said safety precautions were for larger public interest and not for any individual gain aimed at saving precious lives of people from coronavirus. The CP was on a city round, where he took stock of police preparedness to effectively enforce the fresh Covid-19 curbs announced by the state government.While going for a Facebook live at Model Town Market, the Commissioner of Police urged all citizens to strictly adhere to Covid appropriate behavior to ensure their safety from the ill-effects of virus. Bhullar said that curbs were announced for people’s safety and hence should be treated as an essential part of our lives. He said no one was allowed to take law and order in their hands as playing on these norms could take a heavy toll on all of us.The CP further directed police officials deployed at various nakas to ensure strict action against those flouting these safety precautions adding that special focus to be laid on those not wearing masks. He said the mask was the only way to prevent virus contraction amid spike in fresh Covid-19 cases. He also asked officials to ensure enforcement of latest curbs including extension of night curfew timings by one hour (8 pm to 5 am), closure of all bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres and sports complexes. “Restaurants and hotels to be opened only for takeaway and home delivery from Monday to Saturday, besides banning the gatherings of more than 20 persons including for weddings/cremations,” he said.Bhullar also mentioned that it was come to light that some people while giving sample for RT-PCR tests mentioning wrong number and address, which were making it impossible for health authorities to carry out contact tracing tasks whenever such person was reported positive. He said these persons not only putting their lives on risk but also their near ones adding that such kinds of practices to be shunned in larger public interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-booked-for-flouting-night-curfew-guidelines-in-jalandhar-242286
22-04-2021||Jalandhar||Oxygen shortage claimed life in Jalandhar, allege kin||A Covid-19 patient reportedly died due to lack of oxygen at New Ruby Hospital here on Tuesday night, following which the family members of the patient created a ruckus alleging negligence by hospital management. The deceased has been identified as Balbir Singh, a resident of Sikandarpur. He was admitted to the hospital after he complained of chest congestion and breathing problem.His son, Jatinder Singh, said when he brought his father to the hospital, the doctors advised to admit him. Considering his situation, they took his sample for Covid. “Unfortunately, he tested positive for the virus. “While we were not allowed to go near the Covid patients, we saw a chaotic situation from outside the ICU. Family members of a patient told us that the hospital was running out of oxygen cylinder and doctors were manually giving chest pumps to patients. Meanwhile, at around 8.30 pm, the doctors informed me that my father succumbed to the virus,” added Jatinder.Rajwinder Singh, nephew of the victim, said doctors on Tuesday morning told them that the patient was fine and his oxygen level was 98 per cent.Dr SPS Grover, an official at the hospital, denied the allegations and said there was no shortage of oxygen. Instead, the patient died due to severe Covid infection that had damaged his lungs.Meanwhile, the SHO, police division number seven, who reached the hospital in the night, said the footages of CCTV installed in the ICU ward of the hospital had been procured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-shortage-claimed-life-in-jalandhar-allege-kin-242287
22-04-2021||---||Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner warns of action against those selling Oxygen gas in black||Jalandhar, April 21Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday urged all healthcare institutions to reserve at least 75 per cent of their bed capacity for Covid-19 patients to ensure that there was no shortage of beds in hospitals during the spike in cases.While participating in a Covid-19 review meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, the Deputy Commissioner apprised the CS of the steps being taken by the administration to contain the spread of the virus. He said all the private hospitals were being asked to reserve 75 per cent of the total beds in their respective hospitals to deal with Covid-19 cases more effectively as elective surgeries were already asked to be put off till further orders.The DC asked the hospitals to utilize oxygen concentrators to meet the requirement of this life-saving gas amid the pandemic. He said these concentrators would ensure adequate availability of oxygen for less serious patients in hospitals, thus enabling them to augment their oxygen capacity.Meanwhile, he passed directions to conduct maximum testing and vaccination of patients visiting OPDs for general treatment as a huge number of potential virus carriers could be detected at these places.The DC directed the authorities concerned to ensure oxygen supplies only to hospital and if, there was availability of oxygen after addressing the hospitals requirement, only then it would be supplied to industries that too with the written approval of Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh and Deputy Director, Local Bodies Department, Darbara Singh. He categorically stated that if any black marketing of oxygen gas was reported in the district, an FIR would be filed against the perpetrators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-warns-of-action-against-those-selling-oxygen-gas-in-black-242288
22-04-2021||---||Covid-19: 5 deaths, 421 fresh cases in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 21With 421 fresh cases and five deaths, the district tally reached 37,981 and the death toll climbed up to 1,029 in Jalandhar today.While 33,534 people have been discharged so far, there are 3,418 active cases in the district.As many as 162 people tested Covid-positive in Kapurthala taking the district tally to 11,250. The district also reported five deaths. The deceased included a 23-year-old woman of Kapurthala, who died in Ludhiana, a 59-year-old woman of Kamrai village, Dhilwan, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar and a 62-year-old woman who died at DMC, Ludhiana.Five succumb, 221 test positive in HoshiarpurThe district reported five more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 677 on Friday. Besides, the district also witnessed 221 fresh cases taking the tally to 16,932.Giving this information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,436 and 16,932 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of today’s 221 positive cases, 20 patients were from Hoshiarpur city, 11 from other districts and the remaining from other health blocks of the district. Of the five deaths in the district, two died at Hoshiarpur hospitals while three others (one each) died at Hoshiarpur, Chandigarh and Jalandhar hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-5-deaths-421-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-242289
22-04-2021||---||Shortage of gunny bags, transportation facilities hit procurement process in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, April 21For over the past week, Satnam Singh has been tirelessly waiting to sell his crop at the Lohian Khas grain market. Every season he produces around 500-600 quintals of wheat. However, this time, he says he is struggling for his produce to be lifted.“I started harvesting my crop from April 10 onwards. Subsequently, I came here to sell my produce on time. After the confusion over Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), now the the shortage of “bardana”(gunny bags) is impeding the procurement process. Apparently, there is an acute shortage of gunny bags here. For the first time, we are experiencing this. Till last year, the procurement would be finished within a few hours of reaching the mandi, but this time we are forced to spend even nights in the grain market,” said Satnam.The shortage of gunny bags in the grain markets of both the districts — Jalandhar and Kapurthala — has slowed down the procurement process. Unable to sell their produce on time, farmers have even started leaving for the Singhu border. They say they will return only after proper arrangements are made in the grain markets.Harpreet Singh, a farmer from Kapurthala, said, “While my tractor-trailer is still in the grain market, I have left for the Singhu border to join the protest. I had especially come for harvesting and procurement, but things are not favourable here. Therefore, I had to keep my 100 quintals of wheat in the grain market. My relatives are looking after my harvest. Even after approaching the officials concerned, we could not get gunny bags.”For the crop produced in around one acre of land, as many as 75 gunny bags are needed. And for hundreds of quintals of wheat, farmers require thousands of gunny bags, which are unavailable.Gurpreet Singh Atwal, a Bhogpur-based farmer, is also experiencing the same situation at the Bhogpur grain market.Meanwhile, commission agents (arhtiyas) claimed that the situation was entirely different at the outbreak of the pandemic last year. Nitin Wadhwa, a member of the Arhtiyas’ Association, Kapurthala, stated that the shortage of gunny bags was not a new challenge. “But this time the acute shortage has exposed the lackadaisical attitude of the government, which is trying to give mandis into private hands. We have been told to purchase gunny bags on our own and the government will reimburse the payment later. Moreover, it has been a year and we have not received payments of last season so far,” said Wadhwa.A gunny bag costs around Rs 41.90 in the market and this year even farmers are being asked to pay Rs13 per bag.Tinu: Lack of basic facilities at mandisSAD MLA Pawan Tinu said the farmers reaching smaller mandis were at the receiving end. “In the absence of transportation facilities, farmers are compelled to bring their crop to smaller mandis that don't even have proper sheds and tarpaulins to cover their crop. Besides, 55,000 quintals of wheat has arrived in the Patara grain market, 52,000 in Raipur Farala, 50,000 in Alawalpur, 24,000 in Ladhra and 26,000 in Kandhala. Hence, the government needs to make proper arrangements to cover the farmers’ produce,” said Tinu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shortage-of-gunny-bags-transportation-facilities-hit-procurement-process-in-jalandhar-district-242278
22-04-2021||---||Shortage? Oxygen reserved only for medical facilities now||Jalandhar, April 21Keeping in view the rising cases of Covid-19, the Deputy Commissioner on Wednesday barred all industries from securing oxygen supply with the exception of the exempted ones which would have to seek permission from the nodal officer. Only medical units would henceforth be eligible for oxygen supply in the district. Any exempted industry requiring oxygen in the district will have to take permission from the nodal officers before it can be authorised for oxygen supply. And only nine exempted industries can seek this permission, ordered the DC.The DC released these instructions hours after providing exemption to nine industries for the provision of oxygen. As per the new orders, any ‘exempted’ industry can only be supplied oxygen after the written permission of the nodal officers — Hardeep Singh, Additional Commissioner (G), and Darbara Singh, Deputy Director, Local Bodies, who is also the nodal officer (oxygen).The nine exempted industries are ampoules & vials, pharmaceuticals, petroleum refineries, steel plants, nuclear energy facilities, oxygen cylinder manufacturers, wastewater treatment plants, food & water purification and process industries which require an uninterrupted operation of furnaces, process, etc.ADC Vishesh Sarangal, nodal officer for Level 3 private medical centres in the district, said, “There is a daily requirement of about 3,500 oxygen cylinders of B-type and D-type in the district. At present, we have a sufficient supply of oxygen. But the arrangements are being made to ensure that there is ample supply as at times there are also panic calls or sudden requirement.”A private doctor on condition of anonymity said, “We are forced to send patients to other hospitals or medical units which have oxygen plants as there is a severe shortage of oxygen. Patients are rising and today we have managed but we do not know whether we may be able to manage oxygen tomorrow.”Multiple directions to hospitals||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shortage-oxygen-reserved-only-for-medical-facilities-now-242279
22-04-2021||Jalandhar||1,400 tested at Jalandhar railway station in past 5 days||A huge rush of migrant labourers at the Jalandhar railway station, who are heading back to their native places amid lockdown fears, has further increased the threat of Covid spread.In the last five days, more than 1,400 persons have been tested for the infection at special camps set up at the railway station and a majority of them were migrant labourers. On an average, three persons are testing positive in rapid antigen test (RAT) everyday.The lockdown fears have forced migrant workers, including those owrking in industries and brick kilns, to head back to their native places while farm labourers have decided to stay put.Santosh, a daily wager who hails from UP, says trains are going full everyday and now he is paying Rs 3,000 for bus travel in order to reach his native place as soon as possible. “Going home is better than starving. I didn’t get a train ticket, so I borrowed Rs 3,000 to pay for bus travel. Covid cases are increasing everyday and we fear the imposition of the lockdown once again.”Dr Deepti Bains, ayurvedic medical officer, who has been testing suspected patients at the crowded Jalandhar railway station for the past five days, says, “We have two shifts and the afternoon one is very crowded. We test approximately 140 persons per shift, a majority of whom are migrant labourers.”Iqbal Chand Mattu from the All-Mazdoor Shakti Sangh and the Punjab Mazdoor Union, said, “There is a dearth of medical facilities at brick kilns. Most of the times, labourers avoid seeing a doctor in case of any medical help. Therefore, they are choosing to head back home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-400-tested-at-jalandhar-railway-station-in-past-5-days-242343
22-04-2021||Jalandhar||Hundreds of fish die in Kali Bein||Days after the water supply from the Mukerian hydel channel was snapped, hundreds of fish have died in the Kali Bein at Sultanpur Lodhi.Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal said, “It is the fourth time that this is happening. The water flow from the Mukerian hydel channel was stopped on April 17. We had informed the PPCB that the pollutants from the toxic discharges into the Bein might kill the fish. While officials came to visit the spot, fresh water in the Bein was still not released. The level of the oxygen in the water has been reduced to 0.4 mg/L. Dead fish began turning up yesterday. The number is likely to rise tomorrow. The toxic discharges from the Bhalane Dian Colonian and the partially operational STP, Kapurthala, have also choked the Bein. Without fresh water, the fish die due to the toxic discharge.”Even after two decades of Seechewal’s kar sewa drive at the Kali Bein and numerous letters to the PPCB, council and various other departments, the dumping of pollutants at multiple points in the Bein has continued unabated. Notably, the dying of fish in the Bein ahead or after Baisakhi every year has now almost become a routine affair. This happened earlier in 2013, 2015 and 2017.The environmentalist said the stretch near the Ber Sahib Gurdwara was the worst-affected as most of the dead fish had been found there. Seechewal said, “Every year during the repair of the Mukerian hydel channel, water is stopped for some days. As the level of toxic discharge is high, fish die.”Deputy Commissioner, Kapurthala, Deepti Uppal said, “The SDM has been informed about the situation and he is reviewing it. Action will be taken accordingly.”Prof SS Marwaha, Chairman, PPCB, said, “The issue was brought to the notice of the state government on Baisakhi regarding release of water into the Kali Bein. It had stopped the water due to repair work for some days. Today fresh water has been released into the Kali Bein. I have also asked a team at GADVASU to look into the cause of the deaths of the fish.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hundreds-of-fish-die-in-kali-bein-242359
