23-04-2021||---||Oxygen shortage: Jalandhar hospitals feel the heat||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22With around 400 Covid cases being recorded in the district almost daily, hospitals have started facing the shortage of oxygen supply. Some experts have already begun predicting a collapse of health services within a month if the shortage of oxygen supply is not addressed.There is a huge scarcity of oxygen due to which we have stopped taking patients who need high flow oxygen. Of the required 150 to 180 cylinders per day, we are getting merely 80 to 100 cylinders. We don't know where the supply is drying up but oxygen is critical for the Covid level-3 patients.—  Dr Chander Bowry, Medical Director, Bowry Memorial Education TrustA majority of private hospitals said with the current inflow of patients and the oxygen supply in proportion to that, they were on the brink of discontinuing their level 3 services. On the other hand, the district administration said a slew of measures had been taken, officials deputed and appeals to the state government made to ensure oxygen supply in the district.Dr RPS Chabra, Director, Armaan Hospital, said, “There is a severe shortage of oxygen. We have referred three serious patients on Wednesday night because we did not have the requisite amount of cylinders to treat them. We are falling short of 10 to 20 cylinders per day. We have a plant which generates 60 cylinders per day. And we need about 70 to 80 more. Last night we had left only 10 cylinders. Instead of 70 to 80 extra cylinders we need, we are getting only 20 or 30. That’s not enough. We have 18 level 3 beds of which 14 are occupied. Level 3 patients can’t be treated without ample oxygen. To prevent deaths, we will have to refer critical patients if we keep falling short.”Dr Chander Bowry, Medical Director, Bowry Memorial Education Trust, said, “There is a huge scarcity of oxygen due to which we have stopped taking patients who need high flow oxygen. Of the required 150 to 180 cylinders per day we are getting merely 80 to 100 cylinders. We don’t know where the supply is drying up but oxygen is critical for the Covid level 3 patients. Without ample oxygen, we cannot risk lives by taking in serious patients. The fear is that in coming weeks the situation might get more serious.”Sources said another dilemma faced was that it took at least four to six weeks to set up a new oxygen plant. Also an oxygen contractor could provide four to five litres of oxygen but high flow oxygen patients require at least 10 to 50 litres.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “For the past 10 days, hospitals are being instructed to set up plants by the administration preempting the oxygen crisis. They have also been asked to set up concentrators. We have 50 different officers deputed at various places to make sure that no oxygen goes to unauthorised agencies. Yesterday also, we strongly raised the issue during the VC. And the state government has told us they are in turn raising the issue with the Centre. Jalandhar is in a much better stage compared to many other states. We are even keeping a strict check on no unauhtorised cylinders should be routed to industries.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-shortage-jalandhar-hospitals-feel-the-heat-243047
23-04-2021||---||Akali rebel Karwal elected Adampur MC president||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22The Congress leadership picked Shiromani Akali Dal rebel Darshan Singh Karwal (55) for the post of Adampur municipal council chief in the unanimously held elections here on Thursday.While Bhupinder Singh Bhinda was picked as senior vice-president, Krishna Devi got elected as the vice-president. While the name of the president was proposed by councillor Amrik Singh, the other two names were proposed by councillors Veena Chodha and Bhupinder Singh. The elections were held in the presence of SDM-1 Jai Inder Singh.A prominent leader from Adampur, Karwal had contested from Ward No.6. He had created his own group for the 13-member council in the town that managed to get 12 seats. Darshan Karwal is a three-time councillor. His younger brother Harjinder Singh Karwal too has been re-elected from Ward No.8.The Karwals had switched to the Congress owing to his differences with sitting Akali MLA Pawan Tinu but he chose not to contest on the party symbol ‘Hand’. The group had instead fought on the symbol ‘tractor’. Senior Congress leaders, including ex-minister Mahinder Singh Kaypee and ex-MLA Kanwaljit S Lally, attended the oath-taking ceremony today.Presenting his agenda, the new MC chief said: “We will ensure an overall development of the town with projects, such as high-mast lights, CCTV cameras, implementation of PM Awas Yojna and the MC’s own shopping complex as the first few projects to start with.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/akali-rebel-karwal-elected-adampur-mc-president-243048
23-04-2021||---||Tribhank Dutt Airy elected chief of Garhshankar MC||Our CorrespondentGarhshankar, April 22Tribhank Dutt Airy of the Congress, Som Nath Bangar of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Bimla Devi of the BSP were unanimously elected as president, senior vice-president and vice-president of the Garhshankar Municipal Council (MC), respectively.During this, AAP MLA Jai Krishna Rody also gave his consent. The councillors were elected under the supervision of SDM Garhshankar Harbans Singh.Deepak Kumar proposed the name of Tribhank Dutt Airy for the post of president which was seconded by Karnail Singh. Deepak Kumar also proposed Som Nath Bangar for the post of senior vice- president and Karnail Singh seconded his name, while Sumit Soni proposed the name of Bimla Devi for the post of vice-president, which was endorsed by Som Nath Bangar.Newly-elected president Tribhank Dutt Airy said the development of the city would be his priority. Airy also expressed gratitude towards all councillors for peaceful election. Som Nath Bangar said his first priority would be development and clean administration.BJP draws a blankIt was for the first time in the Municipal Council election that the BJP could not muster a single win. The Akali Dal supported candidate had won as an independent and since there was no option left, she also found it better to agree for consensus. Aam Aadmi Party’s senior leader Som Nath Bangar, who won as councillor for the sixth time, managed to become senior vice-president. The Bahujan Samaj Party’s first-time councillor Bimla Devi got the post of vice-president.Two sarpanches lose walletsSomebody picked the wallets of two sanpanches, who had come to congratulate the newly-elected president and other office-bearers. The wallets of Garhshankar block committee chairperson’s husband Kuldeep Singh Dhillon, who is sarpanch of Chakk Singha village, and Rajinder Singh, sarpanch of Bhajjlan village, were picked in the ceremony. They came to know about it as soon as they left the venue. Sarpanch Kuldeep Dhillon told that he had to go to Chandigarh in connection with some family work. The wallet contained Rs 35,000 and some important documents. Sarpanch Rajinder Singh Bhajjalan said that he had only Rs 250 in his wallet, besides PAN card, Aadhaar, ATMs and other important documents. SHO Iqbal Singh said that culprits would be apprehended with help of CCTV footage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tribhank-dutt-airy-elected-chief-of-garhshankar-mc-243049
23-04-2021||---||5 deaths, 419 new cases in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22The district reported five Covid-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll to 1043, while 419 new cases pushed the infection tally to 38,400. Of the 419 cases, as many as 33 belong to other districts, while 33,958 people have so far been discharged, there are 3,408 active cases in the district.In Kapurthala, 73 people tested positive for Covid on Thursday, taking the district infection tally to 11,323. Three deaths were reported at Kapurthala today. The deceased include a 69-year-old woman of Kapurthala, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar, a 49-year-old resident of Kapurthala, who died at GMC Amritsar, and a 30-year-old woman from block Dhilwan, who died at GMC Amritsar.Case filed against marriage palace manager in BangaThere seems to be no end to issuing challans and filing FIRs against those holding big weddings in the city. It means people are still not following the Covid rules and are breaking the protocols by inviting hundreds of guests to their weddings. One such case happened in Banga.The Banga police registered cases against four persons, including the manager of the palace and the father of the groom. They had not taken any prior permission from the administration to hold the wedding. As per rules, a gathering of more than 20 persons in a wedding function will not be allowed, but nearly 100 guests were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-deaths-419-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-243050
23-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Four die, 206 fresh cases in Hoshiarpur||Garhshankar, April 22The district reported four more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 681 on Thursday. Besides, the district also witnessed 206 fresh cases taking the tally to 17,117.Giving information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,571 and 16,275 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of the total number of cases reported, 21 patients each were from Hoshiarpur city and other districts and the remaining 164 were from other health blocks of the district. The fatalities were reported from various Jalandhar hospitals and Medical College, Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-die-206-fresh-cases-in-hoshiarpur-243051
23-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Giving wings to his musical notes||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22Having lost his job in Delhi during Covid-19 outbreak last year, Sumit Sharma, an ardent music enthusiast from the city, is now creating waves through his music on social media platforms. After completing his education, he preferred to move to Delhi to give wings to his dreams of becoming a musician. But the Covid-induced lockdown certainly turned things differently for him.With no projects in hand, he came back to the city that had sown the seed of music in him. However, compelled to play with tunes and chords of guitar never let him sit idle and he switched to the virtual mode to make a living out of his passion.One of his songs with religious fervour even touched nearly 1.50 lakh views on YouTube. It was also shared by Bollywood singer Jubin Nautiyal.“If you are into any creative field or following your passion, then be ready to expose yourself to the unending struggles. Even if you are successful in one creation, be ready to fail in the other. Hence only consistency, patience, zeal and devotion towards your creativity will give you success eventually,” says the 26-year-old musician, who resides here at Kabir Nagar.While all his peers chose to make a career in the subjects they studied in the college, Sumit, a postgraduate in mass communications, dared to follow his dreams. “From graduation to postgraduation, there wasn’t any occasion when I didn’t perform. Standing on the stage and performing in front of the audience boosted my confidence. The stage performances only pushed me to accept music as a career. While I was juggling to take up music production as full time, I also got the opportunity to teach the subject to my alma matter. It gave me a clarity on choosing a right career path,” added Sumit, who is popular on Instagram and YouTube as ‘That aghori’.Along with making waves on the social media, he also runs a music studio with his partner near Nakodar Chowk here. He collaborates with artistes from the region and playback singers to further polish his skills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/giving-wings-to-his-musical-notes-243052
23-04-2021||---||Woman’s body with 8 gunshot wounds in head found in fields||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, April 22The body of a woman of Khadiala Sainian village was found near the fields at Boore Rajputan village near Adda Sikri on Tanda Road here on Thursday. The police reached the spot and sent the body to the Civil Hospital for a postmortem and started investigation.According to information received, the woman was brutally murdered as eight gunshot wounds were found in her head. The deceased, identified as Manpreet Kaur, is said to be a mother to two children and her husband lives in Kuwait. It is said that their divorce proceedings were on and she was in live-in relationship with another man.According to the sources, about two months ago, Manpreet had given a written complaint to the SSP in which she had accused a police head constable of sexually abusing her for three years by making a false promise of marriage, which is still under investigation.DSP Gurpreet Singh, who was present on the spot, said unidentified persons killed the victim by shooting eight times in her head. He said the woman’s divorce case was under way and she was in a live-in relationship with a man and she was now having a dispute with that man.He said investigation was being done from all aspects and would be able to ascertain the reasons behind the murder only after the completion of the probe.SP RPS Sandhu said investigation was being done in the case. He said the police had found four shells of .32 bore from the spot. In response to a question, he said the complaint lodged by Manpreet Kaur against the policeman was being looked into. He said she was shot from a close range and the police had registered an FIR against unidentified persons.The police have registered a case of murder against unidentified persons in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/womans-body-with-8-gunshot-wounds-in-head-found-in-fields-243053
23-04-2021||---||AAP demands action against drug mafia||Jalandhar, April 22Demanding action against drug mafia allegedly thriving in Sansarpur village, workers of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday held a dharna at the hockey stadium here.Vice-president of the state’s youth wing of the party, Gurinder S Shergill, said thepolice were attempting to “hush up” a case wherein it had come to notice that at least 20 village boys had contracted HIV as they had been using a common syringe to take their drug dose.SHO Cantt Amritpal Singh said: “We have been interrogating all those who had been involved in the drug trade here for five-six years to check their involvement. We have so far not found any major drug mafia thriving in the village.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-demands-action-against-drug-mafia-243054
23-04-2021||---||Students take ‘green pledge’ on Earth Day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22Various activities ranging from compost making, creating bird feeders, making creations out of trash, poster making, slogan writing and planting saplings were organised by city schools and colleges to mark the World Earth Day on Thursday.Innocent Hearts SchoolTo commemorate the day, a number of activities were organised online at various branches of Innocent Hearts Schools. The activities were organised for students ranging from pre-school to Class VIII. The students of pre-school and nursery planted saplings and children of KG-II participated in fancy dress competition through online-mode. They dressed up as per the theme that was ‘Save the Planet’and shared their photographs on the school’s official Facebook page. They conveyed their messages such as ‘Say No to Plastic’, ‘Save Water, Save Earth’ and ‘Don’t Cut Trees’ through their attire. Children of KG-II made food and water feeders for birds and those of Class VII and VIII participated in slogan writing and poster making competitions. The students depicted their creativity through their posters and thoughtful slogans and created awareness on the day.Sanskriti KMV SchoolUnder its initiative to impart education on environmental needs, Sanskriti KMV School marked the World Earth Day with a week-long programme that included activities to invoke respect, concern and action to conserve natural resources. Principal Rachna Monga in her address to the students, mentioned the importance of being receptive to the urgent need to secure natural resources. She said we must show our concern towards the nature not just this day but round the year and makle efforts towards conservation of natural resources. Students took to pot plantation, calligraphy and poster making to communicate their message.Delhi Public SchoolTo create awareness about protecting our planet and preserving the environment, Delhi Public School celebrated the Earth Day under the guidance of Principal Ritu Kaul. A special assembly was organised to imbibe the value of ‘No plastic is fantastic’. The tiny tots were made aware about the harm being caused to animals and the planet by various human activities through a puppet show. Children participated in activities such as modelling and making pencil stand with paper mache. Students were sensitised about the importance of saving the environment through a short video compiled by students of Class V. Students of Class VI to X were also shown a video related to the planet. A ‘Heal The Earth, Heal Our Future’ activity was organised for the students of Class III to V wherein they were encouraged to use eco-friendly things. The students created things such as planters, pen stand, waste bin and decorative items from the things available at home.Mayor World SchoolStudents of Mayor World School also observed the day with utmost dedication and willingness. All students from Mayor Galaxy to Class XII got virtually engaged in the celebration and marked the day by performing various activities to show their love and respect for the planet. All students of Mayor Galaxy took an oath with their teachers and pledged to respect all living beings and keep their planet clean and green. They also performed an activity — Nature’s Nest — and planted mustard/coriander seeds in earthen pots highlighting the significance of planting trees. Class I students participated in an activity ‘Walk/Cycle in the Nature’ with a purpose to observe their aesthetic surroundings. The experience was later put down on a paper in the form of drawings. Students of Class II and III performed an activity of making bulbs and wall hanging on a chart depicting the importance of conservation of electricity and saving the planet respectively. Students of Class IV and V exhibited their love towards the environment through art and craft activities and made a head crown labelling it as ‘I can help the Earth’ and a hand print labelled as ‘I care for my environment’. Students of Class VI made exquisite rangoli designs on the topic ‘Restore our Earth’ using waste material available at their homes, while Class VII students performed a cooking activity ‘Make an Earth: Friendly Feast’ and made a nutritious fruit chaat savouring nature’s bounty, paying gratitude to our planet for its vital role in our lives. Students of Class VIII got involved into an activity of making compost from kitchen waste using garden soil, dried leaves, compost, peels of vegetables and fruits and highlighted the importance of recycling and reusing kitchen waste in a useful manner. Vice-Chairperson Neerza Mayor, Director Sarita Madhok, Principal Harjeet Kaur Ghuman, Deputy Vice-Principal Charu Trehan and Headmistress Mayor Galaxy Aarti Gulati applauded the students and acknowledged them for their thoughtfulness and efforts.Kanya Maha VidyalayaStudents of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya marked the World Earth Day by participating in various activities organised by the Department of Student Welfare and the Department of Environmental Science. The activities included poster making, slogan writing and video making etc. Students through their posters and slogans gave a message of reducing pollution, improving air quality and surroundings by making the planet clean and green. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi on the occasion also distributed planters to the faculty. Students namely Ankita, Arzoo, Pranavchit, Daljit, Anjali, Sandeep, Kesar and Diksha shared their videos giving a message on environment conservation. The Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, Dean, Department of Student Welfare and Head, PG Department of English, Sadhna Tandon, Head, Department of Environmental Science and Sufalica for successfully organising the events.HMV CollegeChandrayaan Vipnet Club of the PG Department of Physics of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya here marked the Earth Day under the able guidance of Principal Dr Ajay Sareen. Dr Lalit M Bharadwaj, president, RML Consultancy and Fabrication and former vice-president of Amity Science Technology and Innovation Foundation was the resource person of the event. The Principal welcomed the guest and emphasised on the need to conserve environment in the present scenario and to restore our planet so that we can give our future generations a better place to live. Saloni Sharma, Physics Department Head, appraised the students of the event. Dr Lalit motivated the students to come forward and make use of new technology to change the problems into opportunities. He informed the students about various technologies such as green technology, materials, manufacturing and nanotechnology and how these can be used to restore the planet. Also, he motivated the students to undertake research projects in these fields and bring the nation to top position. Poster making and PPT competitions were also organised. Around 150 students of various institutes participated in the event. Dr Nitika Kapoor from the Botany Department and Dr Vandana Thakur from the Chemistry Department were the judges of these competition. In the PPT competition, Isha Thakur bagged the first prize, Gauri Jindal got the second prize while Renuka won the third prize. Sahibpreet Kaur got the consolation prize. In poster making competition, Kiranpreet Kaur won the first prize while the second prize was bagged by Harleen Kaur. The third prize is shared by Ekta and Harshita. Muktansha got the consolation prize. On the occasion Sushil Kumar, Simmi, Ankush and Dr Sunil Kumar were also present.IVY World SchoolStudents of IVY World School enthusiastically participated in various activities to mark the World Earth Day. An array of creative activities was organised with a view to sensitise the children about the conservation of natural resources and to motivate them to do their bit towards making their planet even more beautiful. At the onset of their virtual class, all Ivyians took ‘green pledge’ along with their educators and pledged to become global citizens and work for the cause of sustainable development. ‘Be a Designer’ activity was organised which invigorated the young minds to showcase their creativity by turning trash into treasure as they designed bookmarks, created pattern with waste bottle caps and wrote their names with dry twigs, flowers and leaves etc. with the art of reducing, reusing and recycling. Children were educated about apps such as PlantSnap and iNaturalist that they can use to explore flora and fauna. Principal S Chauhan congratulated, appreciated and praised the efforts of all children and the support given by their parents.Mohan Lal Uppal DAV CollegeUnder the guidance of Principal Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa, the World Earth Day was observed at Mohan Lal Uppal DAV College, Phagwara. The Department of History organised a webinar for teachers and students to make them aware about the protection of the planet. As scientific innovations are taking place around the world, the pace of environmental degradation is also increasing. Dr Randhawa addressed the students that we should educate people about the health and other risks associated with the use and disposal of plastics, including pollution of our oceans, wildlife and about the growing body of evidence that plastic waste is creating serious global problems. During the webinar, the students participated in various activities and talked about the factors that destroy the Earth’s environment.Kamla Nehru CollegeThe Department of Sciences, Kamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara, observed the Earth Day where Malkiat Singh Raghbotra, environment worker from Phagwara blood bank, was invited as the chief guest. He planted saplings to mark the day and addressed students to plant at least one tree every year and adopt it for a life time. During this event, a PPT presentation on ‘Mother Earth- A solitary planet to sustain life’ was also delivered by Dr Vanita Chahal of the same department. It explored the cruciality of celebrating the day and various pledges to save this planet from evils of pollution were also displayed. Dr Savinder Pal, the college principal, also planted trees with students and guided them to critically follow the measures to keep the Earth clean and green. She appreciated the entire department for hosting the event and inspired the staff and students of the college by distributing plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-take-green-pledge-on-earth-day-243055
23-04-2021||---||Army sets up solar power plant at Jalandhar Cantt||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22On the occasion of Earth Day and ‘Go Green’ initiative, a solar power plant was inaugurated at Jalandhar Cantonment today.The inauguration was performed by Lieut Gen C Bansi Ponnappa, General Officer Commanding, Vajra Corps, and the plant was dedicated to the Military Hospital. This will also boost the services to fight against Covid.The 1-MW solar power plant constructed under the aegis of Vajra Corps was conceptualised and planned as part of the Army’s pursuance to government policy to rely more on renewable energy and support ‘Go Green’ initiative to save environment.The solar power project spans across 5 acres of land and has been constructed at a cost of Rs 5.16 crore. Under this project, a total of 3,176 solar panels of Indian origin have been set up to generate 1 MW of solar energy. The plant would generate at least 15 lakh units of electricity annually or about 1.25 lakh units per month, amounting to approximate saving of Rs 1 crore annually to the government exchequer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-sets-up-solar-power-plant-at-jalandhar-cantt-243056
23-04-2021||---||‘Pandemic has revealed fragility of our world’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 22A webinar was held by Pushpa Gujral Science City to mark World Earth Day. A total of 175 students from across the state participated in the programme through virtual mode. The theme of the webinar was ‘Restore our Earth’.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Pushpa Gujral Science City, gave introductory remarks and said focus of this year’s theme was on emerging green technologies and innovative thinking that could restore the world’s ecosystems. The pandemic, with which the whole world is battling, is a harrowing reminder of how badly the ecosystems are damaged. It has revealed the fragility of our world, societies and economies and also reminds us about the need to protect ourselves from various disasters such as climate change and ecosystem destruction, he said.He asserted, “If we all put our best foot forward and take concerted action to find better solutions to restore our planet, then we can expect certain rewards in the future.” He urged the participants that the Earth Day should be used as a powerful catalyst to involve people in making a difference towards a healthy, prosperous and sustainable future. The celebration reminds us to protect our planet in every possible way.Dr Vinayak Sinha, associate professor, Department of Earth and Environment Sciences, IISER, Mohali, was the key speaker. Delivering a talk at the occasion, he demonstrated the basic concepts of atmospheric chemistry and air quality. He said combination of emission sources, atmospheric chemistry and meteorological conditions can collectively drive adverse air quality. Further, research conducted by atmospheric observatory setup at IISER, Mohali, was helpful to identify and quantify fire emissions and air pollution in North India caused due to stubble burning, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-has-revealed-fragility-of-our-world-243057
23-04-2021||---||Jalandhar: 45 Gandhi Vanita Ashram inmates infected||Jalandhar, April 22Fortyfive inmates and five staff members of the Gandhi Vanita Ashram here tested positive on Thursday.The infected staff members — a superintendent, a house mother, a peon, attendant and a woman police constable — are under home quarantine.Notably, the Children’s Home and Children’s Home for Girls are two neighbouring facilities housed within the premises of the Gandhi Vanita Ashram. The twin home collectively houses about 150 inmates with 100 girls at the Children’s Home and 50 at the Children’s Home for Girls.Child Development Project Officer, Jalandhar, Garry Randhawa said, “In all, 45 girls at the Children’s Home have tested positive. The superintendent of the Children’s Home for Girls was the first to get infected after which four other staff members tested positive. The infection might have been spread by the police personnel, who keep visiting there. Meanwhile, all 50 inmates of the Children’s Home for Girls have tested negative.”He said, “The infected girls shall be quarantined in the halls on the ground floor. All of them are asymptomatic.”Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “Rest of the staff and inmates of the ashram have also been tested. The arrangements to quarantine the infected persons are being made on the premises.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-45-gandhi-vanita-ashram-inmates-infected-242762
23-04-2021||Kapurthala||Kapurthala's Rail Coach Factory sends 1,210-kg oxygen to Amritsar hospital||Amid shortage of medical oxygen in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis, the Rail Coach Factory (RCF) here has supplied 1,210 kg of liquid oxygen from its plant to Guru Nanak Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar. The medical oxygen has been sent through a gas supplying firm.An RCF spokesperson said: “Though the supply of liquid oxygen will impact it will prove crucial to dealing with the emergency needs of Covid-19 patients. The RCF has a 3 kilolitre liquid oxygen storage tank, used for making argomix, which is used in the manufacture of stainless steel components.”On the instructions of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, the Railways has taken several steps to overcome the shortage of oxygen in hospitals. The Railways is running “oxygen express” trains carrying liquid medical oxygen and cylinders. It has decided to build a green corridor for these special trains, which has resulted in quick supply of oxygen to the various parts of the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthalas-rail-coach-factory-sends-1-210-kg-oxygen-to-amritsar-hospital-242766
