24-04-2021||Jalandhar||Army recruitment exam postponed||Death of ‘spiritual leader’ condoledJalandhar: Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh condoled the demise of Sant Baba Dilawar Singh (56), head of the Dera Sant Baba Bhag Singh, who passed away after a brief illness at Manko Jabbar village in Jalandhar district on Thursday evening. In his message, the Chief Minister described Sant Baba Dilawar Singh as a great spiritual leader, social reformer and philanthropist, who played a frontal role for the welfare of disadvantaged sections of the society. Being the Chancellor of Sant Baba Bhag Singh University, he had made an enormous contribution towards quality higher education in the rural areas of the Doaba region. TNSBank employees get the covid jabJalandhar: The State Bank of India took an initiative, under which 100 bank employees of various branches under their regional business office here and their family members took the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, and many employees took the second dose as well, within the premises of their business office. On the occasion, Regional Manager Pradeep Kumar encouraged the employees that everyone should take the jab and go one step ahead in the battle of this pandemic. The employees said the Government of India had given them the title of Corona warriors and many came in the grip of the disease while working in this phase but did not back down from their work. tns‘Ad hoc panel chief should resign’Jalandhar: Former Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Singh Bhatia attacked MC Building and Roads (B&R) ad hoc committee Chairman Jagdish Gag and said he must resign from the post after allegations of indulging in malpractices related to tenders of roads. Bhatia said the Mayor must remove Gag from his post following the allegations. He also said it was like a one man show in the adhoc committee where only the chairman was doing everything without even informing other members. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-recruitment-exam-postponed-243506
24-04-2021||---||Councillors want Dalit leader as Jalandhar Congress president||Jalandhar, April 23  Congress councillors united against their own party demanding a Dalit president of the district Congress committee on Friday.  Councillors from the Dalit community got together at the Circuit House here and held a meeting where they raised the issue of non-appointment of any Dalit president of the Jalandhar District Congress Committee for a long time. They also attacked the party saying that it was not giving any importance to the Dalits because of which the vote bank of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) was increasing.  The councillors said Doaba is considered as a hub of the Dalit community, and such behaviour of the party was not acceptable. They requested the Chief Minister to not ignore the community in the district.  “The district is already ignored by the government as there is not even a single cabinet minister from here. While in the previous term of the party, Jalandhar’s MLAs were holding these positions,” said councillor Jagdish Samrai.  The councillors demanded that a survey should be conducted to find out who could become the president. They also said there were nearly 38 per cent Dalits in the district, which was why it was important that someone from the community becomes the president.  They said it was only once that a president belonging to the community — Mohinder Singh Kaypee — was appointed for the post several years ago and after that nobody else took the charge. The councillors also said that they would meet the higher authorities on the matter and would also raise the issue with the CM.  The councillors said while other parties such as AAP and SAD were garnering the community’s support by offering the post of CM and Deputy CM to a Dalit leader in the upcoming elections, our own party is ignoring them, they rued.  The councillors who were present in the meeting were Vijay Dakoha, Gurnam Singh Multani, Mandeep Kumar Jassal, Rajiv Onkar Tikka, Des Raj Jassal and Jagdish Samrai etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillors-want-dalit-leader-as-jalandhar-congress-president-243493
24-04-2021||---||‘A room without books is a body without a soul’||Jalandhar, April 23Various schools and colleges across the city today observed the World Book Day by holding reading sessions, bookmark making contests, storytelling sessions and role play activities to encourage the students to continue to take to books even amid the ongoing era of online education.Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical CampusLiterary Club of School of Management of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus (LKCTC) observed the World Book Day by organising a PowerPoint presentation, creative writing and ‘Design your own bookmark’ competition. The idea was to enhance communication skills, inculcate habit of reading among students and raise their confidence level. The topic for PowerPoint presentation was ‘Describe your favorite book’ and that for creative writing was ‘A long journey interrupted by a disaster’.DIPS schoolsTo keep the students connected with books amid the pandemic when online mode is being preferred by all, the pre-primary wing of DIPS chain of institutions celebrated the World Book Day by organising a bookmark making activity. Students showcased their creativity by creating bookmark with images of animals, birds and smileys etc. Students also placed the smiley bookmarks inside their books and pasted them on their pencils so that they smile when they open up their books or pick up their pencils. The Principal and teachers encouraged all students virtually through video-conferencing. Tarwinder Singh, MD, DIPS chain, mentioned that such activates were of prime importance so that students don’t get dissociated from books when online learning has become a new normal.Delhi Public SchoolOn the World Book Day, students of Delhi Public School enjoyed the ‘drop everything and read’ time. In every class, the students were ready with a book of their choice and enjoyed reading along with their classmates and teacher. The class incharge teachers conducted the session and encouraged the students to always read a book of their choice in their dear time. Happy readers were deeply engaged in reading and showed eagerness to submit their version of a book review.Ivy World SchoolStudents of Ivy World School also observed the World Book Day. They were told about the motive and origin of observing the day. They described some of their favorite books with pictures and did role play of some of their treasured characters from the books. The students were very happy to share their views. They had put in a lot of efforts and showed great enthusiasm in this celebration. Principal S Chauhan hailed the students and shared her belief that books are a student’s best companion. She also believes that with a book one can travel the world without even stepping out of the house. Vasal Education Society president KK Vasal applauded the efforts made by the Ivyians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-room-without-books-is-a-body-without-a-soul-243494
24-04-2021||---||Youths clash on Nakodar road||Youths clash on Nakodar road Jalandhar, April 23 Two groups of youths indulged in a clash in the midst of a busy Nakodar road on Friday evening.  The incident occurred near the site of a now demolished Lal Rattan Cinema around 7.30 pm causing panic among shopkeepers and commuters, who were heading to their homes as night curfew was set to begin.  The groups of bike-borne youths, reportedly members of a gang involved in drug trade, used sharp edged weapons, including swords, and also attacked each other by hurling stones and bricks in the rivalry scene that continued for more than 15 minutes.  Those grievously injured in the incident include Mani, Ankit, Ajay and Sonu from the Basti Sheikh area. SHO Division No. 4 Rakesh Kumar said, “The miscreants had fled the spot and an FIR will be lodged after they are held.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youths-clash-on-nakodar-road-243495
24-04-2021||Our Correspondent---||A first: Online job app launched||Hoshiarpur, April 23 The district administration unveiled the state’s first online employment app, which would be a one-stop platform for youngsters to get necessary information not only related to job opportunities but also for self-employment programmes under various schemes, here today.  Launching the ‘DBEE ONLINE’ mobile app at the District Administrative Complex here, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said youngsters could digitally get the requisite information about employment opportunities anywhere. She said the app would not only provide option to apply for jobs online in various ventures but also eligible youngsters could submit applications to avail loan under various government schemes for self-employment. Anyone can download this app on their mobile phones from the Google Play Store or App Store. She also lauded the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises for coming up with such a unique app. Addressing the youngsters virtually, the DC gave them detailed information regarding the app and its functioning. Under the Punjab Government’s Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission, the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises was playing a significant role in securing jobs to thousands of youths, said the DC. The app would provide all necessary information regarding career counselling, skill courses, e-library and competitive exams digitally. She said information regarding the app was being widely circulated amongst youngsters and village sarpanches so that maximum eligible people could take advantage from this endeavour of the district administration.  District Employment Officer Gurmel Singh, District Education Officer Gursharan Singh, Deputy District Education Officer Rakesh Kumar, Placement Officer Mangesh Sood and Career Counsellor Aditya Rana etc were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-first-online-job-app-launched-243496
24-04-2021||Jalandhar||Kirti Kisan Union to raise issue of oxygen scarcity||The Kirti Kisan Union will be raising the issue of lack of oxygen and failure of the government which is affecting everyone’s life. The union members will be holding a meeting in Nawanshahr and discuss the sorry state of affairs on Sunday. Earlier, the union members had been raising their own demands and had been protesting the three farm laws, but now they would be discussing the issue of those struggling amid the pandemic.  Jasveer Singh, one of the union associate, said there was a lack of oxygen in the entire country and the government was unable to do anything. “The government could not prepare themselves, and now they are imposing curfew which is affecting jobs of lakhs of people,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kirti-kisan-union-to-raise-issue-of-oxygen-scarcity-243497
24-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar administration begins rationing of O2||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 23In view of the severe shortage of oxygen in Jalandhar, the district administration has begun rationing of oxygen in the district. The administration has also provided 11 oxygen concentrators to the Jalandhar Civil Hospital after the hospital ran out of oxygen late last night.There are 60 private hospitals in the district, which are providing Covid facilties, and have 376 level-3 beds of which 261 are occupied. These hospitals have 147 ventilators of which 15 are currently in use.Of the 2,200 oxygen cylinders being generated in the district, 1,884 have been allocated to the Civil Hospital and other private hospitals in Jalandhar. While of the 60 private hospitals, only three of them have their own plants, and thus face shortage of the gas with the number of symptomatic patients increasing.As many as 254 oxygen cylinders have been allocated to the Civil Hospital, Mann Medicity (153), Shriman Super Speciality Hospital (135), Sarvodaya Hospital (123) and 100 each to Joshi Hospital, NHS Hospital, Johal Hospital and SGL Hospital.A tug of war between the Civil Hospital and private hospitals amid the pandemic had become a cause for concern following which the oxygen supply to every hospital was fixed by the DC today.Various private doctors said the Civil Hospital was being prioritised over private hospitals for the supply.However, Dr Neelkanth Bhagat, anesthetist, Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, said, “Though we used to have a steady oxygen supply of six to seven hours earlier, last night, there was a crunch at the hospital. The supply reduced in April as the vehicles supplied cylinders here for just two hours and went to private hospitals. We have 130 to 150 cylinders from our own plant and need 250 to 300 more cylinders to meet the demand at the 56-bedded level-3 ICU.”While presiding over a review meeting with health officials at the local Civil Hospital, ADC Vishesh Sarangal assured them of 13 oxygen concentrators at the hospital.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “As many as 11 oxygen concentrators have been set up at the Civil Hospital, of which nine were already operational. Our liquified oxygen supply from Panipat has not come in for about a week.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-administration-begins-rationing-of-o2-243498
24-04-2021||---||Five deaths, 465 new cases reported in jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 23With 465 new cases of Covid reported in Jalandhar today, the district tally reached 38,865. Of these 465, as many as 33 belong to other districts. Five persons also died of Covid the district today taking the death toll to 1,039. While 34,272 people have so far been discharged, there are 3,554 active cases in the district.3 die, 72 infections in K’thalaIn Kapurthala , 72 people tested positive for Covid today taking the district tally to 11,395 cases. Three deaths were also reported. The deceased include a 78-year-old woman, a resident of Kala Sanghian, a 78-year-old resident of Bahwanipur and a 51-year-old man from Kapurthala city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-deaths-465-new-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-243499
24-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Five die, 243 test +ve in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, April 23The district reported four more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 686 on Friday. Besides, the district also witnessed 243 fresh cases taking the tally to 17,339.Giving information about the cases, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,744 and 16,340 patients had recovered from the virus.Out of the total number of cases reported today, 28 patients were from Hoshiarpur city, 21 were from other districts and the remaining 194 were from other health blocks of the district and of the five deaths reported, one each was from a Jalandhar hospital and Amritsar Medical College while three died at Hoshiarpur hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-die-243-test-ve-in-hoshiarpur-243500
24-04-2021||---||Jalandhar eateries rue losses owing to ban on dining facilities||Jalandhar, April 23Various dhabas, clubs, restaurants and other eateries rue that they are incurring huge losses on account of the ban on dining facilities on their premises on the orders of the state government since this week.As the Chandigarh Administration lifted the weekend lockdown orders at the insistence of the shopkeepers and traders, even the Jalandhar-based eatery owners are demanding that a ban on dining facilities be lifted as it had been adversely affecting their business.Janak Raj, who owns a popular Punjabi dhaba on Ladowali Road, says: "We have had a very little demand for packing as our entire clientele, which primarily includes visitors to the District Administrative Complex, need a place to sit and have their meals. Since we cannot provide them seating facilities as per the new norms of the state government, we have lost almost all of our business. We were providing very clean and hygienic food maintaining proper Covid norms. If the Chandigarh Administration has bowed down to the demand of its businessmen, even the state government should pay a heed to our grievances and let us restore our business normally like them."The eatery owners are saying that the curfew being imposed at 8 pm too had been denting their business. “Even if the state government wants to disallow dining facilities, it should at least permit the customers to take away their food at least till 10 pm. It will be a big relief to all of us. Most people think about their dinner order around 8.30 pm but we are already closed by then”.“So, 60 per cent of our food business has got affected due to the prevailing pandemic and the strict guidelines being issued by the government. A health disorder can be overcome after some days but a financial turmoil is even harder to recover from,” said Major Singh, who runs an eatery at Model House locality here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-eateries-rue-losses-owing-to-ban-on-dining-facilities-243505
24-04-2021||---||IKGPTU staff oppose decision to set up skill varsity at Chamkaur Sahib||Kapurthala, April 23The staff of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) here is sore over the fact that the state government, without any prior recommendation of the varsity’s Board of Governors, has okayed the upgradation of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Institute of Skills at Chamkaur Sahib into a skill university from the 2021-22 session.Notably, the Sri Guru Gobind Singh Skill Institute was to come up as IKGPTU’s constituent campus. The IKGPTU staff has alleged that the NOC for change of land use (CLU) was yet to be granted for the site and not even a single brick had been laid yet for setting up of the constituent campus when the government had even announced the upgradation of the proposed institute as a university.Dr Dinesh Kumar, president of the University Teacher Welfare Association, said the IKGPTU had not granted any approval for it to be turned to a Skill University and the state government had no power to take any decision of its upgradation. “The Board of Governors is the sole decision-making body of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University,” he maintains.Pawan Kumar Khichy, president, PTU Non-Teaching Employees Association, recalled: “The state government had planned to develop Skill University at Chamkaur Sahib as per the initial announcement made by the Punjab Chief Minister in 2017. But due to financial crisis, the state government could not fund the project and eventually put the financial burden on IKGPTU to establish its campus there with a plan to later convert it into Skill University.”He added: “In 2016 also, the then SAD-BJP government bifurcated IKGPTU into two universities and created Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University for which they demanded Rs 550 crore from IKGPTU. A civil writ petition was filed by employees of IKGPTU against this decision of the Punjab government in the Punjab and Haryana High Court on which verdict came against the state government and its decision was held unconstitutional. The High Court further went on to state that ‘it is an outrageous and arbitrary provision which permits one separate statutory entity to make forays into the financial autonomy of another statutory entity created under a separate Act without there being a provision in it enabling such an outflow’. But by then, Rs 150 crore had already transferred. Going on the same lines, the current Punjab government is using the financial resources of IKGPTU to establish yet another university.”Pre-empting such a move, the employee association leaders said they had already raised an alarm and had written to the Board of Governors not to establish any campus at Chamkaur Sahib via an email sent on October 18, 2018, but the BoG had then ignored the concerns of its employees.They further alleged: “It is clear that the Punjab Government has very cleverly chose this time for the announcement as strict curbs have been imposed in Punjab regarding holding any protest. If the available financial resources of IKGPTU are diverted, then there shall be no funds left for the development of the university and to pay salary to employees”. The employee associations have planned to meet Governor of Punjab and Chancellor IKGPTU and Chairman BoG, IKGPTU, to register their grievance. Politics behind move?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-staff-oppose-decision-to-set-up-skill-varsity-at-chamkaur-sahib-243491
24-04-2021||---||Wrong info by Covid test takers irks officials||Nawanshahr, April 23Giving a wrong address and a fake telephone number, switching off mobile phones after giving Covid samples, etc, are some of the incidents which have been causing trouble to the Health Department since the outbreak of the pandemic.The Health Department is still dealing with cases where health workers first take samples and then they start ‘tracking’ the person whose test report comes back positive.It seems strange that a year has passed and people are still staying away from getting their Covid-19 tests done.An official of the Nawanshahr Health Department, who remains active on field, said tracing the patient becomes a herculean task. “There are so many people who provide us their samples but give wrong information regarding their address and phone numbers. But we cannot reconfirm the contact information of each and everyone. In such cases if someone turns out to be positive, then only we get to know that the phone number was wrong. So, we send ASHA workers to look for them and find them. It is a challenging work,” he said.Strangely, in some cases, when a person gets to know that he is positive, he switches off the phone so that no one could contact him. Some instances have also come to the fore where persons in home isolation also switch their mobiles off.Nawanshahr Civil Surgeon Gurdeep Singh Kapur said the department was motivating people not to indulge in such activities. “The number of cases is less than before but they are still there which is not right. People must know that if they won’t take this seriously, there will be problems,” he said.A Health Department official said people did not even specify their addresses and they fill only the name of society or the area. “Now you tell us, if the report of that person is positive, and the contact information given is wrong, how we are supposed to find that one person in the entire society complex. So, even today, there are people who do not want to come forward and it is such a painstaking task for us,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wrong-info-by-covid-test-takers-irks-officials-243492
24-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Running low, Jalandhar private hospitals gasp for oxygen||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 23The district Civil Hospital ran out of oxygen supply for the first time late last night. SOS calls were made to the suppliers, leading to provisioning of oxygen early today. Similarly, a number of private hospitals have said they are on the brink of exhausting their supplies.A letter by the DC on April 19 to the Punjab Health Systems Corporation MD says of the 3,500 oxygen cylinders required in Jalandhar every day, 500 are being sent out to Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr. Jalandhar can only produce 2,400 cylinders from two plants.Designated supply ensuredOf 2,200 cylinders generated in city, 400 are sent to other districts. The remaining have to be divided equally among private hospitals. Designated supply has been ensured. Officials have been deputed at processing units to eliminate foul play. — Ghanshyam Thori, DCAs the number of patients grows in city hospitals, the district needs a 16 MT tanker of liquid oxygen from outside to meet its demands, says the administration. To add to this, the district has at least 27 patients referred from outside the state, including Delhi, Himachal, Haryana and Jammu.Private hospitals warned that lack of oxygen was driving the city’s health system to the brink of collapse.Dr BS Johal, proprietor of Johal Hospital, submitted to the DC and the Civil Surgeon he was referring five of his patients to the Civil Hospital due to lack of oxygen.“I had 47 patients on oxygen support with six hours of supply left this afternoon. We can’t let our patients die. There was no option but to refer them. Against the quota of 65 cylinders a day, we need 170 to 180. After the letter, we were allotted 100. We still need strict rationing. We have a clear crisis on our hands,” he said.Dr Johal has 55 Covid beds, of which 42 are occupied and five patients were referred this afternoon. Dr Jasbir Mann of Mann Medicity said: “We are only getting 30 to 35 per cent of our oxygen requirement. Of the 40 beds reserved for level 3 patients, 30 are occupied. Against the requirement of 500 cylinders per day, 153 have been allotted. If the situation persists, we will be unable to take in level 3 patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/running-low-jalandhar-private-hospitals-gasp-for-oxygen-243335
