25-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||O2 supplies run short, Jalandhar hospitals scrape bottom of barrel||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 24A day after Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori ensured rationing of oxygen cylinders in the district, some private hospitals on Saturday again received less than promised cylinders and others barely enough to make do.The number of Covid cases in the nation is expected to peak in May and there’s a persistent shortage of oxygen in most of the district hospitals. Despite the efforts being made by the district administration, there is no respite from the gas scarcity. Several hospitals have also expressed their concern over the administration’s plans.Thori wrote to the Executive Director of the Indian Oil Corporation for an urgent requirement of 50 MT oxygen and 20 more oxygen concentrators for the Civil Hospital. While 1,884 cylinders of oxygen have been rationed across 60 hospitals, including the Civil Hospital, some hospitals rued that the cylinders promised were only about 25 per cent of the capacity that they require and others said they would be unable to tackle level-3 Covid inflow with a slight hike in such cases.Dr Navjot Dahiya, president, IMA Punjab Chapter and Managing Director, Global Hospital, said “I had been promised 40 cylinders but have received only 20. Due to this, we are unable to take in level-3 patients. Despite several attempts, we have been unable to contact the nodal officers. It is just April-end and the situation is so bad. What would happen when we near the peak? The scenario could be worse in May. There is a need of a permanent crisis management station where at least 15 ambulances are on standby to ferry patients. The district needs at least 4,000 cylinders to safely tide over the crisis.”Dr BS Johal from Johal Hospital here said, “I have received my supply of 100 cylinders as promised. With the demise of one patient and another patient’s recovery, we admitted two new patients in their place but are not in a position to accept around 20 distress call that we received in the past 24 hours. The reason behind this is the shortage of oxygen and with the current supply, we won’t be able to handle more patients in bulk.”Dr Jasbir Mann, Managing Director, Mann Medicity here said, “As many as 153 cylinders have been allocated to us, but our requirement is 300 per day. Patient inflow can only be managed in proportion to the cylinders that we are getting.”The DC said, “We have sought 50 MT of oxygen. We are also expecting 16 MT of liquid oxygen to arrive by today night. An additional 20 oxygen concentrators for the Civil Hospital have also been ordered. If the Civil Hospital still faces a crisis, the patients can be referred to Amritsar. All efforts are being made to ensure oxygen supply in the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/o2-supplies-run-short-jalandhar-hospitals-scrape-bottom-of-barrel-243893
25-04-2021||Jalandhar||Doctor, aide held  for black marketing Remdesivir||An FIR was registered against Dr Gurpreet and his employee Raman Kumar for black marketing of Remdesivir injections.During a raid by the Drug Department, several empty vials of Remdesivir were found at a medical centre, for which no bill of purchase or receipt of patients was produced.A decoy patient of the Drug Department approached Raman for buying Remdesivir injections. Called at the MGK Medical Centre in Jalandhar, the two vials of the drug were sold to the decoy for Rs10,000.A case under Section 420 of the IPC, Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, Section 57 of the Disaster Management Act and the Drug (Prices Control) Order, 2013, has been registered against the duo. While a vial of Remdesivir costs between Rs962 and Rs3,050 in the market; they was selling two vials for Rs10,000 (one for Rs5,000).Drug Inspector Anupama Kalia said: “A decoy was sold Remdesivir vials for Rs10,000 in violation of the government notification regulating its price. During the inspection of the centre, 12 empty vials of Remdesvir were also found, for which the doctor could not produce any bill of purchase or patients’ records.”SHO Ramandeep Singh said: “Raman Kumar was selling Remdesivir at exorbitant prices. Vials of Remdesivir were also found with Dr Gurpreet. They were arrested.”The arrest comes hours after the doctors in the district were clamouring about a shortage of Remdesivir vaccines. Across hospitals, teams are falling short of different doses of the injection, which they said were only available in black and that too at exorbitant prices. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctor-aide-held-for-black-marketing-remdesivir-243894
25-04-2021||Jalandhar||6 fall prey to virus, 544 fresh cases reported in Jalandhar district||As many as 544 new cases of Covid were reported in Jalandhar district on Saturday. With this, the tally reached 39,409. Of these 544, as many as 32 belong to other districts. Six people succumbed in the district, thus taking the death toll to 1,045. At present, the district has 3,682 active cases and 34,682 people have recovered so far.In Kapurthala, 131 people tested positive today. The district tally reached 11,526 cases. The health authorities reported three deaths in the district.Five die in Hoshiarpur distThe district health authorities reported five Covid-19 related deaths on Satruday. With this, the death toll increased to 691 in the district. The authorities reported 218 fresh cases, thus taking the tally to 17,548.Markets to remainshut todayJalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today issued orders with regards to lockdown to be imposed in the district on Sunday. The orders specified that all markets, malls, weekly markets, restaurants, hotels, shops (other than those for essential services) would remain closed on Sunday. All shops for sale of items such as cooked food, fruits, vegetables, milk and animal fodder too would remain close and the supplies would be allowed only for home deliveries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-fall-prey-to-virus-544-fresh-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-243895
25-04-2021||---||Farmers forced to stock wheat : SAD||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 24The Shiromani Akali Dal’s activists staged protest against the state government for its alleged failure to arrange gunny bags for smooth procurement of wheat crop.Led by MLA and Jalandhar chief (rural) Gurpartap Singh Wadala, party leaders, including MLAs Pawan Tinu and Baldev Khaira, today submitted a memorandum to Governor through Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori.The leaders alleged that the issue was not being resolved despite repeated reminders to the government.Wadala said as wheat crop was not being procured and lifted from mandis, farmers were unable to bring more harvested crop. The Akalis alleged that farmers were being forced to keep their wheat in tractor-trailers or stock at homes as there was no space left in grain markets.They said due to non-availability of gunny bags, even used bags were being black marketed. They demanded an immediate relief for affected farmers and asked the government to ensure hassle-free procurement of crop. The SAD leaders also demanded resignation of Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-forced-to-stock-wheat-sad-243896
25-04-2021||---||Nurpur Lubana, Sangojla villages bag nat’l awards||Jalandhar, April 24Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday presented national awards to Nurpur Lubana and Sangojla village in Kapurthala for their outstanding performance in a virtual event.Each year, Prime Minister presents the awards personally to panchayats, but in the wake of the pandemic, the event was held online this time.Sangojla village was selected for “ Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Empowerment Award” and Nurpur Lubana was selected for “Bal Mitartai Purskar”.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal along with panchayat members concerned participated in the event at the District Administrative Complex.The Prime Minister lauded the panchayats and the district administration for their outstanding contribution towards development works and reforms in education sector.The first instalment of the cash prize (Rs 5 lakh) was received as it was sent directly to the accounts of the panchayats by the Prime Minister.The Deputy Commissioner honoured the panchayats with a letter of appreciation sent by the Union Ministry of Rural Development.She said this was made possible by the work being done by the Punjab Government for an overall development of villages under the ‘Smart Village’ scheme.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) SP Angra said interlocking tiles were laid at a cost of more than Rs 10 lakhs at Sangojla village, besides providing sewerage. Apart from this Rs 4 lakh had been spent on construction of a panchayat house, playground under the MGNREGA and Rs 4 lakh had been spent on roads leading to dhanis.Lakhwinder Singh Randhawam, DDPO, said Nurpur Lubana panchayat developed a smart school, thus creating conducive environment for educating children.Jarnail Singh, sarpanch, Nurpur Lubana and Sukhjit Singh, sarpanch, Sangojla, along with others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurpur-lubana-sangojla-villages-bag-natl-awards-243897
25-04-2021||Jalandhar||35 buses challaned for plying illegally||The Secretary, Regional Transport Authority (RTA), on Saturday issued challans to the owners of nearly 35 buses plying illegally to the national capital and other states. Among the 35 buses, 15 were tourist buses.Barjinder Singh, Zonal Secretary, RTA, stated that on the instructions of State Transport Commissioner, a challan drive was initiated against the illegal bused plying without permits. Following which, after conducting the drive for four days between 3 am to 11 am, as many as 300 buses were checked and around 75 were issued challans. Around 7 lakh fine was also recovered from the bus operators.“The transport buses, tourist buses and other vehicles were illegally moving to Delhi, Rajasthan and UP. They were also found evading taxes. During the last four days, the documents of about 300 tourist buses, trucks, tippers and other vehicles were checked. In which challans were issued to 75 tourist buses, trucks, tippers and other vehicles”, added the Secretary. Barjinder also appealed to the bus, tipper and truck drivers to follow Covid norms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/35-buses-challaned-for-plying-illegally-243898
25-04-2021||In the 1830s||Golaknath Memorial Church, Jalandhar: Religious legacy stands tall||Tutored under Missionary Alexander Duff at Calcutta and taking up missionary work first in Ludhiana under his “guru” Rev John Newton, he was eventually sent to Jullundur to set up a mission here. He left his home without a penny in his pocket and his arrival and wanderings across India and eventually on reaching Ludhiana in 1836, he changed the course of his life and Christianity in the region.Under Rev John Newton, he was sent to Jullundur and finally his work began on a 12-acre land between the city and the bastis.While much of the city is dramatically altered, what fortunately survives is the parts of that 12-acre land, a tract of which now houses the Golaknath Memorial Church, built in memory of Rev Golaknath.The Golaknath family left a legacy of education, promotion of secular values and uplift of women. He had 12 children, including four daughters and eight sons. One of the daughters died very young and he tutored all three daughters enduring high education for them. During his stay, the mission propagated women’s education. Not only this, his wife was also a pioneer in ensuring better medical services for women in the region.A Christian congregation, which grew dramatically under him, still exists. The Sunday service at the church is heavily attended. The Christian congregation also saw a secular mix of eminent citizens from all communities lending patronage. His house used to witness frequent gatherings of Muslims and Hindus, who co-existed in harmony under his patronage. Rev Golaknath was also a contemporary of Swami Dayanand Saraswati and had some famous encounters with him. As a youngster, he was inspired by Raja Ram Mohan Roy.Housed in the Mission Compound area of the city, a still peaceful and green spot, the church towards the end of the 19th Century was built at a cost of Rs6,187 (as a plaque at the church informs) — a fortune in those days.The oldest church in Jalandhar, it is a rare feat in architecture, which as the family tells, was modelled after a church in Jerusalem.The 126-year-old church building is situated in a well-manicured lawn. It has plaques and stones dating back to hundreds of years. An arched wooden door serves as the entrance to the church. The ornamental pulpit is also very old. The church’s white porch ushers one to the nave marked on both sides by old wood benches dating back probably to its inception. Its imposing exterior red brick building is marked by buttresses and flying buttresses. It also has a transept and a choir. A huge bell tower also houses a bell made of a special alloy. An inscription at the very entrance details monetary contributions made by family and friends.Namita Golaknath, the great granddaughter of Golaknath Chatterjee, says: “It was specially fashioned after a church in Jerusalem. The map of church was brought in by his son William Golaknath. It was a labour of love by the Christian congregation in Jalandhar in memory of my great grandfather the Rev Golaknath Chatterjee.”While Golaknath’s daughter Priscilla was married to Kapurthala royal Raja Harnam Singh, their daughter Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, who was India’s first health minister and a feisty leader, was the direct descendant of Golaknath Chatterjee.Mary Chaterjee, one of the daughters of Rev Golaknath Chaterjee, was married to Kali Charan Chatterjee, another eminent educationist and academic. He taught at the mission in Lahore and subsequently at the Forman Christian College, that also has a ‘Chatterjee Science Block’ dedicated to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/golaknath-memorial-church-jalandhar-religious-legacy-stands-tall-243899
25-04-2021||Kapurthala||Kapurthala under lockdown today||District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal has issued orders imposing a lockdown in Kapurthala district tomorrow (Sunday). As per the April 19 orders, only shops offering essential services will remain open. The DC clarified all malls, markets, restaurants, hotels, etc. would be shut in view of Covid. Essential services such as medical stores, laboratories, grocery shops, MRI and CT scan centres, etc. would stay open, while sweets and bakery shops would be closed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-under-lockdown-today-243799
