26-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Now, Congress’ Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal grooves sans mask||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 25Even as the state grapples with increasing number of Covid-19 cases, a video of Congress’ Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal has gone viral on the social media wherein he is seen dancing sans a facemask at a wedding.Admn: Verifying if permission soughtNo complaint has been filed against the organisers. The police are verifying whether a permission was sought for organising the gathering. — Deepti Uppal, Kapurthala DCFlouting the social distancing norms, the MLA is seen grooving surrounded by two dozen friends and relatives. None of them is wearing a mask. Some other local leaders are also seen in the video.The government order banning mass gatherings too was flouted as more than 20 attendees are visible in the video.As per sources, it was the marriage function of Phagwara former councillor Davinder Sapra’s daughter.The 40-second video clip has drawn sharp criticism from locals and social media users. Though the organisers claimed it was a family function with a limited gathering and all Covid-19 rules were strictly followed, the video suggests otherwise.In a similar incident last year, then SSP Navjot Singh Mahal tested positive a day after he attended the wedding of senior Congress leader Avtar Henry’s daughter. The event was attended by MLAs, bureaucrats and many eminent officials of the district.Dhaliwal could not be contacted for comment. Kapurthala District Commissioner Deepti Uppal said no complaint had been filed against the organisers and the police were verifying whether permission was sought for the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-congress-phagwara-mla-balwinder-singh-dhaliwal-grooves-sans-mask-244243
26-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Brutally raped in Kapurthala, 7-yr-old battles for life in PGI||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 25A seven-year-old girl’s life hangs in the balance after she was brutally raped allegedly by a 26-year-old man trusted by her parents. Admitted to the PGI, Chandigarh, the minor was raped on March 15 allegedly by her father’s acquaintance at the Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala. Over a month after she was brutalised, her condition continues to be serious.Want help for treatment: fatherWe are poor. I just want help for my daughter’s treatment. Once she recovers, I wish to educate her and see her become an officer. I urge government to ensure good treatment for her — Victim’s fatherVictim needs eight more surgeriesThe victim has undergone two surgeries and will need at least eight more due to severe intestinal damage. She was shifted to the PGI because she needed a plastic surgeon for internal corrective surgeries — Kanwardeep Kaur, Kapurthala SSPDaughter of a migrant labourer, the girl was raped by the accused on the pretext of getting her biscuits. While her father found her in a pool of blood in jhuggis outside the RCF, her private parts had been brutalised with a piece of wood. As a result, her uterus had to be removed and a colostomy conducted. Post two surgeries, and several more to go, her condition remains serious.The girl’s father, a daily wager from Bihar, along with his wife has been with her at the hospital for the past one month. The couple have four more children who stay at home alone in Kapurthala.“She is the most intelligent of my kids. Now she cries all day. I had been dreaming of getting her good education. Our dreams have been shattered. She writhes in pain all day, injections provide only momentary solace,” he said.“After the rape, on March 16, her uterus had to be removed at Amritsar (hospital). When her condition worsened, she was referred to the PGI. Now, her ultrasound has revealed swelling in stomach and she can’t urinate. Doctors say she will have to be operated again,” he said.The family received some monetary help from the Kapurthala police and local NGO Anmol, he said, seeking financial aid for her treatment.On March 15, accused Mukesh Kumar (26) came to their shanty at Kapurthala and took their daughter out on the pretext of getting her biscuits. After searching for hours, when he didn’t return, the family finally spotted Mukesh in a market. On being pressed about the whereabouts of the girl, he confessed to the crime.The girl was abandoned in jhuggis near the RCF. An FIR was lodged under Sections 376 A&B and 307 of the IPC and 6 of the POCSO Act. The accused is currently lodged in the Gurdaspur jail.Kapurthala SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said: “A few days ago, Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema donated 1 lakh to the family and our local teams have voluntarily been disbursing rations to the family’s children in Kapurthala.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/brutally-raped-in-kapurthala-7-yr-old-battles-for-life-in-pgi-244256
26-04-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Restrictions no remedy, respecting norms holds the key||People must follow health guidelinesThe sudden hike in number of Covid cases around the nation is a matter of concern. The second wave of the virus is at its peak. Solely blaming the government for the spike is not right. Many people don''t follow norms like wearing face masks or maintaining distance at various public places throwing the safety norms to the winds.Citizens can help the authorities fight and control the pandemic by following guidelines honestly. They should cooperate with the government.Saahil HansRestrict unwanted movement of peopleI don't think that night curfew can decrease the rate of Covid infections until people start following the norms properly. We could have avoided the present situation if we had followed the guidelines earlier itself. Imposition of night curfew will help restricting the movement of people at night but what about daytime? The situation can't be handled until people cooperate with the government and follow the norms strictly.Briksha MalhotraWill certainly help in containing covidThe pandemic has spread its tentacles, due to government apathy and mismanagement. Inability to predict its virulence and future course of action, inadequate healthcare infrastructure, and lack of public awareness and participation in the fight against the virus comprise of the reasons behind the spike in cases. With the tally and toll increasing by record-high daily, the second wave is proving to be more destructive than the previous one. Unfortunately, faced with an acute shortage of oximetres, oxygen cylinders, hospital beds, ventilators, vaccines and other medicines, medical staff, ambulances and even crematoriums and burial places, the nation has already stretched its healthcare resources and is facing a severe strain. The Centre and state governments are on tenterhooks to contain community transmission of the virus. In view of the worsening situation, many states have resorted to night curfews and weekend lockdowns, despite experts questioning their logic and efficacy. They consider these preventive measures unscientific and impractical which will undermine economic activity and lead to loss of jobs and livelihoods. But the safety of human lives is more important than economic revival. Though night curfew will not break the viral transmission chain, it will certainly make a dent. Under its psychological impact, people will realise gravity of the situation and avoid venturing out for unnecessary socialisation at parties and binges. Moreover, night curfew will provide some respite to overwhelmingly stressed healthcare workers and facilities. Since the current humanitarian crisis may not end any time soon, we should emulate western countries to formulate well-devised and coordinated plans to reduce the Covid onslaught. Mending its past mistakes, the government should strengthen national healthcare system, ramp up tracing, testing and treatment process, revamp vaccination drive, impose a cap on mega social, political and religious gatherings, and ensure strict compliance with Covid protocols.DS KangLockdown should be imposedUnfortunately, the second wave of Covid-19,which is more contagious and lethal than the previous one is here. The situation has worsened as the virus has mutated. Rather than imposing night curfew, the government must announce lockdown for a week or 10 days to break the chain,as is being done in UP and Rajasthan. A large number of people can be seen flouting the norms at public places, which needs to be checked. People must know their responsibility and cooperate with the government in following the norms to check the spread of the virus. Though daily-wagers suffer a lot due to lockdown, there is no other effective way to break the chain and stop the transmission among masses. Many European countries are re-imposing lockdown because of the resurgence. The rate of vaccination needs to be increased drastically. Health infrastructure too needs to be ramped up as was done in China and other countries. The government must ban political rallies. Prestigious medical journal Lancet had published in its latest edition that Covid-19 is air-borne and one does not need to be in direct contact with the patient to be infected. Thus people must always wear mask while going outside.Dr JS WadhwaAuthorities should be stricterSecond wave of Covid is proving to be more dangerous than the previous one. After a little respite since the outbreak, the nation is witnessing a sudden spike in number of cases and fatalities. Reviewing the scenario, the Centre and state governments had issued revised guidelines to break the chain. The Maharashtra Government had imposed complete lockdown for one week in view of the situation going out of control. With the situation deteriorating in Punjab, the state government resorted to extended night curfew from 8pm to 5 am besides, other measures to check the spread. Hotels, gyms, restaurants, cinemas, shopping malls have been closed and shops and bazaars have been asked to follow the norms strictly. At this juncture, most of the people do realise the intensity of the current wave, yet a few question the relevance of night curfew to contain the spread. People still can be found flouting the norms. The authorities should be more strict against the violators as mere imposition of night curfew will not suffice.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathRamp up vaccination drive in the stateAmid the second wave, night curfew has been imposed in many states and UTs. But it seems to be a futile exercise and will not serve the purpose. Majority of people remain indoors at night and markets, malls and stores also shut down at a fixed time. Night curfew will rather increase rush at these places during daytime and worsen the situation. It will also hit the economic interests of owners of hotels, restaurants, cafes and bars, and deprive their workers of livelihoods. There is no substitute to efficient pandemic preparedness and management. Keeping in view the transmissibility and lethality of the new strains, the government should augment the supply of medical equipment, vaccines and medicines. It is shameful that the general public does not understand the gravity of the situation and still flout the norms. The government should act strictly against the violators. The announcement of a liberalised vaccination strategy by the Centre is a welcome step that will help us reach herd immunity and eventually tide over the severe Covid crisis.Tajpreet S KangA wake-up call for govt, peopleImposition of night curfew as a measure to curb the spread of virus will definitely benefit if implemented strictly. It is nothing but a soft option of lockdown which is recommended to be enforced as alast resort in view of its worst effects on economic activities and livelihood of citizens. Night curfew is considered to be the best tool ofcreating general awareness about the urgent need of adopting Covid-19appropriate discipline in the society. This should be taken as a wakeup call for people, necessitating the required preparation to face the worst situation at any time in future. However, the benefits accrued through it cannot be allowed to be wasted through unregulated social behavior during the non-curfew day hours. The public should continue wearing masks as per the prescribed manner, avoid gatherings, sanitise hands at regular intervals, maintain physical distancing, avoid going leaving unless for essential activities, ensure physical fitness through yoga and exercises coupled with simple nutritious food, and above all a positive attitude towards life and the society.Jagdish ChanderWill help check the spread of virusOwing to the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state, under the new notification by the government, gatherings at weddings, funerals and other religious functions have been capped and cinemas, hotels, gyms, coaching centres and sports complexes have been closed. The government should impose a complete lockdown that will restrict the movement of people and will help breaking the chain. People will be saved from the virus by administering the vaccine to them or making them avoid coming in contact with the virus.Shashi KiranWill help know gravity of situationRajat Kumar MohindruQUESTIONThe government is set to start vaccination for those between 18 and 45 years. Amid the present situation of shortage of vaccines, do you think the state will be able to meet the requirement?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (April 29).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/restrictions-no-remedy-respecting-norms-holds-the-key-244096
26-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Ex-PSIDC deputy Brahmshankar Jimpa is AAP state joint secretary||Hoshiarpur, April 25The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has appointed former PSIDC vice-chairman and Ward Number 6 councillor Brahmshankar Jimpa as the party’s state joint secretary. The party has appointed district president Sandeep Saini as secretary of trade wing (Punjab), while Dilip Ohri has been appointed district president in his place. This information was given by state joint secretary Harminder Singh Bakshi in a press conference held here on Saturday. He said that changes were made in the party organisation giving important responsibilities to dedicated leaders.Replying to a question, he claimed that the people of the state were ready to bring in the AAP government in 2022. Jimpa is a very popular leader of masses and in view of his dedication towards the people, the important party responsibility is given to him, he said.Jimpa thanked the party high command for appointing him as the state joint secretary. He thanked the party supremo and Delhi Chief Minister, Arvind Kejriwal, for giving him time to discuss the scenario and needs of Punjab. He said that he would fulfill the responsibility given to him by the party with utmost sincerity.Jimpa said people were fed up with the policies of the incumbent government and were waiting for a big change in Punjab. He said that AAP would contest the elections in Hoshiarpur with full unity and every candidate fielded would be supported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-psidc-deputy-brahmshankar-jimpa-is-aap-state-joint-secretary-244087
26-04-2021||---||‘DNA discovery is a milestone to modern molecular biology’||Jalandhar, April 25Pushpa Gujral Science City organised a webinar on the occasion of the World DNA Day to mark discovery of double helix structure of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953. Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Pushpa Gujral Science City, said discovery of DNA marked a milestone in the history of science and gave rise to modern molecular biology.Further, understanding the structure and function of DNA has helped revolutionise the investigation of disease pathways, assess an individual’s genetic susceptibility to specific diseases, diagnose genetic disorders, formulate new drugs, reveal genetic makeup of a person through DNA fingerprinting used as evidence in courts, as well as, to look for cures for various diseases, she said.Dr Sanjay Kumar, Director, CSIR-Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology, Palampur, said, “DNA is a type of chemical code that contains instructions known as genes, for how a body and all its different parts grow, develop, function, and maintain themselves. The discovery of DNA has radically changed the way we breed and utilise crops and the means by which we recognise and protect our plant biodiversity.”He said, “It has accelerated our ability to breed crops with desirable traits such as disease resistance, cold and drought tolerance. Further, Human Genome Project -an international research project that accurately determined the sequence of 3 billion nucleotide base pairs and mapping of all the genes found in the human genome has enabled to search for genes linked to different types of disease.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dna-discovery-is-a-milestone-to-modern-molecular-biology-244088
26-04-2021||---||Facilitate smooth transition from plastics to compostable bags: NGO to government||Jalandhar, April 25Action Group Against Plastic Pollution (AGAPP), an NGO-based in Jalandhar, has urged the government to facilitate a smooth transition from plastics to compostable bags by all users in the state.Navneet Bhullar, an activist with the group, said: “We are urging the state government to raise awareness to increase the demand for such bags, which are manufactured from starch. The state has abundant amount of starch to start its manufacturing plant. We have seen that local shopkeepers in Jalandhar are unaware of already existing availability of these bags in the market.”Bhullar said: “It is easy to differentiate genuine compostable bag from the counterfeit. The latter will not fully dissolve in diethyl chlorine, which the civic body authorities can be trained to test. Compostable plastic bags are fully compostable under industrial compostable conditions.”She said: “Plastic bags cannot be banned till a feasible practical alternative is available as a substitute. Jute and paper promoted by the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company are not a practical alternative.”The NGO estimates that 1,000 tonnes of plastic bags are being used daily in Punjab. “We cannot be complacent after microplastics have invaded our food chain and lakhs of plastic bags are used rampantly, polluting arable land and water bodies. By 2050, an estimate determines that there may be more plastic than fish in the oceans.”AGAPP members said they mourned on the Earth Day, adding that: “We have been helplessly watching our land and water getting polluted by plastic waste. But, the NGO is liaising with schools across the state to write emails to the CM, PPCB, CPCB and the Directorate of Environment in the next seven days as a part of the AGAPP’s Earth Day-2021 campaign.”Members of the NGO are peeved over the fact that the state government had in 2016 amended the Punjab Plastic Carry Bags Control Act, 2005, to prohibit manufacturing, stocking, distribution, recycling, sale or use of plastic carry bags and containers made of virgin or recycled plastic and plastic items having one time use such as disposable plastic cups, spoons, forks, and straws. However, the ban had never been enforced except for a few weeks’ in 2016, they stressed.Bhullar said: “Since December 2020, we have been writing to the Punjab CM, Local Bodies’ Minister, Punjab Pollution Control Board, Central Pollution Control Board as well as the Directorate of Environment and Climate Change, Punjab, to ensure a complete ban on plastics.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/facilitate-smooth-transition-from-plastics-to-compostable-bags-ngo-to-government-244089
26-04-2021||---||Free cooked food for Covid patients in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 25Taking a cue from the voluntary services being offered in the NCR and Chandigarh for Covid patients, the Rotary Club, Jalandhar, too, has offered its services for providing free home-cooked food for the ailing families in the city.Prabhpal S Pannu, City Rotary club ChiefWe have hundreds of members of the club scattered all through Jalandhar. We all will cook little extra food at our places and supply it wherever needed.Rotary Club president Prabhpal Singh Pannu said he had shared three numbers of the club members on social media asking the Covid-affected families to make a call for food to them so that meals could be delivered at their doorsteps. “We will start operating as soon as we start getting calls from tomorrow morning”, he said.Pannu said, “We have hundreds of members of the club scattered all through Jalandhar. We all will cook little extra food at our places and supply it wherever needed. The three members, including me, will coordinate and depute the member nearest to the affected family to supply cooked food in disposal containers to these families.”The Rotarians said it had come to their notice that many families in home isolation were facing trouble in cooking food as the women were either unwell or there were some mix of positive and negative patients who could not take food from one another.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/free-cooked-food-for-covid-patients-in-jalandhar-244090
26-04-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers’ stir: 17-year-old Dasuya girl pens Inquilab 2020||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 25Amarveer Kaur (17) from Dasuya, Hoshiarpur, has made her presence felt everywhere, including overseas with her book ‘Inquilab 2020’.The book features various events of farmers’ protest so that future generations can read about the struggle of the farming community. This book is based on research conducted on the Indian Peasants Movement (Kisan Ekta Morcha) from September 2020 to December 2020.In the book, Amarveer has mentioned articles and edits from various newspapers to give it authenticity and more weightage. She has documented day-to-day events and remembers all dates by heart.The 17-year-old has also mentioned other issues, which are prevalent in Punjab. Amarveer, who initially planned to write the book in Punjabi, said, “In Punjab, we all know what is going on. This is not only for us, but for those who reside abroad as well.”An excerpt from the book reads: “Farmers are struggling since September 15 against agricultural ordinances (now laws), the fear of which shall snatch their livelihood in the coming decade. The year 2020, proved to be one of the worst years of civilisation. It did no good, but eventually gave momentum to the farmers’ revolution of 2020. Farmers have stood against the injustice for almost 73 years after Independence and before. It is one of the most revolutionary movement in which, not only men, but women participated, along with poor and rich, young and old. In my words, it’s going to be the most dramatic revolution in an independent democratic rule, where, representatives of people try to become rulers and henceforth, plan to become dictators.”She said she was trying to know and understand the world and things around both analytically and emotionally.An allrounder||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-stir-17-year-old-dasuya-girl-pens-inquilab-2020-244091
26-04-2021||---||Taking on virus head on||Jalandhar, April 25After one year, the pandemic has become more fatal and disastrous, while those on the frontline are still doing their bit to protect people from getting affected.Senior Medical Officer (SMO) AS Duggal, who has been in the service for the last 28 years, said he has never seen such challenges and gloom in his career before.To prepare for a hectic day, Dr Duggal wakes up at 6 in the morning and goes for a long walk. “Though my duty starts at 9 am, I am always concerned about patients. The pandemic has taken over everything,” he said.He actively scrutinises WhatsApp groups on his mobile phone, makes plan related to vaccination sites and collection of samples.In Shahkot, 22 sites have been chosen for vaccination where Dr Duggal sends his teams and ensures adequate supply of vaccine. Along with this, he gets contact tracing of positive patients and follow up of those in home isolation done.“It’s very important to know if a patient is doing fine in home isolation or not. We do not want any person under home isolation to collapse. So, we randomly call and ask them about their oxygen levels. If someone reports any trouble, he/she is shifted to a hospital,” said Dr Duggal.Providing kits to positive patients is another important work. After 3 pm, feedback is taken from field staff on sampling and vaccination. Amid all this, the SMO also attends various zoom meetings with the administration and government officials. “Till 11 pm, we remain on our toes to check if everything is fine,” he said.Dr Duggal also lays stress on creating awareness among residents to tackle the Covid-19. He said he encourages people to get inoculated to save themselves from the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/taking-on-virus-head-on-244092
26-04-2021||Jalandhar||MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary inaugurates Covid-19 vaccination camp in Jalandhar||Farmers: Boost health infraNawanshahr: The Kirti Kisan Union held a protest on Sunday in Nawanshahr and demanded that there should be a proper arrangement of health facilities amid ongoing pandemic, and the vacancies of the nurses and the doctors should be filled at the earliest. The protesters also raised the issue of non-availability of oxygen and ventilators. The union members said that the Central government had failed in protecting people of the country. “In one year, he could not even arrange enough oxygen, which is shameful,” the members said. TNSRs 400 crore paid to farmersJalandhar: A whopping amount of Rs 400 crore has been paid to farmers under direct benefit transfer scheme during the ongoing wheat procurement season in the district. District Food and Supply Controller (DFSC) Narinder Singh said here on Sunday that special camps to register farmers under Anaaj Kharid portal were launched in grain markets. The DFSC said that all procurement agencies were asked to ensure the payment of wheat to farmers within 48 hours. He added that more than Rs 400.52 crore was paid so far and remaining payment was being made at a fast pace. TNSWorld Book Day observedHoshiarpur: Library and Information Literacy Club of DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, observed the “World Book Day” by organising an ‘Online User Awareness Programme for e-Resources’. During this programme college librarian Dr Harvinder Kaur apprised the students of the use of e-books and e-journals. An online quiz was conducted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-santokh-singh-chaudhary-inaugurates-covid-19-vaccination-camp-in-jalandhar-244093
26-04-2021||---||Sunday lockdown: Jalandhar city wears a deserted look||Jalandhar, April 25Residents of the town on Sunday woke up to a partial lockdown. The otherwise crowded city roads wore a deserted look with policemen standing guards at all major intersections.Only movements related to emergency and transport services were allowed to function. Restaurants and bakeries that were open in the morning were asked to close by policemen in the Model town area and in residential areas.DCP, Law and Order, Jagmohan Singh said a large number of policemen were deployed on roads to strictly enforce the lockdown rules. A team of five-six policemen and senior officials prevented vehicular movement. Similar curbs would remain in force on the next Sunday.Prior to the lockdown, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshaym Thori had ordered that all major markets, Sunday Market, Malls, hotels/restaurants, fruit and vegetable markets and grocery stores would remain close on Sunday. However, delivery of all essential items was allowed. Home delivery from shops was allowed.As per the orders, ATMs, medical stores and petrol pumps were allowed to function during the lockdown. Besides, industries were allowed to operate 24 hours. Industrial workers were asked to carry their identity cards while going to their factories. Vehicular movement on highways was allowed.The police (Police Division number three) arrested a groom and his father for organising a marriage function during the lockdown and inviting nearly 100 people.The police have registered a case under Section 188 of the IPC, Section 51 of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, against the families of the bride and groom. The marriage function was being held at a temple in Kishanpura near the Damoria overbridge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sunday-lockdown-jalandhar-city-wears-a-deserted-look-244094
26-04-2021||---||Covid-19: 3 succumb, 648 new cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, April 25Jalandhar district witnessed the highest single-day Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The health authorities reported as many as 648 fresh cases. With this, the tally crossed 40,000 mark. Of these, as many as 74 cases belong to other districts.The authorities reported three deaths today, thus taking the death toll to 1,048.At present, the district has 3,924 active cases and 35,085 people have recovered so far.In Kapurthala, 202 persons tested positive today. The district tally reached 11,728 cases. The health authorities reported two deaths in the district.Six lose life in HoshiarpurThe district health authorities reported six Covid-19 related deaths on Sunday. With this, the death toll has increased to 697. The authorities reported 229 new cases in the last 24 hours, thus taking the tally to 17,769.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the district has 1,704 active cases and 16,816 patients recovered. Hoshiarpur city reported 21 new cases while remaining ones were reported from other health blocks of the district.Website for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-3-succumb-648-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-244095
26-04-2021||---||Oxygen generation hit at Shakti plant in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, April 25The city on Sunday did not receive the supply of 1,200 oxygen cylinders as the plant of Shakti Cryogenics remained shut for the day. However, as the city received 13 MT of liquid oxygen on Saturday night, the supply to hospitals remained unaffected. With the district witnessing 648 patients on Sunday, the situation is getting graver by the day.Udit Bhandari, one of the proprietors of Shakti Cryogenics‘Glitch in an air valve behind breakdown’A glitch in one of the air valves caused a breakdown in our plant on Sunday. Pre-Covid or in a leaner time, the plant was being shut for three to four hours per day. But at present, it is running 24 hours and all industrial supply has been shut and only medical supply is being provided. In such a scenario, it is impossible to predict how machinery will respond. All our technicians are on the job. But how can we predict machinery?Keeping in view the oxygen crisis, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori released another set of instructions today to two oxygen suppliers in the district – Shakti Cryogenics and Indian Air Products. In a letter to them, the DC said they would solely be responsible for any untoward incident caused due to faulty spare parts in the oxygen plant.Thori instructed them to ensure the availability of spare parts used in the oxygen plant. He directed the plant owners to hire technicians and check spare parts properly to avoid an untoward incident in the future.He has also written to PECTHERM Pvt Ltd, Ludhiana, seeking to provide timely clearance to hospitals wanting to install oxygen plants on their premises.There are three private and two public/government hospitals in the district, which have oxygen plants. Besides, more are also applying for setting up such plants.In his letter to the firm, Thori said, “Jalandhar, which as a district caters to patients from across the Doaba and Malwa regions of Punjab, is at present also catering to patients from Delhi, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Please ensure that requests for the installation of PSA plants in Jalandhar district are done on priority.”Talking to The Tribune, the Deputy Commissioner said, “With the Shakti Cryogenics plant remaining shut today, 1,200 oxygen cylinders could not be supplied to the district. We did not receive the designated supply from the plant this morning and it has not started functioning until now. We have asked plants to get their system in order. However, since we had received two trucks (13 MT worth) of oxygen, the designated supply was carried out. In view of several hospitals applying for new plants, we have also written to PECTHERM to clear PSA oxygen plants without delay. The city would receive 300 to 400 more oxygen cylinders if three to four hospitals, which have applied, get plants soon.”Notably, at present four to six hospitals in the district have small plants on their premises but these hospitals still require liquid oxygen to tide over the Covid crisis.What has caused the crisis in district?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-generation-hit-at-shakti-plant-in-jalandhar-244097
