27-04-2021||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Raising third line of corona warriors is his mission||Hoshiarpur, April 26From being active seven days a week to planning to assign new roles and responsibilities to the cadets of the Jalandhar group of the world’s largest uniformed volunteer organisation — NCC — during the unprecedented health crisis, Brig Advitya Madan is busy preparing the cadets from Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Phagwara as third line of corona warriors to join hands with the administration and the government to help contain the virus.During the lockdown last year, when most of the activities, particularly commercial, came to a halt, he was busy working all seven days to facilitate things for the cadets to adopt new roles to help society and he still remains busy in that work. When people did not step out of their house threshold during the lockdown, the NCC group, led by its commander Brigadier Madan, was out to help people in need. Luckily, none of its volunteer cadets and officers was infected with the virus.“We, at the Jalandhar NCC group, were able to beat the virus. The virus forced all the schools and colleges to shut, but the NCC cadets were out to extend their helping hand. We quickly took stock when the pandemic was at its peak in the month of May last year. When the residents remained confined in their houses, it were the brave NCC cadets who reached out to the civil administration to support them by ensuring physical distancing at mandis or at various public places. Many of the innovative cadets spent their free time making masks and cooking food for poor migrant labourers who were cycling back to Bihar and Jharkhand,” shared Brigadier Madan.“The agenda for 2021 is very clear — we will not allow the pandemic to get the better of us. Cadets are being trained online in how to handle the situation at hospitals arising due to the shortage of oxygen and how to perform duties as third line corona warriors. While dodging this deadly virus, we are preparing ourselves for the Inter Directorate Thal Sena Competition also. We have already selected our under-17 hockey team to represent the NCC at the Nehru Cup scheduled for October this year,” says Brigadier Madan, adding that awareness campaigns are being held to motivate masses towards vaccination.“Over the next eight months, we aim to keep our NCC cadets safe while simultaneously deploying the majority of cadets at the district Covid-19 centres for the primary job of contact tracing as the third line of Covid warriors. There are several Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat webinars which are on the anvil and raring to perform at the national level in which the Jalandhar group has been selected to act as the host group. We also have a series of events lined up to celebrate 75 years of Independence culminating on August 2021 with a well-planned mega event. One of them was recently organised to honour the sacrifice of Shaheed Bhagat Singh wherein scores of cadets were motivated by fiery speeches of a select panel of speakers,” added the Brigadier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raising-third-line-of-corona-warriors-is-his-mission-244626
27-04-2021||---||No masks: 663 undergo Covid test in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, April 26The vaccination drive has picked up pace in the district, but a large number of people are still not following the guidelines and can be seen roaming streets without masks. As many as 663 persons had to undergo the RT-PCR test when they were caught roaming without wearing masks here on Monday.While on April 24, 865 persons were tested for the virus on the spot for not covering their nose and mouth and a day before that, a total of 517 people were confronted by teams for moving without following the precautions.A health care worker said, “It is strange that even after a year and knowing the gravity of the situation this time, people commute and walk in public places without taking precautions. Even today, teams visit various areas just to make announcements to tell people to wear masks, observe social distancing and wash their hands. But still, people’s attitude disturbs us a lot,” he said.Recently, Civil Surgeon, Nawanshahr, Gurdeep Singh Kapur had pointed out the concern that it was still difficult to make people adopt Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Even though the district is doing good in vaccinating people, the concern remains the behaviour of its residents.Even cases are decreasing on a daily basis. As compared to Jalandhar where the number of daily cases has crossed the 500 mark, Nawanshahr is doing better. On Monday, Jalandhar again saw the maximum number of cases while 69 people tested positive in Nawanshahr. On Sunday also, the same number of patients tested positive and on April 24, 50 patients were diagnosed with the deadly disease. In three days, two deaths were reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-masks-663-undergo-covid-test-in-nawanshahr-244628
27-04-2021||---||IPRs relevant for economic well-being: Expert||Kapurthala, April 26World Intellectual Property Day was observed by the Pushpa Gujral Science City in collaboration with Patent Facilitation Centre, Technology information Forecasting and Assessment Council, GoI. More than 150 students and teachers participated through virtual mode in the webinar.Giving introductory remarks at the occasion, Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, said innovation and creative endeavours were indispensable elements that drive economic growth and sustain the competitive edge of the economy of any country. “Developed countries have relied on intellectual property as one of the leading tools to achieve advances in economic well-being. Patents, trademarks, and copyrights were the principal means for establishing ownership rights to these creations, inventions by individuals and companies,” she said.She said copyright was also a major intellectual property right which was of special relevance to the academics and creative arts. She emphasised upon the need to impart the knowledge of protection of different Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) to young generation to develop conducive environment where they can be equipped to create novel and original innovations and protect them simultaneously. She also said Pushpa Gujral Science City had set up an innovation hub to create an innovation ecosystem for students and disseminate information on IPRs regularly.Dr Ashwini Siwal, Assist Professor, Intellectual Property Law, University of Delhi, was the key speaker on this occasion. Delivering a talk on ‘Copyright issues for academics’, he said Intellectual Property was a part and parcel of our life. “No matter what we do and where we are. We are always surrounded by the fruits of human creativity and inventions which make our life much easier. Intellectual Property Rights became new significant area of discussion in the last two decades with the establishment of the WTO and TRIP’s Agreement. IP has taken a centre stage of academic discussions and debate both at industry and academic institutions level. Intellectual Property Rights are not only enforceable in India but also globally apart from creation and protection, the component of commercialisation of IP is equally important and must be taught to the innovators.”Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, delivering vote of thanks said awareness and education were the vital components in creating an innovation ecosystem. “It is crucial that our youth is prepared and our industry, especially in the micro, small and medium scale sector, is geared up to face the challenge head-on. Creation, protection and commercialisation of IP are the keys to achieve research excellence,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/iprs-relevant-for-economic-well-being-expert-244629
27-04-2021||---||Set out new norms for polls: Kalia to EC||Jalandhar, April 26Former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia has written to the Election Commission of India to carve out new Covid-19 guidelines for campaigning in four states where Assembly elections are scheduled in 2022.He demanded to conduct live debates on news channels among candidates and allowing rallies with limited number of people.Expressing concern over the worsening situation, Kalia said, “Despite vaccination, the second wave has surged. India has not only earned a distinction of the largest outbreak of Coronavirus in the world, but also the largest outbreak ever recorded in the world. The situation is becoming graver day by day. We have to get ourselves prepared for any eventuality.”He said,“The elections in five states will be over by April 29. The ECI banned all road shows and rallies in West Bengal and allowed 500 persons in public events in the wake of the Covid-19. Assembly elections are due in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Goa in 2022. It has become essential to streamline public gathering. The ECI should carve out guidelines in this respect.”Kalia said, “Each political party should be given a slot on vernacular electronic channels to delineate their programme. Candidates should be allowed to have live debate on news channels. Expenses of slots should be borne by the Government of India.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/set-out-new-norms-for-polls-kalia-to-ec-244630
27-04-2021||---||Owner of Maddi Samose Wala dies of heart attack||Jalandhar, April 26The owner of famous Maddi Samose Wala today breathed his last after suffering a heart attack. The deceased was running the restaurant for the past nearly four decades. His hot and spicy ‘samosas’ fried in front of the customers was the most sought after delicacy. Besides the availability of home delivery services by Zomato and Swiggy had helped the owner of the restaurant spread its popularity in the entire town.The death of the owner has shocked a large number of residents. His samosas were loved by people of all age groups. Owing the restaurant’s location in the vicinity of five colleges it was also famous among students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/owner-of-maddi-samose-wala-dies-of-heart-attack-244632
27-04-2021||---||Need 15 lakh vaccine doses a week, minister tells Centre||Kapurthala, April 26Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the state government would provide treatment to Covid patients coming from Delhi and any other part of the country without any delay or discrimination.Inaugurating the dialysis unit at Civil Hospital here at Bholath, the minister said the false propaganda of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal about the world class health services and infrastructure in the national capital has come to light.Talking about the Covid vaccination drive, he said more than 30 lakh people have been vaccinated in Punjab, for which 25.48 lakh doses of Covishield and 2.64 lakh doses of Covaxin have been used. He appealed to the Union Government to regularise the supply of vaccines in the state as the trained staff and infrastructure provided by the Punjab Government could vaccinate 3 lakh people daily, requiring 15 lakh doses every week. He said the Health Department had already written to the Union Ministry of Health on April 22.Regarding the preparations for vaccination for people above 18 years of age from May 1, he said Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh had asked the department to order 30 lakh Covishield vaccine doses.Replying to a query regarding the shortage of oxygen, he said the plants of the Punjab government were running at full capacity while the Central government had reduced the liquid oxygen quota of Punjab.At Bholath today, Sidhu inaugurated a dialysis unit set up by Baba Zorawar Singh, Baba Fateh Singh Seva Society at Civil Hospital at a cost of about Rs 85 lakh. He lauded the contribution made by the society and also interacted with the patients who came for dialysis at the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/need-15-lakh-vaccine-doses-a-week-minister-tells-centre-244633
27-04-2021||---||PM Modi has emerged as ‘super spreader’, says Dahiya||Jalandhar, April 26Holding Prime Minister Narendra Modi responsible for spreading the second wave of Covid-19, national vice-president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Navjot Dahiya today called him a ‘super spreader’ and blamed him for irresponsibly organising big political rallies in poll-bound states and even allowing Kumbh mela during such a serious situation.“While the medical fraternity is trying hard to make people understand mandatory Covid norms, PM Modi did not hesitate to address the big political rallies tossing all Covid norms in the air,” ndian Medical Association Vice President Dr Dahiya said.“The scarcity of medical oxygen has become the reason for the death of many patients in every part of the country against the fact that several projects for installing the oxygen are still pending with the Union Government for clearance, but no heed was given to such an important need by the Modi government,” he added.The impact of the pandemic is clearly visible across the country with bodies piling up in crematoriums and long queues of ambulances outside hospitals in almost every city of the country, he added. Despite the severity of the health crisis, election rallies and religious congregations like the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar continued, raising questions over the seriousness of Modi-led Union Government to tackle the spread of the deadly virus, the ndian Medical Association top functionary said.“Even on the issue of farmers’ agitation against farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not act in a responsible manner and let the presence of huge gathering of farmers allowed without solving their issues, causing a serious threat of Covid spread,” Dr Dahiya hit out at the Prime Minister again alleging that the Union Government was wrongly trying to pass the buck of its failure on private medical sector and state governments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pm-modi-has-emerged-as-super-spreader-says-dahiya-244634
27-04-2021||---||After extortion plaint, Bholath SHO shifted||Jalandhar, April 26Bholath SHO Amandeep Kaur has been transferred to Civil Lines police station at the Police Lines within days of allegations of extortion made against her by two minors.On April 17, Khassan-based siblings had alleged that Amandeep had extorted Rs 1,86,000 from them and framed their father in a false drugs case. An inquiry has been marked by Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of Police Kanwardeep Kaur to Superintendent of Police Vashaljit Singh.The Senior Superintendent of Police said, “Bholath SHO Amandeep Kaur has been transferred to Civil Lines police station after several complaints were received against her.” Gurvinder Kaur (16), who studies in Class XI, and her brother had made allegations against the SHO. Sibling’s mother died last year while their father Rajwant Singh (40) is currently lodged at Gurdaspur jail.Tanda’s youth dies in ItalyA youngster from Miani village died in a road accident in Italy. The deceased has been identified as Poonamdeep Singh Sherry (26).His mother, Manjit Kaur, received a phone call from Italy. Sherry lived in Mantua city in Italy for the last 10 years. Sherry was heading back home from his job when his car overturned after meeting an accident.Sherry is survived by his brother who resides in Canada and his mother live at Miani village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-extortion-plaint-bholath-sho-shifted-244635
27-04-2021||---||Harassed for dowry, 22-yr-old dies just a day after wedding||Jalandhar, April 26A day after tying the knot, a 22-year-old woman died at the threshold of her in-laws’ house. Parampal died as her health deteriorated after her in-laws’ turned her out of their house demanding dowry.Family members of the victim alleged that harassment of their daughter began the moment after marriage. Five persons, including Parampal’s husband Supreet Singh, father-in-law Jarnail Singh, mother-in-law Jaswinder Kaur, sister-in-law Navjot Kaur and father-in-law’s brother Jaswant Singh have been arrested.While the couple got married on April 25, the police said Parampal’s family began receiving calls from her in-laws to take their daughter back today morning.Unable to bear the shock, the newly-married woman fell unconscious. She was admitted to a hospital in Kartarpur where she breathed her last. The deceased hailed from Jalandhar and used to reside with her grandmother and younger brother.Joga Singh, Parampal’s grandfather (grandmother’s brother) said: “The moment she entered her in-laws’ house, they began demanding a car and more jewellery from her. They taunted her for not bringing good quality blankets. Today they called us and asked us to take her back. We rushed to their house in Kartarpur. The girl did not eat anything and cried the entire night. She kept folding her hands and asked them what went wrong, but they kept on insisting that we take her back. The entire market committee gathered but they did not budge.”Joga added that Parampal’s in-laws were told in advance about her financial condition and they had met plenty of times with the girl before the wedding.Joga said, “We spent a lot on wedding. We wanted the ceremony to be held in Jalandhar, but we had to change the venue to Nadala, so that groom’s family could call more guests. The girl suffered a deep shock and fell unconscious. She was admitted to hospitals in Kartarpur and Maqsudan, but could not be saved.”The SHO, Kartarpur police station, said the boy was a carpenter by profession. The SHO said: “The groom’s family harassed the girl for dowry due to which she suffered shock.”An FIR under Sections 304 B, 498 A, 406 and 149 B of the IPC has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/harassed-for-dowry-22-yr-old-dies-just-a-day-after-wedding-244636
27-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Consumption down by 196 cylinders at Civil Hospital||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 26As per an audit conducted at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, the demand for oxygen has reduced at the hospital by a whopping 196 cylinders. Earlier, the hospital was using a total of 410 cylinders, but now it would use only 214.An oxygen audit was conducted at the Civil Hospital by Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal on the directions of the Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori here on Monday. The audit has resulted in the reduction of oxygen consumption by 47.8 per cent. In last three days, on an average 410 cylinders were being used by the hospital on a daily basis. The dramatic reduction in oxygen consumption was due to the fixing of various pilferages, leakages and the plugging of gaps in the supply. Besides, the hospital’s oxygen plant, which was also hitherto catering to only level 2 patients, would now be catering to level 3 patients. The audit was conducted by a team of officials, including ADC Dr Gurmeet and SDO (Soil Conservation) Lupinder Kumar.This has also come as a huge relief to the district where hospitals are already using much less than the amount required.ADC Vishesh Sarangal said, “There is a reduction of 196 cylinders. We have plugged leakages and fixed gaps to ensure optimum utilisation of the life-saving gas. Apprehensions of pilferage have also been addressed. While the pressure of the oxygen cylinders was not being checked, the audit would ensure checking of every filled oxygen cylinder before use. The audit would also ensure improving of service delivery. Besides, the oxygen from the plant, which was primarily being routed to level 2 patients who do not consume that much, has now been directed to level 3 patients for optimum use.”The ADC said, “There will now be log books at every place where cylinders are being used. CCTV cameras will monitor the space where oxygen is arriving. Barring this, leakages have been fixed – some ventilators had no compression pumps and some oxygen pipelines had a leak. The oxygen, saved from going waste through leakages, would now be used for level 2 patients. The captive oxygen plant would cater to level 3 patients. The level 2 patients from the ground floor have been shifted to the first floor for this purpose.”Soil Conservation Officer Lupinder Kumar said, “The routing of oxygen to the level 3 patients will ensure a smooth supply to serious patients while ensuring that level 2 patients are also properly taken care of.”The Civil Hospital’s ICU beds are divided in three ICUs – 26 beds at the trauma ICU, 15 at the medical ICU and 15 for the female surgical ward ICU. There are 18 ventilators for level 3 ICU beds. Of them, 16 are functional. Thirtytwo out of the 56 beds at the ICU were seen occupied today.Audit for private hospitals tooOxygen supply to industries prohibited||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/consumption-down-by-196-cylinders-at-civil-hospital-244637
27-04-2021||---||Eleven booked for violating Sunday lockdown norms||Jalandhar, April 26Taking strict action against those flouting curbs announced for Sunday lockdown, the Jalandhar Commissionerate of Police have booked 11 violators and registered eight FIRs against them in different police stations.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said of eight cases, two FIRs were registered for violating curfew norms, two for violating norms related to public gatherings, two regarding marriage palaces/hotels, and two FIRs against the opening of shops, dhabas and other prohibited outlets.As per the figures provided by the police, a total of 136 FIRs and 157 arrests have been made in the last two weeks from April 11 to 25 for violating various Covid norms announced by the state government. Thirtyseven FIRs and 43 arrests were made for violating night curfew norms. Likewise, 38 FIRs and 46 arrests were made for not wearing masks; five and 16 for violating social distancing norms; four and five for breaching public gathering guidelines; two cases and two arrests regarding marriage palaces or hotels; and 50 FIRs and 51 arrests were made for opening shops, dhabas and other prohibited outlets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eleven-booked-for-violating-sunday-lockdown-norms-244638
27-04-2021||Jalandhar||IPL: 2 arrested for betting||Helpline for Covid patientsJalandhar: The Punjab Youth Congress (YC) on Sunday released a Corona Helpline number to help Covid patients. The helpline number (7717250708) can be called throughout the day. It is available on the official Facebook page and Twitter handle of the Punjab Youth Congress @IYCPunjab. Youth Congress president Brinder Dhillon said the YC had issued Corona Helpline numbers so that any problem faced by patients could be resolved on a priority. People who are in home quarantine and facing any problem can also call on the number and all arrangements regarding ration and medical supplies would be done within the shortest possible time, Dhillon said. Over a 100 YC members would be in constant service of Covid patients and would take care of their basic needs. TNSMLA reviews dev projectsSultanpur Lodhi: Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema along with Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal on Monday reviewed various development projects under the Smart City mission at the PWD Rest House. The status report of development works of Rs134.18 crore launched by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was also discussed. MLA Cheema said Rs40 crore was sanctioned for the development of the Sultanpur Lodhi railway station as a model railway station. Under the Smart City project, the Kapurthala-Sultanpur Lodhi road via Fatudhinga would be four-laned at a cost of Rs77.1 crore. TNSMP takes stock of Covid situationJalandhar: Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary held a meeting with Jalandhar Cantonment Board president Brig HS Sohi and Chief Executive Officer Jyoti Kumar to review the Covid-19 situation in the cantonment area here on Monday. After the review meeting, MP Chaudhary said various vaccination centres had been set up in the area and appealed to everyone to get vaccinated. Brigadier HS Sohisaid Jalandhar Cantt had scored 3,670 points with strict implementation of eco-friendly initiatives like segregation of waste at source, use of compost, rainwater harvesting and plastic ban. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ipl-2-arrested-for-betting-244639
27-04-2021||Jalandhar||Essay writing contest||Webinar on Covid-19 diagnosisThe department of biochemistry at DAV University organised a webinar on the topic ‘‘Molecular Basis for Covid-19 diagnosis and prophylaxis’’. Dr Rachna Hora from Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Guru Nanak Dev University, was the keynote speaker. The webinar started with the welcome speech by Dean Academics (Officiating), DAV University, Dr RK Seth. He introduced and welcomed the resource person. Dr Karan Paul, Head Department of Biochemistry, introduced the topic to the participants. Dr Rachna Hora discussed about the molecular features of coronavirus and its mode of infection. She explained various strategies available against the Covid-19 infection. Students were informed about different types of vaccines against Covid-19 available globally and their mechanism of action. Various diagnostic methods like RT-PCR, Rapid antigen kit, biochemical and immunological methods were also discussed. She emphasised on the importance and applications of molecular diagnostic techniques in the diagnosis of Covid-19. More than 250 participants attended the webinar. Vice-chancellor (Officiating), DAV University, Dr Jasbir Rishi and Registrar (Officiating), DAV University, Dr K N Kaul motivated the students and faculty to attend such webinars.Lyallpur Khalsa College signs MoULyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus has signed an MoU with Friends Union for Emerging Lives (FUEL) which is a leading NGO working in collaboration with HDFC Bank, NITI Aayog and AICTE etc for inculcating employability skills and making students industry ready for engineering, IT and management students. Through this MoU, the students will have training on artificial intelligence and digital marketing. This MOU is aimed to combat the industry challenges and enhance the overall job prospects of the budding engineers. The MoU was signed by Dr RS Deol, Deputy Director, KCL Group and Bajiprabhu Deshbandhu from FUEL organisation. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, Director, Academic Affairs, KCL Group, encouraged these types of activities as they are oriented towards grooming and quality improvement required for competing in the job market.HMV declared green championHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya has been declared as “Green Champion” by Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, Govt of India. As many as 1,000 higher educational institutions participated in the Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education ‘One District One Green Champion’ awards as per the directive of the Ministry of Education for Contribution to Swachhta Education and Practice under Swachhta Action Plan 2020-2021 which is a Swachh Bharat initiative. These awards are based on sustainability audit focusing on campus greenery, cleanliness and maintenance, toilet adequacy in campus, tree planting and community outreach in promoting Swachh culture. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen said students have taken part in swachtta and plantation drives in almost 11 villages across the district. Dr Anjana Bhatia, Dean Innovations and Research, said the college was adjudged on various parameters of Swacchta and Jal Shakti like greenery, using green herbicides and bio pesticides for greenery on campus outdoors and indoors, adequate water supply in the campus, swachhta within the campus, energy audit among others.Students bring laurelsInnocent Hearts students have performed well in the IKGPTU examination held recently.Results: MBA-(Sem III) students Manisha, Manpreet, Shivani and Simrandeep secured 9.5, 9.4, 9.1 and 9.03 SGPA respectively. BCom (Sem V) students Sakshi secured 9.5 SGPA and Kirandeep got 9.04 SGPA. Harshpreet from BCom (Sem III) secured 9.1 SGPA and Kirandeep and Ikwinder secured 8.96 SGPA. Simarjot Kaur and Tarnveer Nijjar from BBA (Sem V) got 9.04 SGPA. Inderjit, Sakshi, Rozal and Vishakha Rani of BBA (Sem III) got the 9.04 SGPA.Reader’s Club hold sessionWorld Book Day was celebrated at Police DAV Public School by the Reader’s Club of the school under the guidance of Manoj Dutta. Students from Classes VI to X participated enthusiastically and wrote book reviews of the books read by them. As many as 24 students presented them through online PowerPoint presentations. Teachers and students of other classes of the school also participated in the similar manner and read books between 11to 11.30 am. Abhimanyu, president of the Readers Club, anchored the online event. He was supported by Preeti Khehra. In her address, Principal Dr Rashmi Vij appreciated the efforts of students and motivated them to be avid readers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/essay-writing-contest-244644
27-04-2021||Jalandhar||6 die, 658 new cases reported in Jalandhar district||There is a continued dramatic rise in Covid cases with as many as 658 new cases on Monday pushed the district tally to 40,715 cases. Of these 658, as many as 61 belong to other districts. Six persons succumbed in the district taking the death toll to 1,054. At present, the district has 4,044 active cases and 35,617 people have recovered so far.In Kapurthala, 166 persons tested positive today. The district tally reached 11,894 cases. No death was reported in the district on Monday.7 die, 251 +ve in HoshiarpurThe district reported seven more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 704 on Monday. Besides, the district also witnessed 251 fresh cases taking the tally to 18,004.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,656 and 17,108 patients had recovered from the virus. Of 251 positive cases, 16 were reported from other districts, 35 from Hoshiarpur city and the remaining from other health blocks of the district. Five patients of the district died in Jalandhar hospitals while two patients, one each from Bhunga and Tanda, died on way to hospital in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-die-658-new-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-244650
27-04-2021||Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal released a grant of Rs 20 lakh for construction of dharamshalas at Vishwakarma Temple||Eye on 2022 Assembly poll||Super suction machinesIn order to get rid of continuous sewerage blockage, the Phagwara Municipal Corporation (MC) has got super suction machines. In a recent development, the MC staff put these machines into action to drain out waste material. Shoked sewers were reportedly causing huge inconvenience to residents, especially in areas near the GT Road. Earlier, officials of the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board had demanded suction machines for cleaning drains. The super suction machines have been procured at cost of Rs 20 lakh. Notably, in the cleanliness survey, Phagwara got ODF ++ rating by the Ministry of Urban Development.Help for protesting farmersAfter supplying foodgrains and mattresses in the begining of farmers’ protest on the outskirts of New Delhi, community groups of Uplan village have come forward to assist the farming community. Surinder Singh Bains, a farmer who has been staying put at the protest site for the last four months, said locals were supplying them with all essentials needed in summer. Utilising the community funds, villagers are sending fans and coolers to give some relief to protesting farmers. They have also sent water bottles and fruit.(Contributed by Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eye-on-2022-assembly-poll-244651
27-04-2021||Aparna Banerji||Amid oxygen rationing, Jalandhar dist falls short of Remdesivir||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 26With the administration is already rationing the oxygen supply in the district, a shortage of Ramdesivir has now been reported in Jalandhar.For the past four to five days, the Remdesvir stocks have dried up, forcing hospitals to send SOS calls to wholesalers — who too, have run out of supply. The drug department, doctors say, has stopped picking up the calls on Monday.On April 24, the drug department formed the State Remdesivir Injection Monitoring Centre and deputed nodal officers to control the supply and black marketing of injections. But doctors alleged the department had been unresponsive amid drying supplies.No info on stockWe’re not getting any injections. I have no clue when the next stock will arrive. Besides, Remdesivir is being allotted by the drug department. Nodal officers only do monitoring, not allotment. —Lakhwant Singh, Nodal officer for remdesivir monitoringSources said the injection sells for Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 on the black market and calls from individuals keen on hoarding the vaccine for personal use were also common.Dr BS Johal, owner, Johal Hospital, said, “We haven’t received Remdesivir for the past five days. We have reports of Remdesivir being supplied to two-three other hospitals while the rest are left watching. The Zonal Licensing Authority (ZLA) did not take repeated calls on Monday. How are we going to treat patients if we are not getting life-saving drugs?”Meanwhile, Dr SPS Grover, MD, New Ruby Hospital, said, “We don’t have a single vial of Remdesivir. Four days ago, we received six vials by the drug department. We need at least 10 to 15 vials a day. Oxygen is already being rationed, now Remdesivir is also unavailable. These are life-saving drugs on which patients are heavily dependent.”Sharanjit Vij, wholesaler, Pratap Medical Agency, said, “We are getting non-stop calls from all hospitals seeking Remdesivir. But we are not receiving any stock. The last delivery was about five to seven days ago. We received 80 vials, which were quickly disbursed as per the need.”Meanwhile, the ZLA said: “I don't have any information about any hospitals being given Remdesivir last night.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-oxygen-rationing-jalandhar-dist-falls-short-of-remdesivir-244563
