28-04-2021||Jalandhar||Woman killed in road accident||Sucha Singh is Dasuya MC chiefHoshiarpur: On Tuesday, Sucha Singh was unanimously elected as president of the Dasuya Municipal Council. Chandershekhar Bunty was elected vice-president of the civic body. MLA Arun Dogra conveyed his best wishes to the newly appointed president and vice-president of the Dasuya MC. He said that it would be a big challenge to implement development works in Dasuya city by keeping coordination with all councillors. He said the president and the vice- president have been elected on the basis of opinion given by councilors. OCCompendium on developmentHoshiarpur: Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Tueday released a compendium on various development works carried out in the district by the Department of Soil and Water Conservation. The compendium gives detailed information about the work done by the department under different government schemes. It contains details of rainwater recharging structures, joint and private project drip irrigation systems, crate wire structures to protect soil erosion during rains. The compendium contains precise information about the projects along with photographs of the projects undertaken. Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Harbir Singh and Divisional Soil and Water Conservation Officer Naresh Gupta were also present on the occasion. OCMotorcyclist dies in accidentTalwara: A motorcyclist died on the spot after being hit by a tractor-trailer on Tuesday on Kandi Canal road in Datarpur. The deceased has been identified as Fakar Deen. Talwara SHO Ajmer Singh Chahal said Kalu Deen complained to the police that his younger brother Fakar was going to sell milk around 10 am and on the way, a tractor-trailer hit his motorcycle. The SHO said Fakar died on the spot. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-killed-in-road-accident-245367
28-04-2021||---||Man stabs brother to death over Rs300||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 27An argument over Rs 300 turned ugly between two brothers on Monday night. The younger brother (Rohit Sehgal) reportedly stabbed his elder brother (Pankaj Sehgal) to death.The incident was reported around 11 pm at Kabir Nagar. The duo were consuming liquor with their father when the incident took place.After receiving information, cops from police division number 1 and a PCR team immediately rushed to the spot. Their father, Swami Sehgal, told the police that he tried to stop them from fighting, but to no avail. Eventually, Rohit picked up a knife and stabbed Pankaj five to six times. Their mother told the police that she was sleeping on terrace when her sons and husband were drinking.Before we could understand anything, Rohit left the house, said Swami. Pankaj was rushed to a hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.The SHO, Rajesh Kumar, said, a case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered against the accused and the police have also recovered knife used in the crime. Cops on Monday arrested Rohit through GPS of his mobile phone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-stabs-brother-to-death-over-rs300-245366
28-04-2021||Jalandhar||Free CLAT coaching||e-Session on Intellectual PropertyThe Innovation Council of HMV organised a virtual session on ‘Why Intellectual Property is important in Academia?’ under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen and Dr Anjana Bhatia, in charge, IIC. Dr Abhay Jere from the Ministry of Education, Innovation Cell, and Dr Mohit Gambhir, Director, Innovations, shared his views on the role of intellectual property in the academics. Best approaches to determine invention and novelty by prior searching and provided guidance in using the electronic patent databases were discussed. A unique practical approach for assessing the monetary value of ideas and invention ownership was presented. The session provided practical advice on patent writing, filing and prosecution, using copyrighted material, protecting material with copyrights, crucial IP legislation, business models, and new trends and changes to pave an easy way to the journey through the IP process. The Principal stressed upon the importance of IP for academic members to gain greater awareness and knowledge of various issues involved with IP resulting from their research and inventions. Dr Anjana also motivated the members to keep abreast with the changing situation and keep themselves updated.Contest on women empowermentThe Department of Hindi and Punjabi of Kamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara, conducted an inter-college e-contest on the topic ‘Women empowerment’. The e-contest was held for female lecturers from various colleges, in which they had to send their videos of story narration, poetry recitation and folk songs in Punjabi and Hindi. More than 20 lecturers from various colleges participated in this contest. In poetry recitation first, second and third prizes were bagged by Dr Jaspreet Kaur (Swami Premanand Mahavidyalaya, Mukerian), Dr Aman Deep (Sant Darbara Singh College of Education, Lopon) and Suman Johiya (Kamla Nehru College of Education, Phagwara) respectively. In folk song singing first and second prizes were awarded to Harminder Kaur (Government College, Hoshiarpur) and Anuradha (SPM College, Mukerian) respectively, whereas, the third prize was shared by Meenu Mohan (GNNCW, Nakodar) and Bhupinder Seth (St Soldier College, Phagwara). In story narration, first and second prizes were awarded to Mandeep Kaur (Ramgarhia Girls College, Ludhiana) and Dr Monika Dawar (DD Jain Memorial College, Ludhiana). Dr Savinder Pal, Principal, discussed the importance of education as powerful tool for women empowerment. She further appreciated the members of the organising committee: Dr Asha Sharma, Dr Ruminder Kaur and Dr Sudha Mani Sood and congratulated the winners.Student-friendly reformsKanya Maha Vidyalaya has introduced many academic reforms especially during the ongoing pandemic. In a major initiative, KMV has introduced a provision of special test for the candidates who had missed any of their end-semester examination due to the Covid situation. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that autonomy had provided KMV a clear field for various reforms in education and the initiative of special test is also one of the important steps taken in that direction. Apart from adding new progressive programmes, KMV has also introduced a number of examination reforms for the students. The reforms have been introduced for transparent and fast assessment. In addition to this, KMV has also introduced international credit system in all vocational programmes, internal assessment has also been introduced for final exam results and timely declaration of results is one of the most important examination reform done under the autonomy. Dr Dwivedi said the reforms would also prove to be student-friendly in order to relieve them from any kind of mental anxiety.Campus placement drivesThe CT Group of Institutions is assisting its students in fetching their dream jobs and internships via campus drives during the pandemic era. The group has unmatched record of best placements in top companies like Jaro Education, LIDO Learning, Toppr Technologies, Catalyst One Solutions Pvt Ltd, Decathlon Sports Pvt Ltd, Hero Cycles, IDFC, BYJU’S (Think & Learn Pvt Ltd), Nagarro, Ceasefire, Pukhraj Healthcare Pvt Ltd, Health Biotech Pvt Ltd, IDS Infotech, Hike Education, Coca Cola, ICICI, JBM Group, Jindal Electric, J& K Bank, ChicMic, New Eastern Engineers, Cargill India Pvt Ltd, John Deere and many more for students of engineering, management and other fields. Around 1,267 students were selected for jobs as well as internships in all sectors, including management, IT, engineering, agriculture, architecture, pharmaceuticals. The selected candidates were offered packages starting from Rs1.8 lakh to 10 lakh per annum after passing through rigorous selection rounds comprising of online aptitude test, written test, group discussion, technical interview and HR interview.GNA varsity students get jobPhagwara: GNA University students have grabbed top positions in various engineering hubs across India. Student of BTech Mechanical and Automation Engineering P Jaya Ram has proved his acumen by getting placed in Geecy Apave Pvt Ltd, Mumbai, as a Trainee Engineer. Gurcharan Singh and Aditya Rattan got placement in MAK Architecture (Division of Om India Stainless Tube Limited), as Design Engineer, and Manpreet Singh carved his niche by getting placed in Deinde Engineering as Design Engineer for CLAAS India Ltd. The companies’ officials appreciated the management, faculty and students for their organisation and full dedication in grabbing the position. CR Tripathy, Dean Faculty of Engineering Design and Automation, congratulated the faculty members, students and their parents for this achievement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/free-clat-coaching-245365
28-04-2021||---||De-addiction centre caught stealing power, fined Rs7 lakh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 27The Enforcement Wing of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited on Tuesday issued a penalty of Rs 7 lakh to a de-addiction centre for illegal electricity connection.The fine was issued following a raid at the de-addiction center, near Lambra village, on Monday night.The centre was caught stealing electricity by attaching a direct “kundi” connection (illegal power connection) from a nearby transformer. Eight air conditioners installed in the center were found running with legal connnection. Whereas, the total sanctioned load of the centre was 20 KW under non-residential supply category.Subsequently, an FIR under Section 135 of the Indian Electricity Act, 2003, has been registered against the owner of the building. Besides, a penalty of Rs 7 lakh has been levied for stealing electricity.A Venu Prasad, CMD of PSPCL, has already given direction to the Enforcement Wing to strictly implement zero tolerance policy towards electricity theft in the state.Consumers must not indulge into electricity theft, appealed Rajit Sharma, Deputy Chief Engineer, Enforcement, Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/de-addiction-centre-caught-stealing-power-fined-rs7-lakh-245364
28-04-2021||---||Approach to tech use in  edu discussed||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, April 27DAV College of Education here organised an online extension lecture on ‘ICT-based pedagogy for collaborative teaching and learning’. Dr Anuradha Sekhri, Assistant Professor, Institute for Development and Communication, Research Centre of Panjab University, Chandigarh, was the resource person of the lecture. Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla accorded welcome to the guest speaker. Dr Anuradha shed light on approaches of technical use, four pillars of education, flipped classrooms, competencies for online teaching, action plan, collaborative learning, various online tools and communication skills for online teaching.She also asserted her point of view with surprising facts and figures and resolved the queries of the participants in an effective way. The Principal said the quality of teacher education depends upon the extent of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) integration. She also extended vote of thanks to the guest speaker. College managing committee president Dr Anoop Kumar, Secretary DL Anand and Director Dr SS Sharma congratulated the organising secretaries Dr Monika and Dr Naresh Kumar for the success of the event. Efforts of the technical team comprising of Roma Ralhan, Dr Archana Vasudev and Priya Sharma were also appreciated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/approach-to-tech-use-in-edu-discussed-245362
28-04-2021||---||MP reviews progress of projects||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 27The ongoing development projects under Smart City Mission are being completed at a rapid pace and instructions have been given to start and complete the remaining works as soon as possible, said Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary after conducting a review meeting with Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri, Mayor Jagdish Raja and Municipal Corporation Commissioner-cum-Smart City CEO Karnesh Sharma.During the meeting held at MP Chaudhary’s residence, they reviewed projects related to LED streetlights, stormwater management, improvement of traffic junctions, development of parks, building of green area under flyovers, and construction of garbage dump at Wariana.Chaudhary Santokh Singh said 25,000 LED streetlights have been installed in the city out of a target of 65,000 so far and from this Friday, 1,000 streetlights would be installed every day. He said the new LED lights were ecofriendly and would reduce the monthly electricity bill by about 70 per cent.Under the Phase-I of Green Area Development project, seven areas — Urban Estate Park, Beant Singh Park, Tobri Mohalla Park, Nivia Park, Tanki Wala Park, Bist Doab Canal Area and Ambedkar Park are being renovated and beautification work is ongoing. MP Chaudhary said the work under this project would be completed by June 30. The stormwater management project on 120-feet road would also be completed by June 30.He said the green area was being developed under three flyovers — DAV flyover, Pathankot flyover and Lamma Pind flyover. The project involves development of vertical gardens, walking pathways and flower bed, and more than 60 per cent of the work has been completed.He further stated that major traffic junctions of the city are also being improved with installation of traffic signals, road gullies, construction of pedestrian footpath, improvement of road geometry, horticulture and plantation and smart streetlights. The development would reduce road accidents and improve aesthetic appearance of the junctions, he said.The Jalandhar Lok Sabha MP said several new projects are also in pipeline and would be started soon. “These works include Wariana dumpsite remediation project and construction of various smart roads such as 66-feet road in Jalandhar Cantt constituency, construction of new road in Urban Estate Phase-II from Cool Road to disposal site and Vinay Mandir road,” he added.Talking about the projects already completed, MP Chaudhary said various projects under Smart City Mission have already been completed and dedicated to the public. “Under Smart City Mission, we have developed smart classrooms in 140 schools, procured sweeping and de-silting machines, installed solar panels on buildings, improved Jalandhar City railway station, fixed traffic signage and installed sanitary napkins vending machines. The ongoing projects would also be completed soon and dedicated to the public of Jalandhar city,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-reviews-progress-of-projects-245361
28-04-2021||---||Follow Covid protocols, says MLA||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, April 27“The Covid-19 situation is not getting any better with each passing day. The state has recorded 8,432 deaths so far, while the country has recorded 1.95 lakh deaths. It is in our hands to lower its spread by following preventive protocols or else the day is not far when we all have to wear PPE kits to come out of our homes. We shouldn’t fear corona, but fight and win over it”, said Chabbewal MLA Dr Raj Kumar.He organised a corona warning march in Kot Fatuhi last evening in which he and some of his companions roamed around the market wearing PPE kits.Dr Raj said that it was a warning march to make the people aware that we should not let the situation become so uncontrollable that all of us have to come out of the houses wearing PPE kits. Protect yourself by following the instructions and precautions issued by the government. During this march, Dr Raj along with his volunteers distributed masks in the market, sanitisers and also checked the oxygen level with oximeters of the interested people.The MLA said the people should not panic when they tested positive for Covid. They should take medicines with the advice of their doctor and take care of their diet as well as quarantine themselves. Eighty five per cent of cases do not require any special treatment. Dr Raj appealed that people should not fear and get vaccinated. Vaccination is recognised by the World Health Organization and is helpful in raising antibodies. He said that it had become necessary to wear a double mask as well. Dr Raj said Capt Amarinder Singh had also written to the Central government to provide 300 metric tons of oxygen to Punjab. Dr Raj appealed that in this difficult time, everyone should rise above party lines. He said all political parties, religious places and NGOs should jointly fight the battle of Covid-19 to save humankind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/follow-covid-protocols-says-mla-245360
28-04-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||A backyard or a creative haven?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 27Kamaljit Kaur, a homemaker at Seth Hukum Chand Colony, prefers to take her guests to the backyard of her house rather than the drawing room. Enter into her backyard, and one can easily lose himself in the green space laden with creativity. In every nook and corner of the house, one can spot earthen pots and lighting, bells, chimes, hanging pots, pots fixed on the side walls, designer pot stands, creepers climbing on walls in unique patterns and entry arches made of foliage that is sure to attract everyone’s attention.The seasonal flowers, including dahlias and pansies are still blossoming.The garden also has some common trees like those of papaya, palm and lemon. The cutout leaves of philodendron plant twining around the tall palm tree are yet another attraction on one side of the garden. The foliage plants such as caladiums and ferns lead one to the backyard of the house. The garden also has a variety of Indian and English roses in different colours.Though Kamaljit has a garden in the front portion of her house as well, she says that she has always preferred working on the backyard since it is a sort of her own private space where she feels free to carry out experiments. She shows huge drums which she procured and got them vertically cut. “I made two planters out of one drum and got their stands made as well. On one, I am growing flowers and on the other, I have sown lady finger plantlets,” she showed.She adds, “The whole passion for gardening came as I have always stayed in cantonments along with my husband, Maj Gen Balwinder Singh, who retired from the Army a few years back. We used to have big bungalows with huge garden spaces. I learnt a lot about plantation, grafting, multiplying plants and shaping the hedges from the skilled gardeners that we always had.”Kamaljit strongly believes that it is the garden areas and plants all around her house that tend to keep the surroundings a bit cool. “I always feel that the garden area is cooler than the concrete periphery area of the house. Had there been no lawns in our house to spend time in lockdown areas, I would have surely felt so bored inside the four walls of the house,” she heaves a sigh of relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-backyard-or-a-creative-haven-245359
28-04-2021||Vikas Jaitley (39) got infected with Covid on March 18. While he started developing the symptoms such as dry cough||‘Tried to stay resilient amid tough times’||“Initially, we both were put on some medicines for 10 days. The doctors instructed us to observe home-quarantine for one week, which we strictly followed. Since, we were experiencing minor body aches and weakness, we kept ourselves isolated from our two daughters and my mother. Though fear had gripped us, we preferred to stay quiet and focused on our recovery. We shifted to the second floor of our house and set-up a small kitchen to cook our food on own. Motivating my mother and children to have patience, we remained connected with them through video calls.”“Avoiding solid intake, we tried to increase fluids and protein in our diet. With the help of oximeter and thermometer, we regularly tracked our oxygen levels and temperature. The frequent calls by the Health Department relieved us,” said, Jaitely.His wife Jyoti Jaitely, says, though the recovery period feels tough, anyone can tide over the virus with exercise and positivity. Even though we had body cramps, we never skipped our breathing exercise. We were in constant contact with our family doctor.“Complete precautions should be taken but once any symptom is experienced. There is no need to generate unnecessary fear and doubts. Consult your doctor at the earliest, so that timely treatment could be started at once to prevent any unexpected serious situation. Protein-rich food and basic amenities such as proper ventilation and TV were a big boost that facilitated us in passing my time on our own. Chatting with friends and meditating is itself a big relief,” added Jaitely. A resident of the Park Avenue, Laddhewali road, Vikas Jaitely is a railway employee and his wife is a government school teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tried-to-stay-resilient-amid-tough-times-245358
28-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Seven succumb, 161 new cases in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, April 27The health authorities reported seven more deaths due to the virus in Hoshiarpur district, thus taking the toll to 711 on Tuesday.The authorities reported 161 fresh cases. With this, the tally increased to 18,157.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said number of active cases in the district stood at 1,633 and 17,285 patients recovered from the Covid-19.Of the positive cases, eight were reported from other districts, 23 from Hoshiarpur city and remaining from other health blocks of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seven-succumb-161-new-cases-in-hoshiarpur-245357
28-04-2021||---||2 audit teams to monitor oxygen consumption at private hospitals in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, Aprill 27There seems to be no respite from surge in positive cases in the district. The health authorities reported more than 600 Covid cases in the last two days, thus increasing pressure on hospitals and the administration.A day after conducting audit on consumption and demand of oxygen at the Civil Hospital, the district administration on Tuesday constituted two audit teams to continuously monitor oxygen consumption at private hospitals in the district.The development would streamline the demand and supply of oxygen at all the healthcare institutes, said officials concerned.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said earlier, audit teams were formed only for the Civil Hospital, which helped in plugging pilferage, low pressure and leakages. Now, two more teams have been formed to conduct oxygen audits at all private hospitals.“First team comprises Bundala Senior Medical Officer Dr Ashoke Kaul, Talwandi Sanghera SMO Dr Gurpreet Singh and ETO Neeraj Kumar. The second team includes Kartarpur SMO Dr Kuldeep, Bhogpur SMO Dr Parminder and ETO Harjot Singh Bedi,” said Thori.The two teams would personally monitor the demand and consumption of oxygen at private hospitals, including its rationing.The team members have also been asked to prepare a daily report of audit on demand, supply and consumption at Covid Care facilities.In addition, officials said as of now oxygen supply to non-medical institutions was completely stopped in the district and the police would act sternly against the ones indulging in hoarding and black-marketing of oxygen cylinders. Meanwhile, some private hospitals started denying admission to Covid-19 patients due to shortage of medical oxygen. As a result, ICU beds at the Civil Hospital were also getting occupied rapidly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-audit-teams-to-monitor-oxygen-consumption-at-private-hospitals-in-jalandhar-245356
28-04-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Youngsters set up corona relief unit in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 27A group of around 60 youngsters aged between 25 and 32 years have formed a ‘Corona relief unit.’Having started working on it just a few days ago, they have been circulating their numbers through social media telling everyone that they were ready to extend some help to patients in distress by providing medicines, oxygen cylinders, beds, food and plasma.The youngsters have made it clear that they would only act to set up a bridge between the needy patients and those with resources available and help them save crucial time wasted in liaisoning.Vaibhav Gupta, who is a chartered accountant, and his schoolmate Sajan Sachdeva, who works in Amazon in Bengaluru, said they took the initial plunge and many more batchmates from Apeejay School, where they studied, were getting added each day.“We have helped a few families already. We have been building a database of contacts. There are people who shared that they have an extra dose of Remdesivir at their place and we gave their contact to a needy patient’s attendant. There was another who called up saying that he had 5 litre of oxygen as there was no need of it now. Again a patient in need of cylinder got this help through us,” said the duo.Gupta said, “We have to revise our database continuously as some sources are getting dried up after the government imposed harsher curbs on black marketing. People have really got scared and are desisting from sharing information on availability of injections, medicines and oxygen cylinders with them. They apprehend that they could fall in any unnecessary trouble and are hence avoiding any discussion. Many people who had opened their contacts for supply of oxygen have switched off their mobile phones or have stopped responding.”He said, “There is a mix of fake and authentic information being shared on social media. So, we are also in the process of filtering the information. Our purpose is just that patient’s attendant get right contacts in the shortest possible time. We also have to ensure genuineness of patients.”The group members said they had also begun working on providing meals to Covid positive families by arranging a cook and some delivery persons. “We are not sure how it will work and how much demand we may get, but our efforts are certainly genuine and we only intend to serve people in these trying times,” said Sachdeva.Six fatalities, 595 new casesThe health authorities reported 595 positive cases and six casualties on Tuesday. With this, the death toll reached 1,060 while the tally of the total positive cases in the district has touched 41,310. On Tuesday, infections were majorly reported from Green Model Town, Amardas Nagar, Rama Mandi, JP Nagar, Wadala Chowk, Basti Bawa Khel, Basti Gujan, Bhagat Singh Colony, Defence colony, Golden Avenue and Surya Enclave areas. Meanwhile, Kapurthala district reported 95 new positive cases and four deaths on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youngsters-set-up-corona-relief-unit-in-jalandhar-245355
28-04-2021||---||Jalandhar residents rush home before evening curfew||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 27The evening curfew orders have somehow led to panic among residents who are thronging supermarkets and grocery stores in large numbers during the daytime to store enough ration to cope up with any harsher measures that the government could take to tackle the virus.Most shopkeepers themselves pulled down their shutters in markets by 5 pm. All those who did not follow the new guidelines of the state government, were forced by the police to shut their shops.As the curfew was to be implemented by 6 pm from today onwards, the movement of vehicles came almost to a standstill by that time. The district administrations issued fresh directives today and got them circulated to residents through social media and by way of public address system.The Deputy Commissioner today issued detailed orders stating that though shops and malls would shut down by 5 pm, home delivery would be allowed up to 9 pm. The daily curfew timings will now be from 6 pm to 5 am on weekdays, prohibiting all non-essential activities. The weekend lockdown will be imposed from 6 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday. However, essential services have been exempted.Private offices, including service industry would be allowed to ‘work from home’ only. Chemist shops and shops dealing with supply of essential goods like milk, dairy products and vegetables would be exempted. For manufacturing industry, movement of employees/ labour of manufacturing industry and vehicles carrying them would be allowed. However, industry concerned shall issue requisite permission for this purpose.All to and fro movement of passengers travelling via air, trains and buses would be allowed. Construction activities in both urban and rural areas would be permissible. Agricultural activities, including procurement, horticultural, animal husbandry and veterinary services would be allowed. E-commerce and movement of all goods would not be stopped. Vaccination would continue at outreach camps and people can come for vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-rush-home-before-evening-curfew-245354
