29-04-2021||---||City youth comes up with ‘We are vaccinated’ drive||Jalandhar, April 28Ahead of the third phase of Covid vaccination drive, set to be launched on May 1 for all persons above 18 years of age, a city-based youth has come forward with a “We are vaccinated” campaign.Having already started the campaign, Vish Karam Pal Singh Dhiman says that the purpose behind launching the campaign was to motivate people to get vaccinated.He said amid the alarming surge in Covid-19 cases, getting inoculated was the only effective measure to keep the virus at bay. Also, adhering to Covid preventive measures should not be avoided. He said through this campaign, I also appeal to the beneficiaries to be a part of the campaign by putting up stickers saying: “We are vaccinated. Are you?”He said he had also sought the cooperation of senior officers of the district administration, social welfare officer, police and the Health Department to make the campaign a success at a large scale. He put a sticker outside Civil Surgeon Balwant Singh’s residence and also distributed some of them at the Civil Hospital. He said he had visited a Community Health Centre too, where he gave some stickers to the ASHA workers there.“The countries where the citizens wholeheartedly participated in the vaccination drive and received the shots are witnessing lower number of cases. Learning from them, we too should act responsibly and get ourselves inoculated to strengthen our fight against the Covid pandemic,” said Dhiman, who also runs a social service group called Vish Foundation. Earlier, he had also made several initiatives to add to the green cover in the city and had also extended his helping hand to farmers protesting against the three laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-youth-comes-up-with-we-are-vaccinated-drive-245812
29-04-2021||Ajay Joshi||Private ambulance operators in Jalandhar take Covid patients for a ride||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, April 28Private ambulance operators have been charging exorbitantly to transport patients to hospitals or carrying bodies to the crematorium. While the 108 emergency service is for free, it is not readily available to patients owing to the rise in the number of patients. Anil Kumar, an 108 ambulance operator said there were around 22 such ambulances in the district and for the past 45 days, each ambulance was ferrying 6-8 patients every day. The private operators have been minting money out of the miserable situation due to the pandemic.Ranging from Rs 1,500-Rs 3,000, the ambulance service operators are charging exorbitant rates in the town. Extra hundreds are added if the ambulances are carrying patients across the city borders. Unreasonable rates are also sought from people for carrying the bodies of Covid-19 patients to crematoriums.Gagandeep Singh, a driver of the Oxford Hospital emergency services, says, the rates have multiplied after the surge in the patients. “Earlier, the one way rates for ferrying any kind of patient were between Rs 600-Rs 800. However, after the surge in Covid cases, the rates have gone up to Rs 2,500. We increased the rates in the first week of March, but the current rates are fixed considering the shortage of oxygen cylinders,” added Gagandeep SinghWhen The Tribune correspondent posed as a patient and enquired about the rates, it was found that Rs 2,500 was being charged for any kind of patient, with or without need of oxygen.Sandeep Singh (28), a resident of Guru Amardas Nagar, who, before calling a private ambulance dialed 108, said, he booked a private ambulance after there was a huge waiting period for the 108 emergency services. There was an outcry in the district due to surge in Covid cases and deaths, despite that, the ambulance services weren’t willing to reduce their rates. For admitting his father to a private hospital which was just 5 km from his house, he paid Rs 2,000. Similarly, kin taking bodies of their loved ones are being forced to pay over Rs 2,000 to any cremation ground from the civil hospitals.Vikramjit Singh Mann, owner of Mann ambulance services, said, the added expenses due to PPE kits and inflated rates of high flow O2 cylinder have lead to a price hike. “The ambulance service charges have almost doubled, from Rs 500 to Rs 1,200. An extra of Rs 400-500 is demanded for providing oxygen supply.Meanwhile, Dr Ashok Thapar, a district health department official confirmed that there was no price cap on the private ambulances in the district while the Civil Hospital has two government ambulances that charge Rs 10 per km.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/private-ambulance-operators-in-jalandhar-take-covid-patients-for-a-ride-245813
29-04-2021||---||24-hour Covid helpline launched in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, April 28A 24×7 helpline number (75270-11530) has been established at the Civil Hospital, Kapurthala, to facilitate the people in the fight against Covid by providing them accurate information and continuously monitor the health of patients under home isolation.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said in addition to this, the nodal officers for the rehabilitation centre with a capacity of 100 beds for the admission of Covid-hit patients are appointed (Dr Sandeep Dhawan, 98159-79369 and Dr Sandeep Bhola 98148-33131).Similarly, for the Covid Care Centre at Phagwara Civil Hospital, Dr Kamal Kishore would be the nodal officer (98141-70211). In DC office, Covid helpline No. 62849-99100 has been issued. The DC further said for ambulance facility for patients, the phone numbers for Kapurthala are 94174-90686 and 98146-03373. People in Phagwara would be able to contact for ambulance services at 62398-45439 and for Begowal at 94648-15878.Helpline number for subdivision hospitalsDistrict Hospital, Kapurthala: 98159-79369; Phagwara Hospital: 94171-70211; Sultanpur hospital: 98140-91955; Bholath Hospital: 93165-22555; Kala Sanghian CHC: 78377 33005; CHC Begowal: 98786-43343.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/24-hour-covid-helpline-launched-in-kapurthala-245816
29-04-2021||---||Forum orders doc to pay Rs 5 lakh as compensation||Jalandhar, April 28The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has ordered a city-based neurosurgeon to pay compensation of Rs 5 lakh to a complainant while holding him negligent in performing spine surgery of complainant’s mother as per medical standard protocol.The perusal of the detailed orders revealed that the surgery of the spine was conducted as there was compression in the cervical spine. The forum held that as per the X-ray reports of the patient, affidavit of witnesses and different views of spine/neurosurgeons it came to the fore that the compression persisted on the spinal cord and the surgery had failed to remove it. Advocate Harleen Kaur was counsel for the complainant.District Forum president Kuljit Singh and member Jyotsna directed neurosurgeon Dr Naveen Chitkara to pay Rs 5 lakh as expenses incurred by the complainant and compensation for mental harassment faced by him. They held that the complainant was also entitled Rs7,000 as cost of litigation while the neurosurgeon was also directed to deposit Rs 3000 as costs in the Consumer Legal Aid Account.In his complainant filed on June 8, 2015, Phagwara resident IP Singh had said that his mother Avtar Kaur had problem with working of her upper and lower limbs and underwent MRI on June 4, 2013, after which he consulted Dr Naveen Chitkara who after examining MRI said that there was some compression in patient’s spine and it was causing weakness in limbs.According to the complaint, it was further advised that in case she would not undergo the suggested surgery, her condition could deteriorate. The complainant told the forum that surgery on his mother’s spine was conducted on June 10, 2013, at Dr Chitkara’s hospital NASA Neurocare, Jalandhar, and he had informed patient’s family that her surgery had gone very well and recovery would be fast.However, the complainant alleged, there was no improvement at all and post-surgery MRI on July 13, 2013 confirmed that compression was still continuing. He held that his mother underwent 3D CT scan on July 26, 2013, for further clarity and to rule out any ambivalence.He also submitted to the forum that he consulted four other prominent surgeons – including three at Delhi – who also held that compression was still continuing and re-surgery was required. The complainant also submitted their prescription slips, which carried their observations, as evidence in support of his contentions.He also mentioned the ordeal his mother suffered after the surgery, including her admission at DMC Hospital, Ludhiana, for a week in emergency/ICU. “She was unable to sit without help and support and her limbs had further weakened,” he mentioned.Dr Chitkara had defended himself and denied the allegations against him. He said the patient was discharged in satisfactory condition. He alleged that there was no follow-up with him. The forum observed that negligence was evident and hence passed the orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/forum-orders-doc-to-pay-rs-5-lakh-as-compensation-245817
29-04-2021||Our Correspondent||NCC as elective subject will benefit cadets: Brig Madan||Jalandhar, April 28Brig Advitya Madan, Commander, NCC Group, Jalandhar, held a meeting with DAV University Vice-Chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi here.He said, “NCC will be included as an elective subject in all Indian universities. This system of NCC as an elective subject was earlier introduced pan India in 2015 in some schools which benefited a few school students. This new proposal has been an off-shoot of the National Education Policy-2020 and has further expanded its scope. Under this, NCC will be introduced as a ‘General Elective Credit Course’ in universities and colleges having NCC to make it more popular, thereby benefiting the students enrolled with NCC.”During the meeting, Brig Madan shared the proposal of the NCC Directorate General, having wide range of positive ramifications on the life of college going NCC cadets. He communicated the extracts of the proposal addressed to the University Grants Commission, New Delhi, who in turn, has written to Vice-Chancellors of all universities in the nation.Brig Madan said there were a total of eight universities in Jalandhar region whose students would be benefited by the game-changer policy and incidentally all of them fall under the jurisdiction of Jalandhar NCC group. These universities include Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; LPU, Phagwara; Punjab University, Chandigarh; DAV University, Jalandhar; PTU, Jalandhar; SBBS University, Padhiana; Guru Ravidas Ayurved University, Hoshiarpur; and GNA University, Phagwara.Talking to The Tribune, Brig Madan said, “NCC cadets will benefit from this new proposal as they will be entitled to academic credit and valuable ‘B’ and ‘C’ certificates. More students will be able to avail employment incentives and benefits which are currently being offered under various Central and state government schemes.”He said the course would be introduced in all universities and autonomous colleges across the nation which were currently having NCC troops/companies, as allotted by the NCC DG, Headquarters, including private colleges which have been allotted NCC under the ‘fully self-financed scheme’. This will ensure that credit courses do not exceed the current capacity of NCC to provide trainers and training infrastructure. This will also ensure smooth transition from the present system to credit course system.Brig Madan told The Tribune that he’s currently pro-actively interacting with Vice-Chancellors of these universities while his team of six commanding officers had made a time-bound schedule of meeting Principals of all colleges, under their jurisdiction to disseminate this vital information of value and make them understand it’s spin-offs and advantages to all stakeholders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ncc-as-elective-subject-will-benefit-cadets-brig-madan-245818
29-04-2021||Jalandhar||Wheat farmers get Rs 695 crore||Guidelines for marriage eventsKapurthala: DC Deepti Uppal said that the marriages scheduled before or on April 30 after 6 pm were allowed with certain conditions. She said that not more than 20 persons would be allowed to participate in the marriages and those attending the wedding would get curfew pass by the concerned SDMs. The event should also end before 9 pm. These instructions were only for the wedding ceremonies scheduled till April 30. People should reschedule the marriages functions as per the new guidelines and curfew imposition, she added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wheat-farmers-get-rs-695-crore-245819
29-04-2021||Our Correspondent||Soon, Hoshiarpur to get Rs 6-cr community centre||Hoshiarpur, April 28Soon, the residents of city and its adjoining areas can organise their family and other functions as the state-of-the-art community centre being constructed by the Punjab Government is on the verge of completion with 98 per cent work of Rs 6.11 crore project has been accomplished already. Captain Amarinder Singh would dedicate this community centre to the people shortly as the final touches are on.Stating this here, Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora said that the Punjab Government had established this modern Community Centre in the heart of city, which would be a big facility for general masses to get their functions organised.This community centre is equipped with all requisite facilities said the minister, who was visiting the Centre to have a look on final touches, adding that with capacity up to 1,000 persons, the fully air-conditioned Centre has other facilities including eight guest room with attach baths, parking area, lawn, separate washrooms for ladies and gents, generator backup etc.Arora said that the centre would be a first of its own kind, which would cater to the needs of all segments of the society ensuring requisite facilities in modern times. The minister also took round of the different blocks and areas in the community centre and directed the authorities concerned to accomplish the final touches in minimal times so that this facility could be dedicated to people at the earliest. Chairman Finance Committee of municipal corporation Hoshiarpur Balwinder Kumar Bindi, Shadi Lal, Manmohan Singh Kapoor, Anil Kumar, Gulshan Rai, and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/soon-hoshiarpur-to-get-rs-6-cr-community-centre-245820
29-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||Donate blood before getting vaccinated, doc tells Hoshiarpur youth||Dr Ajay Bagga, Patron of the Punjab Chapter of the India Society of Blood Transfusion, and Dr Dayal Saroop an expert in blood transfusion services have urged the youth to donate blood before getting vaccinated. They said more than 70 per cent of the blood in blood centres comes from people between the age of 18 to 45 years.To curb the spread of Covid pandemic, the Government of India had decided to vaccinate all above 18 years of age from May 1. Two doses of the vaccine are to be administered at a fixed interval, which previously was 28 days and now is four to six weeks.“Since there are two doses of the vaccine and after taking the second dose, those willing to donate blood can do so only after 28 days. This will lead to further shortage of blood in centres and patients of thalassemia, haemophilia, cancer and kidney failures, which are dependent on regular blood transfusion, will have to suffer,” they said.Dr Bagga and Dr Saroop further said due to the pandemic, very few blood donation camps could be organised, also there was a fall in number of college-going student donors as educational institutes had been shut. Regular voluntary blood donors too are not showing up with the same enthusiasm as earlier.They appealed to the government to create awareness among youth for donating blood before getting inoculated. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/donate-blood-before-getting-vaccinated-doc-tells-hoshiarpur-youth-245821
29-04-2021||---||Eight more deaths, 570 fresh cases in district||Jalandhar, April 28The District Health Department on Wednesday reported 570 fresh Covid -19 cases. Besides, eight more people succumbed to the virus in the city. With more casualties due to the deadly virus, the death toll has also reached 1,068. The fresh addition of cases has also pushed the Covid tally to 41,894 cases. While there are 4,278 active cases in the district, test reports of as many as 2,566 people are still awaited.146 test positive, no death in Kapurthala districtNearly 146 cases were reported in Kapurthala, while no death was reported across the district today. In the past 27 days, 3,213 people got infected and 73 lost their lives. The death toll in the district is 329 with the death rate standing at 2.71 per cent. Nearly 2,100 persons were tested for the virus today. Under the ongoing vaccination drive, 2,326 persons were inoculated, said District Immunologisation Officer Dr Randeep Singh.249 new Covid cases in Hoshiarpur, 5 more dieThe district reported five more Covid-19 fatalities on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 716, while 249 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 18,388. The number of active cases stood at 1,827, while 17,335 patients recovered.Of the five deaths reported due to the virus on Wednesday, three patients died at private hospitals in Jalandhar, one died at Nawanshahr and one more died on the way to hospital from Hariana town in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eight-more-deaths-570-fresh-cases-in-district-245822
29-04-2021||---||One held for selling oxygen cylinders in black||Jalandhar, April 28An owner of Fairdeal Agency was arrested today for allegedly hoarding and black marketing of oxygen cylinders in the city. Amid heightened demand for the cylinder due to surging cases, he was found charging Rs 18,600 for one cylinder, which is actually sold for Rs 600.The accused has been identified as Ashwini Goyal. He was running his agency near Nehru Garden School.The fresh incident related to black-marketing of O2 gas came to the fore after a city-based Human Rights Activist, Shashi Sharma, intimated about the same to the district administration and the police commissioner.‘Expose those selling cylinders illegally’DCP Gurmeet Singh said, the police initiated the action following the information and along with the health department team a raid was conducted at the agency and the accused was apprehended with 11 oxygen cylinders.To avoid any police action, the accused used to issue payment slips of Rs 600 in the name of a private clinic. To expose the accused, Sharma posed as a customer and purchased a cylinder that cost him Rs 18,000. The accused has been booked under Sections 188 of the IPC, 51 of the National Disaster Management Act-2005, 3 Epidemic Disease Management Act-1897 and 7 EC act, at Police Division Number 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-held-for-selling-oxygen-cylinders-in-black-245824
29-04-2021||Our Correspondent||DHO conducts rapid tests at grain market||Hoshiarpur, April 28On the directives of DGP Dinkar Gupta and SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, a team of Police Hospital led by former SMO of the hospital, District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh, on Wednesday evening, conducted rapid tests of 45 persons at Dana Mandi, Rahimpur. All of them tested negative. Accompanied by DSP (H) Gurpreet Singh Gill and DSP Jaspreet Singh, medical team led by District Health Officer Dr Lakhvir Singh took samples of labourers at the mandi. The DHO said the purpose of this sampling was to prevent further spread of Covid-19 efficaciously and this exercise would be done at other places witnessing rush besides frequent arrivals and departures in the district.He said if any person tested positive in the rapid test, he/she would undergo the RT-PCR test so that he could be examined and isolated accordingly. The team of the Police Hospital will simultaneously conduct sampling and testing, besides holding special vaccination camps in different parts of the district, he added. Amid worsening of the Covid situation, Dr Lakhvir Singh appealed to the people to adhere to all health safety protocols without any fail in the larger public interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dho-conducts-rapid-tests-at-grain-market-245828
29-04-2021||Jalandhar||Online yoga activity||Students get jobsThe most significant job is being done by doctors and paramedical staff with Covid-19 pandemic around. They risk their lives on a daily basis to save the lives of others. Students of DIPS IMT are all geared up to contribute to the medical field. Recently, many students from DIPS IMT qualified as BSc MLS, got recruited as laboratory technicians in various well reputed governmental and private medical colleges/ hospitals of Punjab and Jammu Kashmir with a lucrative salary package. DIPS chain MD Tarwinder Singh took the opportunity to congratulate all students and remarked that it was important to help people during the pandemic. DIPS chain CEO Monica Mandotra College, Director KK Handu and Principal Simranjeet Singh gave their best wishes to all successful students for their future and also hoped that they would bring laurels to DIPS Chain in the times to come.Work-life balance interactionIn a webinar organised by the Hindu Kanya College, Sudhir Dua, a motivational speaker and an industrialist from Faridabad, gave tips on ‘Work-Life Balance’ to the staff of the college. In a 90-minutes long interaction, Dua expressed the need of contentment, ability to take strong decisions and willingness to accept the changes and challenges as key-points for a healthy and a happy life. “We should have a passion for work and try to maintain relationships. It can lead to growth at personal and professional fronts,” he said. Dua also interacted with staff members on this occasion and answered to their queries. Principal Dr Archna Garg, while presenting motion of thanks, expressed hope that the tips given by Dua will bring positive change in the working attitude of all the staff members, especially, women staff who have to face toughest challenge of maintaining work-life balance.Restore ecosystemThe School of Architecture and Design at Lovely Professional University invoked all architects, students and all citizens of the world to restore the world’s ‘Ecosystem’. Correlating the present Covid-19 pandemic scenario worldwide, a message was conveyed that “together, we have the strong power to restore our earth”. Renowned architect of the country, Chairman IIAPC and Director Ludhiana Smart City Sanjay Goel was the keynote speaker. He held that in the current worldwide pandemic scenario, we all need a healthy earth to support our livelihood, health, survival, happiness and to have all-round prosperity. He asked all to respect the ‘Mother Earth’, and further advised not to pollute air, water and sound on the earth. Dean and Chief Architect at LPU Atul Singla also shared that a healthy planet is not an option, it is a necessity.University positionsAs many as 56 students in MBA from Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus scored distinction and 46 students of BBA & B Com (Hons) scored distinction in the result of School of Management declared by IKG Punjab Technical University. Ten students of MBA scored more than 90 per cent marks, 46 students of MBA scored more than 80 per cent marks. In BCom (Hons) five students scored more than 90 per cent marks and 26 students scored more than 80 per cent marks. In BBA four students scored more than 90 per cent marks and 14 students scored more than 80 per cent marks. In MBA III- Col Sanjay Shandil stood first by scoring 9.41 SGPA, Manpreet Kaur stood second by scoring 9.31 SGPA, Col Rohit Bisht stood third by scoring 9.28 SGPA, Ravinder Kaur and Soma Rani stood fourth by scoring 9.19 SGPA, Parminder Kaur stood fifth by scoring 9.09 SGPA, Rohit Jassal stood sixth by scoring 9.03 SGPA. In B.Com (Hons) III-Harleen Kaur and Ria Kaushik stood first buy scoring 9.48 SGPA, Prabhjot Kaur stood second by scoring 9.26 SGPA, Gagandeep Kaur stood third by scoring 9.19 SGPA, Bhawna and Manpreet Kaur stood fourth by scoring 8.96 SGPA, Ashu Sampla , Nakita Mahey and Shivam stood fifth by scoring 8.74 SGPA.Workshop on salary administrationPhagwara: GNA University organised a “Workshop on Salary and Wage Administration” via the online platform for the students of Business Studies and Management. The resource person for the day was Sumit Bhatia, HR business partner in Kangaroo Industries Ltd, Ludhiana, holding over 14 years of experience. The core objective behind this workshop was to administer the students and acquaint them with the knowledge of salary and wage calculation in different business organisations and also to elucidate them with different aspects of salary calculation such as CTC, gross salary etc. The students were illustrated upon different aspects of wage administration and also explained different plans such as Rowan Plan, Halsey Plan, Differential Piece Wage System and many others and its use in different Indian companies. He further went on to propound different aspects of salary calculation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-yoga-activity-245830
29-04-2021||---||‘Vaccination crucial pillar to beat Covid’||Jalandhar, April 28Vaccination is a crucial pillar in fight against Covid-19, said Devpreet Singh, Additional Director General (Region), Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, during a webinar on ‘Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and vaccination’ organised today by Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, today. She said the ministry was steadfast and proactive in its efforts towards disseminating correct information with regard to Covid in the region.While emphasising it as one of the determinants in fight against Covid, Dr Arun Sharma, Director, National Institute for Implementation Research on Non-Communicable Diseases (NIIRNCD) of the ICMR and community medicine expert, Jodhpur, explained participants about the importance of basic Covid-appropriate behaviour during the webinar.He clarified that efficacies of both the available vaccines are equally good and there was no confusion over it. He further said that the government’s recent decision of vaccinating 18 years-plus is very measured and challenging due to their population size which requires patience. Col (Dr) Kulbir Sharma, Professor and HOD Medicine, Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Jalandhar, encouraged everyone to get themselves vaccinated as soon as it become available. He said public has certain misconceptions about Covid, which needs to be cleared and it is everybody’s responsibility to follow Covid appropriate behaviour.Rajesh Bali, Field Publicity Officer, Field Outreach Bureau, Jalandhar, moderated the session which was also attended by officials of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting from the region. Students from KMV College, Jalandhar; DAV college, Nakodar; Army Public School, Beas and NSS volunteers also participated in the webinar. Many queries and questions from participants were satisfactorily addressed by the guest speakers.The session concluded with Sapna, Assistant Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Chandigarh, presenting a vote of thanks to all the participants and guest speakers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vaccination-crucial-pillar-to-beat-covid-245835
