30-04-2021||Jalandhar||Only 10,000 vaccine doses left in Jalandhar, 18+ drive may take a hit||With merely 10,000 vaccine left in stock, health staff said those above 18 years of age will be vaccinated only if additional vaccination stocks arrive. The health staff also said confusion prevailed regarding the next phase of the Covid drive as they did not know when the stocks would arrive again.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had also said today that the 18-plus vaccination drive in the state may get delayed as Punjab did not have adequate doses.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “Currently, we don’t have vaccine for the 18-plus immunisation drive. We have stock only until tomorrow. There are 10,000 doses available which will be used in a single day given the rate of vaccination. On an average, 10,000 to 11,000 people are getting vaccinated every day. However, we will be able to vaccinate 18-plus people only if more vaccines arrive by May 1.”MP Santokh Chaudhary, while urging those above 18 years of age to get vaccinated in the next phase of the Covid vaccine on May 1, had said the vaccination was the only solution to tide over this current health crisis prevailing out of the second wave of virus. Notably, in all over 3 lakh 80,000 people have been vaccinated in Jalandhar until now.MP Santokh Chaudhary said, “We were not aware of the shortage of the vaccines earlier. We got to know about it later. The state government has been requesting to replenish the stock but people can only get vaccinated when the stock arrives. As per the recent statement of the Health Minister, vaccines will be administered if there are in stock. So, the drive depends on the stock in the state.”While reviewing the administration’s preparedness to tackle the second wave of Covid-19 in the district, the MP, accompanied by Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, MLAs Rajinder Beri, Avtar Singh Bawa Henry, Surinder Chaudhry, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, SSP Dr Sandeep Garg, and DCP Gurmeet Singh took stock of various steps being taken to win this war against the virus.While Member of Parliament Chaudhary Santokh Singh on Thursday urged all people above 18 years of age to register for the mega vaccination drive being rolled out from May 1, the health staff is the district said they were left with stock only for a day.The MP made comments while chairing a district-level review meeting at the district administrative complex, Jalandhar. However, hours later, he retracted his statement after statewide reports that the 18-plus vaccine drive might get delayed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-10-000-vaccine-doses-left-in-jalandhar-18-drive-may-take-a-hit-246166
30-04-2021||Jalandhar||Rs25K reward for providing info on black marketeers||The district administration has announced a cash reward of Rs 25,000 for anyone giving information related to black marketing of oxygen and essential medicines in Jalandhar.The Deputy Commissioner said Rs 25,000 cash award will be given by the district administration to any sting operation/concrete information that leads to registration of an FIR with respect to black marketing of oxygen cylinders, Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, RT-PCR overcharging or any other activity related to the Covid management. He said information can be forwarded on WhatsApp (98889-81881, 95017-99068).The decision comes a day after owner of an agency was arrested for black marketing an oxygen cylinder for Rs 18,600. Several days ago, a doctor and his aide were also arrested for black marketing two Remdesivir vials for Rs 10,000 and 12 vials were found from the doctor’s clinic, which were without purchase bills.Around 2,200 to 2,400 oxygen cylinders are refilled at two plants in Jalandhar and 1,900 are left for disbursal in the district. Of them, 1,884 cylinders have been rationed for distribution across 60 private hospitals and the Civil Hospital. However, hospitals have repeatedly said that the current supply was bare minimum.Meanwhile, the district also faces an acute shortage of Remdesivir. A top administrative official himself could not secure Tocilizumab a few days ago. Thori said, “We have tried to plug leaks, have deputed officials outside plants, made nodal officers to check supply and receipt of cylinders. Yet there are rumours regarding continuing pilferage or black marketing. Since demand is expected to rise in the coming days, the step has been taken to nip the activity in the bud. We are also going to reward those who informed about oxygen being black marketed yesterday with Rs 25,000.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs25k-reward-for-providing-info-on-black-marketeers-246167
30-04-2021||Jalandhar||Oxygen audit: Curtail misuse, wastage||To ensure optimum utilisation of oxygen in healthcare institutions, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal on Thursday directed audit teams to frequently visit all private hospitals and complete oxygen-audit at the earliest. While participating in a virtual review meeting chaired by state-level oxygen monitoring group, the ADC apprised the group members of the steps taken by Jalandhar administration to ensure optimum and rationalised utilisation of oxygen. Sarangal stated that on the directions of Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar Ghanshyam Thori, an audit was conducted in the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar.The ADC added that similar audits were ordered in all private hospitals to check wastage and ensure its adequate demand and supply.The ADC said the whole exercise would aim at reducing consumption of oxygen by rationing its usage. He mentioned that every single drop of this gas was worth saving amid this pandemic, especially during these trying times. He also asked the members of audit teams to create a sensible approach in the hospitals so that wastage and misuse of O2 could be curtailed in the larger public interest.While the DC had declared that audits shall be conducted ever since the audit at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital brought down the number of cylinders being used there, two teams have already been conducted to carry out the audits.While currently 1,884 cylinders are being distributed across private hospitals and the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar, there is meagre vailability of liquid oxygen gas via transport which is being sought by the district administration.An audit of private hospitals might help generate additional oxygen if more leakages are plugged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-audit-curtail-misuse-wastage-246168
30-04-2021||Jalandhar||7 deaths, 479 new cases in Jalandhar||The district reported 479 new cases of Covid on Thursday, taking the infection tally to 42,373. Of these 57 belong to other districts. Seven people succumbed in the district, thus taking the death toll to 1,075. At present, the district has 4,278 active cases and 37,046 people have recovered so far.In Kapurthala, 142 new cases tested positive today. The district tally has reached 13,211. No new deaths in the district were officially reported today.Meanwhile, the state on Thursday reported 138 Covid-19 deaths, which pushed the toll to 8,909, while 6,812 fresh cases took the tally to 3,64,910 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-deaths-479-new-cases-in-jalandhar-246169
30-04-2021||Hoshiarpur||6 fall prey to virus, 308 +ve in Hoshiarpur||The district health authorities on Thursday reported six deaths due to the Covid-19, thus taking the toll to 722. The authorities reported 308 fresh cases today. With this, the tally increased to 18,684.Hoshiarpur Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said active cases stood at 1,848 and 17,616 patients recovered so far. Hoshiarpur city reported 26 new cases while the remaining ones were reported from various health blocks of the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-fall-prey-to-virus-308-ve-in-hoshiarpur-246170
30-04-2021||Jalandhar||19K litres of lahan destroyed||Continuing its drive against bootleggers and smugglers of liquor, specific teams of Jalandhar excise department raided various hideouts alongside river Sutlej on Thursday under Operation Red Rose. The teams destroyed 19,000 litres of lahan, besides recovery of 180 bottles of illicit liquor along with recovery of four iron drums, two rubber tubes, 19 plastic tarpaulin sheets, big iron drums and other utensils.The department has got an FIR registered at police station Mehatpur under the Excise Act. On the direction of Assistant Commissioner Excise Jalandhar-II, a raid was conducted under Operation Red Rose in the Mand Area of Mehatpur village Veran, Dharme Dian Chhanna. Excise Officer Jalandhar West Harjot Singh Bedi said that adopting a tough stance under zero tolerance policy against the illicit liquor trade, a raid was conducted in the enclaves of river Satluj falling in the Mand areas.Excise Inspector Resham Mahi and Excise Inspector Ram Murti along with excise police staff and local police carried out the recovery process.Dr Harsimrat Grewal, Assistant Commissioner Excise Jalandhar-II, said that the drive would be carried out in future too. “Recently, we had destroyed 48,000 litres of lahan in a joint raid with Ludhiana team. It is in continuation of that raid. The Operation Red Rose has been going on since last year,” she said.Last year too, officials of the Excise and Taxation Department had explained why such malpractices existed the most along the Sutlej. They had said the villages were situated far away from residential areas and there was an easy and free availability of water as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/19k-litres-of-lahan-destroyed-246171
30-04-2021||Sanjiv Kumar BakshiHoshiarpur||17-yr-old lights up lives of slum dwellers||At a tender age of 17, when most of the girls of her age are considering and pursuing the options for their future and career, Anoushka Mohindra, a final year high school student in Granite Bay city in California in the USA, is thinking and doing her bit to help the economically weaker, downtrodden and slum dwellers.She was here in Hoshiarpur for a vacation to meet her grandparents. During her stay here, she saw some slum dwellers and was shocked to see their plight and the conditions under which they were staying. She decided to do something for them. In the USA then, she raised an organisation ‘Ray of Change’ to help them. In these two years, she has contributed for a positive change in the life of more than 600 slum-dwelling families of Hoshiarpur in the form of solar lights. Her father Vikas Mohindra is an IT professional and owns an IT Company. He is in the USA since 1989 and her mother Jyotna is a physiotherapist.How it all startedTalking to The Tribune, Anoushka said: “My family and I live in California. My both parents grew up in India. My mother is a physiotherapist and my father owns a small IT company – providing data and analytics solutions. I was born in the USA and I visited India often to meet my grandparents. So during these trips, I was able to see slum communities first hand. I used to play with the children of my grandparent’s maid. They were such wonderful and kind people, but living in such poor conditions. I wanted to extend the kindness they had given me, but I wasn’t sure how for the longest time”.One day, during a conversation with her father regarding an article about the lack of electricity in India, she learnt that even though PM Narendra Modi promised to electrify all of India, 31 million homes were still in the dark. That stuck with her until one day, on a grocery run, something shiny caught her eye. It was a pack of solar powered lights, which she realised was a sustainable and cost-efficient solution. The idea of providing the solar lights to slum dwellers came to her mind and she talked about it to her parents and friends. She, with the help of a facilitator here, found a community interested in receiving lighting and communicated with their leader to determine when and how they could help them.“Initially, we provided a community of underprivileged (over 100 families) with solar lighting for their homes. This has extended to about 600 families now. These solar lights increase safety and incentivises them to stay indoors during the pandemic, as their home is more lit and comfortable,” said Anoushka.The lights were advertised as very durable, yet the first batch she sent fell apart relatively quickly, so they had to be replaced. Also, the pandemic made it difficult to raise funds for the cause, but last summer, she was able to form a small team with some other high school students to continue her fund raising efforts. “Initially, my father provided some funds – which were used to buy a small quantity of trial solar lamps/lights. Later on I trained myself to run internet campaigns, which were not very successful. Then I formed a small team of my schoolmates and we reached out to every friend and family. Due to the pandemic, we were not able to establish community support. But as the things turned normal (from the pandemic), we hope to raise funds from the community,” said Anoushka.Her team constantly follows-up with the families who were given lights. Their organisation has a facilitator and an Asha worker helping them in the cause. They supply the data that they keep to understand how the lights help the community.What next? “We are currently working to distribute another set of lights from the money we have raised. We are also thinking of other ways to support the underprivileged communities,” said Anoushka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/17-yr-old-lights-up-lives-of-slum-dwellers-246176
30-04-2021||Jalandhar||Students go online to showcase their talent||Students of various city schools and colleges observed the International Dance Day by organising several activities and online classical dance contests in collaboration with the Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music and Culture Amongst Youth (SPIC MACAY) on Thursday. The day is a global celebration of dance and was introduced in 1982 by the International Dance Committee of the UNESCO, International Theatre Institution. The Dance Committee of the International Theatre Institute (ITI), main partner for the performing arts of the UNESCO, observes the day every year on April 29, which is the anniversary of the birth of Jean-Georges Noverre (1727–1810), the creator of modern ballet.Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya observed the day in collaboration with the SPIC MACAY, a movement which promotes intangible aspects of Indian cultural heritage by promoting Indian classical music, classical dance, folk music, yoga, meditation, crafts and other aspects of the Indian culture. The celebrations were organised to pay tributes to Pt Rajan Mishra. During the celebrations, a Kathak recital and an interactive session with Padamshree Shovana Narayan, a prolific Kathak dancer was also organised. Dr Sushma Chawla, vice-president, KMV managing committee, was the chief guest during the occasion. Anuradha Sondhi, Dr Sushma Chopra and Maj Gen Balwinder Singh also graced the occasion. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi welcomed the guests to the event and in her welcome address, Dr Dwivedi averred that on the International Dance Day, the youth of our country should strive to develop finer aspects of life in order to develop a balance in all spheres of life. A video of Shovana Narayan explaining the intricacies of Kathak was also showcased during the event. During the culmination of the event, a question and answer session was also organised in which many participants asked their queries from Shovana Narayana. Kunda Mahurkar, national chairperson, SPIC MACAY, extended vote of thanks to all guests and participants. Kamakshi and Yukta were the moderators of the event. The Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Poonam Sharma, Head, PG Department of Performing Arts, Dr Pardeep Arora and Dr Madhumeet, Head, PG Department of English, for organising the event.OBSERVED ON APRIL 29, THE DAY MARKS GLOBAL CELEBRATION OF DANCEApeejay College of Fine ArtsApeejay College of Fine Arts students of the Department of Dance participated in the dance competition organised by Kristu Jayanti College, Bengaluru, to mark the International Dance Day. After qualifying the preliminary round, students presented their performances for the second round. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra appreciated the efforts of the students as well as their teachers who did not let the pandemic be a hurdle in their learning process. She said teaching and learning classical dance through online platforms has its own kinds of challenges and it was due to their consistent efforts that the students could perform at national level which undoubtedly deserved a word of appreciation. Dr Ranjana Chabbra, HOD, Dance, shared that Asmita Gupta, Aditi, Bhawna Sharma and Mayuri Muskan - students of MA Classical Dance had participated in the competition. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra appreciated the efforts of the entire department for guiding the students and enabling them to perform at national level.Innocent Hearts GroupA classical dance competition was organised in the five schools of Innocent Hearts to mark the International Dance Day. The competition was conducted online. Students of Class VII and VIII participated in the competition and gave their performances. Music HOD Kirandeep and Richa Sharma were the judges to the event. The first place was won by Kairabi, Aastha Sachdeva and Garima. The three of them performed the best dance. Second place was won by Sania Arora, Tript and Garima Bhatia. The third place was secured by Divyanshu Sood, Ekam Preet Kaur and Vrinda Gupta. The consolation prize was received by Navya Bansal. On the occasion, the students who won the competition were congratulated by the vice-principal. Cultural head Sharmila Nakra informed them about various forms of dance. Such activities along with online studies keep the children stress-free and play a significant role in their all-round development, said the head.Phagwara MLU DAV CollegeUnder the guidance of Principal Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa, students of Mohan Lal Uppal DAV College, Phagwara, observed the International Dance Day. A webinar was organised by the Music Department for students and faculty members to mark the day. Navjinder Kaur (MA, MPhil in Music and pursuing PhD) who has 10-year experience in theatre and dance was the resource person and shared fruitful knowledge to the participants. The day promotes art and culture and raises awareness among the public regarding the “art of dance”. It also spreads education about several forms of dance and its value in its art form. Further, she said art of dance was one of the earliest and longest standing forms of entertainment and community activity known to human kind. It is one of the ultimate activities to end stress, lose inhibitions, meet new people and boost physical health. The day is a true global celebration that breaks down barriers to bring people together. She introduced dance forms, history and importance of dance to the audience and ways to make a clear view in career of dance. Teacher and students interacted with her, asked questions and cleared their doubts. Dr Randhawa also encouraged everyone as dance is both an art form and a method of communication in culture around the world and is practiced by millions of people. The aim of the event was to encourage people to take dance more seriously in their day-to-day lives and also to keep them physically fit. She concluded by congratulated everyone for organising such a knowledgeable and interesting event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-go-online-to-showcase-their-talent-246200
30-04-2021||Jalandhar||St Soldier College students shine||Day of Immunology celebratedHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya celebrated International Day of Immunology by organising a webinar on ‘Covid-19: Immune response and computational resources’. The webinar was conducted under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen. The resource persons included an eminent scientist Prof GPS Raghava, Head Department of Computational Biology, Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), New Delhi and Dr Deeksha (MD Pathology), Director Synergy Labs, Jalandhar. The webinar started with concept note by Dr Seema Marwaha, Head Department of Zoology and co-ordinator of this webinar. The chief guest Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur, Officiating Principal and Dean Academics, welcomed the guests and participants. Prof GPS Raghava explained the basics of vaccines, various types of vaccines, mechanisms involved in immune response to Covid-19 and pathway of vaccine discovery.IVY colour splashIVY World School, under the ageis of the Vasal Education Society, organised a colouring competition for the kindergarten wing. The little artists of Ivy participated in the competition with great zeal and enthusiasm and at the same time took great care to colour their masterpieces with their creativity. The tiny tots coloured beautifully and exhibited their skills by filling colours in the given picture. The motive of this competition was to improve motor skills of children. The motions involved like holding the tools and scribbling with crayon can help in the development of the tiny muscles in his wrist, fingers and hands. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, congratulated the achievers and applauded the participants on their creativity.Slogan-writing contestThe Department of English, Kamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara, conducted an online inter-class ‘Slogan Writing Competition’ on the theme of ‘Women Empowerment’. The students from different classes participated in this competition with full zest and enthusiasm. Sudhamani, Assistant Prof, Fine Arts, and Amanlata, Head, Department of English, acted as the jury members. Dr Savinder Pal, college principal, expressed her views on the need for women empowerment and motivated the students to express their views in the form of art. Almost 40 students participated in this competition. Certificates of achievement were awarded to the students for bagging the first three positions. The other participants of the competition were also provided certificates of participation. Dr Savinder Pal, the college principal, sent a virtual congratulatory message to the winners.Student of Mehr Chand Clears IESArjun Sharma, a student of Mehr Chand Polytechnic College has cleared Indian Engineering Services (IES) exam, conducted by UPSC in the first attempt. He was in the batch 2012-2015 after which he pursued his higher studies in Civil Engineering. During his recent visit to the polytechnic, he interacted with all the faculty members, specially the Department of Civil Engineering and shared his journey of achievements. After graduation he got campus placement in Shapoorji Pallonji Construction Company, where he worked for six months in Hyderabad and started preparing for the IES entrance exams. After clearing his preliminary and main examinations he got selected. He would be soon joining the services under Indian Defence Military Engineering Services as ‘Executive Engineer’. Before his posting, he would be undergoing nine months training. He dedicated his success to all the hard working staff members of this polytechnic.Dr Bains gets additional chargeDr Simranjeet Singh Bains, Associate Prof and Dean Sports, has been given additional charge of the Physical Education and Sports Department of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar. In a brief function held in the department, the college Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra made Dr Bains formally assume the chair. Speaking on the occasion Dr Samra said that Dr Bains was made in charge of the department after the promotion of departmental teachers Dr Jaspal Singh and Dr Tarsem Singh as principals in different colleges. He expressed a hope that Dr Bains would fulfil the responsibility assigned to him efficiently and effectively. Dr Bains expressed his thanks to the principal for showing his faith confidence in him.Student joins canadian varsityPhagwara: One of the students at Lovely Professional University, Geetika Jaswal, pursuing BSc (Airlines, Tourism and Hospitality) programme, has recently joined University of Fraser Valley (UFV) in Canada. Geetika has commenced her LPU-connected new academic journey in Canada to pursue international education and to achieve her goals. Even the ongoing pandemic could not impede her aimed international study programme. She is presently in Canada under LPU’s unique ‘Credit Transfer Programme’. Through LPU’s credit transfer programme, she has also saved the first two years’ foreign university fees by studying the first half of her programme at LPU. Otherwise, these two-year fees, too, had to be paid by her in dollars. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/st-soldier-college-students-shine-246204
30-04-2021||Jalandhar||Lockdown in Delhi, city industry takes a big hit||Industrialists in the city are facing trouble because of the lockdown imposed in Delhi, Maharashtra and other areas. Jalandhar is the nucleus of various industries such as sports, pipe fittings, valves and cocks and hand tools etc. Amid the pandemic, lockdown and increasing prices of raw materials have added to the woes of traders and manufactures.City traders rue that there was no clarity on restrictions and said it was tough for them to survive amid this crisis. “We have been facing several problems from the past few months but the government is not doing anything to resolve them,” said a trader.A pipes and fittings industry manufacturer Suba Singh said the rate of raw materials had increased by 50 per cent. “Also, nobody is ready to purchase goods anymore, because everyone is concerned about their health and fear contracting the virus. But, the situation has become difficult for us as we are paying regular electricity bills even if the units are shut,” he said.Gursharan Singh, an industrialist, said lockdown would hit them hard as the goods that had already been manufactured would not be able to be dispatched due to the restrictions. “For being unable to deliver the products, the party won’t release the payment and this will hit our economy hard,” he said adding that despite this situation, they could not halt the production.Sharan Deep, a small manufacturer, said units were not working to their full capacity. “The rate of raw material is so high that a small trader and manufacture like me cannot even afford to purchase it. Surviving amid such conditions is becoming difficult for industrialists,” he rued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lockdown-in-delhi-city-industry-takes-a-big-hit-246205
30-04-2021||Jalandhar||F&CC meeting on May 5||CAO holds meet with agri officersJalandhar: Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Dr Surinder Singh held a special meeting with the agriculture officers and asked them to encourage the farmers in various blocks to not burn the wheat stubble and instead cultivate green manure. He said that 570 quintals of seeds of green manure had already reached every block which would be available for the farmers on subsidy. TNSEdu dept: Discard unused materialJalandhar: The Education Department has asked the District Education Officers (Secondary and Primary) to dispose of unused material in the school such as old furniture, question papers and answer sheets of house tests. In a circular, the department has asked the school principals to ensure that the material is discarded and no rooms are filled with these. TNSCSIR award for schoolchildrenJalandhar: The Ministry of Education, Department of School Education and Literacy, will be organising CSIR Innovation Award for schoolchildren. Students studying in Class XII can take part. Schools have been asked to send entries of the children till April 30 on www.csir.res.in. The awardswill be given on September 26, the CSIR Foundation Day. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fcc-meeting-on-may-5-246206
