01-10-2021||Muktsar||Watch: Punjab Transport Minister Raja Warring takes jam-packed PRTC bus||Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring again traveled in a bus.  On Thursday, he traveled in a jam-packed PRTC ordinary bus from Bhallaiana village in Muktsar district to Bathinda.Also read: Go after transporters evading tax: Raja WarringLike his Chief Minister, Warring too is trying to create an image of an “aam aadmi”. He interacted with the people in the bus and asked them about the problem they faced and also took their feedback.Yesterday, also, he had travelled in a bus. He has asked the transport department to ensure that all bus stands across the state are encroachment-free in the next 48 hours. In his first meeting with the officials of the department after taking over the Transport minister, he said the encroachments at the bus stands are not only creating inconvenience to the masses but also causing a huge loss to the state exchequer, according to a government statement. He directed the officials to remove the encroachments in 48 hours.Every encroachment, whether big or small, has to be removed else strict action will be taken, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/watch-punjab-transport-minister-raja-warring-takes-jam-packed-prtc-bus-318720
01-10-2021||---||Go after transporters evading tax: Raja Warring||Bathinda/Muktsar, Sept 30Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring today directed senior officials of the department to initiate action against operators plying buses without permit and indulging in tax evasion.Addressing mediapersons during his visit to Bathinda today, Warring said the department officials must discharge their duties without getting influenced by big players and rein in defaulters in the transport sector. Earlier, he received a warm welcome by department officials and Congress workers.Rides in bus to know ground realityVows regular jobsWarring said: “Officials must not act under any sort of fear and impound all those buses plying without permit, including those indulging in tax evasion.” He said the department was taking steps to renovate the Bathinda city bus stand soon. “All other bus stands in the state will also be renovated soon and congenial and safe atmosphere will be created. Transporters have been indulging in tax evasion deliberately and all outstanding taxes will be recovered by the government now. Buses of those not paying tax will be stopped. There will be changes in the timing slots of buses soon,” he added.Meanwhile, during a visit to his Gidderbaha Assembly constituency in Muktsar, Warring today received the guard of honour from the Punjab Police, but also faced farmers’ ire at Chhattiana village.Upon being questioned, he told farmers to give their queries in writing so that he could ask the Agriculture Minister and officers concerned before holding a debate.Warring also questioned the farmers protesting against him. “The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has asked all farmer unions to lodge protest against BJP leaders and question politicians of other parties. Then why are you lodging a protest against me?” he said.Addressing the media, Warring said he would end the transport mafia within 15 days. “The timetable of buses had not been made in past almost 15 years. I assure you that the PRTC, Punbus and Punjab Roadways will make profit in the coming days,” he said.He said the contract employees in the transport department would be regularised soon as per the Supreme Court guidelines. Warring also directed officers of his department to impound the buses running without mandatory permit or not fulfilling the norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/go-after-transporters-evading-tax-raja-warring-318353
01-10-2021||Bathinda/Muktsar||Two debt-ridden farmers end life in Bathinda, Muktsar||After suffering damage due to the pink bollworm attack, a 46-year-old farmer from Mehma Sarkari village of Bathinda allegedly died by suicide early this morning.The deceased was identified as Rup Singh, who reportedly was under stress due to the mounting debt.Sukhraj Singh, elder brother of the deceased, said, “Rup Singh had taken a loan of around Rs 12 lakh which he could not repay. He had also sown cotton in four acres but due to the pink bollworm attack, his crop got damaged. He had been under stress for the past few weeks. He went to the tubewell room in the fields and ended his life by hanging himself.”Meanwhile, a 28-year-old farmer from Rattakhera Vadda village in Lambi of Muktsar allegedly died by suicide by consuming some poisonous substance on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Manipal Singh, who owned around six acres. Sukhjinder Singh, cousin of the deceased, said Manipal’s land was waterlogged and he owned some animals as well, but could not overcome financial burden. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/two-debt-ridden-farmers-end-life-in-bathinda-muktsar-318369
