13-10-2021||---||Now, Punjabi University’s Bathinda South Campus is Guru Kashi Campus||Patiala, October 12Punjabi University has decided to change the name of its South Campus at Bathinda which was restructured recently in June. The university had clubbed its three centres— Punjabi University Guru Kashi Campus Damdama Sahib, Yadavindra College of Engineering and University School of Business Studies at Talwandi Sabo— under the name Punjabi University Patiala South Campus. The decision has been taken after a ruckus was created at the campus over its name on the university VC’s visit there on Monday. The outsiders who raised a number of demands also attempted to ‘gherao’ the VC.The VC had paid a visit to South Campus over administrative matters. “Outsiders reached the site and created a ruckus”, an official said.In a video that went viral, the VC was also seen explaining to the protesters that the name of the campus was decided after its officials sent the university administration a proposal for the same.When contacted VC Arvind said some people had been trying to create a ruckus over various matters. “Now they raised the issue of religion in the campus’s name. Our original idea of restructuring was not the change of name but restructuring of departments and courses for better functioning and output for students. Now after a discussion with Jathedar Gurdwara Damdama Sahib, we have decided to rename the South Campus as Punjabi University Guru Kashi Campus, Damdama Sahib (Talwandi Sabo).”He added that the restructuring of departments, colleges and courses, as was done recently, is not being changed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/now-punjabi-universitys-bathinda-south-campus-is-guru-kashi-campus-323888
13-10-2021||Bathinda||Man linked to Assam terror outfit nabbed from Bathinda||The Bathinda police arrested a man linked with Assam’s Bodo Liberation Tigers Force, identified as Sanjay Bharao, along with his association, while he was preparing weapons in Bathinda. The police seized two fully prepared pistols, two partially prepared ones and material required in preparing arms.His associate Amrik Singh of Chotian village in Muktsar is said to be on the run and the police are conducting raids to arrest him. As per information, accused Sanjay Bharao was living with his associate Amrik Singh in a rented house at Model Town, Phase 1, for the last 25 days in Bathinda. He was an active member of Assam’s terror outfit Bodo Liberation Tigers Force. In 2003, around 3,000 members of the terror outfit had surrendered before the police.These days, Bharao was doing the work of plumbing along with Amrik in and around the Bathinda region. Earlier, Bharao used to prepare arms and supplies to the tiger force. The police were on high alert ahead of the arrival of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in Bathinda on Dasehra. They received information that a person belonging to a terror outfit from Assam was manufacturing ammunition.In the preliminary inquiry, the suspect admitted that he wanted to manufacture and sell arms in Punjab. Bathinda SSP Ajay Maluja is questioning the accused. The suspect is said to have lived in several other cities before.DSP Aswant Singh said Bharao used to work for a security agency. His fugitive accomplice Amrik Singh also worked as a security guard in Pune. Bharao came to Punjab with him and both started working as plumbers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/man-linked-to-assam-terror-outfit-nabbed-from-bathinda-323789
