16-10-2021||Sameer Singh||Amritsar tragedy forgotten, effigies burnt near Bathinda railway track||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, October 15The district administration of Bathinda, it seems, has not learnt any lessons from the Amritsar train tragedy on Dasehra three years ago that claimed 61 lives. Showing “scant regard” for safety norms, a towering effigy of ‘Ravana’ installed at Railway Ground was burnt barely 50 to 60 metres from the city railway station.The Bathinda city railway station, with its seven-lane tracks, is one of busiest and largest railway junctions in Asia. Interestingly, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was on a visit to the city today who greeted residents while addressing a gathering near the ground area.The high-tension electric wires of the Railways that are passing barely few metres away from where the ‘Ravana’ and two other effigies were installed at the ground posed a risk of any untoward incident that can put lives of thousands of revellers in danger. Talking to The Tribune, a city-based social activist said, “It points towards gross negligence on part of the district administration that the Dasehra function is being allowed to take place in proximity to the city railway station. When there is a large crowd, the possibility of a stampede can never be ruled out as we have witnessed in the Amritsar train tragedy incident.”Pradeep Sharma, Station Superintendent. Bathinda railway station, said, “The organisers have taken due permission to hold the celebrations at the Railway ground by paying the required fee to the authorities. As directed by senior officials of the Railways, we have taken all precautionary measures to avoid any untoward incident. Apart from round-the-clock monitoring, we have also ensured that trains will pass with less than 15 km/hr speed by the celebration venue. Moreover, the civil administration that has made elaborate arrangements.” Deputy Commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said, “We have technical people working at the ground to ensure safety of residents during celebrations. The administration has taken care of security and safety measures so there is nothing to be worried about.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/amritsar-tragedy-forgotten-effigies-burnt-near-bathinda-railway-track-325162
16-10-2021||Bathinda||Stubble burning: At 692, cases in Malwa  lower than Majha belt||Of the total 1,946, only 692 stubble burning cases have been reported from 15 Malwa districts of the state so far this year. As per the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) data, Patiala has recorded the highest 192 farm fire cases, followed by Ludhiana (121), Fatehgarh Sahib (92), Ferozepur (61), Faridkot (57), Moga (33), Sangrur (31), SAS Nagar (27), Fazilka (24), Muktsar (14), Barnala (11), Malerkotla (7), SBS Nagar (6), Bathinda (5) and Mansa (1).On October 15, 660 farm fire incidents were reported in the state with Tarn Taran topping with 158 incidents followed by Amritsar with 109. PPCB officials said the harvest started early in the Majha region so a significant number of farm fire cases have been reported from there. Amritsar has recorded the highest 532 farm fire cases, followed by Tarn Taran (472) and Gurdaspur (104). Experts claim farm fires were so far as less as compared to last year because of the delay in harvesting in the southern Malwa region. As Bathinda and Sangrur are two districts where maximum incidents are reported in the state, only 31 farm fire cases have been reported in Sangrur while five cases have been reported in Bathinda to date. The incidents of stubble burning have been captured by the visible infrared imaging radiometer suite through satellite images by the PPCB. These are based on the longitude and latitude measurements.The PPCB takes the help of satellite imaging for the identification of sites where the stubble is set on fire. After getting the images of stubble burning through the remote sensing technique, a team is sent to the spot to ascertain the area of land on which the stubble has been set afire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/stubble-burning-at-692-cases-in-malwa-lower-than-majha-belt-325158
16-10-2021||Bathinda||CM lays stone of Rs60-cr projects  in Bathinda||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today laid foundation stone of development projects worth Rs 60 crore in Bathinda.The projects include canal lining and the renovation work of the Bathinda branch at a cost of Rs 30 crore and Balwant Gargi Multipurpose Auditorium at Rose Garden, which will come up on 2 acres at Rs 27.15 crore. The auditorium will having a seating capacity of 928 and an open-air capacity of 120 and will have state-of-the-art facilities.Stressing the planned development of the cities as the key to ensure overall progress of the urban areas, Channi announced that parks would come up across the entire state as sound health is of paramount importance. He was responding to the demand put forward by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal for a park in Bathinda alongside the Bathinda branch canal.Channi dedicated Shaheed Sepoy Sandeep Singh Memorial Chowk at Paras Ram Nagar to the public. Addressing a meeting there, he said he felt blessed to meet the parents of the martyr, who made the supreme sacrifice in the service of the nation in Surankot (J&K) on August 2, 1999. He also visited the special dengue ward set up at the meritorious school. Later, he laid the stone of the new residence of the Finance Minister and also paid a visit to the residence of the Deputy Speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti.Meanwhile, a video has been going viral on social media, in which Channi can be seen touching the feet of Manpreet Badal’s wife Vinu Badal during his visit to the city. — TNSFocus on urban infrastructureUrban development is the focus area for me. A robust sewerage system, spacious market places and parks are the need of the hour. Charanjit Singh Channi, Chief MinsterNot given time, rue protestersMuktsar: Cotton farmers, who are holding an indefinite sit-in outside Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence at Badal village here, on Friday criticised CM Charanjit Singh Channi for not bothering to meet them during his Bathinda visit. “We are demanding compensation for the crop loss due to pink bollworm, but the CM has no time for us,” said protesters. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cm-lays-stone-of-rs60-cr-projects-in-bathinda-325154
