01-10-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: DEO Satinderbir Singh’s tenure extended||‘Tell people about lok adalats’Tarn Taran: Priya Sood, District and Sessions Judge-cum-chairperson District Legal Services Authority, at a meeting with other judicial officers issued them instructions regarding the services being provided to different sections of society during the celebration of ‘Azadi da Amrit Mahotsav’ period. She said the functions would start from October 2 and carry on till November 14. She said during this period, seminars would be organised to inform people about free legal services, lok adalats from local to national-level. She instructed judicial officers to raise awareness among people regarding importance of lok adalats. OCOutsourced staff on the warpathAmritsar: Outsourced employees, who were hired at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital during the initial days of the Covid-19 pandemic, staged a protest at the hospital after the government relieved them. The workers were hired due to increase in workload caused by the pandemic. However, recently the government took a decision to relieve 176 of them. The employees on Wednesday staged a protest outside the residence of Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka. Narinder Singh, president, Guru Nanak Dev Hospital Employees’ Association, said these outsourced workers served during the pandemic without thinking about the risk to their lives. He said they should have been rewarded, but instead were being sacked. TNSCriminal who escaped heldAmritsar: Two days after a criminal escaped from the Mattewal police station lock-up, the police have nabbed him and also booked his accomplice, who provided shelter to him. Sharanjit Singh, alias Sunny, of Jabbowal, escaped from the lock-up on September 27. Following a tip-off, he was arrested from the residence of Happy of Balian village. ASI Sawinder Singh said a raid was conducted and the police nabbed him. As Happy gave him shelter, the police booked him under Sections 212 and 216 of the IPC. He was, however, yet to be arrested. TNSBike stolenTarn Taran: The bike of a Tribune staffer was stolen from outside his residence on Thursday. Arashdep Singh had parked his bike (PB- 46, G-2781) outside his house and when he came out after a few minutes, the bike was not there. A complaint was registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-deo-satinderbir-singhs-tenure-extended-318662
01-10-2021||The Bungas have a special significance in Sikh history. Whenever Sikh devotees and Maharajas (emperors) came to pay obeisance in Amritsar||Amritsar Bungas: On the brink of extinction||Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranIn pictures: A spiritual voyage through the Holy city of AmritsarDens of belief: Akharas of AmritsarBungas, a string of residential accommodations around the Golden Temple Complex, had a special significance in Sikh history as they provided space to Sikh warriors, traditional educationists, musicians, medicine practitioners (vaids) and other religious practices during the 18th and 19th centuries. Though the Bungas started coming up during Guru Period, Misl chiefs and royals of Khalsa Raj contributed a lot to raise Bungas around Darbar Sahib. A large number of Bungas belong to saints, sangat of some particular area, clergy of Darbar Sahib and head of seminaries, scholars and medical petitioners (Vaids). There were some Bungas which were built by caste-based communities such as Ramgharia (carpenters) and Bungha Mahzabian or jharukashan (sweepers). These were 84 (number varies in various sources) Bungas built along the circumambience of the Darbar Sahib complex.Lack of care for the traditional architecture and buildings amid modern institutions, most of the historic Bungas around Darbar Sahib did not survive. However, a few Bungas still exist and the rest lie buried in the past. Most of the Bungas were demolished by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for widening the circumambient or taking control from rival groups or traditional sects. However, the destruction was started during British era, when they proposed to establish churches and built the clock tower by demolishing two royal Bungas — Bunga Naunihal and a portion of Bunga Sarkar.Akal BungaA building over Akal Takht (throne of timeless), in front of the Golden Temple, is known as Akal Bunga. The throne was established by the sixth Sikh master Guru Hargobind Sahib in 1606. Later, the building was constructed for the purpose of religious congregations, performance of war poets and martial arts. The Akal Bunga was developed as the political centre of Sikh nation. The Sikhs used to gather twice in a year on the festivals of Baisakhi and Diwali to take decisions on contemporary issues.Two royal bungas demolishedTwo royal Bungas — Bunga Sarkar and Bunga Naunihal (son of Ranjit Singh) — were demolished by the British. These Bungas were like royal palaces and attracted several foreigner painters, who painted these buildings. Bunga Naunihal was demolished soon after the annexation of Punjab and a clock tower was constructed on the site. A portion of Bunga Sarkar was demolished by the SGPC in 1943.Ramgarhia BungaThe only residential Bunga, which was protected by the community, is Ramgarhia Bunga. It was established by Maharaja Jassa Singh Ramgarhia in 1796. A portion of the building was demolished during the Army action in 1984 and later volunteers of the Kar Sewa sect also amended its original structure.However, the basement, the main building and the minarets are intact. Twin tower on the back corners of the Ramgarhian Bunga has become the identity of Bungas and every Sikh prays for the long life of Sikh flags and minarets in his daily prayer “Jhande Bunge Jugo Jug Atal”. The SGPC had conducted restoration of towers in 1998 and constructed the dome-shaped gumbads on its top.Jhanda BungaTwo saffron flags (Nishan Sahib) were established in front yard of Akal Takht. The building behind the Nishan Sahib is called Jhanda Bunga. The Udasi Sadhu of Brahm Butta Akhara had established a flag (jhanda) in 1775 there and constructed the building alongside. In 1841, the flag established by Udasi Sadhu had collapsed in heavy rain and storm. One of the Nishan Sahibs (the taller one) was installed by Maharaja Sher Singh, son of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and the other by Desa Singh Majithia, then custodian of Amritsar. Both Nishans (Khalsa Flags) are covered with copper and gold sheets. The original building of Jhanda Bunga had been demolished in 1923 while widening the front yard of Akal Takht and Parikarma. Later it had been reconstructed soon.Bunga GianiaIt was built in 1778 and established a Sikh seminary to teach the language and religious scripts. Giani Sant Singh was a famous scholar, who was greatly influenced by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The five-storey Bunga was demolished in 1988 during the Galiara project of the Central Government. During recent diggings, the structures of Bunga were found and construction activity was stopped to protect the structures.Basements and tunnelsMost of the Bungas had basements and a few of these still exist. Experts claimed that the basements were built from the perspective of military in Bungas of chiefs and royals. They also believed to not sit above the Guru so they dug basements. The historians claimed that there were some tunnels to connect the Bunga with Qila Gobindgarh and the summer palace. The curved Nanakshahi brick roofs, ventilation and brick and red stone art on the pillars are common in the buildings of Bungas.Interiors of BungasMost of the Bungas were used as rest houses and equipped with all basic facilities such as a well, kitchen, bathroom and a small gurdwara. In case the bunga belonged to some Sikh Chief, he would establish a marbel chair to listen to people during Diwan-i-Aam during his visit. Such a chair is still intact in Bunga Ramgharia.Crown of Mughal emperorsDuring their raid led by Sikh warrior Jassa Singh Ramgarhia, the Sikhs removed the slab from Takht-a-Taus, where Mughal coronation ceremonies were used to be held. They pulled it with the horses and threw in the pits near Akal Takht. Later, it was placed on the ground floor of the Bunga Ramgharia, where it is still lying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-bungas-on-the-brink-of-extinction-318659
01-10-2021||Amritsar||Cattle trader robbed of Rs 1 lakh in Amritsar||Five persons robbed a cattle trader of Rs1 lakh, when he came to purchase buffaloes in Amritsar. Victim Roman Masih, belonged to Khasipur falling under Kalanour police station in Gurdaspur.Roshan said he dealt in buffalo trading. On Wednesday, he came to Amritsar to buy buffaloes with his friend Fina of Arli Bhan village. He said when they reached near Jethuwal village canal, four unidentified persons travelling in a car intercepted them. He said the accused snatched Rs1 lakh from him. He was shocked to learn that Fina was also involved with them. The police have registered a case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cattle-trader-robbed-of-rs-1-lakh-in-amritsar-318646
01-10-2021||---||No breakthrough in Amritsar twin-robbery cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 30Though the police have identified one of the suspects involved in Rs15 lakh (Rs10 lakh Indian and Rs 5 lakh foreign currency) robbery incident, which took place at a shop of a money exchanger near Sultanwind Gate, they are yet to make any arrest in the case.According to the police, CCTV footage has been sent to the Forensic Department to identify the suspects involved in the Sultanwind Gate robbery. Sources claimed that the police have rounded up several persons.On September 26, Davinder Singh, a cloth merchant at Golden Cloth Market near Sultanwind Gate and a licence holder of Western Union, was robbed by four armed robbers.A customer, Simranpreet Singh, was also at the shop to get pounds. The suspects took away the bag containing Rs 7.5 lakh, 560 pounds, 400 dollars, 6,200 dirham and Rs 1 lakh from Simranpreet. The suspects also took away a gold chain (13 gm).Meanwhile, the police have identified the suspects involved in the jewellery robbery, which occurred on August 27, at Rattan Singh Chowk. The perpetrators—Satnam Singh alias Sattu of Loharka village, Karan Mann of Chamrang Road and Dixit Kumar of Sanjay Gandhi Colony—were yet to be arrested. The trio had decamped with gold ornaments worth Rs 25 lakh and Rs 1.25 lakh.Assistant Commissioner of Police Harminder Singh Sandhu said the CCTV footage had been sent to identify the suspects who came with their covered faces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-breakthrough-in-amritsar-twin-robbery-cases-318645
01-10-2021||Amritsar||2 fresh cases of Covid surface in Amritsar district||With two positive cases reported on Thursday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,314. The new cases are influenza-like illness cases. The Health Department has reported no recoveries or deaths due to the disease on Thursday. At present the district has a total of 15 active cases. Meanwhile, 5,346 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccine drive on Thursday. Of these 3,312 received first dose of the vaccine while 2,034 received second dose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-fresh-cases-of-covid-surface-in-amritsar-district-318644
01-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran: Anganwadi workers up in arms||Tarn Taran, September 30Workers and helpers of anganwadi centres organised a dharna in front of the SDM office here on Thursday against the new scheme of providing packed food to kids at the centres.The policy will replace mid-day-meal workers, who used to prepare fresh food at anganwari centres, by contractors.Those from Tarn Taran and from Naushehra Pannuan blocks participated in the dharna organised under the banner of Anganwadi Mulazam Union, Punjab (CITU).Anoop Kaur Balehar and Beant Kaur Dhotian were among others who addressed on the occasion and condemned the policy of the state government by saying that this policy had already failed as the contractors cannot supply hygienic food and they had mostly been providing food untimely.They said the policy would make thousands of helpers jobless who were from the downtrodden section. The organisation presented a memorandum to the SDM. The protesters raised slogans in favour of their demands.Major demands||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-anganwadi-workers-up-in-arms-318642
01-10-2021||---||Jallianwala row: Dharna lifted after meeting fixed with CM Channi for Oct 13||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 30The Naujwan Bharat Sabha and the Punjab Students’ Union, which had been holding a protest outside the Jallianwala Bagh from September 28, lifted their dharna late on Wednesday after their meeting was fixed with CM Charanjit Singh Channi for October 13.Also read:The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: Kin of 1919 martyrs hold candle march, want original character restoredJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historians‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revampThe protesters were up in arms against changing the original character of the Jallianwala Bagh in the name of renovation by the PM Narendra Modi-led government. They sought its restoration to its old character.Rupinder Singh, chief of the Naujwan Bharat Sabha, said following the protest, the administration had to cover the statue of Shaheed Udham Singh, which did not depict the martyr.Ranvir Singh of the PSU said the administration has assured to remove the ticket counters from the Jallianwala Bagh. Nevertheless, both the organisations said if the government fails to restore the original character, the agitation would be launched again.ADCP Harpal Singh informed the protesters about the fixing of the meeting with the Chief Minister from the stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-row-dharna-lifted-after-meeting-fixed-with-cm-channi-for-oct-13-318641
01-10-2021||---||Promised meet with Punjab CM, KSC ends protest||Amritsar, September 30The Kisan Sangharsh Committee lifted its ongoing protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Thursday after an assurance from the police and civil administration officials regarding fixing a meeting with the Chief Minister.The farmer leaders took the decision after a meeting here this morning and assurance by Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, while addressing the protesters.The KSC leaders had on Wednesday met deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Agriculture Minister Randhir Nabha, after which they claimed that the government had accepted most of their demands except for complete loan waiver of farmers and labourers and constitution of Basmati Trading Corporation.The leaders claimed that of the 105 FIR against farmers registered in the state, 65 have already been withdrawn and the government had assured to withdraw the remaining in the next seven days.The KSC leaders claimed that the state government has announced Rs1,200 crore relief for electricity consumers, increase of limit of 1 kilo Watt to 2 kilo Watt for labour families and jobs to the kin of farmers, who died during the ongoing protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/promised-meet-with-punjab-cm-ksc-ends-protest-318640
01-10-2021||---||56 teams working to fight dengue, malaria: Amritsar Mayor||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 30Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi on Thursday held a meeting at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Panorama to take stock of the rising dengue and malaria cases in the city.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the Municipal Corporation had constituted 56 teams for the prevention of the spread of dengue and malaria, which have been visiting various wards of the city and conducting fogging to curb the breeding of mosquito and larva. He said these included six jeep-mounted large machines, 15 small machines and 30 liquid spray machines. All staff and machinery were serving the city round the clock.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said for the convenience of residents, different zones of five Assembly constituencies have been set up for the registration of dengue-related complaints. Residents can register their problems and complaints regarding dengue through a phone call. He said teams have been formed in each ward under the chief sanitary inspector.In addition, Dr Yogesh Arora, Health Officer, Sorabh Chawla and Dr Rama will take daily report of each ward from the officers of all these wards.The Mayor said after the outbreak of dengue, the entire MC staff including officers, employees and safai karamcharis were visiting various localities of the city for the prevention of dengue. He said daily fogging was being carried out in 32 wards of the city in two shifts day and night. In addition, 10 manual machines have been launched for fogging in narrow streets.The Mayor said the Municipal Corporation needs the cooperation of city residents and appealed to them to observe every Friday as dry day and keep the coolers empty and dry so that the larvae do not develop.“We have already fought and won against Covid. In the same way, we have to work together to save people in the city from the scourge of dengue now. I am myself taking daily reports from the entire staff, so that no officer acts negligently,” Rintu said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/56-teams-working-to-fight-dengue-malaria-amritsar-mayor-318639
01-10-2021||---||Amritsar: Dengue tally 510||Amritsar, September 30The continuous rise in the number of dengue cases in the district has panicked residents.Reason: As many as 139 new cases were reported in the last eight days.With this, the tally of dengue cases reported in the current season increased to 510 on Thursday.While a majority of cases are still being reported from the city, the number of cases from towns as Rayya and Baba Bakala is also on the rise. In the city, while the Municipal Corporation claims to make all efforts to ensure fogging in all wards, the rising number of cases raise a question mark on the success of such efforts.As per the government instructions, only MacElisa test is recognised for diagnosing dengue. In contrast, a large number of private hospitals and residents are relying on rapid card tests or other blood tests to diagnose the disease as MacElisa test is not commonly available at private labs. A large number of people with dengue-like symptoms, especially fever, fatigue and low blood platelet count, who have not got the MacElisa test done, are getting treatment at either private hospitals or recovering at home.The district health officials said the spread of dengue is expected to decrease during the next few weeks with decrease in temperature. The officials have also asked residents to take ample precautions as the disease could be easily prevented with a little effort.SymptomsPeople infected by dengue may suffer from high fever, severe headache, severe pain behind the eyes, joint pain, muscle and bone pain, rash and mild bleeding||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-dengue-tally-510-318638
