02-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Blood donation camp organised||Three more test +ve in districtAmritsar: The health authorities reported three positive cases today, with which the total number of cases increased to 47,317. The Health Department reported recovery of three patients. With this, the recovery count reached 45,710. The district has a total of 15 active cases. No Covid-19 related death was reported today. A total of 2,489 residents, including 2,445 at government run centres and 44 at private hospitals, were inoculated today. With this the total number of vaccinated people increased to 14,90,247. TNSThree held with 582-gm heroinTarn Taran: The police have arrested three persons from different places and recovered 582 gm of heroin from their possession on Thursday. Senior Superintendent of Police Opinderjit Singh Ghuman informed that the police party led by Sub-Inspector Lakhbir Singh arrested Akashdeep Singh Akash, a resident of Patti, and recovered 345 grams of heroin from him. The police party from the Anti-Narcotics Cell arrested Lovejit Singh, a resident of Jodh Singh Wala, with 140-gm heroin. In the third incident, the CIA Staff led by Assistant Sub-Inspector Charanjit Singh nabbed Gurlal Singh, a resident of Rattoke village, with 97 grams of heroin. The accused have been booked under revelant sections. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blood-donation-camp-organised-319138
02-10-2021||Amritsar||Talk on Gandhi’s non-violence||‘Follow ideals of Gandhi, Shastri’A special assembly was organised at DAV Public School, to mark birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri. Teachers apprised students how these revolutionary leaders and crusaders of freedom fought for a common cause and paid a huge price for the freedom of India. They told students to follow the ideals set by these great leaders. Inspiring excerpts were read out and the atmosphere resonated with the patriotic slogan of ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’. Principal Anita Mehra exhorted students to adopt the Gandhian philosophy as a way of life and eliminate violence not only in their behaviour but thoughts as well.Students remember MahatmaTo commemorate the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Shri Ram Ashram Public School, Amritsar, celebrated Gandhi Jayanti virtually and paid homage to the efforts and ideologies of ‘The Father of the Nation’. As a part of the celebration, prayers and tributes were offered by students. To imbibe the true meaning of the day, the students participated in myriad of activities based on Gandhi’s life and teachings. Gandhian quotes and messages enlightened students on the iconic leader. Children made beautiful replicas of spinning wheel (charkha), which were appreciated by everyone.GNDU declares resultsThe results of BALLB (five years integrated course), semester – II, diploma course in computer applications (full time), semester-II, advance diploma course in Urdu (part time), semester-II, certificate course in Persian (part time), semester-II, LLB. (three years course), semester - II, AM Sanskrit semester - IV, MA Hindi semester –II, MA Economics semester- IV, MA political science semester-IV, MA English semester-IV, MA Punjabi semester-IV, Bachelor of Design, semester - VI, BA Bsc semester-VI of session December 2020 are declared by the university. The results will be available on university website www.gndu.ac.in.DAV College marks NSS DayNSS Day was celebrated by the NSS Department of DAV College, Amritsar. The programme was partnered with old volunteers as well as a large number of new college students. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar told the cadets about importance of NSS Day and added that NSS contributes a lot in building the society and the nation with the selfless spirit of the volunteers. He said that the main objective of the NSS is to create awareness for the development of student’s talent and character as well as for national service. He appreciated the achievements of the NSS Department of DAV College, Amritsar, and applauded the work carried out by unit during the Covid-19 crisis.Seminar on substance abuse heldAmritsar Group of Colleges (Pharmacy) organised a seminar on substance abuse/dependence on the eve of National Anti-Drug Addiction Day. Dr Rana Ranbir Singh, MD, (Ex-PCMS), Master Trainer in National Opioid Substitution Treatment, was the guest speaker. Dr Rana emphasised on rehabilitation and treatment of substance abusers in systematic way. He urged people to show empathy towards substance abusers instead of out casting them. Seminar highlighted that substance dependence is chronic relapsing disorder and should be treated as chronic non- communicable disease.Personality development classesGlobal Group of Institutes has been conducting personality development classes for its students to impart training to them in various skills required to become successful professionals. The classes are conducted to develop and hone their skills and to inculcate in them the habit of remaining motivated to excel in their careers. Dr MS Saini, campus director, said students were trained to develop soft skills guide and nurture them to put such skills to use in enhancing their professional capability. The emphasis of the training is centred around inculcating proficiency in public speaking, time management and overall development. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/talk-on-gandhis-non-violence-319137
02-10-2021||---||One held with country-made weapon||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 1The Mehta police have nabbed Simranjit Singh alias Simma, a resident of Buttar Sevian village, for allegedly possessing a country-made weapon on Thursday.The police have registered a case under the Arms Act against the accused.Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Purshotam Lal said he was intercepted near the village. The ASI said acting on a tip-off, they nabbed the accused. During his search, the police recovered the weapon from his possession.Simma was produced before the court, which sent him to the police remand.A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against Simma of Buttar Sevian.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-country-made-weapon-319136
02-10-2021||Neha Saini||‘Digital shift in edu a chance for data renaissance’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 1While many in the education sector still debate whether the ongoing shift from conventional teaching to digitalisation will improve the quality of education in schools, eminent educationists participating in the FICCI FLO education summit felt that the changes in the sector in the past one year will be the great leveller rather than create a disparity.“I think the gap between government schools and private schools is narrowing with transition towards technology-driven teaching and it will continue to be so. The fact that this change was brought upon us in a span of one year instead of five years is another achievement. There are so many schools in villages now that have adapted to digital classrooms and continue to receive assistance to bridge the learning gap,” said Dr Sumer Singh, president, Boarding School Association of India.Agreeing to his opinion was Jayshree Periwal, chairperson, Jayshree Periwal International School, Jaipur. “Knowledge is now one click away and there are so many digital platforms that offer free lectures and free curriculum and are easily accessible. It’s time for digital renaissance for the children and data renaissance for the government. The government must take this opportunity to create data on software for learning assistance and to enhance the skills of teachers keeping in mind this technological transition. A kid from remote village has now the opportunity to learn from the best teachers in the world,” she said.Stressing on developing technology-assisted learning a part of the school curriculum, the educationists were of the view that digital data must be used to ensure no student is left behind. “Before the pandemic too, there were many who were left outside the education circle. Technology offers us a chance to overcome this isolation and focus on inclusive learning through consolidated community efforts and through technology transfer. We, for example, initiated efforts to digitally transfer readymade learning material to local community schools in our area,” said Lt Gen Surendra Kulkarni, director, Mayo College, Ajmer. They also talked of overcoming the learning gap of past year to combat long-term repercussions.“To think that schools can begin afresh, without doing anything to bridge the learning gap brought about by the pandemic, will be a wrong move. One has to overcome that gap, especially for primary students, to avoid any long-term learning challenges,” said Lt Gen Kulkarni.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/digital-shift-in-edu-a-chance-for-data-renaissance-319135
02-10-2021||---||46 wooden sculptures on display at Amritsar’s art gallery||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 1An exhibition of wooden sculptures by eminent sculpture artist Narendra Singh was inaugurated at the art gallery here on Friday. The exhibition displays 46 abstract sculptures made from wood by Narendra Singh.Narendra said he had dedicated his work to all loved ones and friends who he could not give time. “I worked on this series of sculptures, creating 30 sculptures at a stretch, during the lockdown. I spent hours at a stretch in my studio and so I could not devote much time to my family and friends. These sculptures are based on abstract themes, most of them an expression of what most people, including myself, went through in the past year and half of the pandemic,” he said.The exhibition has been put up under the art gallery’s revival of offline activities post pandemic. Apart from his current works, the exhibition also displays sculptures created by him that have been part of national and international art exhibitions. Arvinder Chamak, general secretary, Indian Academy of Fine Arts, said the exhibition will be on till October 5. “The gallery has been promoting all genres of art, including the contemporary and traditional. We are also promoting sculpture making in a completely different format with both traditional and modern media being used through Narendra Singh’s workshops.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/46-wooden-sculptures-on-display-at-amritsars-art-gallery-319134
02-10-2021||Amritsar||Cycle rally to mark ’71 war flagged off from Attari border||Commemorating the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ of the 1971 Indo-Pak war, a cycle rally was flagged off by General Officer Commanding (GOC) Vajra Corps, Lieutenant General C Bansi Ponnappa, from the Attari border on Friday.In the cycle rally, 15 cyclists will cover a total of 888 km across Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, evoking deep sense of patriotism and pride for the brave hearts of the region who made numerous sacrifices during the war. The flagging off ceremony also included felicitation of the war veterans and ex-servicemen.The rally is being conducted by the Flaming Arrow Brigade of Vajra Corps over a period of 16 days. It will pass through historical battle sites, as a pilgrimage bearing testimony to the grit, valour and sacrifices of the fallen which continues to inspire future generations of the Indian Army. The rally is an apt tribute to the battle heroes who earned Vajra Corps the title of “Defenders of Punjab” and also many Battle honours in 1971. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cycle-rally-to-mark-71-war-flagged-off-from-attari-border-319133
02-10-2021||---||Focus on nurturing plants & not just plantation drives: Amritsar residents||Amritsar, October 1Mayor Karamjit Singh had last year launched multiple plantation drives in order to improve the air quality and green cover in the city. The Municipal Corporation (MC) was entrusted the task of carrying out plantation drives in the city. A year on, the city’s air quality is still disturbingly bad with AQI of 168 and the PM 2.5 concentration eight times higher than the WHO’s annual air quality guidelines.The saplings planted through multiple plantation drives at various places in the city either wither away or cry for attention. The administration had engaged residents and NGOs for the maintenance of saplings planted during monsoon drives. While the exercise proved fruitful to some extent, unchecked chopping of heritage trees in green belts failed to improve green cover in the city.Indu Aurora, a member of the first ever district environment committee, constituted by the Deputy Commissioner and a member of the NGO, Voice of Amritsar says, “The biggest challenge in this regard is lack of planning and after care by the authorities concerned. On one hand, the authorities announce to create mini forests by planting one lakh trees and on the other they are laying tiles in public parks.”“Also, there is no relevance of planting exotic varieties of trees when they fail to survive. The recent plan to plant palm trees along the busiest routes, including Rattan Singh Chowk, is complete waste of resources. Instead of palms or eucalyptus, that are not from the region and are expensive, why can’t they plant native trees that consume less water and grow fast. All palms planted by the MC two years ago at a stretch on Airport Road have died. Survival of plants is important,” she added.While the administration has been engaging District Red Cross Society, the PPCB and other private stakeholders to share accountability in creating green spaces and maintaining them, the success rate so far has been dismal.Earlier, the Amritsar Improvement Trust had planted 200 saplings around the area surrounding its office in Ranjit Avenue. Most of these plants were either eaten by the stray cattle or dried during summers as no one took care of them.Kulwinder Singh, a resident of the Sultanwind area, says, “As long as cutting of trees is not stopped in the name of development, the target of imporving green cover in the city cannot be achieved.”“A few months ago, several NGOs and residents had opposed the MC’s move to cut age old ‘bohar’ and ‘peepal’ trees along the Upper Bari Doab Canal. The proposed mini forests at three different places in the city would take time to bear results, but the green cover we already have is being compromised,” he added.Recently, the MC had drafted a proposal to instal mass air purifier and wind augmentation units ‘WAYU’ at major traffic junctions under the Smart City project. The MC would spent Rs85 lakh on this project. “A more economical way to improve air quality is to plant a sapling and make sure it survives,” says Indu Aurora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/focus-on-nurturing-plants-not-just-plantation-drives-amritsar-residents-319132
02-10-2021||Amritsar||Two nabbed for kidnapping ASI||Over four months after an Assistant Sub-Inspector was kidnapped and his service weapon was snatched, the police have today nabbed two persons who were on the run since then. The accused have been identified as Baljinder Singh alias Baba, and Harjit Singh, both residents of Jaspal Nagar of Vallah village.Ranjit Singh Dhaliwal, SHO, Maqboolpura police station, said on May 11, Sub-Inspector Tarlochan Singh along with his police party was present near Tahli Chowk when a rashly driven car with occupants was intercepted.He said ASI Chatar Singh sat in the car while Head Constable Malkeet Singh was following the four-wheeler on a motorcycle. He said the car occupants scuffled with the ASI and snatched his service weapon. They threw him out the car and fled away. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-for-kidnapping-asi-319131
02-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||As tourist flow rises, parking issues crop up around Golden Temple||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 1With a majority of tourists coming on four-wheelers (personal vehicles and taxis) to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, the need for more parking space is being felt more than ever. Frequent road and rail blockades, besides fear of contracting Covid-19, has forced tourists to shun public transport.Harjap Singh Aujla, a tourist said, “By the grace of god, tourits are back, but now they prefer to travel on their own vehicles. Saragarhi parking near the Golden Temple always remain full. It gets difficult to park a vehicle within the walled city. The need for another parking lot is being felt.”SP Singh, who is trader, said a large number of locals started using two-wheelers as they do not find adequate parking space. “The entire area around the Golden Temple is a hub of blankets, suiting and shirting, besides retail market of gold ornaments and utensils, among others,” he said.Akshay Kumar, a contractor of Saragarhi parking, said, “ A total of 800 four-wheelers can be parked here. There’s no space for Tempo travellers. At least four more parking lots, with each having capacity to accommodate 2,000 vehicles, should be developed.”He said a proposal to add seven more storeys to Saragarhi parking has been forwarded to the Local Government.Notably, the multi-level automated parking lot proposed under the Smart City project at Kairon Market is situated close to Saragarhi parking. Akshay said land of Old Sabzi Mandi outside the Hall Gate could be used as a automated parking lot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-tourist-flow-rises-parking-issues-crop-up-around-golden-temple-319130
02-10-2021||GS Paul||Rising population: Couple’s backward walk at Jallianwala Bagh for a cause||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 1A Meerut-based couple took to ‘reverse walk’ to sensitise the government and residents about adverse effects of increasing population. Dinesh Talwar (49), with his wife Disha, and their two children reached Jallianwala Bagh.As they walked backwards carrying placards bearing a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and slogans ‘Ek kanoon jansankhiya vridhi par bhi’ and ‘Utho awaaz uthao badhti jansankhya par’ , they were intercepted by the police, as they violated Section 144 imposed in the vicinity of Jallianwala Bagh. However, the issue was resolved amicably, as the couple conducted a peaceful march just to attract visitors’ attention towards rising population in the country. Dinesh said they belong to Meerut where the 1857 Revolution was conceptualised. “As Punjab will go to the polls in 2022, when a neta comes to you, just question them about what will be their agenda about population control,” he said.The couple expressed regret over the fact that no government has acknowledged their cause so far. “The government is not bothered that the population of the country at the time of Independence was 33 crore, which increased to over 125 crore. Post-Independence, no concrete measures were taken to control population. The Bill to ban people having more than two children from contesting elections has still not been tabled in Parliament since 1992,” said Dinesh.Around 28 years ago, Dinesh had started this campaign from his hometown. Associated with insurance sector, Dinesh claimed that they had visited at least 365 cities, held hunger strike at Jantar Mantar, submitted 5,000 memorandums and dispatched 90,000 postcards to various Prime Ministers, ministers and officials. “In 1994, I started walking reverse to project the government’s negative and backward approach,” he said.Disha said people certainly look back and question us about our motive. “Even our daughter Simran and son Yash have been accompanying us to promote the cause. I am dispatching one postcard daily since 1997, but got no response. We submit our attendance at the offices of Deputy Commissioners in every city we visit and dispatch the letter to the PM and the Home Department in this regard,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-population-couples-backward-walk-at-jallianwala-bagh-for-a-cause-319129
02-10-2021||---||Unruly incidents at RTA office: Slow investigation irks Amritsar residents||Amritsar, October 1The slow progress of investigation into two incidents, which took place at the Regional Transport Authority office, showing two persons calling the shots at the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) office and one of them even beating up a woman has irked law-abiding people of the city.The incidents, videos of which went viral on social media, date back to 2017. Officials at the RTA confirmed that the videos were shot at the local office, but it seemed to have been shot before 2017 as the culprit was addressing the head as the DTO and its nomenclature was changed to the RTA in 2017.People familiar with the case stated that justice in the incidents was necessary to send across a message that the law of the land prevails. Sources in the RTA said both culprits in the videos are said to be agents and those women working in the office seemed to be employees of a private company, which was engaged by the government to install chips in high security number plates.The videos had sent shock waves among people who fear how unscrupulous people and muscle men have their say in the internal working of a government office and how such actions would lead to erosion of fear and respect for government departments.RTO Jyoti Bala said the matter was now being investigated by the police after the department had forwarded the complaint to the Police Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unruly-incidents-at-rta-office-slow-investigation-irks-amritsar-residents-319128
02-10-2021||---||Seizure of explosives: Night patrolling up in border areas in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 1Following the directions of officiating Director-General of Police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, night patrolling has been intensified in the border areas, due to the frequent instances of smuggling and seizure of explosives.The Amritsar (rural) police have been setting up night nakas to tackle anti-national elements near the International Border.A senior police official said the district has been divided into five zones and a gazetted officer has been deputed to supervise the security arrangements in these zones.“The idea is to increase the presence of cops in the field as regular seizure of tiffin bombs and explosives has become a cause for concern,” said sources. Number of checkpoints have been increased to seal the roads leading to the border, besides inspection of vehicles.The nakas would be laid between 9 pm and 4 am. Each naka would be headed by a non-gazetted police officer.The DGP has also asked the SSPs of five border districts along the International Border in Punjab to prepare duty roster. Amritsar (rural) SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana confirmed that the DGP has asked to take certain measures in order to strengthen the police force, which acts as a second line of defence in the border areas.District divided into five zones||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seizure-of-explosives-night-patrolling-up-in-border-areas-in-amritsar-319127
02-10-2021||---||Farm union lifts dharna after multinational company reinstates 80 employees||Amritsar, October 1Activists of the Bharti Kisan Union Ekta (Ugrahan) lifted their dharna after Best Price (a multinational company) acceded to their demands and reinstated 80 employees.They held a protest in front of the five stores of the multinational retail corporation, which operates a chain of hypermarkets, discount departments and grocery outlets in Bathinda, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mohali and Amritsar.Parminder Singh Warraich, a union leader, said the sit-in was held after the multinational giant laid off its 80 employees while accusing them of taking part in ongoing protests against the three farm laws passed by the Central Government.“We managed to get the store, situated on the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT road, closed at 11 am. The store reopened after union leaders conveyed rapprochement with the authorities concerned at 4:45 pm,” he added. All 80 employees were employed at the company’s Bathinda store, he said.The protest started today morning after the expiry of a week-long warning to the multinational firm to reinstate its laid off staff, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-union-lifts-dharna-after-multinational-company-reinstates-80-employees-319126
02-10-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||99 Pak Hindus get help from local community, gurdwaras to stay afloat||Tribune News ServiceAttari (Amritsar), October 1If it had not been for the local community and gurdwaras, the 99 Hindu-Pakistani nationals, including 47 children, stranded at Attari without food, shelter and enough money would have literally experienced hell in the past one week. All are waiting to cross over to Pakistan since September 23.Camping at a parking lot near the International Check Post (ICP), the group caught the attention of Saurab and Mandeep, who run a sweet shop nearby.“It had already been 24 hours and none of them had hardly purchased any food or cooked anything. It seemed odd as the group has 47 children under the age of 10 years. They seemed poor but we had no idea that they were so broke,” said Saurab.Next, the duo discussed the issue with others at the village. “It was already 5 pm. We decided that women would make chapattis and men would cook daal. By 6.30 pm, we had 800 chapattis — much more than we needed,” said Jodhbir Singh, a former panchayat member from Attari.“Ever since that evening, the residents are providing three meals, tea and medicines to them. Another resident of the village purchased 100 steel bowls for them as they had no utensils. Some have given clothes to the children,” said Jasbir Singh Sahoora, president, Ex-serviceman Sainik Welfare Society.The residents have also convinced the parking contractor to open toilets for them. Instead of sleeping in the open, like they did on the first day, they now use the sheds of nearby dhabas.As the group has at least six children below the age of six months (who were born in India), the youth from Rorawala village give them 10 litre milk every day. “The milk is delivered to Saurab’s shop, who keeps it refrigerated and gives it to children’s mothers whenever they ask for it,” said Jaswinder Singh, another ex-serviceman.While most of them are from Sanghar district of Sindh province, a few of them are from West Punjab. A few of them had come to India for “Ganga Snan” before the lockdown was announced in March last year and were stranded. There are others, too, who came in 2017 and later on the same pretext overstayed their visa.Kewal Das, a member of the group, said all of them had been staying in Jodhpur, Rajasthan. “The authorities here say that we require permission from the Jodhpur police for which we have applied now,” said Mohan, who had come to India in 2018.Maghia Ram from Rahim Yar Khan district of West Punjab said: “We request the officials concerned to expedite the process of sending us home as soon as possible.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/99-pak-hindus-get-help-from-local-community-gurdwaras-to-stay-afloat-319111
02-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran Police register FIR 10 days after woman ‘molested’||A woman from Dhunn village, belonging to the Backward Class, was allegedly stripped by a resident of her village in the border area falling under the Khalra police station. While the victim along with her family approached the police and other higher officials to get a case registered, an FIR was finally lodged 10 days later.ASI Satman Singh, investigating the case, said some village elders had tried to resolve the matter, leading to the delay of 10 days in registration of a case. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-police-register-fir-10-days-after-woman-molested-318848
