03-10-2021||---||Amritsar farmers protest delay in paddy procurement||Amritsar, October 2Farmers under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha protested outside the residence of Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni and Ajnala MLA Harpartap Singh Ajnala.The protesters sought immediate commencement of paddy procurement in the state.The protests have been triggered after the Centre decided to delay the procurement till October 11 on the pretext of high moisture content in foodgrains due to recent spell of rain. Earlier, the procurement was scheduled to start from October 1. The agitating farmers said their crop was ready for harvesting and in absence of procurement by the government, they were being forced to sell their produce to private players below the minimum support price (MSP).Protesting outside the residence of Soni, a farm leader Gurdev Singh Jheeta claimed that he had to sell his paddy at Rs 1,550 per quintal while the government had fixed the MSP at Rs 1,960 per quintal.“Farmers have no infrastructure or resources to store their produce even for a few days. They have to sell it immediately after harvesting,” he said.Farmers reasoned that every year, the procurement begins on October 1, but why has it been delayed this year. Last year, the paddy procurement was advanced by a few days and had begun in last week of September.The farmers also initiated an indefinite protest outside the residence of MLA Ajnala. A farm leader Dhanwant Singh Khatraekalan said the protest would continue till the procurement begins.The farm leaders held the state government responsible for the delay in procurement and said the Centre and state’s policies were causing them financial loss.Raj Rishi Mehra, District Controller, Food and Civil Supplies, said the procurement of paddy will begin from October 3 (Sunday). He said farmers have been advised to bring the produce, which has moisture content within the permissible limits. He said rice millers have also been intimated regarding the decision taken by the state government and farmers will not face any problem in the grain markets.Brief spell of rainThe area witnessed heavy rain from 6 am to 7 am on Saturday resulting in waterlogging in fields and grain markets. Labourers at Bhagatawala Grain Market had a tough time draining out rainwater. Farmers feared that as the government has delayed paddy procurement, more spells of rain may damage standing paddy crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-farmers-protest-delay-in-paddy-procurement-319529
03-10-2021||---||Tarn Taran MLA joins protesting farmers in front of his house||Gurbaxpuri Tarn Taran, October 2Expressing solidarity with farmers’ demands, Tarn Taran MLA Dharambir Agnihotri joined a dharna staged by farmers under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha in front of his residence on Saturday.The farmers started their dharna in the morning against the delay in the procurement of paddy.When the MLA reached his residence, he joined the protest and sat along with the farmers.The protesters demanded commencement of paddy procurement without delay, increasing moisture content up to 20 per cent and sought guarantee for procuring the whole crop of the farmers.The MLA assured the farmers that the government had already decided to instruct its procurement agencies to start procurement from coming Monday.The farmers lifted the dharna on the assurance of the MLA. The morcha leaders presented a memorandum to the MLA and warned that in case the procurement process was not started the farmers would intensify their agitation. Bhupinder Singh Pandori, Devinder Sohal were among the others who addressed the farmers on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-mla-joins-protesting-farmers-in-front-of-his-house-319530
03-10-2021||---||Prescribe generic medicines or those available at pharmacy, doctors told||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2The district Health Department has asked doctors working at various CHCs, PHCs and government dispensaries to prescribe medicines that are available at government pharmacies. The department has instructed them to prescribe only generic medicines in case they have to prescribe a medicine, which is not available at government hospital pharmacies. In the new instructions issued by the Civil Surgeon’s office, doctors have also been asked to get all medical tests conducted from the labs at their institutes and in case a test is not available at a particular place, these should be done from labs at Government Medical College. The Civil Surgeon’s office has asked the Health Department employees to follow instructions seriously. The move is aimed at providing affordable treatment to patients visiting government hospitals. With recent change in senior functionaries of the state government, the medical fraternity is seeing the move as a part of the plan to reconnect with the public. “Doctors working with the public health sector do not have a problem in prescribing medicines that are available at government hospitals or getting the tests done from the government hospitals. But it will have to be seen whether the government will provide sufficient medicines for patients,” a physician said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prescribe-generic-medicines-or-those-available-at-pharmacy-doctors-told-319531
03-10-2021||---||Rajasansi man stabs son to death, at large||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2 Lovely (35), a resident of Rajasansi area, was stabbed to death by his father here on Friday. He was critically injured in the incident and succumbed to his injuries in the hospital late on Friday evening. On the statement of deceased’s wife Pinki, the police have booked accused Santokh Singh, who is evading arrest and was yet to be arrested. A case under Section 302 of the IPC was registered against him. Pinki told the police that Lovely’s paternal aunt Rani, a resident of Rajasansi, gifted him an Innova, as he was been serving her for the last four years since she was unable to walk. She said her father-in-law Santokh Singh used to taunt at her that she would run away with someone in the vehicle. She said on Friday, around 3.30pm, Lovely was sleeping, when Santokh Singh came in an inebriated condition and started created a ruckus. He started taunting her and raising his voice.She said her husband woke up from his sleep and the duo started quarrelling. She said Santokh Singh took out a sharp weapon and stabbed Lovely on his right thigh. He started bleeding profusely and was rushed to the hospital. However, he died due to over bleeding. SI Jaswinder Singh, investigating officer, said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rajasansi-man-stabs-son-to-death-at-large-319532
03-10-2021||---||Celebrating the idea of freedom & peace||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2Inaugurating its Sanjha Punjab festival that will feature a series of literary exchange events from across the border, Majha House hosted women writers, journalists and scholars to speak on the peace process between India and Pakistan on Saturday. Arvinder Chamak, member, Majha House, said to usher in peace and harmony, we need to talk about art and culture and literature, for these bring us together. “And today, we are going to start the Sanjha Punjab Festival. It is a month-long festival, wherein distinguished artists, writers and academicians will join us from here and from across the border,” said Arvinder Chamak. The inaugural session, titled Women Talk Peace, was dedicated to Mahatma Gandhi and his doctrine of non-violence. In this session, Riitu Menon, Beena Sarwar, Munizae Jahangir and Ayesha Kidwai were in conversation with Mandira Nayar, senior special correspondent, The Week. During the introduction, Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, remembered Kamla Bhasin, the fearless activist. “She was with me when I was at Kali and Zubaan and I remember how, in spite of her easy humour, she was a fearless advocate of equal rights and never hesitated to question patriarchy. We would like to dedicate this festival to her, as she was a beacon of love and peace, which is the theme of our festival.” Beginning the session, Ritu Menon said women are defying tags and transcending borders to spread peace by holding hands. “We are all actively engaged in this process which isn’t easy at all,” she said. Ayesha Kidwai, Professor, JNU, retraced early history of women’s movement. “My grandmother, Anees Kidwai, a peace activist and author of ‘Azaadi Ki Chhaon Mein’ sowed seeds of rebellion in me even from my childhood. Through her, I learnt to identify oppression in commonplace incidents and conversation. If I know that women are champions of peace it is through her,” she said.Munizae Jahangir, documentary filmmaker and journalist from Pakistan spoke about peace across borders and the role of women in establishing a peace order. “My mother was a strong advocate of democracy and she believed that women’s rights could happen only in a strong and free democracy and not in a weak one. And this is exactly what is happening even today in Afghanistan. We have to recognise and understand that women’s rights have been corporatised today and we have to be creative to fight the state,” Munizae said. Talking about Kamla Bhasin’s idea of freedom and peace, Beena Sarwar, freelance journalist and filmmaker from Pakistan, said although Kamla claimed to be a feminist, she insisted that she did not hate men.“Choodis and dupattas are seen as symbols of oppression, but Kamla welcomed these openly and they even exchanged dupattas with women from across the border to express solidarity. She also came up with innovative and catchy slogans and songs against oppression. Her idea of freedom was from poverty, oppression, gender bias.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/celebrating-the-idea-of-freedom-peace-319533
03-10-2021||---||Two test positive for Covid in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2With two positive cases reported on Saturday, the district tally increased to 47,322. The district health authorities have reported recovery of four patients, with which the total recovery count increased to 45,714. The district, at present, has a total of 16 active cases. Meanwhile, 1,931 residents were inoculated during the vaccination drive on Saturday. Of these, 1,307 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 624 received the second dose of the vaccine. Covid UpdateNew cases 2Total cases 47,322New deaths 0Total deaths 1,592New recovery 4Total recovery 45,714Active 16||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-test-positive-for-covid-in-amritsar-319534
03-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Teen molested, one booked||Depressed, man ends lifeAmritsar: Jatinder Salwan (40) of Hussainpura area, ended his life by hanging from the ceiling fan here on Saturday. The incident came to light when his wife went to the room and found him hanging. The police reached the spot and took the body in custody for post-mortem examination. Victim’s wife Anjna Salwan said Jatinder said he wanted to have a prantha, after which she went to the kitchen. She said around 10am, when she returned, she found him hanging from the fan. She said Jatinder’s father Ravinder Salwan died in April and since then he was very upset. She said he used to teach at a private college and was emotionally attached to his father. The incident has left the family in shock. The police have initiated action under Section 174 of the CrPC in the case. TNSTeen booked for child marriageAmritsar: Ramdas police have booked a teenage boy under relevant sections of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act after he married a girl by forging his age as major. He was identified as Satnam Singh, a resident of Ward No.10 of Ramdass. The incident came to light when the police verified his and the girl’s age from their schools. According to information, Satnam Singh and Amandeep Kaur, filed a writ petition in Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking security after they solemnized their marriage in Panchkula in Haryana on September 16. During the marriage he showcased his Aadhaar card in which her date of birth was mentioned as March 14, 1998. Therefore, the temple priest solemnised their marriage. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teen-molested-%C2%A0one-booked-319535
03-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Damaged grains being ‘mixed’ into good ones, probe begins||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2A probe has started into the allegations levelled by suspended Assistant Food and Civil Supplies Officer Shiv Raj Khanna, who along with mediapersons and Aam Aadmi Party leader Rajiv Bhagat, entered the open PUNGRAIN godown located on the Loharaka road here on Thursday.He had alleged that damaged grains were being mixed with the good ones which were being supplied to ration depot holders for further distribution under the Atta-Dal scheme for poor people. Khanna had alleged that he was getting threats from political leaders for raising the scam. He said a mafia was working that was bungling the government wheat and distributing discarded wheat.A day after District Food and Civil Supplies Controller Rishi Raj Mehra visited the godown and marked a probe into the allegations on Friday.“A District Food and Civil Supplies Officer (DFSO)-rank official would probe the matter and appropriate action would be taken in this connection,” Mehra said, adding that he was personally monitoring the probe and appropriate action would be taken.Jagwinder Singh, superintendent, Pungrain godown, lodged a complaint against Khanna while alleging he had illegally trespassed into government property. He alleged that there was apprehension that he would damage the grain stashed into the godown. He said Khanna was mentally harassing the staff and asking them to teach a lesson after he was transferred and later suspended by the department for not joining his new posting in Gurdaspur.He said around 10,000 bags weighing 30 kg each (3,000 quintals of wheat) was unfit for human consumption. He directed the staff to shift the same to some other place separate from this year grains and later store it separately for further necessary action. He said AFSO Mohanjit Singh said that the cost incurred on the segregation of damaged wheat would be recovered from the godown custodian Jagwinder Singh.“The wheat which would be found unfit for human consumption would be recovered from the official concerned,” he said while asking the depot holders not to lift the damaged grains from the godown under Verka block.Mehra said an initial probe revealed that the wheat being shown by Khanna was actually returned by the depot holders and it was being replaced with the good quality grains.Why Khanna raised issue after suspension?Suspended AFSO Shiv Raj Khanna, who was posted in the same godown, was transferred to Kahnuwan in Gurdaspur in May this year. However, he did not join the duty there even after repeated reminders following which he was suspended. Questions were being raised as to why he had raked up the issue now and not when he was posted here. The department was also looking closely into the actions of Khanna.‘Raid outcome of personal rivalry’An official said the entire episode and the ‘raid’ was the outcome of personal rivalry between AFSO Mohanjit Singh who replaced AFSO Shiv Raj Khanna after his transfer to Gurdaspur. Mohanjit had lodged an FIR against Khanna who he alleged hired a woman who slapped her and tried to defame him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/damaged-grains-being-mixed-into-good-ones-probe-begins-319536
03-10-2021||---||SAD seeks CBI probe into police recruitment ‘scam’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2 Former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Saturday demanded a high-level inquiry into the Rs 150 crore Punjab Police recruitment scam, besides scrapping the current recruitment process and holding fresh tests to fill the posts.Holding a press conference here, Bikram Majithia said it was shocking that even though an FIR had been registered in Patiala that fraudulent methods were used in the test held for the recruitment of 560 sub-inspectors, the entire process had not been scrapped till now. “As per the FIR, which has been registered at the Anaj Mandi police station, it is clear that the paper of the candidate was done from outside the examination centre. It is clear that computers were hacked and other candidates also resorted to malpractices to clear the examination which involved seven lakh students for more than 5,500 posts, including those of head constables and constables.”“We demand a CBI inquiry into the scam or one by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The tentacles of this scam are spread across other states also and a number of Congress leaders as well as senior police officials are also involved in it and only an impartial inquiry will bring out the truth in the case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-seeks-cbi-probe-into-police-recruitment-scam-319537
03-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Paddy procurement: Arhtiyas form panel in Patti||Commission agents in Patti formed a seven-member committee for smooth procurement of paddy.Members include Harjinder Singh Barwala, Kuldeep Singh Bhathe Bhaini, Harpal Singh Saidpur, Gurchand Singh, Ajitpal Singh, Rajbir Singh and Kulwinder Singh.Laljit Singh Bhullar, a commission agent, said the committee members would cooperate with officials of the Market Committee, besides officials of the procurement agencies for procurement of paddy.The panel would redress the problems of commission agents and timely lifting and payment to farmers. Issues of labourers would also be resolved by the committee, said Bhullar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paddy-procurement-arhtiyas-form-panel-in-patti-319538
03-10-2021||---||Amritsar boy makes impact at WWF||Amritsar: Kartik Gaur, a student of Spring Dale Senior School, represented Punjab at the national-level model conference of parties organised by World Wildlife Fund (WWF). He was the only student representative from the country to share platform with renowned panelists for ‘WWF- Grow India Panel Discussion’ held on Friday. A student of Class XII, he made the school and the city proud with his achievement at the national-level by sharing the platform with renowned speakers and experts in an online panel discussion organised by WWF. School principal Rajiv Kumar Sharma acknowledged his flair for quizzing and leadership conclaves. Kartik participated in the event in the company of acclaimed scholars and experts such as Vishvanathan Anand, grand chess master and WWF India Brand Ambassador, Dr Shweta Tiwari , Joint Secretary (Academics) Central Board Secondary Education, New Delhi, Dr Rukmini Banerji, CEO, Pratham Education Foundation, Dr Safdar Ali, IRS, Director, State Education Department, Ladakh. Delegations from 28 states and five Union Territories were part of the programme. He was made the secretary of the MCOP (Model Conference of Parties) which is the highest position in the student body.Edu Dept holds essay contestThe Education Department has been organising educational competitions for government school students dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. In this series, a district-level essay competition was organised. A large number of students from different government schools participated in the competition based on the biography of Guru Sahibs and their teachings. Anmoldeep Kaur, a student of Mall Road School, and Manpreet Kaur, a student of Government High School, Putlighar, bagged the first and second positions, respectively in the secondary category competitions. Similarly, in middle category Lovepreet Kaur from Mall Road School and Baljinder Singh from Government Senior Secondary School, Kiampur, secured the first and second positions, respectively. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-boy-makes-impact-at-wwf-319539
03-10-2021||---||Play highlights decline in moral values||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2Life and laughter returned to stage as light-hearted comedy play Udhara Pati was staged at Punjab Naatshala on Saturday evening, amid audience applause. Narrating the present day’s growing greed and attraction towards materialism and its adverse consequences, the play based on a script by Punjabi playwright Dr Lakha Lahiri, was directed by Manchpreet. Through humor and satire, the play highlighted how a girl gets married against her grandfather’s wishes and exaggerates about her lifestyle to her family post marriage. When the family announces their wish to visit her home, she borrows goods from her neighbours and friends to paint a picture that she has lied about. She makes her husband play the cook of the house, makes a neighbourhood boy her fake husband in order to impress her grandfather and so on. The drama reaches its climax when her lie is unfolded through hilarious turn of events. Presenting a social commentary through satire, the play exposes the raw nerve of our society. “Contentment in one’s situation is something not many people experience. Aspirations are good, but to lie and go beyond the bounds of right and wrong to maintain the lie is where the play becomes a message,” said Jatinder Brar, playwright and founder, Punjab Naatshala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/play-highlights-decline-in-moral-values-319540
03-10-2021||Amritsar||BRTS employees seek annual hike||Outsourced employees of the BRTS project have not received an annual hike of 12.5 per cent since 2017. Leaders of the BRTS Employees’ Welfare Association have claimed that the company had written in their joining letters about the annual hike. The association has been holding a demonstration at the BRTS bus terminal on the Vallah-Verka bypass for the last 15 days.Jageer Singh, president of the BRTS Employees’ Welfare Association, here on Friday said, “The government is operating this service. We are demanding all the benefits being given to the government employees. When we met higher officials, they stated that we have been outsourced through some private firm and the government cannot provide the benefits being demanded by them.”The office-bearers of the association also met the DC and shared their problems.“We have not been getting an annual hike for the last four years. The private company, which had outsourced the employees, has transferred us to another firm. If the government is going to regularise the services of outsourced roadways employees then our services should also be regularised. The demonstration at the gates of the BRTS bus terminal would continue until our demands are fulfilled,” said Jageer Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/brts-employees-seek-annual-hike-319541
03-10-2021||---||‘Healthy lifestyle just a cycle ride away’||Tribune News Service Amritsar, October 2Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL) organised a bicycle rally on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti here on Saturday. Various bicycle groups of the city such as Amritsar Bicycle Group, City on pedals, V Amritsar Runners (War), Bindas Amritsar Cycle Group and more than 70 cycling enthusiasts participated in it.The bicycle rally started from the Ranjit Avenue B-Block Market at 7 am and Additional Commissioner, Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) Sandeep Rishi gave the green signal to start the cycle rally. Sandeep Rishi also participated in the bicycle rally on his cycle. Despite the rain in morning hours, the cyclist peddled with enthusiasm. Rishi stated that cycling was one of the best ways to lead a healthy lifestyle. “A healthy society can build a strong nation. A 2.6 km track is being constructed at the Ranjit Avenue under the Smart City Mission for promotion of cycling in the city. The cycle track will start soon. Another cycle track of 7.6 km is being developed along with the smart road outside Wall City on the Outer Circular Road.Amritsar Smart City Nodal Officer-cum-SE Pradeep Jaiswal, Municipal Corporation SE Sandeep Singh and SS Malli were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/healthy-lifestyle-just-a-cycle-ride-away-319542
03-10-2021||Chamba||Chamba: Two Amritsar youths held with ‘chitta’||Two youths of Amritsar were arrested with 10.63 gram heroin (chitta) near the local bus stand today.SSP Arul Kumar said a team of the State Narcotic Crime Control intercepted them and on checking seized 10.63 grams of chitta.The accused have been identified as Mohan (25) and Shubham (27) of Amritsar (Punjab). They have been booked under the NDPS Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chamba-two-amritsar-youths-held-with-chitta-319488
