04-10-2021||Amritsar||Man jumps into canal with two children in Amritsar||A 30-year-old man, along with his two children, ended his life by jumping into a canal in the Tarawala Pul area here, police said on Monday.Mandeep Singh was disturbed over some family issue, police said.His two sons were identified as Gurpreet Singh (7) and Robin (2).Police said the bodies were fished out from the canal. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-jumps-into-canal-with-two-children-in-amritsar-320101
04-10-2021||---||Man held for running chemist shop illegally||Amritsar, October 3Following a tip-off, the Amritsar rural police arrested Mandeep Singh of Bhangali Kalan village for allegedly selling intoxicants illegally.His ‘chemist’ shop was raided by Drug Control Officer Harpreet Kaur along with her team. During the raid, drug officials asked for the licence for selling the medicine, but he could not produce it. There was no pharmacist in the shop.While searching, they confiscated 150 tablets of banned drug tramadol, which is misused by drug addicts. Immediately, the police were informed and they arrested the accused and registered an FIR under the NDPS Act and Drugs and Cosmetics Act against him.The police said further investigations were on to ascertain as to who used to provide him the intoxicants and other medicines even as he did not have any authority for the same.Meanwhile, the rural police also arrested Prabhjit Singh of Chak Kamal Khan village with 500 sedative pills. The Kathunangal and Beas police arrested Karamjit Singh, alias Kaka, of Ram Divali Hindua village and Major Singh of Cheema Bath village for allegedly possessing 100 and 190 intoxicant tablets, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-for-running-chemist-shop-illegally-319837
04-10-2021||---||55 dengue cases in 3 days, Amritsar tally 565||Amritsar, October 3As many as 55 dengue cases were reported in a span of three days taking the district tally to 565.While the district reported no death due to the disease, the exponential increase in the number of cases is worrying.Also read: With puddles everywhere in Amritsar, how will authorities keep a tight rein on dengue?The health authorities said a maximum of cases are being reported from Sultanwind Road and Tarn Taran Road areas. “It has been seen that dengue larvae is repeatedly detected at homes and official establishments during follow-up inspections,” said an official, adding that the department was planning strict action against such residents.Of the total cases reported this season, 463 were reported in the month of September alone. While the Municipal Corporation and Health Department are claiming to conduct regular fogging in the city, frequent rains and lack of awareness among residents is making the containment of the disease difficult.As the MC is responsible for fogging in the entire city, the Health Department conducts fogging around the houses of infected persons. Health experts said dengue patients were required to take ample precautions against mosquito bites, as the same mosquito can bite another family member and infect him as well.Health officials said, mosquito nets are used on the beds of dengue patients in isolation wards to avoid mosquito bites. They said those who are managing the disease at home, too, should take similar precautions so that their family members remain healthy.Health experts said apart from draining or changing water in other items, residents should also cleanthe water drainage box behind refrigerators as it becomes an apt breeding place for mosquitoes.City gets 10 more fogging machines Amritsar: Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni inaugurated 10 more fogging machines to eradicate dengue from the city on Sunday. Soni claimed that these machines will reach every street and market. He said to get the work properly done, it was necessary to operate the machines on the advice of area councillors and get the logbook of the machines signed by him/her. He said at present, 26 machines were working in different areas of Amritsar city, adding that these would make the city free from dengue mosquitoes. Soni said: “By taking charge of the Health Department in the government, I am trying to provide better healthcare facilities to our people in Punjab.” “As we all worked hard in the war against Covid-19, the same work is needed to end the scourge of dengue,” said Soni. He directed that fogging be conducted on all public places of the city continuously. Additional Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, who was present on the occasion, said the Municipal Corporation has been conducting fogging in every locality of the city. He appealed to people to make sure dengue larvae don’t breed around their house, claiming that with fogging at public places, including roads, streets and parks, the areas would get rid of mosquitoes. He said it was important to clean homes, offices and shops. He said dengue mosquito does not breed in dirty water, but in clean water, so free your surroundings from standing water in coolers and pots. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/55-dengue-cases-in-3-days-amritsar-tally-565-319838
04-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||With puddles everywhere in Amritsar, how will authorities keep a tight rein on dengue?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 3A shower is enough to turn a small pit into a puddle thereby making it a breeding ground for dengue mosquitoes. And, several puddles have sprung up in various parts of the city due to the recent rains threatening to worsen the situation.55 dengue cases in 3 days, Amritsar tally 565The Health Department is issuing challans to those households, where dengue larvae are being detected, but when it comes to rainwater puddles that accumulate on the government administered and public land, there is no such provision to take action.Accumulated rainwater can be seen on vacant spots in the Amritsar Improvement Trust colonies, including Ranjit Avenue, New Amritsar and Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar among others. Big potholes filled with rainwater can be easily spotted at Vallah Sabji Mandi, industrial pockets, known as Focal Point on the Mehta Road and GT Road, besides the underpasses of Joda Phatak (twin railway crossings). Deplorable condition prevails at underdeveloped localities such as Inderpuri, where people are putting up with insanitary conditions.Kanwaljit Singh Pahwa, a wholesale fruit dealer, said despite vulnerability, ponds of rainwater can be spotted at the mandi. He said the authorities did not even bother to spray insecticides here. “Already, insanitary conditions prevail at the mandi. A shower is enough to turn kutcha space into slush and lower pockets into ponds. He requested the authorities to take swift action keeping in view the large footfall of farmers, buyers, shopkeepers and their employees. He said some shopkeepers were spraying insecticides at their own level.Officials of the Health Department said they have already advised residents to pour burnt mobile oil or insecticides in these ponds or vacant plots near their homes, where rainwater accumulates and becomes a breeding ground for mosquitoes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-puddles-everywhere-in-amritsar-how-will-authorities-keep-a-tight-rein-on-dengue-319839
04-10-2021||Break nexus between criminals||Open House:  Do you think transfers/postings of officers after change at the helm of affairs are justified?||Transfer of the police commissioner/IAS officers with the change of the state government affect the functioning of the respective departments. Politicians and criminals are hand in glove with each other. Hence, they need police officers of their choice at the appropriate level. This is in the notice of governments, which is why in the past numerous committees and commissions were constituted for police reforms but without and favourable response. Their suggestion/recommendation was never implemented. On the subject of politician and drug smugglers connivance even Punjab and Haryana High Court observed “Politicians require easy money and muscle power for their political aim, which the drug smugglers are more than willing to provide. In return, they seek political patronage so that their nefarious activities go unchecked and without hindrance.” The bench of Justice HS Marwan observed. So to have such a nexus between politicians and criminals such uncalled transfers are necessary.Harsh Joharcops should be allowed to work independentlyRabindranath Tagore visualised the free India as “Where the mind is without fear and head is held high....” Neither we have achieved that freedom nor are we on that path to achieve such freedom. Do you think any of the state head of police can ever ask even a local level politician to keep the mouth shut? This is the real freedom when on May 25, 2020, when riots broke out in the US and then President Donald Trump sent a provocative tweet, to which police chief Art Aquedo said “Please, if you don’t have something constructive to say, keep your mouth shut”. In our country no police officer could use such words against their political boss because with change of guards politicians bring in police officer devoted to them not to their duty. Moreover, they are to act as “collecting agents” for their political bosses as alleged by ex-commissioner of the Mumbai police that Maharashtra home minister gave a target of collecting Rs 100 crore per month to inspector Sachin Vaze and suggested ways how to collect it. So this is a continuous process and shall remain so.Naresh JoharFrequent transfers disrupt functioningWith the change of guard in the state governments, the first casualty is state police head followed by district police chiefs. This is a routine affair since long. But one fails to understand why they make changes in police department only why not in education and health developments? The only answer coming to mind is that politician with criminal background or shielding his/her criminal supporters or planning political vendetta for his/her political opponents make such changes in police department. But such police transfers are against law. Section 15 of the Punjab Police Act says an officer of the rank of SHO (station house officer) and above shall have an assured tenure of one year. How they, custodian of the law, can move against law? But they are doing so since long. Our city recently witnessed change of police commissioner within days of his posting. Such frequent and uncalled for transfers disrupt the smooth, efficient and sincere working of the department.Nityanshi ChopraTransfers a game of musical chairsThough it is the ‘prerogative’ of the CM to appoint/shift administrative and police heads of a state with his chosen team, but it is a bad practice. With CM Charanjit Singh Channi at the helm of affairs, the top posts of Chief Secretary (CS) & Director General of Police (DGP) has been reduced to set of musical chairs up for grab. It’s also against the rules and regulations pertaining to the services of top officials. Recent reshuffling of three police commissioners within a month of their joining is a blatant violation of Punjab police rules and cannot be justified on any ground. How all three commit the same act of error within days of their joining as Commissioners of Police? Such transfers influenced by political considerations are total wastage of state’s financial and time resources. Frequent changes at senior levels disrupt the functioning of police force besides lowering the morale of rank and file. Such transfers and posting without any cogent reason at the fag end of officers’ tenure are not only humiliating but lower the dignity of office. Frequent transfers of IAS/IPS officers derail the delivery system of governance and affect the implementation of government welfare schemes. Administrative Tribunals & Judiciary should take cognisance of favourable transfers undertaken by ruling political dispensation of the day just ahead of election & mulls way & means to stop this gamut of plum postings smack of vested interest in upholding the sanctity of offices of public services in larger interest.Anil VinayakGovernance takes a back seatWhen the change at the helm of affairs in a state takes place, the new political masters reshuffle police commissioners and IAS officers’ as recently done in Punjab. Officers perceived to be loyalists of the previous CM/regime are moved to less prestigious posts to bring in their favoured bureaucrats to the key posts to get their diktats followed in letter and spirit. This practice in the country is nothing new. State level politicians can’t hire, dismiss, demote or change the wages of bureaucrats except that they can transfer them to suit their particular agenda. Whether it is justified or not, but it does affect the functioning of the officers in question. The new officers take some time to become conversant with their work and to settle down to carry out the responsibility given to them to perform as per the wishes of the dispensation. The sufferer is the state’s development and progress as the continuity is snapped paralysing the entire state machinery for some time. The succeeding governments tend to wield the matter of transfers cynically as a tool for punishment and for injecting an element of unpredictability into an officer’s career to make him compliant to the politicians’ wishes. Because of this core values of civil servants such as neutrality, impartiality, honesty and integrity cannot be guaranteed and maintained. It creates divisions among civil servants who find it difficult to bring development, welfare, well-being and peace to the state and the society. Efficiency and effectiveness takes a back seat owing to the growing distrust, disconnect and alienation between the officers and the political representatives. Good governance becomes a casualty when there is no healthy relationship among the ministers, MLAs and civil servants. After the change at the helm of affairs in a state the new comers have every right to make transfers and postings but they should not be made merely for the sake of it.Tarsem S BumrahArbitrary transfers should be avoidedChange is the law of nature. When it occurs at the top, it usually shakes up and shuffles everything right down to the bottom. It’s almost like a domino effect, which can clearly be seen in the case of police commissioners and IAS officers, who are always likely to be shifted to another place post the changing of the guard, even when these postings are not required. Yet these occur whenever new leadership takes charge of the affairs of the state as every leader wants officials of his own choice to man key posts, their qualifications, experience and abilities notwithstanding. More often than not hard-working people with intellect, integrity and vision are replaced with officials of questionable abilities, which have an adverse impact on the work and law and order situation of the region. It takes time for a new officer to adjust to the environs of his new post, besides getting acquainted with the pending cases. Arbitrary transfers of police and IAS officers should be avoided. New postings should be done only when it is absolutely necessary.Shaheen P ParshadNo justification for such transfersAll IAS / IPS and PCS officers are the end product of a rigorous selection procedure dependent on test and interview followed by an even more rigorous training. The personality traits and aptitude for administration are also tested for any psychological aberration. The point is that they constitute the human machinery called government. Unfortunately for us, those who are to run this very efficient machine, are not themselves equipped with any knowledge about the complexity of the system nor are they properly skilled or trained. And, as they say, a bad workman quarrels with his tools. This analogy, though farfetched, will serve the purpose. You need a skilled and honest workman, and not a new machine. However, corruption and stark incompetence prevailing in Punjab for about four decades now have made the state almost ungovernable. Transferring administrative officers is not illegal but we hardly see any justification when there is a change in government. The present situation where the bureaucrats have become a hand maid of the elected members, suits both. They rule the roost, never mind if the exchequer is looted or if the taxpayer is denied a life worth living vis-a-vis education, health care, justice, sanitation, transport etc. At root is a total absence of character and social responsibility. At the officer level, it is an open secret that border districts and other lucrative postings are usually given only for a consideration. Right now, Punjab is on an anaesthesia waiting for a skilled surgeon.Mohan Singhthese act as a system of checks, balancesIAS officers/Police Commissioners are an integral part of the legislative and the executive force of the country, states and districts. They not only prevent discord but also act as positive forces bringing in beneficial changes for the people under their administration. Talking about the justification for their transfers based on change at the helm of affairs in the state, I stand somewhere in between. IAS officers/Police Commissioners go through a very vigorous procedure in order to the get the position they attain later, any mettlesome person who goes through this process must have a very clear aim and a great sense of service to the society. Ideally, wherever positioned these officers are supposed to do good for the people and in many instances that is the case; however there are a few bad apples in every tree. We cannot ignore the various times we have read about cruel and shrewd officers harassing the public or perhaps a certain individual, or maybe one of the officers being corrupt. In these cases, these transfers act as a system of checks and balances, making sure power in an area are not in the hands of one person. But we also cannot ignore how IAS officers/Police commissioners bring a certain balance to a district and often this balance is disrupted upon their transfer. So I think it goes both ways, there is always a dark side of the moon which cannot be disregarded.Gurjas SinghTransfers benefits society, officialsAfter change at the helm of affairs in the state, there have been a lot of transfers/postings of police commissioners/ IAS officers. Changes are important element of the life and hence changes are also required in the Public sector. Government officials are appointed to serve society and to maintain peace in the country, so they are required to move from one place to another to maintain the harmony. Transfers/ postings in the jobs of government officials may have positive and negative effects and it varies from one person to another. If we look at the motive behind the transfers/postings of jobs then it benefits both society and officials. Transfer of jobs in different localities reduces monotony and boredom. It also helps in improving their skill and knowledge and motivates them to work harder for the welfare of the society. It helps them to develop both personally and professionally. Somehow, it may have some consequences such as it reduces morale and lead breakdowns in working relationships. It also creates difficulty in living far from family and maintaining personal relations. It may take some time for officers to study about the problems of particular areas and to work on those problems to reduce the tension in the areas. In conclusion, transfers are a requirement to maintain tranquility and to reduce the conflicts.SAMTransfers of officials fully justifiedYes, the transfers/postings of police commissioners/IAS officers after the change at the helm of affairs in a state is fully justified. This is because of the fact that old officials are loyal to particular regime and change in political leadership in a state affects their working too as they face resistance in jobs/plans they want to do. Their ideas get rejected after the change at the helm of affairs in a state. Although it’s unfortunate and bad luck for them to get transfer orders, but it is good for their future in the long run as they have got no authority to rule the rulers of state but new rulers have got full powers to dictate their decisions upon them.Sanjay ChawlaSet up administration commission of India QUESTIONPunjab has been plagued by drug menace for years. Accountability on the widespread prevalence of drug trade in the state has never been fixed. Should the drug problem be a key issue ahead of elections in the light of recent seizures in the state?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 7)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-do-you-think-transfers-postings-of-officers-after-change-at-the-helm-of-affairs-are-justified-319840
04-10-2021||---||Paddy procurement begins at Rayya Dana Mandi||Amritsar, October 3Paddy procurement began from the Rayya Dana Mandi in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira and Baba Bakala MLA Santokh Singh Bhalaipur (in pic) on Sunday.Speaking on the occasion, the Deputy Commissioner asked farmers not to bring crop with moisture content more than the permissible limit as it would cause problems in procurement by government agencies.As per the government instructions, the paddy yield with moisture content of up to 17 per cent was fit for procurement. The moisture exceeding the limit would result in procurement agencies not procuring that particular lot.The DC further said paddy should not be harvested during night as the grains harvested during the night have more moisture content. He added that combine harvesters with Super Straw Management System should be used for harvesting as it helps in management of paddy stubble without burning.He also warned the commission agents against bogus billing of paddy and asked them not to purchase paddy being smuggled from other states. He said strict action would be taken if any such reports were received.MLA Bhalaipur said though the Central Government had postponed the paddy procurement till October 31, it had agreed to start the process earlier after the intervention of Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi. He said the government would ensure that farmers face no trouble in selling their produce.While the procurement has begun, the harvesting of crop is yet to pick pace in the district. Heavy rain on Saturday further delayed harvesting as more moisture in the soil has made it difficult for heavy combine harvesters to operate in the fields.While no data is as yet available for the paddy procured by government agencies on Sunday, the district has witnessed the arrival of 62,696 MT of basmati varieties till date.Process starts in Tarn Taran tooTarn Taran: Paddy procurement began at Tarn Taran and Chabal grain markets on Sunday. The procurement process was inaugurated by local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri and Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh (in pic right). Dr Agnihotri said the procurement process could be possible with the efforts of CM Charanjit Singh Channi, who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday and stressed on the need to procure paddy without delay for the welfare of farmers. The crop had been reaching the grain market for the last more than a month and was being procured by private firms only. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paddy-procurement-begins-at-rayya-dana-mandi-319841
04-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Welfare on their mind? How, ask animal lovers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 3World Animal Day is observed on October 4 to raise the status of animals and improve their welfare. The city has several NGOs registered for animal protection, but injuries, fatality and cruelty is still quite common in the city. Ironically, the stray dogs and cattle are the main victims of animal abuse.Experts claim that the city administration was not conscious of animals’ welfare. There is no space for animals in the modern development model, adopted by the government. A large number of cows and dogs die in road accidents every year. Rohan, president, Animal Protection Association, said: “The government departments concerned are not conscious about the issues related to animals. There is no check on cruelty against dogs. The Animal Husbandry Department fails to install ear tags on cows. When someone abandons a cow, authorities can identify the owner by ear tag and take action. But the government has not installed tags till date. Similarly, in case of stray dogs, the sterilization project is merely an eyewash. There should be two gaushalas and two sterilisation centres in each Assembly constituency,” said Rohan.It is worth mentioning here that the MC has recently started the Animal Birth Control (ABC) Centre where 15 dogs are being sterilised every day. Veterinary officers of the MC claim that the ABC would control stray dog population by adopting international standards of sterilisation.The MC has set up a gaushala to shelter stray cows but animal protection activists are unhappy with the arrangements and sanitation.Mission & theme this year||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/welfare-on-their-mind-how-ask-animal-lovers-319842
04-10-2021||---||No check on illegal kiosks in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 3Contrary to the claims of the Municipal Corporation (MC) about removing encroachments, illegal kiosks continue to mushroom in the city. Ironically, illegal kiosks are coming up at petrol pumps where except selling fuel, while following safety norms, other commercial activities are strictly prohibited.A month ago, an illegal kiosk had come up on the premises of the petrol pump near Doaba Agency. The attempts of the MC estate wing to remove this kiosk proved futile as it was constructed with the support of a local politician, reportedly close to a Cabinet Minister. Now, a vehicle pollution check centre is functioning from this illegal kiosk.As the MC has failed to stop the practise, other owners too are allowing illegal kiosks on premises of their petrol pumps in the city. Another illegal kiosk came up on the premises of the petrol pump on the FGS road recently.It seems the MC estate wing is helpless in taking action against politically influential persons on whose instance such practise is rampant in the city.Kuljit Singh, an activist said, “Owners have constructed shops and booths for commercial activities on premises of their petrol pumps. It is violation of the rules, but the MC is not taking appropriate action against those flouting norms. The authorities concerned should take care of the public safety.” When contacted, Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh said, “We will take action against all such violations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-check-on-illegal-kiosks-in-amritsar-319844
04-10-2021||Amritsar||Covid: Three test positive in Amritsar||Country-made pistol seizedTarn Taran: Manjit Singh Kundi of Gali Mangal Singh Wakeel Wali was on Saturday arrested with a 32 bore country-made pistol and five live cartridges from Kakka Kandiala village on the outskirts of the town. ASI Hansa Singh of the CIA staff said the accused had been booked under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. OCOne held with 110-gm heroinTarn Taran: A police party of the local anti-narcotics cell led by Sub-Inspector Satnam Singh arrested Robin Singh of Sheron village with 110 grams of heroin here on Saturday. Sarhali police have registered a case under Sections 21-B, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act against the accused. OCDak Sewak Union holds meetingTarn Taran: Important issues and demands were discussed in the division-level session of the All-India Gramin Dak Sewak Union held here on Sunday. Sukhjit Singh Bhindisaidan was elected as president, Jasbir Singh as secretary and Raman Kumar as treasurer. Gramin dak sewaks from Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and from Pathankot districts participated. SAD leader Iqbal Singh Sandhu and Jagtar Singh also spoke on the occasion. OCAid for Institute for the BlindAmritsar: SBI’s Ladies Club donated computers, almirahs and dresses to the Institute for the Blind here on Sunday. Anita Khara, Poonam Bhatia, Anamika Srivastava, Roli Asthana, Namita Phakka and other members from the SBI Ladies’ Club and Arun Kapoor, principal and joint secretary, Dr KK Bhalla, eye surgeon and secretary, along with students, teachers of the Institute were present. Students’ parents were also present. Anita Khara, President of SBI Ladies Club, appreciated the spirit of the students and efforts of the Institute for the Blind in educating and training them. She wished the students success for their future endeavours. Sweets were served to students on the occasion. The SBI Ladies Club was humbled and honoured to have made a small social contribution towards welfare of the blind students, she said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-three-test-positive-in-amritsar-319846
04-10-2021||Amritsar||Finally, Amritsar scribes get Press Club||Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni on Sunday handed over the keys of the press club building to the office-bearers of the Amritsar Press Club Association. Soni congratulated the mediapersons and also announced a grant of Rs10 lakh for the club for basic needs. He said journalists were the fourth pillar of democracy. He said they should highlight the positive aspects of the government schemes along with healthy criticism, so that the governments could work for the betterment of society.Rajesh Gill, president, Amritsar Press Club, also thanked the Deputy Chief Minister, Punjab Government and the district administration for handing over the club to journalists. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/finally-amritsar-scribes-get-press-club-319847
04-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Declamation at GNDU college||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/declamation-at-gndu-college-319848
