05-10-2021||Amritsar||One booked for raping widow||Two snatchers nabbedAmritsar: The city police have arrested two persons — Vijay Singh of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar and Gurjit Singh, alias Gora, of Sandhu Colony on Majitha Road, for looting an SBI customer at a Sewa Kendra at Ghala Mala Chowk on Monday. The incident reported on Saturday was captured in the CCTV camera and following probe, both accused were identified and arrested. The police recovered an air gun pistol, a bike and four ATM cards from them. Police said both accused were drug addicts and habitual offenders. They used to do snatchings to procure drugs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-booked-for-raping-widow-320414
05-10-2021||---||Greco-Roman style coach for wrestling from Amritsar||Amritsar, October 4Vikram Sharma, a local, has been selected as Greco Roman (GR)-style coach of a senior wrestling team, to take part in the ongoing World Senior Freestyle, GR Style Wrestling Championship being held in Oslo (Norway).He will be a part of a team having three coaches, 10 players and a physiotherapist who will fly to Oslo from Delhi tomorrow. The World Senior Free Style, which commenced on October 2, will see GR style matches starting from October 6.He has been a GR Style coach of the Senior Wrestling team for the past four years and before this, he had been a coach with the Junior National team for two years. During his coaching career, his team member Sunil Kumar, 87 kg, won Gold in the Senior Asian Championship, after a gap of 27 years. Indian wrestling team won four bronze medals in the Rome Ranking series held in Italy in March this year. The Punjab wrestling team won the third place in the senior National Wrestling Championship held in February this year. Whenever in the city, he trains budding wrestlers at Gol Bagh wrestling stadium from where over 20 players are playing national championships.During his playing career, Vikram twice won the gold medals in the World Police Games in 2011 (Canada) and 2013 (USA). He won eight gold medals in the All India Police Games and remained champion in the 2011 National games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/greco-roman-style-coach-for-wrestling-from-amritsar-320413
05-10-2021||Amritsar||Faculty-induction event at GNDU||DAV College remembers BapuDAV College, while paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his 152nd birth anniversary, held a three-day remembrance programme under the umbrella of Gandhian Study Chair of UGC by the History Department. On the first day, a paper-reading competition was conducted on Gandhi’s contribution to the Indian society. More than 80 students of the college participated in the event. The first three students were also awarded. The next day, students paid their respects to Bapu at Company Bagh. On this occasion, students also went to Panorama and got information about their history. On the last day of the programme, students, accompanied by Principal Rajesh, visited Government Elementary School at Hathi Gate and distributed stationery and food items to the children. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/faculty-induction-event-at-gndu-320412
05-10-2021||Amritsar||Chemist held with banned drugs in Amritsar||The rural police arrested a chemist shop owner from Katra Sher Singh and recovered 13,500 intoxicants, including banned tramadol, from his store. He was identified as Naveen Gupta.His arrest came following interrogation of a medical representative Rohit Kumar, who used to supply intoxicants to different parts of the rural belt, it is alleged. Rohit was arrested yesterday. Till now, four persons have been arrested, said Abhimanyu Rana, ASP, Majitha. He said the accused were produced in court and brought on three-day police remand.Besides Naveen and Rohit, a quack Kirpal Singh and Karamjit Singh have been arrested. Karamjit Singh of Ram Divali Hindua village was held with 100 sedative pills two days ago. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chemist-held-with-banned-drugs-in-amritsar-320411
05-10-2021||---||An amalgamation of art & aesthetics||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 4Yadvendra Mehra’s garden in the sprawling residential complex is an amalgamation of art and aesthetic. Passing through the Circular Road near Government Medical College, stone figurines and planted pots mounted on huge walls of the entrance of his house are likely to catch a passerby’s attention.Mehra’s specially procured statues of Buddha and his two disciples has added to the charm and grace of his green space.“I bought these statues from Nepal as I am fond of Buddha artifacts. They take the aesthetic appeal of your garden several notches high,” said Mehra. Belonging to a traditional cloth traders’ family, he has travelled widely. The credit to his collection of metallic sculptures goes to one such business trip only.He has three lawns in the house. He also attributed the beauty of his lawns to his wife Sonia Mehra, who he said, planned the entire landscape as he hardly gets any time due to his busy schedule. Nestled in the ‘Buddha shrine’ there is a metallic Ganesha idol. The pond also house several fish. “The idea of having fish in the pond was to getting rid of mosquito larvae. We also have a team of gardeners for maintaining these lawns. Palms, vines and flower plants, ferns and shrubs, hibiscus, Raat ki Rani etc have adorned our garden. He said having a large green space means one will also enjoy the company of feathered friends. Our lawns host exotic birds,” he said.“During the renovation of the house, we preserved the old trees besides adding new ones,” he said. My children Jyotsna and Shashank Mehra also love natural beauty and contribute their bit to it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-amalgamation-of-art-aesthetics-320410
05-10-2021||---||Defacement continues: Congratulatory hoardings spring up in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 4With the induction of several ministers from the city in the Cabinet, many congratulatory hoarding have sprung up in different areas here.With a Deputy Chief Minister, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president and a newly-appointed chairman of Amritsar Improvement Trust, every wall and electricity pole has a banner carrying congratulatory messages, being put up by local Congress leaders.It seems that the trend of defacing the entire city with political advertisements is here to stay no matter who is at the helm of affairs. Apart from the unipoles installed by the Municipal Corporation, banners and congratulatory hoardings can be seen even on electricity poles, public offices and illegal advertising spaces on private properties. “It is the same old tactic to advertise its leaders used by every political party. It is one such issue where even the new Chief Minister and other new ministers have failed to bring any change,” said Kulwant Singh, a resident.While the new appointments have been made, a race has begun between the local leaders of the ruling party to put up posters and banners welcoming the new ministers in the government. While these illegal banners have mushroomed everywhere, officials of the MC are still waiting for the euphoria to die down before they can initiate a token drive to remove illegal hoardings. After the recent reshuffle in the state government, Amritsar Centre MLA Om Parkash Soni was appointed as deputy Chief Minister while MLA Raj Kumar Verka was inducted into the new Cabinet constituted by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.Earlier, Amritsar East MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu was appointed as the PPCC president. With the recent overthrowing of former CM Amarinder Singh, his supporters have another reason to rejoice and have put up banners with his pictures. Additionally, Damandeep Singh, a councilor close to Sidhu has been appointed as the Chairman of the AIT whose supporters are also making all efforts to put-up these political banners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/defacement-continues-congratulatory-hoardings-spring-up-in-amritsar-320409
05-10-2021||Amritsar||4 booked for culpable homicide in Ajnala||The Ajnala police have booked four persons on the charge of culpable homicide after they allegedly ran over a motorcyclist here on late Saturday evening.The deceased was identified as Deepak Kumar (45) of Chogwan Bypass, Ajnala. Those booked include Ranjodh Singh and Gurbinder Singh, both of Isapur village, Sartaz Singh and Gurpinder Singh of Bhoewali village. They are yet to be arrested. A case under Sections 304 and 427 of the IPC was registered. Lovely Kumar of Ugar Aulakh village and relative of the deceased told the police that he was a cloth trader in Ajnala. He said he along with his brother-in-law Deepak were returning home on separate bikes.He said Deepak was ahead of him. He said suddenly, a rashly driven Innova came from behind crossed him and hit the victim’s bike. He said the impact was such that Deepak jumped in the air and fell on the glass of the vehicle. He sustained critical injuries on his head and other parts of the body and died on the spot. He said Ranjodh was driving an Innova, while three others were sitting in the vehicle. Loud blaring music was playing in the vehicle when the incident took place near Reliance petrol pump. Further probe is on. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-booked-for-culpable-homicide-in-ajnala-320408
05-10-2021||---||Two test positive for Covid in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 4With two positive cases reported on Monday, the district Covid tally increased to 47,324. The district at present has a total of 15 active cases. Meanwhile, 21,968 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive for Covid-19 on Monday. Of these, 13,363 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 8,605 received the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-test-positive-for-covid-in-amritsar-district-320407
05-10-2021||---||Amritsar-Jammu flight from October 10||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 4SpiceJet is set to introduce its fifth flight between Amritsar and Jammu from October 10 from the Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport. It is likely to boost domestic connectivity from the local airport.The SG3725 flight will take off from the local airport at 10:40 am and land at Jammu airport at 11:35 am. The return flight will reach the local airport at 1:05 after taking off from Jammu airport at 12:05 pm. A ticket from Amritsar to Jammu will cost around Rs2,500 and back to Amritsar nearly Rs2,000.Over 210-km distance, between Amritsar and Jammu, takes over four hours to commute by road. By air, the travel will be completed in 55 minutes.Well-equipped with rail, road and air infrastructure and owing to its geographical location, the city already falls in the tourist circuits of mountain tourism of both Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. Hoteliers, tour and travel experts are of the view that the proposed flight will consolidate the presence of the holy city with the tourist circuit of Jammu and Kashmir.A large number of visitors and local travel to Vaishno Devi cave shrine, nestled in the Trikuta hills, about 50 km, from Jammu. Initiating the flight during the navratris, the airline aims to cash in on the festive rush.SpiceJet is already operating Amritsar-Mumbai, Amritsar-Jaipur, Amritsar-Ahmedabad and Amritsar-Delhi flights. Before the pandemic, it used to operate Amritsar-Srinagar-Amritsar flight, which is yet to resume.Starting flight during navratris, SpiceJet aims to cash in on festive rush||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-jammu-flight-from-october-10-320394
05-10-2021||---||Amritsar man jumps into canal with 2 children||Amritsar, October 4A shockwave engulfed the Khandwala area, when a man jumped into the Upper Bari Doab Canal with his two children late on Sunday evening.Their bodies were recovered on Monday afternoon.The deceased have been identified as Mandeep Singh, a resident of New Model Town locality in Khandwala area, Gurpreet Singh (7) and one-and-a-half-year old Robindeep Singh. The police found no suicide note from the spot, while it took the bodies into possession and sent these for autopsy.Ranjit Singh Dhaliwal, SHO Maqboolpura police station, said the incident came to light when the family members of the deceased informed the police about them being missing after they failed to return home late last evening.According to the police, Mandeep tied his two children with his body with the help of his turban and later took the extreme step by jumping into the canal at Taran Wala Pul.Avtar Singh, father of the deceased, who is a retired cop, said Mandeep took the two children along for having ice-cream near Guru Nanak Dev University in the evening. However, when they failed to return, they called on his mobile, which was switched off. He said when repeated calls failed to evince any response, they submitted a report with the police. The police found their last location near Taran Wala Pul.When the police team along with the family members reached the spot, they found his bike and mobile phone from near the bridge. Their worst fears come true, when the divers recovered their bodies from near Sultanwind village canal.Dhaliwal said no suicide note was found from the spot and they were yet to ascertain the motive behind this unfortunate incident. He said the family members said there was no dispute in the family.“We are still not aware why he ended his life,” said Dhaliwal, adding that further investigations were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-man-jumps-into-canal-with-2-children-320392
05-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur Kheri incident: Teachers, students burn effigies of top BJP leaders in front of schools in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 4The effect of nationwide protests (against the Narendra Modi-led Union Government and the Yogi Adityanath-led UP Government) triggered by the killing of nine persons, including farmers, during the farmers’ protest in Lakhimpur Kheri district of UP, was also witnessed in the holy city with a large number of teachers and students taking out protest marches here on Monday.Standing in solidarity with farmers and demanding severe punishment for the accused, members of the Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF) on Monday burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and UP Chief Minister Adityanath Yogi in front of all government schools. Members of the organisation protested outside their respective schools across the district.Ashwani Awasthi, district president of the DTF, along with Jarmanjit Singh, state president of the Democratic Employees’ Federation, said the incident was an attempt to silence the farmers’ voice.“It was an attempt to suppress their demand for repealing the three farm laws. This fascist government is vindictive in its treatment of farmers and the UP violence is a recent example of that. Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra Tenny’s son allegedly mowed down eight persons and injured many and Tenny should immediately be dismissed and held accountable,” said Ashwini Awasthi.Students of Khalsa College too took out a protest march to condemn the severity of the incident. The Khalsa College Amritsar Students Forum (KCASF) marched from Khalsa College to Guru Nanak Dev University to castigate the horrific incident.Arash Bhullar, a member of the KCASF, alleged that the killings were perpetrated by BJP goons under a well-thought-out conspiracy. The blatant attack on the rights of farmers and the way they are being forced into submission is condemnable and will not be tolerated. The statement made by Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar also testifies to the fact that the BJP has done nothing but indulged in acts of hooliganism in the country. With all this, the real anti-people face of the BJP also comes to the fore,” he said.Student organisations, including the Punjab Students’ Union, Students for Society, Naujawan Bharat Sabha and the All India Student Front too, joined the protests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-teachers-students-burn-effigies-of-top-bjp-leaders-in-front-of-schools-in-amritsar-320391
05-10-2021||Manmeet Singh||Lakhimpur Kheri incident: Angry to the core, farmers, students out on streets in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 4The alleged murder of at least four farmers by the son of a minister in Uttar Pradesh, who mowed them under his car, has anguished people from different sections of society who staged protests and demanded action against the culprit.Farmers under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at Bhandari Bridge and termed the incident as a well-hatched conspiracy to intimidate farmers in UP ahead of the next Assembly elections. They termed the incident as barbaric and compared it to the massacre of freedom fighters in Jallianwala Bagh on April 13, 1919.Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer leader associated with Jamhoori Kisan Sabha said: “This is heights of indifference. BJP leaders have now resorted to mowing protesting farmers under their cars as if they are of no significance and their killings do not matter at all to society in general.”He said these murders would not intimidate farmers. “There are lakhs of us out protesting against this fascist government. How many will they kill?” he questioned, demanding the BJP leaders to shake up their conscience.Students of Guru Nanak Dev University and Khalsa College, the biggest two educational institutions in district, also staged protests and expressed solidarity with the agrarian community.Kisan Sangharsh Committee activists and members of Majha-based farmers’ organisation staged a protest outside the residence of BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh and demanded strict action against the UP minister’s son and others involved in the killing of farmers.They said the BJP-led Central Government had been trying to intimidate farmers from the initial days of the protest and for this, different tactics were being used from time to time. They said in the recent tactic, at least four farmers have been killed in broad daylight by mowing them under the wheels of a vehicle at the behest of the son of a minister in Central Government.The farmer leaders said the minister should be sacked from the Cabinet immediately and all involved in the attack on farmers should be arrested and prosecuted. The farmer leaders also took strong objection to the statements of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and termed his statements as unparliamentarily and against the interest of the community.United Sikh Students protest ‘Bhagwa terrorism’ Amritsar: Activists of the United Sikh Students burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP Chief Minister Adityanath Yogi during a protest staged outside the GNDU here on Monday. Accusing the BJP government of orchestrating violence against farmers at UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, they raised slogans against them. They called violence against farmers as ‘Bhagwa terrorism’. They also raised slogans against Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and his son. Members of the Folklore Research Academy and Pragratisheel Lekhak Sangh also condemned the incident.Students condemn Haryana CM’s remarksStudents under the banner of Khalsa College Students’ Forum took out a march to protest against the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. Student leaders alleged that it was a well-planned conspiracy to intimidate farmers. They said they would stand behind farmers in the ongoing protest and create awareness among the general public regarding the atrocities being committed by the BJP government against the protesting farmers. Students also condemned Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for making unsavoury statements against farmers and the ongoing agitation. Arsh Bhullar, a student leader, said: “It is time for public to unite behind the farming community as the incumbent government had turned dictatorial.” The protest was attended by activists of Students For Society, Punjab Students’ Union, Punjab Students’ Union (Lalkar), Sath, All-India Students’ Federation and Naujwan Bharat Sabha. TNSBe ready to fight repressive, fascist forces to save democracy: Farmers in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Farmers, mazdoors, employees and other sections of society lodged their strong protest against the violent incident that occurred in Lakheempur Kheri (Uttar Pradesh) on Sunday in which nine, including four farmers and a journalist, were crushed to death by the convey led by Union Minister’s son. The agitators burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Aditya Nath. The farmer organisations associated with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha organised dharna in front of the District Administration Complex (DAC) and also presented a memorandum to the officials. Daljit Singh Dialpur, Narbhinder Singh and other leaders condemned the crushing of four farmers and a journalist under the vehicles of the convoy led by Union Minister’s son. The Morcha leaders called farmers and other sections of society to be ready to fight against the repression created by the fascist forces to save democracy in the country. Teachers of government schools on the call of the Democratic Teachers’ Front, Punjab, burnt the posters of Narender Modi, Yogi Aditya Nath and Amit Shah against the killings of the farmers and others organised protests at different schools. Nachhatar Singh, district president of the front and other leaders said as the Union Government was hell bent upon crushing peaceful agitation of the farmers, they had now started killing them as well. The leaders demanded that the farmers’ agitating be resolved by way of repealing the three farm laws immediately. Farmers and Mazdoor under the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, organised protests in different villages and burnt the effigies of the PM and other BJP leaders for killing farmers and a journalist. Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Dhanna Singh Lalu Ghuman were others who addressed on the occasion and called farmers to be come forward for the repressive tactics of the Union Government. — Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-angry-to-the-core-farmers-students-out-on-streets-in-amritsar-320390
