06-10-2021||Amritsar||3 mobiles seized from prisoners at Amritsar Central Jail||The Central Jail authorities confiscated three mobile phones besides a phone battery from the possession of four prisoners. According to Balveer Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, the prisoners were identified as Deepak Singh of Tarn Taran, Sandeep Kumar of Rajinder Nagar, Nanak of Ajnala and Harjit Singh of Kalanaur in Gurdaspur.The seizure was made during a surprise checking of room number 5 of barrack number 2. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-mobiles-seized-from-prisoners-at-amritsar-central-jail-320606
06-10-2021||---||85 take entrance exam for Meritorious School||Amritsar, October 5The Punjab School Education Board, Mohali, conducted the entrance test for admission to meritorious schools for Classes IX to XII in Punjab. A total of 85 students took the entrance examination for Meritorious School in the district. DEO Satinder Bir Singh said total 176 students of the district had applied for the entrance examination conducted by the Education Department for different classes of Meritorious School.Eightyfive students appeared for the exam, while 91 students remained absent. He said following the Covid-19 rules, entrance examination was conducted in a peaceful manner and no objectionable material or duplicate case was found from the centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/85-take-entrance-exam-for-meritorious-school-320608
06-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib Jor Mela: Devotees take part in colourful procession||Tarn Taran, October 5On the second day of the four-day celebrations regarding the annual Jor Mela, Gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib, Thatha, a colourful nagar kirtan procession was taken out in the area on Tuesday.Thousands of devotees from for off areas participated in the nagar kirtan with great religious fervour and devotion.Also read:Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarUnder the patronship of Sri Guru Granth Sahib, Panj Piaras led the procession which passed through Baghiari, Sawragapuri, Mannan, Chabal and others villages.The beatified group of horses and elephants from Dal Panth Baba Bidhai Chand Sect, Sursing, displayed their art. The gatka, band parties and the teams from different schools, too, attracted the attention of the sangat, while they presented their marshal arts and other activities.Residents welcomed the procession who had made arrangements for langar and other eatables. The nagar kirtan concluded at the Thatha Gurdwara. Gurdwara manager Satnam Singh Riar thanked area residents for their cooperation and making the procession successful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdwara-bir-baba-budha-sahib-jor-mela-devotees-take-part-in-colourful-procession-320607
06-10-2021||---||Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina elected chief of Non-Govt Colleges Management Federation||Amritsar, October 5Khalsa College governing council’s honorary secretary and an educationist Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina was unanimously elected as chief of the Non-Government Colleges Federation of Punjab and Chandigarh during the general house meet held at Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women on Tuesday.Outgoing chief SC Sunwalika was given a warm send-off. Ramesh Kaura was elected as senior vice-president and SM Sharma as general secretary of the body that represents 142 aided colleges in Punjab and Chandigarh.Chhina vowed to fight for the cause of colleges, which have been facing numerous challenges from the Higher Education Department, DPI and the state government.Chhina, who advocated a strong unity among members, said the state government had issued various directives in the past, including common admission portal system, non-payment of grants and non-release of the SC scholarships. He also pointed out large-scale interference in the working of colleges by the Education Department and the DPI.“Decreasing grants, nomination of representatives in managing committees of colleges have prompted the college managements to address these issues and we plan to meet Education Minister Pargat Singh shortly,” said Chinna. The federation has been critical of the state government’s recent moves that undermine the autonomy of colleges falling under three universities, including Panjab University, Punjabi University, and Guru Nanak Dev University.GNDU to begin new academic year with kirtanGuru Nanak Dev University’s gurdwara would be hosting the 45th annual welcome ceremony for students and faculty today to mark the beginning of new academic year of the university. Bhai Dalbir Singh and Jatinder Singh would perform ‘Kirtan’ and renowned scholar Giani Jaswant Singh would perform ‘Parwana Katha’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rajinder-mohan-singh-chhina-elected-chief-of-non-govt-colleges-management-federation-320609
06-10-2021||---||Teacher who took up cudgels to transform 419 schools honoured||Amritsar, October 5Balraj Singh Dhillon, district smart school mentor and principal of Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Lopoke, has been honoured by the Education Department for his contribution to transform 419 schools to smart schools in the district.Dhillon, who has been at the forefront of the smart school project in the district, was appointed the district smart school mentor in 2018. “We have been working on 20 parameters, including colour-coding of campus premises, BALA (Building as Learning Aid) work, establishing education parks, smart classrooms, smart staffrooms, smart playgrounds, integrated science labs and so on. In spite of the pandemic, we continued to expand our project, adding facilities such as smart libraries, setting-up broadcasting studios, language labs, brass bands, reception desks at various schools. The aim was to change the visible features of the schools and upgrade its facilities,” he shared. Dhillon said the biggest challenge was to make these significant changes to improve the education standards.“Government schools, especially in the border belt, need to provide quality education and experience to students to counter the growing economic burden of education in private schools. BALA work has been quite effective in increasing student turnout and enrolments in government schools,” he said. He said smart schools in the district have also completed the room requirement last month under the collaboration with NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teacher-who-took-up-cudgels-to-transform-419-schools-honoured-320610
06-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Honey trap: Man duped of Rs 9.3L in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 5Several unidentified persons honey trapped a local resident and extorted Rs 9.3 lakh from him. The swindlers initially trapped him through fake Facebook ID by posing as a foreign national.The victim was identified as Anand Kumar of Model Town locality in Chheharta. The case was registered following a probe conducted by the cybercrime wing of the city police.Those booked included Lal Hiratpuia, Sunita Patel, Lydia Gangmei, Abdul Imteyaz Khan, Pankaj Daya Thakur, Abhijit Gosh, Sheetal Dass and Chinmay Nandi, all residents of different parts of the country.They were identified through the bank accounts, where the money was transferred. A case under Sections 384, 420, 506 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 66-D of the Information Technology Act was registered.In his complaint, Kumar said the accused first started chatting with him by posing as Joy Maxwell around seven months ago. Later, she took his address and said that she had sent a gift for him and also sent a receipt for the same. He said he also got a call from the courier company confirming about receiving the parcel. The courier company demanded Rs35,000 from him for releasing the same and he paid the amount.He later got a call from some agency, who said there were around 80,000 pounds in the parcel and it was illegal. They threatened to arrest him. Kumar said after getting the call he got frightened while swindlers started blackmailing him. He said they extorted Rs9.30 lakh at different time periods.Sukhbir Singh, SHO Chheharta police station, said the fake Facebook ID was made from a phone, which was sold by its owner after repair. His ID was later misused by the accused by pasting pictures of a female foreign national. The phone numbers which was used for calling Anand were found to be issued on fake IDs. Those booked were later identified from the details of the bank accounts, which were from Manipur, West Bengal, Thane and some other parts of the country. The investigations were still under progress, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/honey-trap-man-duped-of-rs-9-3l-in-amritsar-320611
06-10-2021||---||Stink, irregular lifting of garbage irk shopkeepers at Pink Plaza in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 5Shoppers and shopkeepers at the Pink Plaza market, situated opposite the Hall Gate, are irked at irregular lifting of garbage, leading to a huge mound in the market.Abhinandan Dua, a shopkeeper, said, “The market is situated at a prime location. When it comes to cleanliness, it seems the market does not figure prominently in the priority list of the civic body. Insanitary conditions prevail in the market with foul smell pervading all around.” With garbage not being lifted for days, stray animals can be seen roaming around mounds of filth and littering it all over the place.Garbage has affected our business with customers preferring to go shopping elsewhere. After suffering huge financial losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic for over the last one and a half years, the shopkeepers were expecting a surge in the number of customers. However, with the stench filling the air all the time, customers avoid visiting the market and those who venture into the market, find it hard to stay here for a long time. Given the things here, shopkeepers tend to lose more customers and business.Karanbir Singh, another shopkeeper, says the market is situated right in the middle of the city. In the absence of dustbins and garbage containers, people throw garbage at vacant places, leading to mounds of garbage.“There are 100 shops in the market and over 300 people are working here. All of them keep complaining of mosquito bites. Such heaps are a breeding-ground for mosquitoes.” He says that there used to be a large garbage container in which everybody used to dump waste and municipal corporation staff would lift the container with a crane. After the removal of the container, people are dumping waste on the roadside.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said since the matter was now brought to his notice, he would direct the staff concerned to lift the piled-up garbage in the market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stink-irregular-lifting-of-garbage-irk-shopkeepers-at-pink-plaza-in-amritsar-320604
06-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Woman, son die in road accident in Tarn Taran village||No Covid case, casualty in distAmritsar: The health authorities declared that no positive case was reported on Tuesday, keeping the district Covid tally to 47,324. The Health Department reported recovery of two patients. With this, the recovery count reached 45,719. The district has a total of 13 active cases. Luckily, no casualty attributed to the coronavirus was recorded. A total of 16,116 residents, including 16,085 at government-run centres and 31 at privately administered places, were inoculated on Tuesday, taking the total number of locals vaccinated to 15,30,447. TNSASI dies in accident near HarikeTarn Taran: An ASI, posted at Naushehra Pannuan police post, was killed in a road accident on National Highway No. 54, near Harike, on Tuesday. Inspector Bhupinder Kaur, SHO, Harike, said Kashmir Singh (in pic) was on duty at a naka to check the movement of paddy smuggling from other states at Harike. The naka was installed under the supervision of Navdeep Singh, Assistant Food and Supplies Officer, Tarn Taran. He was going to the other side of the road, when he was run over by a speeding vehicle. The SHO said a case was registered by the Makhu police against the driver of the vehicle. Residents said the nakas were unplanned and causing accidents daily. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-son-die-in-road-accident-in-tarn-taran-village-320612
06-10-2021||---||Electrocution: Month on, in-laws booked for dowry death||Amritsar, October 5A month after a woman died due to electrocution in the Mohkampura area, the police on Tuesday booked her in-laws for dowry death.The case was registered following the autopsy report and a complaint lodged by the victim’s family.Payal, the victim, was eight months pregnant when the incident took place. Among those booked were her husband Raghu Raj Mahajan, his father Rakesh Kumar Mahajan, mother Sama Mahajan and sister Mamta Mahajan, all residents of New Mahindra Colony under the Mohkampura police station here.Geeta Bedi, victim’s mother, said her younger daughter Payal was married to Raghu and soon after their marriage, the accused started harassing her for brining insufficient dowry. She said the accused pushed her out of the house for dowry. However, a compromise was made later after the relatives of the two families intervened. She alleged that a month ago, Payal suffered an electric shock, when she went to open the entrance gate of the house. She was barefoot at that time. At that time, it was stated that the current came to the gate due to rain. She died on her way to the hospital.The police had initiated inquest proceedings at that time under Section 174 of the CrPC. Now, after receiving the autopsy report the police have registered a case under Section 304-B and 34 of the IPC against her in-laws. SI Jagtar Singh, IO, said the accused were yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/electrocution-month-on-in-laws-booked-for-dowry-death-320598
06-10-2021||---||Woman among three end lives in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 5Three persons, including a married woman, ended their lives in separate incidents during the last two days.The victims have been identified as Anil Mehra (60) of Imperial City, Loharaka Road; Gurpinder Kaur (26) of Malakpur village; and Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Rani Bazaar, Sharifpura.Anil ended his life by consuming some poisonous substance. The police found a suicide note from his pocket in which he named three persons responsible for taking the extreme step. Those mentioned in the suicide note include Sathia Mehra, her husband Raghav Mehra and his brother Varun Mehra of Rose Avenue.The deceased’s son Manak Mehra told the police that his father Anil Mehra and uncle Sanjiv Kandhari work at a factory in Bal Kalan village. He said his father went on duty on Monday, but did not return in the evening. He said they tried to locate him. He said his father’s body was found from the fields in Naushehra village. A suicide note was found from his pocket in which he named the three for taking the extreme step. He said he had given Rs 15 lakh to the accused, but they were not returning the money.The police have registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC against the trio. Kamalpreet Kaur, SHO, Kamboh police station said investigation was under progress and the body has been handed over the family after autopsy.In another incident, Gurpinder Kaur, a resident of Malakpur village, consumed poison and ended her life. Her father, Gurmej Singh of Mattewal, alleged that she was being harassed by her in-laws for bringing inadequate dowry. He said Gurpinder was married to Gurpreet Singh around eight years ago and they had two children from the marriage. Gurmej alleged that Gurpreet and her father, Buta Singh, used to torture his daughter and threw her out of the house. He said he got a call from the accused that Gurpinder had committed suicide on Monday.The police have booked Gurpreet and Buta under Section 306 of the IPC.In the third incident, Sanjay Kumar, ended his life and left a suicide note wherein he accused Raman Chaudhary of Mahan Singh Gate for taking the extreme step. Chiksat, his son, said Sanjay came to Amritsar in 2019 and lived as tenant in Rani Bazaar. He said he started working at a grocery store near the bus stand. He said on Sunday, he got a call from his father, who alleged that Chaudhary was harassing him. He said he again got a call and was informed that his father had committed suicide.IO Shamsher Singh said the police have arrested Chaudhary and further probe was on. The body was handed over to the family after the post-mortem examination on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-among-three-end-lives-in-amritsar-320603
06-10-2021||---||Scouting theatre talent from rural areas||Amritsar, October 5Scouting and grooming talent from rural areas, theatre artiste Rajender Singh, who leads Dastak Theatre group in the city, has collaborated with the National School of Drama to host theatre workshops.An annual feature till 2016, Singh stopped hosting the workshops after he felt that there was a different trend among theatre talent in the city.There are a lot of things in Punjab’s folk theatre forms that we still need to learn. If we can keep the traditions alive through amalgamating these in contemporary forms, we will be able to preserve the creative heritage. Rajender Singh, leads Dastak Theatre group in city“Amritsar has always had a thriving theatre scene and talent. With the popularity of comedian Kapil Sharma’s show, a growing reach of digital platforms and dilution of different media, local theatre talent and their priorities shifted towards finding work and recognition. In theatre, we never cease learning, so eventually, I decided to scout for talent in rural areas,” said Rajender.His partner and actor Amita Sharma has been teaching students about folk theatre history and traditions of Punjab.“There are a lot of things in Punjab’s folk theatre forms that we still need to learn. If we can keep the traditions alive through amalgamating these in contemporary forms, we will be able to preserve the creative heritage,” said Singh.Carrying their students, most of whom are first-time participants of theatre workshop, through subjects such as acting, on and off-stage production, realistic acting, modern techniques used in theatre productions over a period of one month, the two have roped in theatre stalwarts including Kewal Dhaliwal, Mahabir Bhullar, Devinder Raj Ankur, Manju Sharma and others as mentors.The production-oriented workshop will culminate in two productions — one directed by Amita, titled Adjustment, adapted from a story by Gulzar and another one directed by Rajender based on farmers’ issue. “The plays will be staged on October 9 and 10 at Virsa Vihar. We have tried to create a fusion of folk theatre and modern narration with the productions,” Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scouting-theatre-talent-from-rural-areas-320602
06-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Now, order your favourite street food at home in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 5Residents can now enjoy street food at the comfort of their home as food-delivery firms — Zomato and Swiggy — are going to get street vendors on board in the city.The estate wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) is making efforts to register street vendors with Zomato and Swiggy under the Prime Minister Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme.In February this year, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) had joined hands with these companies for home delivery of street food in six cities to bring street food vendors on its food-tech platform.Now, more cities have been added to the programme and Amritsar is one of them, said an Estate Officer.Jaswinder Singh Nodal, the officer on street vending project, said, “The Centre had launched the PM SVANidhi to provide Rs10,000 to street vendors as initial working capital to revive their businesses, which suffered setback in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. We have registered 15,000 street vendors of which 5,600 got the loan from various banks. Now, the government has asked to register street vendors with various welfare schemes. The project to bring street vendors on board has also been initiated. We are searching for eligible vendors.”The MC has been facing several issues as a large number of food vendors don’t have smartphones or are not tech savvy. No one has a food safety certificate and are also not comfortable with collecting money through online transactions. They fear that the government will impose tax on them. The estate wing offices of the MC constituted a team to elaborate the project to vendors and representatives of Zomato and Swiggy would also motivate vendors to complete the formalities to register with their firms.The food delivery firms and the MC would help street vendors in getting PAN and FSSAI registration, training on technology, usage of applications, menu digitisation and pricing, hygiene and packaging best practices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-order-your-favourite-street-food-at-home-in-amritsar-320613
06-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Stretch from Bhandari RoB to Civil Hospital cries for attention||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 5Many deep potholes on the stretch from the ramp of Bhandari railway overbridge (RoB) to the Jallinwala Bagh Civil Hospital offer a bumpy ride to commuters.Big potholes and uneven surface infrastructure at the intersection on the way to the hospital hassles commuters.Gursewak Singh, who was escorting a patient, said the stretch assumed importance as the alternate routes — from the Hukam Singh road and the Rambagh road — have continuous traffic. The route from the ramp to the hospital is short and remains largely free from high volume of traffic. Perhaps, the ramp being narrow does not invite a large number of vehicles. However, big potholes on the ramp that offers one-way route only for descending vehicles come no less than a shock. “One cannot escape from these as these are in the middle of the road,” he said.Similar deep potholes are found in the connecting Gha Mandi road, which further turns to the Rambagh railway crossing. On this road are located two entrances to the Civil Hospital and one of these is for postmortem. Some potholes are so deep that it causes wear and tear to vehicles.Tarsem, who runs a kiosk close to the hospital, says for nearly one-and-a-half years, the Gha Mandi Chowk remained occupied under the scaffoldings, installed for the construction of BRTS stations on the elevated road. These were removed only a few months ago. The road was re-carpeted, but some portions were left out. Now, these portions of uneven patches offer a bumpy ride to commuters. Besides, the gravel keeps coming out, causing many vehicles to skid.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said he would direct the department concerned to carry out the repair on the stretch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stretch-from-bhandari-rob-to-civil-hospital-cries-for-attention-320614
06-10-2021||---||Lakhimpur Kheri incident: Protests refuse to die down||Amritsar, October 5Two days after the killing of nine persons, including four farmers, in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, protests by different sections of society continue in the city.Activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) blocked the Amritsar-Attari stretch of the GT road on the Vallah bypass here on Tuesday. They burnt an effigy of the BJP government and raised slogans against it. They sought a repeal of all three agricultural laws.Addressing activists, Gurbachan Singh Chabba, a senior leader of the KMSC, accused the Central government of fomenting trouble to fizzle out the year-long peaceful struggle in the history of free India.“With a view to provoking farmers, the BJP government orchestrated the killing of farmers. The Union Government wanted to torpedo the agitation so that it could easily hand over the country to big corporate houses like Ambani and Adani,” he said.Workers of the AAP, Amritsar, held protests against the atrocities on farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in all five constituencies of the city. Protests were also held in the Central, East, West, North and South Assembly constituencies in the city. They raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. They also raised slogans against Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra and his son.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-protests-refuse-to-die-down-320600
