07-10-2021||---||Bungling of wheat: RTI activist alleges inaction||Amritsar, October 6An RTI activist, who had accused the Department of Food and Civil Supplies of bungling wheat, alleged inaction against the officials deputed at a godown on Ram Tirath Road in the case.Varun Sareen, an RTI activist, claimed that even after initiating inquiry in the case, no action was taken.Sareen claimed that he has procured a letter, wherein Inspector Gaganbeeer Singh of the Department of Food and Civil Supplies found that 200 bags were missing and wrote to the higher officials of department in this regard.Inspector Gagandeep Singh in the letter to the district officials on August 27 said even after two months of joining at the godown, he has not got the record from his colleagues. “As the distribution cycle from April to September is on, I found 200 bags missing. My colleagues are pressurising me to dispatch the trucks without measuring artificial moisture gain. I suspect that my colleagues unloaded less bags or less weight of wheat in plinth. Shortage of stock is not mentioned in the record of the godown. So, I want that the responsibility of this shortage be fixed,” says the letter.Sareen said the department officials didn’t take any action even after the Inspector’s letter.RTI activist Varun Sareen had accused the Department of Food and Civil Supplies of bungling wheat after he allegedly found two trucks laden with wheat coming out of a godown from Ram Tirath Road without measuring the weight of the grains on September 6 much after the letter was written. Sareen alleged that wheat bags being distributed under the Atta-Dal Scheme weighed 2-3 kg less in comparison to their original weight and ration depot holders blamed the Food and Civil Supplies officials for this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bungling-of-wheat-rti-activist-alleges-inaction-321263
07-10-2021||---||Amritsar MC gearing up to solve civic problems before festival season||Amritsar, October 6In view of the festival season ahead and religious events, the Municipal Corporation on Tuesday conducted a meeting to make arrangements for decoration and cleanliness in the city.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi held a meeting with the office-bearers of the Central Valmiki Temple, Hathi Gate, regarding the arrangements to be made by the MCon the birth anniversary of Lord Valmiki.Younis Kumar, chairman, Central Valmiki Temple, Yograj Malhotra, Ashok Bhatti, Tirlok Chand and Rajinder Kumar Nitu, besides officials of the MC, the Amritsar Civil, Operation and Maintenance Wing (O&M), and the Health Department were present in the meeting.Members of the temple committee informed the Mayor that in the coming days, Lord Valmiki’s birth anniversary would be celebrated with great zeal and a procession taken out in the city. They said many roads in the city needed to be recarpeted, cleaned, besides repairing the dysfunctional street lights. Mini-high masts should be set up at chowks.The Mayor and the Commissioner assured the office-bearers that potholes would be repaired. Dysfunctional street lights would be repaired and made functional in the city and cleanliness would be maintained. The Mayor said if they faced any problem, he must be contacted and informed about it.Rintu issued strict instructions to the officials that any negligence regarding a civic work would not be tolerated. He said teams should be formed for the festival season and complaints of cleanliness and street lights near temples, gurdwaras and mosques should be fixed so that people do not face any civic problem during the festival season.The Mayor stated that Diwali was less than a month away and meetings had already been held with the officials who were issued instructions in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-gearing-up-to-solve-civic-problems-before-festival-season-321264
07-10-2021||---||Safai sewaks’ shortage at Amritsar hospitals a cause for concern||Amritsar, October 6The shortage of safai sewaks at government hospitals, especially at satellite hospitals set up in the periphery areas of the city to provide easy access of medical facilities to residents of rural areas, is posing a challenge in maintaining cleanliness and hygiene.An RTI filed by local resident Naresh Johar revealed that satellite hospitals at Sakatri Bagh and Kale Ghanupur do not have a permanent Class-IV worker or a safai sewak. At Bhai Mohkam Singh Satellite Hospital, Sakatri Bagh, a safai sewak has been assigned duty thrice a week on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. The same is the case with satellite hospital at Kale Ghanupur.The satellite hospital at Ranjit Avenue is equipped with only two safai sewaks. The satellite hospitals apart from providing mother and child care services also run dental clinics. These hospitals which had been upgraded into urban primary healthcare centres also provide normal child delivery services.Johar said: “The shortage of safai sewaks at government hospitals is a cause for concern. The government had appointed safai sewaks at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital during the initial days of the pandemic whose services have ended now. It would have been better if they were deputed at places where there is shortage as it would have ensured jobs for the needy as well as better cleanliness at hospitals.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/safai-sewaks-shortage-at-amritsar-hospitals-a-cause-for-concern-321267
07-10-2021||Neha Saini||Grassroots hockey stuck in grassy grounds||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 6The recent success of Indian men’s hockey team at the Tokyo Olympics was historic in all aspects, especially because it was the first time that the Indian hockey team won an Olympics medal ever since the AstroTurfs were introduced in the game in 1976.The extreme lack of AstroTurfs in the state that has been regularly producing talented athletes for Indian hockey is no news. But the fact that this has led to a challenging situation for hockey at grassroots level is now being addressed by many from the game.Recently, Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy that has produced many Olympians from the game, including the recent stars — Dilpreet Singh and Shamsher Singh — in collaboration with Spring Dale Educational Society will be setting up a state-of-the-art AstroTurf in the district. A blueprint is being prepared for the project that aims to provide quality infrastructure to budding hockey players from the region. The society has been supporting the game through Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy that has mentors including former hockey players Jugraj Singh and Ramandeep Singh, Olympian Balwinder Singh Shammi.Sahiljit Singh Sandhu, chairman, Spring Dale Education Society, says it would help in changing the game for better.“The Netherlands is a country roughly the size of Punjab, maybe smaller, but it has approximately 1,200 to 1,500 AstroTurfs for hockey. The huge shortage of AstroTurfs has been affecting the game since the introduction of AstroTurfs and we have not been able to catch up with the international pace of the game. There are only four to five AstroTurfs in the state and only one in Majha belt that is at GNDU. Currently, most players from Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur belt have to go to Jalandhar or Patiala to play at AstroTurfs. It is imperative that this gap be filled,” he said. The AstroTurf will be built at an estimated cost of Rs5 crore and the project aims to be over by the end of the year. “We require a lot of facilities such as good water plant and quality technical and maintenance support. We won’t rule out any government help,” he says.The recent AstroTurf project announced by the Punjab Government at Jalandhar, too, has raised hopes of former and current players of the game. He said the current Indian men and women’s hockey team had five players from Amritsar-Tarn Taran belt, which speaks about the kind of talent we have.Currently, roughly 400 hockey players from Amritsar and Tarn Taran use the solitary AstroTurf at GNDU that has outlived its life. The Covid-19 induced lockdown and restrictions have further reduced the playing time and efforts are on to replace the turf.The estimated cost of setting up a new one is around Rs7 crore and university authorities have already written to the Sports Authority of India, under Khelo India scheme, to replace the present one.“The Gurdaspur-Amritsar-Tarn Taran belt has what we in sports like to call — the sports blood. Over the years, we have produced several Olympians, biggest names. We need at least four AstroTurfs to support the kind of talent we have. Sadly, we have none,” says Baldev Singh, head coach at the Khalsa College Hockey Academy in the city.The former coach of Indian Women hockey, who even coached Captain Rani Rampal, says lack of AstroTurfs and sports infrastructure has had an impact on the quantity of hockey aspirants.“Hockey is now only dependent on rural youth as most players come from rural belts. Especially in case of women hockey, we have failed to provide for our players. We run a programme for women hockey players under Khelo India scheme to train them and prepare them for junior and senior-level tournaments. Currently, we have 14 players with us, which is not an encouraging representation,” he says. The women hockey players are given Rs10,000 stipend and Rs600 on diet under the programme. But Baldev, a recipient of Dronacharya Award, says the grassroots hockey is stuck in grassy grounds. “We need to have AstroTurfs otherwise the game and ultimately the talent will suffer greatly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/grassroots-hockey-stuck-in-grassy-grounds-321268
07-10-2021||---||Staff protest in Amritsar as issues remain unresolved||Amritsar, October 6The employees of different departments of the state government staged a protest at the Deputy Commissioner’s office under the banner of the Punjab State Ministerial Services’ Union here on Wednesday.The employees’ leaders said the government had not resolved their issues such as the revival of old-pension scheme, regularisation of contractual and outsourced employees, release of arrears of dearness allowance and full pay during probation period. The union leaders said the government employees have already rejected the 6th Pay Commission report, as it was against the interests of employees.Union’s general secretary Jagdish Thakur said the union had earlier announced a pen down strike from October 5 to October 17, as per which protests were being held at different places in the state. He said the employees have also boycotted all online works to protest against the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/staff-protest-in-amritsar-as-issues-remain-unresolved-321269
07-10-2021||Safai sewaks and sanitation workers in Patti||Safai sewaks run from pillar to post||The irked safai sewaks had approached officials and politicians numerous times, but to no avail. Balwant Rai, Gurnam Singh and Kapil Dev, stated that they were being forced by the officials concerned to receive salary in cash instead of bank accounts. They said the reason was better known to the Executive Officer of the Patti MC. The trio said the EPF deducted from their salaries (around Rs 30 lakh) had not been deposited with the authority concerned. Taking serious note of the complaint, Inderjit Singh Raipur, member, Safai Karamchari Commission, visited the Patti MC and held a meeting with the officials concerned. Raipur assured the safai sewaks to redress their issues. He held the Executive Officer responsible and said the complaint should also be filed with the state government.DLSA’s month-long awareness driveThe District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Tarn Taran, has chalked out a number of programmes dedicated to the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to create awareness of free legal aid among masses. Priya Sood, District and Sessions Judge—cum chairperson—District Legal Services Authority, Tarn Taran, informed that the DLSA has planned to organise such events at the grassroots level. The District and Session Judge said on October 8, on the occasion of ‘World Mental Health Day’, the DLSA would organise a seminar on the said topic in a border village. On October 10, medical camps would be organised in Tarn Taran and Patti in which medical facilities would be provided to the needy free of cost, besides telling people about free legal aids being provided by the DLSA. On the ‘International Day of Girl Child’ (October 11) a medical camp and inter school poster-making competition would be organised at Majha College for Women, Tarn Taran, informed Sood. Inter college essay writing competition would be organised at Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government College, Tarn Taran, on the ‘World Students Day’ on October 14. A cycle rally would be organised in Bhikhiwind/ Khemkaran on October 20 by the DLSA. On the ‘United Nations Day’ on October 24, staff of the DLSA would organise a meeting on creating legal awareness outside the SGAD Government College, Tarn Taran from October 23 to November 11. On November 9, a marathon would be held in Khemkaran. She said on November 14 (Children’s Day) masses would be informed about Lok Adalats.Free training to exam aspirantsThe district administration has been providing free training to eligible aspirants who have cleared the written test of Jail Warder. The administration said the training would be given at C- PYTE Camp, Patti, from Wednesday onwards. Nirvail Singh, In charge of C-PYTE Camp, said that boarding and lodging facilities, too, would be provided to the aspirants for free.He urged the aspirants to follow the Covid-19 guidelines in the camp.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/safai-sewaks-run-from-pillar-to-post-321270
07-10-2021||Amritsar||Contractual roadways staff postpone stir||The Punjab Roadways Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union’s proposed strike today was postponed following the intervention of Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring.Jodh Singh, senior vice-president of the union, said following the direct intervention of the Transport Minister, we called off the strike.He said the minister assured them that their meeting would be arranged with Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi before October 12. The contractual workers were seeking regularisation of their jobs, including outsourced staff engaged by Punbus and PRTC. He said they were given only assurances during the tenure of former CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Jodh said with the change of guard, there was some hope of regularisation of staff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/contractual-roadways-staff-postpone-stir-321271
07-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Holy city Amritsar inches closer to becoming IT hub||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 6Long-pending dream to see holy city as North India’s IT hub is inching closer to fruition as the Software Technology Park of India (STPI) will initiate steps to operationalise the Software Technology Park Centre here from November.The Hindustan Steel Work Construction Ltd (HSWCL), a subsidiary of the national building construction company, which falls under the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, will hand over the building to the STPI on October 31.Salient featuresProject timelineRohit Kumar, a Senior Engineer of the HSWCL, says: interior work of the centre is on its last leg which would be completed before the handing over of the building. The HSWCL constructs STP centres on the behalf of Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), an autonomous society under the Department of Electronics and Information Technology, Union Ministry of Communications and Information Technology.Accepting that there was some delay due to Covid-19 restrictions and lockdown, he added that the HSWCL, which constructs STP centres on behalf of the STP of India, was entrusted with the project only in 2018.As the state government allotted, 2.72 acres of land in the New Focal Point on the Mehta road, the STPI invested Rs 22.5 crore to raise a structure which would also house a centre as well as the incubation facility. There is around 3,900 square metre built-up area with three storeys, including a ground floor at the centre. At the entrance, one will find a cafeteria, a training room, a conference room, besides an NOC room (a server will be installed in it). On the first floor, there are three meeting rooms, a pantry and the next floor will have a similar set up.Sources in the STPI stated that the spaces in the building would be rented out to private IT companies. Provisions for both small and big companies have been made.IT experts are of the view that the holy city equipped with international connectivity and quality infrastructure was best suited to be developed as an IT hub. It has an international airport with flights to Europe, Middle East, South East Asia. An international bus terminal offering bus services between India and Pakistan. Besides, it is by road connected to the Central Asian countries like Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan and Kyrgystan. Notably, these countries are dependent on foreign countries for most of their IT needs, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/holy-city-amritsar-inches-closer-to-becoming-it-hub-321272
07-10-2021||---||‘Transfer of Punjab Education Secretary a victory for teachers’||Amritsar, October 6Terming the transfer of Punjab Education Secretary Krishan Kumar a victory for teachers’ movement against autocracy, the Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), Punjab unit, in the district hoped to find solutions to their issues.DTF state president Vikram Dev said Education Secretary Krishan Kumar had created an atmosphere of chaos and unrest during his tenure in the department. “We hope the game of statistics will end and the department will now focus on actually improving the standards of teaching,” he said. Teachers’ unions and organisations had been calling for the removal of Krishan Kumar, owing to the conflict of interest, alleging him of autocracy and ordering salary cuts, which led to a major agitation against him in 2018-19. A number of teacher union heads were also suspended and transferred due to the tussle between the department and unions.The collective teachers’ organisations had recently also started a campaign for the removal of Krishan Kumar. The DTF members also demanded a probe into the expenditure incurred by the department under his tenure for printing of exercise books, training seminars and other expenses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/transfer-of-punjab-education-secretary-a-victory-for-teachers-321273
07-10-2021||---||A shared history preserved across borders||Amritsar, October, 6In the second session of the ongoing month-long festival of Sanjha Punjab, Majha House invited Pakistan-based policy analyst, journalist and author Raza Ahmad Rumi, and radio and online video broadcaster Gurmehar Kaur to speak at a session titled Desi Tea House. The informal interactive session focused on discussing the history that both the democracies share.Gurpartap Khairah, member, Majha House, who convened the session said, despite the borders that divide us, we are united by our common culture and heritage. “Our food, our music, our films and literature are the commonalities that will continue to bind us together forever. But today, a false narrative is being created, which is aimed at erasing and rewriting our histories. Both our speakers elaborated upon the forces that strive to divide us and the love that continues to thrive in our hearts,” said Gurpartap.Beginning the discussion, Gurmehar said it was important to identify Hinduism from Hindutva and Islam from Islamism.She engaged in a dialogue with Raza on the issue, who said, “I believe it was during the colonisation that we started identifying ourselves as separate from one another. It was then that our culture was ruptured, and that is also one of the reasons of the Partition.” “These debates have been duly recorded and it was really discussed whether Quwwali and Amir Khusro are Indian or not. Similarly, the Indian classical music was also questioned. Classical forms such as khayal and dhrupad were also questioned,” he shared.When Gurmehar raised the question of erasing or rewriting history, Raza said it had now become normal to erase a past event if it is unpleasant. “What we fail to realise is that all past events are our history and are lessons from which to learn and prepare for the future. Renaming of streets and cities, revision of syllabus are attempts of the state to forget an era that has uncomfortable associations,” said Raza. Though he said he felt relieved when people from both countries are wary of such one-sided jingoism.“People across the borders will always enjoy the music of Lata and Rafi, Kishore and Rahat Fateh Ali Khan. That resonance will never fade,” he stressed. Raza was also critical of the sort of fanaticism that has come to be a norm today everywhere in the world. “This attack on the freedom of speech has never been this vicious and upfront. Democracy means having the freedom to criticise. We must understand that if I am critical of the head of the state that does not mean that I hate my country. We must respect all kinds of opinions,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-shared-history-preserved-across-borders-321274
07-10-2021||---||SAD promises overall growth of Amritsar city||Amritsar, October 6SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced to bolster the overall development of the holy city after the formation of the SAD-BSP coalition government.Here on Wednesday, he attended five separate programmes of industry, traders and SC wing to know their pulse before the Assembly election. After listening to different segments of society, he recalled that he used to come here every month to review development projects, including the heritage street, which were initiated by his government. He said he was the one who first gave the concept of power surplus Punjab, which was opposed by all. Now, the Congress government was complaining that the PPAs were signed at high cost. He dismissed all accusations and claimed that this government did not add any new plant during the past five years, while the demand was increasing annually.He visited Shakti Nagar, Majith Mandi, and held interaction with electronics and textile associations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-promises-overall-growth-of-amritsar-city-321275
07-10-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar logs two Covid cases||Cops attacked at Thatha villageTarn Taran: Policemen were attacked at Thatha village falling under the jurisdiction of the SarhaIi police on Tuesday, where they had gone to arrest murder accused. Varidner Singh Khosa, SHO-cum–under trainee DSP, was heading the police party to arrest Gurchet Singh Cheti of Gagrewal village. Cheti had been booked in murder case of Lakhbir Singh (56) and his nephew Amritpal Singh (26), both residents of Nagoke, a week ago. A group of persons parked a tractor-trailer and blocked the way of the police party at Thatha village, where Cheti was found to be hiding. Those who attacked the police party have been identified as Yadwinder Singh of Pangota village, Amritpal Singh, Jasdeep Singh, Jassa Singh, Avtar Singh and Bhupinder Singh. There were 10 more unidentified persons who attacked cops. The accused have been booked under Sections 186, 353, 341, 342, 332, 224, 225 and 149 of the IPC. One of the accused, Amritpal, was arrested by the police from the spot while others managed to fled away. Another accused, Bhupinder, is son of a sarpanch who has political affiliations with Congress. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-logs-two-covid-cases-321279
07-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Law results: Girls outshine boys||Voter registration camps at collegesAmritsar:To ensure maximum registrations for young voters, especially first time voters, the District Electoral Officer Gurpreet Singh Khaira said that voter registration camps will be held on all colleges. He said a detailed programme has been prepared on when and where the camps will be organised, beginning from Government College, Ajnala (October 8) , Government ITI, Ajnala (October 11), Sidana Institute of Education, Khiala Khurd, (October 8), Satyam College of Engineering and Technology, Kotla Doom, Ramtirath Road (October 11), Satyam Polytechnic and Pharmacy College, Kotla Doom, Ramtirath Road (October 12), Khalsa College Chawinda Devi and so on. The special camps will be set up at colleges campuses for convenience of young voters. The information regarding the voter registration camps will be dispersed by respective colleges as well.Offline practicals at Global GroupGlobal Group of Institutes has decided to dedicate a whole week to conducting practicals for students of BTech, Hotel Management, Pharmacy and Agriculture after a long period of forced online teaching as the classes started offline for the session. The decision was taken in view of the fact that online practicals can’t substitute for physical conduct of the practicals in the labs under the supervision of the teachers. The practical classes are being conducted to make up for any omissions or deficiencies that might have occurred during online classes. The college is also conducting practical classes for agriculture students, where actual experience in the fields regarding crop cultivation, crop management and harvesting can only be learnt in the fields and not just by reading the books or the notes sitting in the classrooms.Plastic waste mgmt awarenessSpring Dale Senior School joined the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) in their endeavour to curb the menace of plastic usage. An awareness campaign was organised by the team of PPCB regional office, Amritsar, at Spring Dale Senior School to eliminate the usage of single use plastic. Students of grade VIII gathered for an interactive session with the PPCB officials. A poster-making competition was organised, which was followed by a road march by students in localities nearby urging people to stop using plastic. Students also undertook a cleanliness campaign in the area near their school and picked up plastic waste while sensitising shopkeepers about the harmful effects of plastic usage on the environment. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/law-results-girls-outshine-boys-321281
07-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||New High: Amritsar metro bus ridership hits 40K mark||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 6The Metro bus being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) witnessed a sharp increase in the footfall of passengers during the last three months.Officials of the Punjab Metro Bus Society claimed that the ridership has increased from 25,000 per day to 40,000. Officials claimed that reopening of institutions (schools and colleges) was the major reason behind these figures, however, commuters said the recent revision of bus fare made the journey of air-conditioned Metro bus more affordable.Harpreet Singh Gill, CEO, Punjab Bus Metro Society, said: “The number of passengers increased after reopening of schools and colleges. We are selling more student tickets. Moreover, the footfall has increased on the GT Road, where a number of schools, college and university are located. Earlier, around 25,000 to 30,000 passengers used the service daily, which used to dip on weekends. Now, it often crosses 40,000 per day. We hope that the ridership will increase in the festive season.”“We will advertise new fare slabs at Metro stations, so that people who are not aware about the slashing of fares, can also avail the service,” Gill said.It’s worth mentioning that the fare of the Metro bus was revised by the Transport Department on July 29. It was a long-pending demand of commuters and residents to make the bus fare rational.The fare was fixed at Rs5 and Rs10. Free bus service was being provided to students up to Class XII.Earlier, the authorities had started operating the Metro bus between Gheo Mandi (near Golden Temple) and Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport from August 15. The new route had contributed to the ridership, but the private operators opposed the move. Under the pressure of private-bus operators, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla suspended the route.“The route from the Golden Temple to the airport would remain suspended till further orders,” said Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/new-high-amritsar-metro-bus-ridership-hits-40k-mark-321322
