08-10-2021||Amritsar||2 die of Covid in Amritsar district, no +ve case||2 +ve in Tarn Taran: Two persons tested positive for Covid in the district on Thursday. Now, there are five active cases. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said total deaths stand at 379. OCOne held with 310-gm heroinTarn Taran: Manpreet Singh Gora of Balehar village was arrested by the Patti sadar police with 310-gram heroin. ASI Balwinder Singh, who was heading the police party, said the accused has been booked under Sections 21-C, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. OCA tribute to UP violence victimsAmritsar: Members of the Folklore Research Academy, Pragtisheel Lekhak Sangh and Jallianwala Bagh Sangharsh Committee held a candlelight vigil at Novelty Chowk to pay tributes to those killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The members highlighted that so far, nearly 800 farmers, who were protesting at the Delhi borders against the three contentious agri laws, have been martyred. They said the murderous attack on farmers would not be tolerated. He said there would be demonstrations against those responsible for the incident in every possible way until the culprits were arrested. TNSSGPC team to visit Lakhimpur KheriTarn Taran: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will send its team to Lakhimpur Kheri to collect the details of the violent incidents of October 3, in which four farmers were killed, said SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, who was at Gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib, Thatha, on Wednesday to participate in the Jor Mela. Condemning the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, she said after receiving the inquiry report of the incident, further action would be taken. Lakhs of devotees are visiting the holy shrine to pay obeisance. OCAccident Accused identifiedTarn Taran: One month on, the Sarhali police claimed to have identified the accused responsible for an accident near Shahabpur village on the Tarn Taran-Patti road. A woman of the same village was killed in the accident. The police said the accused had been identified as Bohar Singh of Bal Khurad (Amritsar). A case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC has been registered against Bohar Singh on Wednesday. The deceased was on her Moped when the accused hit her with his motorcycle. She received serious injuries and was admitted to an Amritsar hospital where she succumbed to the injuries the next day. The police said the accused was absconding. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-die-of-covid-in-amritsar-district-no-ve-case-321752
08-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Government’s offer falls on deaf ears||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 7The Municipal Corporation (MC) got a lukewarm response to the one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for the regularisation of unauthorised water supply and sewerage connections and the recovery of arrears of the state government.The MC authorities were also expecting good revenue collection after regularisation of thousands of illegal connections, however, residents didn’t evince interest in the government’s offer in the last two months.According to information, there are 2.65 lakh households in the city, but only 1.92 lakh water and sewerage connections have been registered with the MC. At present, the MC is sending water and sewerage bills to around 42,000 connection holders of total 1.92 lakh consumers registered with the MC. A large number of connection holders are registered with the MC, but the government has waived off the water, sewer bills. Around 70,000 consumers were using the services without any consent and without fulfilling the legal provisions, which are required for using the services.The response is not as per our expectation. Residents are taking advantage of it. They have to pay a heavy penalty after the offer ends. We were focusing on property tax and achieved good collection. Now, I will conduct a meeting with officials and employees and ask them to visit the field and collect water and sewer bills. —Mahesh Khanna, chairman of sub-committee, Water Supply & SewerageFor users who do not get their connection regularised during this period, 100 per cent penalty would be charged on the fee while regularising their connection. Users who failed to get their connection regularised within six months would face disconnection and applicable penalty and interest would be charged on pending user charges, officials said.About the schemeThe Punjab Cabinet had approved a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for the regularisation of unauthorised connections and recovery of arrears on account of water supply and sewerage charges on August 16. Under the domestic category, Rs200 per connection (Rs100 each for water supply and sewerage) is being charged as one-time fee for the regularisation of water supply and sewerage connection for a plot measuring up to 125 sq yd; Rs500 (Rs250 each for water supply and sewerage) for a plot size between 125 and 250 sq yd; and Rs1,000 per connection (Rs500 each for water and sewerage) for plots measuring over 250 sq yd. In the commercial/institutional category, Rs1,000 per connection would be charged for plots measuring up to 250 sq yd and Rs2,000 per connection for those above 250 sq yd. No penalty is charged if the fee is deposited within three months from the date of notification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/governments-offer-falls-on-deaf-ears-321654
08-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar: Ramlila to be staged under CCTV lens with limited capacity||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 7With the onset of navratris begins the staging of Ramlila. Nevertheless, there would be limited gatherings as the city police have issued the do and don’ts to be followed by the organisers in view of the Covid guidelines and security threat after the seizure of tiffin bomb and hand grenades smuggled into the Indian territory by anti-national elements from Pakistan in the recent past.Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal said till now, permission had been given to around 12 organisations involved in the staging of Ramlila in different parts of the city. All other organisations would also be asked to complete necessary formalities as asked by the police, after which they would be given the permission.“We will also check other Ramlilas being staged in other parts of the city,” said Bhandal, adding that they have strictly asked organisers to follow guidelines in letter and spirit to ensure the safety of people.“As far as the security is concerned, all SHOs and ACPs have been directed to patrol their respective areas till midnight, while cops have been deputed for double shifts in bigger temples and shrines,” the DCP said. He said the organisers were asked to retain maximum 500 persons or 50 per cent as per the open area capacity. The police teams would check these places to see whether instructions were being followed or not.They were also asked to install CCTV cameras around the ground, where Ramlila is being staged. The footage of each CCTV camera would have to be deposited with the police station concerned on a daily basis.The DCP said organisers were told not to stage programmes near the railway tracks or main roads, which could invite any mishap. These instructions were apparently passed in view of the Dasehra train tragedy that happened three years ago and claimed the lives of 55 persons, when they had come on train tracks and were run over by a train.Weapons, too, would not be allowed at the venue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-ramlila-to-be-staged-under-cctv-lens-with-limited-capacity-321655
08-10-2021||Amritsar||1.8L intoxicants seized in Amritsar, chemist nabbed||Following the interrogation of a chemist Naveen Gupta, the Amritsar rural police on Thursday confiscated 1.8 lakh sedative pills from the Jahajgarh area, besides arresting another suspect Manish, alias, Manu Mahajan.He was allegedly the owner of MS pharmaceuticals at Fateh Singh Colony. “The three boxes of intoxicants were still stashed with the transport authorities in the Jahajgarh area,” an official said.Gupta was arrested from Katra Sher Singh three days ago and the police had seized 13,500 tablets, including, tramadol from him. “We are still investigating the upward and backward links,” he said.Till now, the police have arrested five persons in the case. Gupta was nabbed following interrogation of a medical representative Rohit Kumar who used to supply intoxicants to different parts of the rural belt, it is alleged.Besides Naveen Gupta, Rohit Kumar, the police have also arrested a quack Kirpal Singh and Karamjit Singh. The Kathunangal police arrested Karamjit Singh of Ram Divali Hindua village with 100 sedative pills two days ago. His arrest led to a quack Kirpal Singh running his clinic in the Verka area and his interrogation led the police to medical representative Rohit Kumar, said the police authorities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-8l-intoxicants-seized-in-amritsar-chemist-nabbed-321656
08-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Dengue ready? How, Amritsar residents want to know||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 7The Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities keep making tall claims about how they are fighting against the spread of dengue and malaria in the city, but the ground reality shows a different story.Residents in several localities are complaining about choked sewers and stagnant rainwater. The city received rain on Saturday but there were several markets such as Jahajgarh, where rainwater still remains accumulated in potholes. The larvae and mosquitoes are breeding on the stagnant water.It is true that we are getting complaints of choked sewer lines regularly. Our sewermen are working round the clock to address the issue. Residents should cooperate with us for good sanitation. When sewermen clean the sewer lines, they recover diapers, clothes, shoes, plastic bottles and other such things. It is a collective responsibility of all to take care of sanitation. —Mahesh Khanna, Chairman, Water and sewer sub-committee, MC Apart from rainwater, residents in various localities have been complaining about choked sewers and overflowing of waste water. During a visit to various areas of the city, it was revealed that the sewer was choked outside Rana Diagnostics on Chamrang Road, Medicity Hospital on Mall Road, at a temple near the bypass on Batala Road, IDH market and Chheharta.Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Bagtanwala, said: “The sewer chamber outside Bonton Optical Centre in IDH market choked a month ago. The water is accumulating on the road. We have complained to the MC, but to no avail. Now, I have shared the photo on various social media platforms thinking the MC might address the issue.”Mandeep Singh, another resident, complained about the leaking water supply line in Ranjit Avneue, which led to accumulation of water on road, thereby posing a health threat. The walled city areas are also facing the same issue. Waterlogging is caused due to choking of sewer lines. The sewer water is overflowing from the rainwater chamber in Ward Number 16. Gagan Sharma, an area resident, alleged that the issue was still unaddressed despite making repeated calls to the area councillor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dengue-ready-how-amritsar-residents-want-to-know-321657
