09-10-2021||Amritsar||Complaint against Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar filed in Amritsar||PO nabbed from Manakpur villageTarn Taran: The Sarai Amanat Khan police have arrested a proclaimed offender (PO) Malkiat Singh, a resident of Sarai Amanat Khan from Manakpur village, on Thursday. The accused was booked in a criminal case six years ago and had stopped attending court proceedings. He was declared the PO by the court last year. Sub-Inspector Dilbag Singh said a case under Section 174-A of the IPC had been registered against Malkiat in this regard. OCPhishing attack: Man loses Rs5LAmritsar: Yet another victim fell prey to phishing attack and lost Rs 5 lakh following which the police have booked a West Bengal resident for the same. The accused has been identified as Jummatun Bibi of Murshidabad in West Bengal. The victim, Madan Mohan Mittal, a resident of Kamla Devi Avenue, said the accused took out Rs 5.09 lakh from his account. The case was registered following a probe conducted by cyber crime wing of the city police. A case under Section 420 of the IPC and Sections 66-C and 66-D of the IT Act has been registered against Bibi. TNSNo fresh Covid case in districtAmritsar: A total of 13,357 persons, including 13,319 at government-run centres and 38 at private facilities, were inoculated on Friday, taking the total number of people vaccinated to 15,55,233. The health authorities did not report any positive case today. The total number of positive patients in the district are 47,326 in the district. The Health Department reported the recovery of three patients. With this, the recovery count reached 45,728. The district has a total of four active cases. TNSDrug menace: Seminar heldTarn Taran: The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) organised a seminar against drugs in Mehindipur dedicated to the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations on Friday. Gurbir Singh, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-District Secretary, DLSA, said District and Sessions Judge Priya Sood, while addressing on the occasion, urged the citizens to keep themselves away from drugs .The judge also apprised people about the services being provided to the woman, children, senior citizens, schedule castes members and other victim sections of the society by the DLSA in case of need. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/complaint-against-haryana-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-filed-in-amritsar-322180
09-10-2021||Amritsar||Awareness camp on stubble burning||The Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department on Thursday organised a block-level awareness camp while urging farmers not to indulge in stubble burning, which not only deteriorates air quality but also denigrates the land fertility.The camp was organised at kisan camp at the Dashmesh Nagar area. Dr Bikramjit Singh, Deputy Director, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Naag Kalan village, was the chief guest on the occasion. Dr Bikramjit Singh said till now the government had given a subsidy of Rs 4,500 crores on the machinery for managing stubble. He said the farmers should plough the paddy stubble in the fields and sow the seeds. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/awareness-camp-on-stubble-burning-322179
09-10-2021||---||Robbers attack elderly woman in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 8Two armed robbers barged into a house in the posh Green Avenue locality and looted an elderly woman and her care taker in broad daylight here on Friday. A CCTV grab of the incident went viral on the social media in which a woman named Prabha Tandon (89) lying on the bed was seeing crying. The accused first attacked the caretaker Nikita who ran inside the room and then snatched her mobile. According to the police, the accused took away three mobiles and two gold bangles from the woman.They were alone in the house when the incident took place. The police said a case has been registered in this regard and further investigations were under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-attack-elderly-woman-in-amritsar-322178
09-10-2021||Amritsar||Five cell phones seized from Amritsar Central Jail||Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated five mobile phones, a head phone, a modified charger and a data cable from different parts of room number 2 of barrack number 1 on Thursday. The jail authorities said the prohibited material was recovered from dustbin, exhaust fan and bed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-cell-phones-seized-from-amritsar-central-jail-322177
09-10-2021||Every traveller has a home of his own and as such he learns to appreciate it the more from his wandering. For Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||Gurdaspur diary: Warm homecoming for Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa at Dharowali||Batala resident wants political system changedBatala resident Prof Jasmer Singh Rana carries strong views on the present set-up of political parties and also on the character of modern-day politicians. He opines that each and every political outfit is out to win cheap popularity based on religion, caste and regionalism. “Earlier, people used to join the political stream to serve. Now they join to ensure somebody is there to serve them day in and day out. This trend is also visible in national-level parties. Candidates are elected these days on the basis of their caste, not performance. Actually, calibre and performance should be the only qualities on which candidates should be selected. Political parties should be groups of people who come together because of a shared mutual vision for their community. These groups should meet regularly, create platforms that represent their vision and values and then send members to be elected to assemblies and parliament,” he said. Words of wisdom, surely Mr Rana! But the problem is nobody is going to heed to your advice in this materialistic, dog eats dog world.Veterinary inspectors felicitate MinistersThe Punjab Veterinary Inspectors Association recently felicitated Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. Press Secretary Kishen Chand Mahajan said the association hoped both these ministers will address their long pending problems including the implementation of the pay commission report. “We have apprised them of our difficulties and have been assured that all our demands will be met soon,” said Mahajan.(Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-diary-warm-homecoming-for-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-at-dharowali-322176
09-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar shuttler qualifies for World Badminton Championship||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 8Mayank Behal has done the city proud by winning a gold medal in the 35+ national singles and silver in the doubles. With this, he qualified to represent the country in the forthcoming World Badminton Championship to be held in Spain from November 28.He has been playing badminton for the past 25 years. During such a long career, he clinched 25 state titles in all age categories such as U-13, U-16, U-19 and now the men’s group. He had won a bronze medal in the two editions of the junior nationals in 1998 and 1999.Having done his MBA from the Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), he is now working as a manager in the FCI. Earlier, he had joined the Indian Railways in 2001 and had resigned from it in 2009.“I was drawn towards the game after watching my father Mahesh Behal playing the sport at local Company Bagh. Though he never opted for it as a career, it kindled in me love for the sport.”In 2005, he won the World Railway Championship. Two years later (in 2007), he ranked number four in singles in the country. In 2011, he won bronze in the Bahrain International Challenge and a year later, he secured bronze in the All India Senior Ranking held at Mumbai. He is preparing hard for the World Championship to be held in Spain by playing for nearly five hours and undergoing an hour of exercise in the morning to keep his body in shape.About coaching, he said he was lucky to have been coached by reputed veterans. Rajiv Verma was his first coach who had prepared him in his formative years of the game. Later, he was coached by Vikram Singh at Delhi in 2002 and veteran Prakash Padukone at Bengaluru in 2006.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-shuttler-qualifies-for-world-badminton-championship-322175
09-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Farmer cries foul over not getting MSP on paddy||A farmer alleged that he was exploited at the local grain market and was not given the MSP on paddy. This grain market is the biggest market in the district, where a large number of private traders and rice-sheller proprietor, too, come to purchase paddy.Bahal Singh, a marginal farmer of Thathi Khara village, had come to the grain market on Wednesday with his PR-121 variety (paddy). He said he had been given Rs 1,750 per quintal, while the Union Government had announced Rs1,960 MSP on paddy. Bahal Singh just has one-and-a-half acre agriculture land.Sources revealed that there was hardly any farmer, who was given proper rate according to the MSP, in the district mandis.RK Bhatia, secretary of the market committee, said farmers were not abiding by the government norm — to bring their crop with 17 per cent moisture. Those whose produce does not match with the norms prefer to sell their produce to private firms at lesser price.Gurbhej Singh, former sarpanch of Palasaur village and leader of the Human Rights Organisation, said at Khadoor Sahib grain market, paddy with moisture more than 20 per cent was being procured with the MSP and was shown as the government agency’s purchase. He said all this was being done in connivance with the officials. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmer-cries-foul-over-not-getting-msp-on-paddy-322174
09-10-2021||---||BSNL outage: Amritsar users a harried lot||Amritsar, October 8BSNL (Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited) users faced service outage for hours on Friday as the telecommunication major faced service blackout. The users reported issues in accessing services, including both dial-up and broadband internet, phone and mobile internet in the past 24 hours in Amritsar and surrounding areas, including Taran Tarn.Due to the outage, officials from the BSNL too remained inaccessible. The cause of the outage was still not known. The users of the BSNL, though, had to face tough time as mobile and internet services remained suspended.“I could not receive or contact anyone today from my number as my mobile network remained out of service for the entire day. I started having network issues from Thursday night onwards. It was difficult for me to carry out any work today due to the snag,” said Tersam Lal, a government contractor.Even students missed out on online classes as BSNL internet service was down too. “I missed out two of my afternoon classes as the internet was not working since 11 am today in our area. I thought that there was some issue with our network, but later some of friends too reported the same problem with their BSNL mobile networks,” said Meetu Arora, a student of Class IX, from Dashmesh Avenue.BSNL has recently merged its Pathankot unit with Amritsar office and the local office now caters to the telecom needs of four districts — Tarn Taran, Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Amritsar. About five lakh landline, broadband, mobile, as well as leased line customers are present in these districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsnl-outage-amritsar-users-a-harried-lot-322173
09-10-2021||Amritsar||RAAHI project: Auto drivers’ co-op society to put an end to their woes||Auto-rickshaw drivers have formed a cooperative society for their economic and social development. The auto drivers of bus stand, railway station, City Centre, Durgiana Temple, Golbagh and Hall Gate have formed their society and for that technical support has been given to them under the RAAHI project of Amritsar Smart city. Bikramjeet Laadi, president of the society, said there were more than 20,000 auto drivers in the city, but due to not having a single auto union or organisation, the problems faced by them have not been resolved.Therefore, keeping in mind the economic and social development of auto-rickshaw drivers, the society has been formed, which will act as a bridge between the government and the administration.Mayor Karamjit Singh Ritu said this was the second auto-rickshaw driver cooperative society in the country. Before this, such kind of a society was only formed in the Kochi city of Kerala. He said in future a space would be provided to the society for auto rickshaw stand in different places of the city by the Municipal Corporation. With this, the common people will be able to take autos from the designated place and auto-rickshaws will also stand at the stands instead of stopping here and there.He said apart from that free skill development courses would also be conducted for the women family members. MC Commissioner and CEO Amritsar Smart City Malwinder Singh Jaggi said under the RAAHI project, a subsidy of Rs 75,000 for and loan at affordable rates from the State Bank of India will be provided for buying an e-auto rickshaw. He said e-auto was the future of public transport. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raahi-project-auto-drivers-co-op-society-to-put-an-end-to-their-woes-322172
09-10-2021||---||College teachers protest in Amritsar, seek UGC scales||Amritsar, October 8Several teachers’ unions and organisations on Friday held protests in the city, raising their demands with preparations for the Assembly elections getting underway.The district unit of the PCCTU and teachers of all the aided colleges of Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts organised a candle march demanding the implementation of UGC’s 7th Commission Pay Scale. Teachers of DAV College, BBK DAV, Khalsa College, BEd College, SN College, Hindu College and Feruman College, Rayya, participated in this march. College teachers have been on strike for the last several months demanding the implementation of UGC’s 7th pay scale in Punjab University and all universities and colleges in the state, alleging that the state government had been giving assurances again and again, but not fulfilling their demands.Dr Gurdas Singh Sekhon, unit head, DAV College, said the seventh pay commission should be implemented soon, delink should be stopped from the UGC scale. “If the government does not call for talks soon, the teachers will be forced to strike on the streets,” he said.A delegation of DPT (Doctorate of Physical Therapy) teachers, led by Keshav Kohli, raised their demands by submitting a memorandum to Cabinet minister Pargat Singh. Their demands are regularisation of various DPT and PT teachers, hike in wages and making physical education an important and mandatory subject in schools.Meanwhile, the Punjab UT Employees and Pensioners Joint Front’s Amritsar unit also burnt an effigy of CM Channi, demanding the revised pay scales according to the pay commission. They also demanded to give equal benefits as enjoyed by regular employees to those recruited after December 31, 2015, under the Probation Act and Implementation of Workers and Minimum Wages Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/college-teachers-protest-in-amritsar-seek-ugc-scales-322171
09-10-2021||---||Prisoner flees from Amritsar hospital, 3 wardens booked||Amritsar, October 8Three jail wardens were booked after a prisoner escaped from orthopaedic ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here on Thursday. They were charged with dereliction of duty. Those booked have been identified as Harmandeep Singh, Robinpreet Singh and Daljit Singh, while the absconder has been identified as Tarsem Singh alias Karion Pehalwan of Tarn Taran.Manjit Singh, jail warden, in his complaint to the Majitha road police said Tarsem got ill around a week ago and the Medical Officer referred him to GNDH. He was shifted to orthopaedic ward. He said during inspection on Thursday, the accused was found missing from his bed while the team of jail guards were also found missing from the spot. Later, Harmandeep told him that Tarsem had slipped away on the pretext of going to washroon. A case under Sections 223 and 224 of the IPC has been registered against the trio.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prisoner-flees-from-amritsar-hospital-3-wardens-booked-322170
09-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Goindwal Sahib: 7 of ‘illegal truck union’ held for attack||Tarn Taran, October 8An illegal truck union, being run from Goindwal Sahib here, has become a headache for other goods carrier companies as its members allegedly demand “goonda tax” (illegal tax) from drivers of heavy vehicles loaded with goods.According to reports, the illegal truck union has around 100 members, who have backing of leaders of the ruling Congress party.Despite the fact that the state government had imposed a ban on forming truck unions, members of this union hold meetings with officials and leaders of the ruling party under the cover of ‘association’. They claim that they work just as family members and assist each other at the time of help. As the truck union had backing of ruling party leaders, the administration is unable to act against them.The union keeps creating hurdles in the smooth functioning of entrepreneurs of the Focal Point at Goindwal Sahib.Nerolac Paints had established its unit here. Members of this illegal union, who were armed with weapons, injured two of a Goods Transporter Carrier (company) in Goindwal Sahib on Thursday when they were coming out of the factory with the truck loaded with paint cases. Besides the truck, they also took away Rs 95,000 cash kept in the truck.It was the second violent incident committed by the union members during the last one month.Injured Avtar Singh and his driver Manjinder Singh of the Goods Transport Carrier were admitted to the Civil Hospital, Khadoor Sahib. They alleged that the accused had been collecting ‘gunda tax’ from goods carrier companies without any authority for the last four years.Goindwal Sahib police had booked 24 persons for the attack under Sections 307, 379-B, 341, 506, 148, 149 and 384 of the IPC. Twelve of them have been identified and the rest are yet to be recognised.Those identified are Sukhdev Singh, Harjit Singh, Amanpreet Singh, Jaspal Singh, Ranjit Singh, Avtar Singh, Harwinder Singh, Harjinder Singh (son of Waryam Singh), Harjinder Singh (son of Dial Singh), Amarjit Singh, Jaswant Singh of Fatehbad and Jaswant Singh Dogar of Dhunda. The other 12 nominated in the case are yet to be identified.Inspector Navdeep Singh, SHO, Goindwal Sahib, said Sukhdev Singh, Harjit Singh, Amanpreet Singh, Jaspal Singh, Avtar Singh, Ranjit Singh and Harwinder Singh had been arrested and the truck too recovered from their possession.Entrepreneurs of Goindwal Sahib say the nuisance created by members of the illegal union has created terror among them as they had already faced heavy losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/goindwal-sahib-7-of-illegal-truck-union-held-for-attack-322169
09-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||248 farm fires in Amritsar district so far||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 8Even as the Agriculture Department has been organising awareness camps at village and district levels, urging farmers not to burn crop residue, Amritsar district has witnessed as many as 248 farm fires to date.Chief Agriculture Officer Kuljit Singh Saini said cases related to stubble burning were less as compared to the last year, but they were likely to rise in the coming days.Today the department organised district level awareness camp at Manawala Kalan. “The main motive behind the camp is that Jandiala belt is first where farm fire is started. We want to create awareness about the disadvantages of burning crop residue and benefits of ploughing the same in the soil,” he said.Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurdeep Singh Khaira, who presided over the camp, urged farmers not to set the paddy stubble on fire as it not only pollutes the environment, but also destroys the fertility of the soil. He said ploughing crop residue in the soil would reduce dependency on fertilisers and increase the production of foodgrains.Saini said the Agriculture Department provided 2,336 machines to farmers on subsidy for straw management last year. He said the Cooperative Societies were also giving subsidy to farmers to procure other equipment.As many as 45 farmers were honoured for not burning crop residue.‘Govt to procure 170L metric tonnes of paddy’Amritsar: Mandi Board Secretary Ravi Bhagat reviewed the ongoing paddy procurement in Amritsar district on Friday. He expressed satisfaction over the procurement arrangements and said their target was to procure 170 lakh metric tonnes of paddy. He said 3.52 lakh metric tonnes of paddy has arrived in grain markets and a large quantity was yet to arrive. Bhagat said the procurement would continue till the end of November and farmers should bring their crop with proper moisture content to the grain markets. During his visit to Jandiala Guru and Bhagatwala, he interacted with arhtiyas and mandi officers. He also got feedback from farmers present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/248-farm-fires-in-amritsar-district-so-far-322168
09-10-2021||---||After tramadol, it’s alprazolam pills on sale in Amritsar market||Amritsar, October 8The Health Department has miserably failed to monitor the illegal supply of sedative pills in the market. This has come to light yet again with the seizure of 1.8 lakh of intoxicants during the interrogation of a chemist, Naveen Gupta, by the Amritsar rural police.Earlier, it was unchecked supply of tramadol tablets in the market that has raised many eyebrows. However, following the busting of an illegal tramadol manufacturing unit near Paonta Sahib by the rural police curtailed the supply of tramadol to some extent.According to SSP, Amritsar rural, Gulneet Singh Khurana, the seizure of 1.8 lakh alprazolam tablets was made from Manish, aka Manu Mahajan, of MS Pharmaceutical located in Fateh Singh Colony. The police had arrested five persons in the racket involved in supplying intoxicants in the rural belt while one of their accomplices, Sunny Tarzen, was yet to be arrested.“The huge supply of alprazolam has stunned us. This is the duty of the Health Department to look into it. When there was not a huge legal demand, why Health Department officials were not monitoring the illegal supply of the drug, which is being misused for drug addiction,” said an official privy to investigation.The prices of boxes of tramadol and other sedative pills have shot up to double in the black market, which was earlier easily available at Rs 500 to Rs 600, he added.However, officials of the Health Department say that they face a shortage of staff and therefore, faces problems in keeping a regular check. A drug inspector preferring not to be named said that the police have adequate staff and resources to nail the perpetrators and they helped. “Tramadol has almost vanished from the market and soon alprazolam would also come under the radar. After raiding tramadol dealers, addicts have started misusing alprazolam, which is anti-depressant,” he said. “We have only five drug inspectors who are managing court cases, sampling, replying and defending the cases in courts,” he said, adding that there was no clerk attached with them.Alprazolam is used by a large number of patients as it is used by patients of high blood pressure. Now that its misuse has increased, it should be strictly sold on prescription and the government should formulate a policy similar to one for tramadol tablets and ban it, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-tramadol-its-alprazolam-pills-on-sale-in-amritsar-market-322167
09-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Administration wakes up to dengue challenge in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 8Keeping in view the spurt in dengue cases, the health authorities have extended the timings of two laboratories situated at the Medical College and the Civil Hospital from Friday.Earlier, labs used to stay open from 8 am to 2 pm. Now, they would stay open from 8 am to 8 pm. The test report would be delivered within five hours after the collection of a sample. The government has been conducting dengue tests free of cost.A visit to the Civil Hospital, where top floor has been reserved for dengue patients, revealed that over 120 patients were admitted.Harjit Singh, a resident of Jodda Phatak, whose wife Baljit Kaur, has been admitted to the dengue ward, complained that there was a serious shortage of staff. He said a nurse visited his wife after three hours and added that he was waiting for a doctor to examine his 50-year-old wife.It’s learnt that many private hospitals were charging around Rs 30,000 for transfusion of platelets. Citing space constraints and limited staff, various hospitals have been refusing to admit dengue patients. A medical expert associated with three leading hospitals in the city said the hospitals were refusing around 10 patients daily.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said more than 600 people had been afflicted with dengue in the city while no person succumbed to it. A disease surveillance project has been launched under which two kinds of tests were being conducted on patients. “A patient reporting within five days of getting afflicted is put through NSI and those reporting thereafter are to undergo IGM,” he said.Regarding overcharging for platelet transfusion at private labs, the Civil Surgeon said if a complaint is filed, then the department would certainly take action against the erring persons. He said the treatment was being offered between Rs 8,000 and Rs 9,000 at the Civil Hospital.He said a preventive programme has been launched to create awareness among residents. The Civil Surgeon said two teams comprising 16 workers who would distribute pamphlets in Punjabi related to symptoms and prevention of dengue among locals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/administration-wakes-up-to-dengue-challenge-in-amritsar-322166
