10-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Another chemist lands in police net||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 9Continuing with the investigations in the seizure of nearly 2 lakh intoxicants from two medical store owners, the Amritsar rural police have arrested yet another chemist from the Katra Sher Singh area, which is known as medicine market.He was identified as Munna, owner of Khanna Medical Store. With his arrest, the police have now nabbed total six persons, while two more suspects including one Sunny Tarzen and Zango were still at large. Raids were on to nab them, said SSP, Amritsar rural, Gulneet Singh Khurana on Saturday.According to information, a police team headed by Assistant Superintendent of Police Abhimanyu Rana was heading the operation and more arrests are likely to be made in the near future.A police officer, privy to the investigations, revealed that the intoxicants were now coming illegally from Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh side, while it was earlier used to be supplied by certain notorious pharmaceutical companies from Himachal Pradesh.“It was found that the seized drugs were imported from Dehradun in Uttarakhand besides Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh,” said the official. The police teams were likely to conduct raid in Dehradun and Bhopal factories in the coming days to expose the entire nexus.Besides Munna, the police had earlier nabbed two medial store owners Manish, alias Manu Mahajan; Naveen Gutpa; a quack Kirpal Singh; medical representative Rohit Kumar and Karamjit Singh. From Naveen, the police had confiscated 13,500 intoxicants, while 1.8 lakh sedative pills were recovered on the information provided by Manu.Meanwhile, following the seizures, the drug wing of the Health Department has also become active and was likely to raid the Katra Sher Singh area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-chemist-lands-in-police-net-322627
10-10-2021||---||Forgotten Punjabi warriors of World War I||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 9Majha House dedicated third session of ‘Sanjha Punjab Festival’ to warriors who fought World War I. Speakers included Dublin-based Punjabi critic Mahmood Awan, whose research on WWI, has been extensively quoted by historians and Major General Hemant Kumar Singh, who is working on a book on commemoration and war memorials, in India. As the fest aims to bringing three Punjabs – East, West and Diaspora – together on one platform, the session had participants from across the world.Maj General HK Singh, who is a curator of Chandigarh Military Festival, said, “More than a million Indians served during WW I and half of them were Punjabis. Sadly, there is little documentation on how the war affected lives of Punjabis and how it wreaked havoc on social and cultural fabric of Punjab. My book will be a remarkable and important work on Punjab’s contribution to World War I.”Awan, who has researched on WW I extensively, said he had personal connections with army and World War I. “My great grandfather served in the First World War while my grandfather served in the  Second World War. I was shocked that there were hardly any records documenting the details of number of recruits, why they joined and how they fared. So, for me this is a deeply personal work.”Talking about the beginning of recruitment of Punjabis in WWI, Awan said during 1919, 45 per cent of the army recruits were from Punjab. “It has to be noted that all these recruitments were voluntary. The British were perceptive about how to motivate the Punjabis to join. They appealed to their honour; they worked on their love of land by granting land to those who served; they urged them to come to the aid of their friends who were serving,” he explained. He said money was also a motivator in enlisting as many who joined were quite poor.Awan also shared a little-known letter by Mahatma Gandhi in which he displayed his sympathies with the British. “Before he started fighting for Swaraj, Gandhi was a loyalist of the British. He played an instrumental role in the recruitment, telling the women that men were born to fight and serve in the army,” said Awan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/forgotten-punjabi-warriors-of-world-war-i-322628
10-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Colonisers obtained NOCs through forged documents: RTI activist||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 9An RTI activist alleged that commercial sites at Purani Kanak Mandi were developed after submitting forged documents with the Amritsar Municipal Corporation.Suresh Sharma, an RTI activist, procured details of stamped papers from the District Treasury Office which were used to get the no-objection certificates (NOCs) from the MC.Sharma said the government had regularised illegal colonies planned before March 2018 under its regularisation policy.“To take advantage of this policy, colonisers who were aides of a local politician, prepared forged documents. They constructed commercial sites at Purani Kanak Mandi (Naraingarh) in 2021, but managed to get the NOCs of 70 commercial sites on back date with connivance of the MTP wing officials. Stamp papers purchased in 2021 were attached with affidavits stating these were bought in March 2018,” alleged Sharma.He claimed that instead of paying the regularisation fee for illegal commercial sites, colonisers obtained the NOCs by depositing forged documents.Sharma met MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi and submitted his complaint. “I have urged to cancel all the 70 NOCs issued by the MC. An FIR should be registered against the applicants who purchased stamp papers in 2021 and mentioned March 2018. The fee deposited for the NOCs should be seized and water and sewer connection of these properties should be disconnected,” said Sharma.Jaggi has assured to inquire into the matter and take appropriate action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/colonisers-obtained-nocs-through-forged-documents-rti-activist-322629
10-10-2021||---||Health staff for common cadre||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 9The employees have initiated efforts for a common cadre of employees from the Health Department and the Department of Medical Education and Research reasoning that spilt in the cadre has affected the working and their promotion chances. The state government in January this year took the decision to prepare separate seniority lists of employees of the Health Department and medical education department. The employees said ever since the inception of Department of Medical Education and Research in 1973 and the bifurcation of Health Department, a common seniority list of employees was being prepared. The employees said the decision taken by the government to make separate seniority lists of two departments would not only affect the promotion chances of employees but also affect the working of the two departments. A delegation of the Punjab State Pharmacy Officers’ Association, Health Inspectors’ Association and Medical Lab Technicians’ Association had apprised the Medical Education and Research Minister Raj Kumar Verka of the problems faced by employees due to separate seniority lists. Ashok Sharma, an employees’ leader, said: “In the recent times, after the separate seniority lists were prepared, many posts have been termed surplus and the employees working on those positions have been transferred to other districts. As a result, they are facing trouble.” He said the minister has assured to hold a meeting with senior officials and employees to discuss the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-staff-for-common-cadre-322630
10-10-2021||---||Carjacking: Youth shot dead by robbers in Khalchian||Tribune News Service Amritsar, October 9A youth, identified as Arshdeep Singh, was shot dead by unidentified bike-borne robbers in a carjacking incident that occurred in the Khalchian police station area here late last evening. He, along with his friends, was urinating on the roadside on the national highway when the robbers attacked him and took away the car. Arshdeep tried to stop them, but one of the robbers shot him. Sukhdev Singh, SHO, Khilchian police station, said a case under Sections 397, 302, 34 of the IPC has been registered against the accused while further investigations were under progress.  The SHO said Arshdeep, along with Amritpal Singh and Germanjit, was returning to their village after having food. He said the car engine was on when the three came out of the car for urinating.  Taking the advantage of this, one of the bike-borne armed robbers entered the car and tried to flee.  Arshdeep, however, managed to grab the car door and resisted their attempt to steal the car. However, the armed accused shot him, which hit him near his shoulder, and fled away with the car. Sukhdev Singh said further probe was underway and message regarding car snatching was flashed all over the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacking-youth-shot-dead-by-robbers-in-khalchian-322631
10-10-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 1 death, 3 cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 9With one death reported due to Covid-19 on Saturday, the district toll increased to 1,595. The deceased has been identified as Balwinder Kaur, a 58-year-old resident of Ghanshampur village, near Baba Bakala. The district Health Department has also reported three new cases, with which the total count increased to 47,329. The district at present has a total of six active cases. Meanwhile, 17,033 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Saturday. Of these, 10,009 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 7,024 received the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-1-death-3-cases-322632
10-10-2021||---||NGO sets up 2 libraries for underprivileged kids||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 9In order to ease financial burden of the needy students, members of the Rotary Club (Amritsar Cantonment, have set up two libraries at Hindu College and Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary School, Ranjit Avenue.These libraries will have academic and general knowledge books, which can be accessed by needy students.Munish Sharma, chief, Rotary Club (Amritsar Cantonment), said, “We have just launched this initiative a few days ago and our volunteers are busy collecting books. Anyone can donate books. The two libraries have been set up at Hindu College and Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary School, Ranjit Avenue. We have asked the principals of these institutions to urge students to donate books so that they can reach to the needy students.”“Apart from books, we are also collecting stationery items and other study material for students,” said Munish.While the government schools in Punjab had already set up small book banks in premises to help needy students, various NGOs have also taken initiatives, especially to help students amid the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-sets-up-2-libraries-for-underprivileged-kids-322633
10-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Majha College holds politicial science fest||A political science fest was organised at the local Majha College for Women on Saturday on the topic of “Elections, Indian Democracy and People of India” in which educational competitions were held.Principal Dr Hardeep kaur said competitions such as song singing, essay writing, slogan writing, lecture delivering, mono acting, one-act-play etc. were demonstrated.The position holders of the completion were given prizes.In her address, the principal urged students who have attained the age of majority to get themselves be registered as voter. She said in a democratic country vote franchising is our right and duty for strengthening of the democracy.Prof Renu Ball, assistant professor, Political Science Department, who also conducted the stage stressed for the aware of the value of the franchising of voting in a democratic system country. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/majha-college-holds-politicial-science-fest-322634
10-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Faulty sewerage spells misery in Tarn Taran||The administration has failed to address sewerage issue of residents in the local Muradpur locality even after several reminders. The issue has been prevailing for the past several decades due to the faulty sewage system.Residents of the society said most of the streets of the locality are largely waterlogged with the foul smell emanating from the area.The residents said though they were habitual to living in such conditions, it gets embarrassing for them when they host relatives.Talking about the issue, they said it is easy to get rid of the issue if the sewage pipes are cleaned in time. They said they pleaded to the Municipal Council officials several times to address their problem but to no avail.The residents said at the time of installing of the sewerage about 35 years back in the locality its direction to discharge the waste water was wrongly reversed as a results of which the issue still persists. The residents have demanded timely action in this regard.When contacted Ranjish Arora SDM-Cum-Administrator of the Municipal Council said he had forwarded the issue to the Executive Officer (EO) of the council. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/faulty-sewerage-spells-misery-in-tarn-taran-322635
10-10-2021||---||Mandi Board secy visits grain markets||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, October 9Ravi Bhagat, secretary, Mandi Board, Punjab, took serious note of the alleged irregularities committed in procuring paddy.The secretary had formed a three-member committee to inquire into the irregularities under the chairmanship of SDM, Khadoor Sahib. District Food Controller (DFC), Tarn Taran, and secretary of the related market committee would be the other members of the committee.A news item was published in the columns of Punjabi Tribune on Friday, in which it was highlighted that the government procurement agencies had procured huge quantity of paddy with more moisture as prescribed by the Union Government.It was highlighted that the paddy procured in the Khadoor Sahib grain market had been stored in Tarn Taran godowns.Ravi Bhagat, secretary, Mandi Board, paid a surprise visit on Friday to the Khadoor Sahib grain market and that of Tarn Taran against the alleged irregularities.In the local grain market, farmers are not being given the MSP on paddy.Bhagat had ordered to recheck the moisture of the procured paddy stored in the godowns. The statement of farmers and the related commission agent would be recorded by the three-member team.The secretary had ordered to collect the record of the land, in which paddy was produced.The secretary said action must be taken against the commission agent in case he was found guilty in the probe. It is said the paddy procured by the state agencies had been shown as procurement of the agency, when farmers had been given less rate as was to be given.The secretary was accompanied by Sukhbir Singh Sodhi, general manager, Mandi Board, and the local-level officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mandi-board-secy-visits-grain-markets-322636
10-10-2021||---||Attack on women:19 booked after 3 weeks||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, October 9Finally, the Sadar police have booked seven men and five women on October 8 for attacking two women in Naurangabad village, on August 27.The accused have been identified as Kuldeep Singh, his wife Gurpreet Kaur, son Lovepreet Singh, daughter-in-law, Manmeet Kaur and their relative Nazar Fauji of Jaura village. The vicitm, Sarabjit Kaur,  a resident of Naurangabad was seriously injured in the melee.A case has been registered under Sections 326, 323, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code.The victim told the police that the accused had trespassed their property.In another incident, the Sarhali police have booked seven persons on October 8 for attacking Rajwinder Kaur and her son Sukhman Singh of Begampur village, outside their home on September 17.The accused have been identified as Salwinder Singh, his wife Baljinder Kaur, son Ranjot Singh, Gurnishan Singh, his mother Jasbir Kaur, Gurjant Singh and his mother Rajwinder Kaur of the same village. The victim stated in her complaint that the accused had acquired her agricultural land forcibly and the accused attacked her and her son in a fit of anger.The accused have been booked under Sections 447, 323, 452 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attack-on-women19-booked-after-3-weeks-322637
10-10-2021||Amritsar||Tuma — a tale of love and revenge||Artistes from Patiala-based Sarthak Theater staged a play ‘Tuma’ at Punjab Naatshala on Saturday. The story of the play is based on Kehar Singh Di Maut, a famous folk tale from the Malwa region of Punjab, which is believed to be a real story. Kehar Singh Di Maut has been critically acclaimed and written by Sahitya Akademi Award winner Prof Ajmer Singh Aulakh.The drama revolves around a character Kehar Singh, who was murdered by his mother-in-law and her sons for money. Kehar Singh is shown as a pure hearted, simple man. Although simple at heart and not considered intelligent in worldly matters, Kehar Singh loves his wife Ram Kaur and shuns a life of materialism. Kehar Singh was married to Ram Kaur after his parents followed a popular socially approved tradition of Muklawa, wherein the girl lives with her parents until she attains a suitable age after marriage. After specific period of time, when Kehar Singh goes to his in-laws’ house to get his wife back, he is refused on the ground that he is poor and he is assaulted by his mother-in-law and brother-in-law, who demand money from him. Not seeing a way out from his situation, Kehar Singh joins army and returns after few years to take his wife back in exchange for his savings. But the greed of his mother-in-law and her sons is insatiable and they kill him. In the climax of the play, his wife Ram Kaur eventually avenges his death by putting her family behind the bars. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tuma-%E2%80%94-a-tale-of-love-and-revenge-322638
10-10-2021||Amritsar||SGPC’s hockey team in quarters||SGPC’s hockey team has entered in the quarter finals of the National Games being played at Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh. The team qualified after thrashing Malwa Hockey Academy, Hanumangarh, 7-0.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur congratulated the team for earning laurels. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpcs-hockey-team-in-quarters-322639
10-10-2021||Amritsar||Stubble burning affects soil health: Agri experts||Warning farmers against stubble burning after harvesting paddy, agriculture experts said it not just causes air pollution but it also adversely affects the soil health.The experts said if allowed to decompose in soil, crop residue can help in cutting expenditure on fertilisers. They said by burning stubble, soil loses the nutrient contents in top layer, thus reducing production.Chief Agriculture Officer Kuljit Singh said, “Field trials revealed that less fertiliser is required in fields where crop residue is not burnt and allowed to decompose.” He said the government has provided machinery to farmers for straw management.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stubble-burning-affects-soil-health-agri-experts-322640
10-10-2021||Amritsar||International conference on Data Science||Principal gets Teacher’s Day AwardAnita Mehra, Principal, DAV Public School, Lawrence Road, Amritsar, was accoladed with the prestigious IIHM Teachers Day Award organised by International Institute of Hotel Management in association with the International Hospitality Council for her relentless efforts in recovery and revitalising education for the Covid-19 generation. Two teachers from the Food Production Department, Harpreet Oberoi and Anuradha Sharma were conferred with the same award for their persistent efforts in imparting education during these tough and unprecedented times of Covid.DAV students shine in varsity examsManik Sareen and Jasmine Bal of MSc (Maths) Sem-IV have secured first and fourth positions securing 1811 and 1655 out of 2000 marks respectively in GNDU examinations. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar congratulated the students and applauded the efforts of faculty of PG Department of Mathematics: Prof Madan Mohan (Head of Dept), Prof Meenu Aggarwal, Prof Ashu Vij, Prof Vikram Sharma, Prof Shivani Sanan and Prof Rajbir Kaur. He also added that the dedicated and hardworking students have always been getting all the help from the college and will continue to get it.unique campaign for the needyThe Physics Department of DAV College organised a book fair to help the needy children. Free books were distributed to needy students. Books were given to needy students studying in different classes. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar informed that today over 100 books were given to graduate students. The Physics Department has been giving books to the students for the past five years. Head of the Department Dr Sameer Kalia encouraged the students to study diligently. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-conference-on-data-science-322641
