11-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||To recover property tax, Amritsar MC mulls sealing drive||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 10After issuing notices to 17,000 property tax defaulters in the city, the Municipal Corporation (MC) is now going to initiate its sealing drive. The meeting of senior officials is scheduled to be held on Monday to decide the next course of action.The property tax wing of the MC had issued around 17,000 notices to tax defaulters, in which the MC had asked them to pay the tax to avoid any action.MC officials claimed that a number of tax payers, who received the notices, paid the tax. However, sealing notices were issued to those who didn’t respond to the previous notices.“More than 70,000 property owners have paid the tax till date. We have collected Rs19.50 crore from them. The recovery target for the fiscal is Rs42.50 crore and we are going to take some strict actions against tax defaulters. The sealing drive will be initiated soon to achieve the recovery targets,” said Daljit Singh, nodal officer for property tax.The state government has announced one-time settlement (OTS) policy for tax payers. Property owners would get 10 per cent rebate till November 30 and 5 per cent till December 31. Residents can pay the pending tax without penalty till February 31 and after that, they have to pay 10 per cent penalty on the current tax.The MC had set a target of collecting Rs42.5 crore as property tax this year. The property tax wing of the MC had never achieved the recovery target before. After joining, MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi focused on the recovery of taxes and instructed employees to focus on commercial buildings and assure 100 per cent tax recovery. On the directions, MC issued notices to commercial establishment and achieved mid-term target of Rs19.25 crore till September 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/to-recover-property-tax-amritsar-mc-mulls-sealing-drive-322991
11-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Power outages return to haunt residents in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 10Power outages have almost begun and so have residents’ worries. Industrialists said power cuts were yet to be introduced, but they fear these will happen vigorously from the next week, increasing their input cost.Shamsher Singh, a resident of New Golden Avenue, said: “After a long gap, power cuts were imposed on Saturday for 15 minutes to 45 minutes that, too, three to four times in a day. My family shifted to a new house only a fortnight ago. To offset the high construction cost, I did not installan inverter, depending uponthe assurance of 24-hour power supply. However, the return of power cuts is causing inconvenience to my family, comprising two minor kids, who are pressurising me to install an inverter. Though the summer is on its way out, the day temperature remains very high.”Kamal Dalmia, an industrialist, who is also the member of the Punjab State Power Regulatory Board, says once again a tough time lies ahead for local industrial units.“In all likelihood, power cuts will be introduced from the next week,” he said.Globally linked highly competitive industries cannot afford to run their operations on power generator sets, where the per unit cost goes over Rs32. Three units of power are consumed in a litre and the cost of diesel is Rs96 per litre, while the PSPCL provides the same at Rs7.50 per unit. He anticipated that it may translate into cost escalation in the retail market eventually impacting the purchasing power of people.He suggested that the government should procure power from the national grid to bring down the gap between supply and demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/power-outages-return-to-haunt-residents-in-amritsar-district-322992
11-10-2021||---||Amritsar MC initiates special anti-malaria campaign||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 10To make city dengue-free, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu flagged off fogging machines in various wards of the Eastern Zone under the ‘Special Anti-Malaria Drive’ here on Sunday. The Mayor said at present, the Municipal Corporation is conducting fogging round the clock in different areas of the city along with fog spray machines on a war footing for the prevention of dengue and malaria.The health staff and safai karamcharis are doing their duty diligently and monitoring the work on a daily basis, so that people can get relief from dengue outbreak.Six large fogging machines are now functional in the main markets and 12 small fogging machines in narrow streets of the city. Mayor Rintu said at present, 56 machines are conducting fogging in different areas of the city. He said fogging was being conducted in each ward in two shifts so that city dwellers get rid of dengue mosquitoes.The Mayor said even on Sunday, the entire staff of the health wing of the Municipal Corporation was conducting fogging.“Being city’s first citizen, I will always try to provide better healthcare to all city dwellers,” he said, instructing the authorities to continue conducting fogging at public places in the city.He appealed to people to clean homes, offices, shops wherever there was standing water. He said the dengue mosquito does not breed in dirty water but in clean water. So, clean your surroundings and remove stagnant water from coolers, pots, empty utensils, he said.Councillor Monica Sharma, Girish Sharma, Dr Rama Health Officer, Vijay Sharma, Sanjeev Arora and all MC officials were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-initiates-special-anti-malaria-campaign-322993
11-10-2021||---||Produce starts arriving in Amritsar mandis||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 10Agricultural produce has started arriving in the grain markets in the district. A total of 53,698 MT of paddy has arrived in the mandis, of which, 14,842 MT arrived on Sunday.The procurement agencies purchased a total of 13,142 MT while private buyers have procured 721 MT to date.Officials of the mandi board said paddy arriving in the grain markets has more moisture than the permissible limits. As a result, farmers face problems, they said.They said paddy harvesting would reach its peak in a week and farmers should wait for the crop to ripe fully.The Agriculture Department said most of the paddy cultivators take two crops a year and they generally do not harvest the crop early.Officials of the department said those sowing three crops a year have a short window between paddy harvesting and sowing of wheat, thus they resort to early harvesting.The mandi board officials said 1,31,702 MT of basmati has also arrived in the grain markets. Due to non-procurement of basmati by the government, private millers purchase them. Even harvesting of basmati has been slow this year. Last year, a total of 2.16-lakh MT basmati, had arrived in the mandis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/produce-starts-arriving-in-amritsar-mandis-322994
11-10-2021||---||Seizure of intoxicants: 1 more arrested in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 10Continuing with the investigation into the seizure of a huge quantity of intoxicants, the Amritsar (rural) police claimed that the accused had procured around 5.4 lakh sedative pills from Uttarakhand and Bhopal, of which only 1.8 lakh were confiscated, while the rest were sold.The police have made seventh arrests in the case. The accused has been identified as Ankush Mahajan. The police said Sunny Tarzen and Vivek Mahajan were still on the run. Officials privy to the investigation revealed that the accused had procured 5.4 lakh tablets in the last three months and were trying to find out as to where these pills were sold.Nearly 900 boxes of intoxicants were brought from Bhopal and Uttarakhand and each box was being sold from Rs3,000 to Rs4,000.Many heads involved in this racket being headed by Naveen Gupta may role in further course of investigations, said the police. Certain transport companies were also under radar.The police have already nabbed Naveen Gupta, Rohit Kumar, Manish Mahajan, Karamjit Singh, Kirpal Singh and Munna in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seizure-of-intoxicants-1-more-arrested-in-amritsar-322995
11-10-2021||Amritsar||15 Punjab Medical Council services at Sewa Kendras||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/15-punjab-medical-council-services-at-sewa-kendras-322996
11-10-2021||---||Anandpur Sahib cloth trader robbed of Rs 5 lakh in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 10A cloth trader from Anandpur Sahib was robbed of Rs 5 lakh in Vakila Wali Gali in Katra Jaimal Singh inside the walled city on Sunday. Katra Jaimal Singh area is famous for cloth and garments’ market.I visit Gali Vakila Wali, a famous cloth market, every Sunday to procure cloth for my shop. When I reached, a youth was already present in the street. He caught hold of me and snatched my bag containing Rs5lakh. —  Jagjivan Singh, Victim Victim Jagjivan Singh said one of the accused caught hold of him and snatched the bag containing the money. He said he used to come here every Sunday to procure cloth for his shop. The police said a case was registered and further investigations were on. The police have procured the CCTV footage of the incident, in which a Sikh youth (with face covered) was seen running away after snatching the bag from the victim. Gurmit Singh, SHO, Kotwali police station, said the suspects would be arrested soon. Jagjivan told the police that around 8.30 am, only one shop was open when he reached Gali Vakila Wali after reaching Tahli Wala Bazaar, which is a famous cloth market. He said a youth was already present in the street. As he reached, he caught hold of him and snatched his bag. The police said preliminary probe found that there were two youth and one of them stayed outside the street, while another snatched the bag from Jagjivan Singh. They were seen fleeing the spot in the CCTV cameras. He said the accused were not armed and it appeared they knew the movement of the victim and committed the crime in a planned manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anandpur-sahib-cloth-trader-robbed-of-rs-5-lakh-in-amritsar-322997
11-10-2021||Youngsters biggest victims of drug abuse||Open House:  Should the drug problem be a key issue ahead of assembly elections?||Punjab being a border state has a great inflow of drugs from neighbouring countries, especially Pakistan. Many elections in the past have seen a number of promises by politicians to curb the menace but very little has been done at the ground level. With the advent of drone technology, drug suppliers are finding new ways to transport drugs along the border. Drug problem should be a key issue for the elected representatives of the state as the most common target of the menace is the youth which is the future of our country. They should be pragmatic towards this issue and not just rely on words but show action this time so that this evil can be rooted-out from our society.Jatinderpal Singh BatthEnumerate steps in election manifestoThe drug problem should be a key issue ahead of elections. The menace has ruined lives of youths in Punjab. In the previous Assembly elections Captain Amarinder Singh had vowed to end the drug menace within 100 days of his coming to power but he did nothing concrete after assuming office. In fact, the menace has risen to alarming proportions year by year. All political parties should not only make it a key issue ahead of elections but also enumerate steps in their manifestos they would take to eradicate drug menace from Punjab forever.Sanjay ChawlaDo not get swayedaway by freebiesIn our state, democracy means government by the politicians, for the politicians but of course by the people. So, it is for the people to watch their interest. We see the nexus between politicians and the police but remain mute spectators. The nexus is responsible for drug menace, illegal sand trading, manipulated transportation system, cable, liquor, real estate business etc. The old saying “Sanyian bhaye kotwal to phir darr kahe ka” is relevant here as it is an open secret then both politician and general public are aware of the nexus. But here politician play their trump card by alluring the people with freebies and promoting their caste feelings. We do fall on their well planned trap. Why don’t we ask for employment opportunities, improvement in health, education and farm sectors, better roads and other infrastructure etc. Instead we are caught in a web of freebies; therefore politicians indulge in illegal trades to get easy money. Let people of the state vote for a party who instead of giving freebies commit people oriented government instead of politician oriented government.Naresh JoharVote for those who talk about menaceFor years, Punjab has always ranked highest for drug addiction among youths and elderly people. Prevalence of drug trade in the state has never been fixed by the government. Youth generation is said to be the future of the country, but the drug addiction is highest among the youths. Even though the people are aware of the side effects of the drugs but its usage causes its addiction which further leads to the severe loss of body and mind. Some of its side effects include heart or lung disease, cancer, mental illness, HIV/AIDs etc. Drug addiction is a brain disorder. Drug addicted people crave for drugs instead of foods, as they feel drugs as their basic requirement. From the political point of views, the government had never implemented strict rules for imposing ban on drugs. Government had never taken this issue seriously and thus fails to prevent drug trade in the state. The drug menace remains a favourite among the issues Punjab’s political parties like to bring up at election campaign but at the time of elections, political parties use drugs as a medium for getting votes by wooing electorates with liquor, cash, household benefits and drugs. So, how the citizens will believe in prevention of drug trade in a state from such a government who gave their priority to drugs and use it as a medium for getting votes? In the conclusion, citizens need to get more aware of the strategies of political parties and choose the right spokesperson that bring these issues to light and work for the welfare of society and the country.SAMPut tighter controls at int’l, state bordersDuring the previous SAD-BJP regime there was a shocking news report about constable posts. Many wannabe cops failed dope test across Punjab on Day 1 itself, in fact a drug addiction reality in Punjab was well exposed. First of all, it has to be established that why drug trade is flourishing in Punjab. We have to find the most important answer for the most crucial question of why the youth are taking to drugs. In our present education system churning out barely literate graduates, huge unemployment among the youth and lack of hope in future contribute to creating an environment where a quick relief from reality seems an attractive proposition. Extensive efforts are needed to improve the education and employability for the youth. Drug trade mafia exists as a joint venture of dealers, their political patrons. The Punjab Government should focus on cracking down on big suppliers. It ought to propose tighter controls at borders and also draw up a comprehensive health-based policy to deal with addiction. If the government is serious about tackling drug menace in the state, it should take strict steps in identifying the real causes of such addictions and in curbing the gangs that operate with impunity which points to very high-level patronage. It is also the right time for the government to persuade people to stop hushing up addiction as a social stigma and approach a de-addiction facility at the first sign of it.LJ SinghLack of accountability reason behind spreadMahatma Gandhi famously said, “The drink and the drug evil is in many respects infinitely worse than the evil caused by malaria and the like; for, whilst the latter only injure the body, the former saps both body and soul.” Punjab is the worst affected by the problem as on account of being a border state it has easy access to narcotics. The problem continues to rage despite claims of attempts on the part of various state and national-level regulatory bodies to rein it in. The increasing number of drug-related deaths and influx of patients in de-addiction centers testifies to the fact. The lack of accountability for its widespread prevalence in the state is another reason behind its growth. While the issue is often raised in the legislative assembly, it seems to have become a mere formality on the part of the legislators, who seem more interested in using it as a poll plank. The problem should definitely be a key issue ahead of the elections, but the voters should do some research to identify the candidates, who are determined to take stringent measures to uproot it, before casting their votes.Shaheen P ParshadVoters get carried away with promisesThe drug problem has to be the most important issue besides unemployment, education, healthcare, exodus of youth to foreign nations, etc. Unfortunately, the drug problem was also a big issue during the past elections but nothing happened on the ground. People may be taken for a ride again if political outfits make tall promises to rid the state of the drug trade without any intent or capability to do so. But the moot question should be, do people in India, Punjab being no exception, vote with their real issues and pressing problems in mind? Sadly, the answer is no. Politicians have mastered the art of exploiting the gullible nature of voters by their divisive narratives. They offer freebies, raise catchy slogans, make alluring promises etc. to woo voters. People are not made to understand that freebies don’t add even a bit to their hopeless financial conditions and that a divided society impedes the financial progress of all. Voters are unduly influenced by big money-powered mega rallies/roadshows. The innocent public gets carried away by charismatic personalities and their gifts of the gab. Until there are electoral reforms warranting legal action on false/unfulfilled promises/manifestos people’s issues will never be heard after the poll din is muted.HL Sharmafalse assurances made to attract votersYou see the drug menace in Punjab has been going on for decades. At present, every government fails to do anything on the issue. It seems as if they pump the problem every year, make a few changes or arrests during the election season and present the same reality but on a different plate, just in order to talk about it during the election season and use it as a ‘vote magnet’. Fake promises, fake hopes, fake plans, this seems to be the go-to strategy for every government which takes power when it comes to the drug issue. I absolutely believe the drug disease should be a major issue for the upcoming elections, not to attract and grab votes but to illuminate people about how devastating the situation is and why it needs to be curbed sooner. The problem shouldn’t only be talked about in meetings with the higher ups but the solutions need to be sent to the roots, from cities to districts to villages. Every country faces troubles with drugs but for the Punjab the situation seems worsened by criminals and politicians. It’s not about accountability now it’s about accomplishing an end to it.Gurjas SinghSuccessive govts failed to address the issueWhen Chief Minister Channi was an independent legislator, he was vocal on the issue of drugs in the Assembly. At that period, the issue revolved around the selling of drugs by the chemists in the rural as well as urban areas. It was him, who had pointed out the raids on the chemists’ shops was just eyewash as the problem was widespread and had very deep roots. Later, just before the 2017 Assembly polls, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh vowed that if voted to power, he would eliminate the drug menace but nothing happened on the ground. All STFs, SITs etc. have so far not yielded the desired results of end of this killing menace. Rather the volume of seizures of intoxicants like heroin etc has exponentially increased over the period. No big fish has been apprehended so far and some years back one DGP had reportedly said that no big fish was involved in drugs trade. The successive regimes have miserably failed to control the evil and the efforts never moved beyond sloganeering and full-page ads in newspapers. In the coming days, the prospective legislators and leaders may fear to say that they would break the back of the drugs business as they fully know that they are not capable of doing so. They may try to make this as non issue. People should be prepared to be colossally cheated, once again, and more.Hardish SandhuPoliticians muststop patronising itSmuggling from across our borders, particularly from Pakistan, is not a new issue. It is an old, perennial problem although the materials to be smuggled are now different. Earlier, gold was smuggled, now, for about three decades, heroin grown and processed in Afghanistan and targeted for western countries is the narcotic of choice for those involved in this illicit business. It is a business for growers and transporters and believe it or not, only about 10 per cent of cases get nabbed. The rest reaches Europe and America and fetches humongous prices. There is no end to the modes and methods used by smugglers who have links with the authorities meant to catch them. Punjab’s problem is the quantity that is leaked, sold and actually consumed by young men or even women, particularly in the border belt. Thousands of Punjabi households have been ruined, relationships shattered and economy affected. The problem is compounded by the state government’s dependence on the liquor mafia. Thus, if you drink more, you are helping in running the government. Surprisingly, a unique dimension of the drugs smuggled into India is the tacit involvement of government across the border, because now these drugs are just dropped from drones, huge army drones. Why the drones choose only Punjab? The problem therefore has acquired a political interface too. In such circumstances, it is difficult to pin point accountability.Mohan SinghPolitical parties don’t practise what they preachQUESTIONWith the next Assembly elections approaching near, the ruling and the opposition parties have started luring the electorate with freebies. Should the sops or good governance be the priority for seeking votes?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 14)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-should-the-drug-problem-be-a-key-issue-ahead-of-assembly-elections-322998
11-10-2021||---||Trial turns into chaos in Tarn Taran||GurbaxpuriTarn Taran, October 10Last year, the district administration had  installed drums at five major crossings — Bajwa Arts Press, Bohri Chowk, Char Char Khamba, Tehsil and Bhag Shah crossing — on experimental basis for easy flow of traffic.However, drums installed at Bohri Chowk, often lead to massive jam in Tarn Taran. Even the entry of two-wheelers was stopped to Darbar Sahib from Bajwa Art Press and Bohri Chowk. As a result, inner part has been cut off from the rest of the town.A few weeks ago, the administration decided to remove drums from the above stated intersections, except Bohri Chowk, which leads to Darbar Sahib, Adda Bazaar and other major parts of the town.Residents appealed to the administration numerous times to remove drums from Bohri Chowk, but to no avail.CPM leader Heera Singh Kandianlwala said he would raise the issue during his meeting with the Deputy Commissioner.Tarn Taran Sub-Divisonal Magistrate Rajnish Arora failed to respond despite repeated calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trial-turns-into-chaos-in-tarn-taran-322999
11-10-2021||---||Vallah ROB to see the light of day?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 10Stalled for the last 21 months, the construction cost of Vallah railway overbridge (ROB) may further escalate.Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh had inaugurated its construction on October 15, 2018. It was in January 2020, that following an objection by the Army, the work was stalled. Construction of a vital Vallah railway overbridge connecting the holy city with four lane-bypass is caught in the norms of Army ammunition dump, prohibiting construction within 100 meters of its circumference.Abandoned mid-way, the bridge has recorded growth of vegetation on it, threatening to waste crores of public money invested on it. VC Sharma, deputy general manager, RITES, supervising the construction of the ROB, said about Rs2 crore cost escalation of the ROB took place in the last nearly two years. About Rs24 crore has been invested on the ROB, for which Rs29 crore was kept.He said almost all pier caps have been constructed on both sides of the ROB, which will have a span of about 800 metres. Once complete, it will be the maiden bowstring shape ROB in the entire city.For decades, commuters have been urging the government to raise the ROB over the Vallah railway crossing, which falls on the busy Amritsar-Delhi railway line to offer a permanent reprieve from traffic jams. Among commuters, vegetable growers form a good number, as they come to deliver fresh farm produce daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vallah-rob-to-see-the-light-of-day-323000
11-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Protest against rising prices||One more tests +ve in districtAmritsar: The health authorities reported one new positive case on Sunday with which the total count has increased to 47,330. The authorities reported recovery of two patients. With this, the total recovery count has reached 45,730. At present, the district has a total of five active cases. A total of 4,473 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive today. Of these, 3,147 received their first dose, while 1,326 received their second dose. TNSOne +ve in Tarn TaranThe district authorities reported one more positive case and no Covid-19 related death in Tarn Taran on Sunday. The district has four active cases to date. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said 5,60,405 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district so far. A total of 4,278 persons were inoculated today in different camps. The Health Department collected 756 samples today. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-against-rising-prices-323001
