12-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Principal, teachers given awards||GNDU Prof’s articles in Int’l JournalAmritsar: The Royal Society of Chemistry of United Kingdom, the oldest chemical society in the world, recently launched a collection of articles titled ‘Asymmetric Catalysis’ celebrating the 10th anniversary of RSC advances, a scientific journal published under the name of Royal Society of Chemistry. The collection ‘Asymmetric Catalysis’ comprises 23 combined research and review articles, focusing on some of the most cited and downloaded articles published in RSC Advances and Catalysis Science & Technology. Two of the review articles published by Prof (Dr) Swapandeep Singh Chimni (in pic), a faculty member from GNDU, with a total of 179 citations has been recognised by the Royal Society and included in the collection. Prof Chimni, from the Departmemt of Chemistry of Guru Nanak Dev University, has been meticulously working on asymmetric organo catalysis from the last two decades with a total of more than 130 publications.Acropolis 2021 held at Mount LiteraAs many as 450 participants from 11 states shared a common platform at the Acropolis Junior National Students’ Knowledge Summit 2021 (8th and 9th October) held at Mount Litera School. The second edition of Acropolis competed in different literary and knowledge-based activities, including Baba Ala Singh Memorial Multi-format debates in English, Jallianwala Bagh centenary memorial general quiz, Gursharan Singh memorial creative writing, Amrita Shergill visual arts exploration and Kali Nath Roy The Living Newspaper Project Challenge. The overall champions of Acropolis Junior National Students’ Knowledge Summit was Sunbeam School Annapurna, Varanasi.Session begins at Global CampusAn atmosphere of bonhomie was on display on the campus as the students began offline session at Global Group of Colleges (GGS). Several students from other states came back to campus after a gap of almost one-and-a-half years. GGC has started offline academic session for all its courses, and even opened hostel facility. Students were overjoyed to meet their classmates and friends after a long gap and the whole campus has been sanitised and all the necessary precautions have been taken by the authorities. The management and faculty shared their excitement so have the students back for normal course of academics. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/principal-teachers-given-awards-323264
12-10-2021||---||Paramjit Singh Mand is Dal Khalsa spokesperson||Amritsar, October 11The Dal Khalsa has appointed youth leader Paramjit Singh Mand as the party’s new spokesperson replacing old-hand Kanwar Pal Singh. Till recently, Mand served as the head, Sikh Youth of Punjab (SYP), the Dal Khalsa youth wing, since 2017.A postgraduate, Mand is forthright in his views on substantive matters that concern the Panth and Punjab. Party chief Harpal Singh Cheema, who made the announcement in this regard, said youngsters should be given more space in the organisational hierarchy. Belonging to a farmers’ family from Sri Hargobindpur tehsil under Gurdaspur district, Mand is actively participating in the struggle against the three farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paramjit-singh-mand-is-dal-khalsa-spokesperson-323265
12-10-2021||---||Amritsar: Art, emotion come alive on Virsa Vihar stage||Amritsar, October 11To culminate the 40-day National School of Drama workshop at Virsa Vihar, two back-to-back plays were staged by the Dastak Theatre. The first play, ‘Adjustment’ directed by Amita Sharma, was an adaptation of a short story by Gulzar. It was based on a theme of relationships and how they change and affect us in life and death. A story of a husband and wife, ‘Adjustment’ begins with a husband grieving for his dead wife. The man, who spent all his life fighting over trivial things with his wife, fondly remembers her after her death and misses her.He recalls the things and habits of his wife that annoyed him and imitates them to keep her in his memory. The loneliness that usually is destined for a aged couple once their spouse dies, and his regret over not valuing his wife when she was alive, drives him to such an extent that he starts behaving like his deceased wife, eventually personifying her and calling himself by her name. He finally embodies her in spirit and physicality.The second Play was by Rajender Singh titled ‘Bhukh Tey Agg Hai’ based on Krishna Baldev’s play Bhookh Aag Hai. The play is essentially a social commentary on the impact of hunger on human psyche and actions. Presenting a stark contrast between society, highlighting the class and economic divide and how it defines certain parameters of life, the play had serious undertones. A girl is asked by her teacher to write an essay on hunger, a concept alien to her, as she belongs to an affluent family. Never gone on hungry stomach once in her life, as the young girl tries to understand the concept of hunger, she experiences an incident that teaches her about hunger in a harsh way. One day she watches in horror as her parents are looted, robbed and left wounded by a group of beggars. That teaches her, what hunger is , and forms the climactic monologue of the play||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-art-emotion-come-alive-on-virsa-vihar-stage-323266
12-10-2021||---||Amritsar: There’s no stopping these donors even during pandemic||Amritsar, October 11A state-level programme to mark National Voluntary Blood Donation Day was organised by the Punjab State Blood Transfusion Council and Punjab State AIDS Control Society at Government Medical College here on Monday.Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni said approximately 3,79,846 lakh units of blood were collected through voluntary donations despite the ongoing pandemic.He said at present, the state has 141 licenced blood centres, of which 46 are in public sector, six operated by armed forces and 89 run by private hospitals and organisations. Soni said people should voluntarily donate blood to save precious lives.Soni also honoured hospitals, individuals and social organisations for their efforts in encouraging people to donate blood. A total of 21 organisations, which had collected over 1,000 units each during the previous year, were honoured. Additionally, 19 male donors who have donated blood over 100 times in their life and 18 female donors who have donated blood more than 10 times were felicitated. The three medical colleges from state — Government Medical College Amritsar, Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College and Adesh College Mukatsar were also awarded for collecting maximum blood through donations.Three government blood centres in Phagwara, Batala and Gurdaspur apart from three blood component separation centres in Mansa, Sangrur and Tarn Taran were also awarded for their services. Ludhiana-based organisation Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Mission Society was honoured for collecting maximum 6,211 units of blood during the previous year. With 4,130 units, Shri Ram Kirpa Sewa Sangh Welfare Society from Fazilka and Khalsa Blood Donate Unity with 3,819 units bagged the second and third positions, respectively.Kashmir Banga of Jalandhar was honoured for donating blood for a maximum of 174 times, while Jatinder Soni from Jalandhar for donating blood 135 times. In female blood donors’ category, Sheela Devi from Bathinda bagged the first rank for donating blood 63 times, while Harwinder Kaur from Jalandhar remained at the second position with 58 blood donations till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-theres-no-stopping-these-donors-even-during-pandemic-323267
12-10-2021||---||A late bloomer foraying into OTT platform||Amritsar, October 11Making her acting debut in the Punjabi entertainment industry with the web series ‘Murrabba’, city-based artiste Latika Arora is currently riding high on the after receiving great response for her craft. A choreographer by profession, Latika recently ventured into acting during the pandemic and her first assignment was Ekta Kapoor’s web series ‘Who’s Your Daddy?’ on AltBalaji.“It was a small role in Ekta Kapoor’s show that gave me confidence to face the camera again. For a woman well into her forties, choosing acting as a profession is not an easy decision. But I wanted to explore myself and take that risk,” she said. For her, the risk paid off as her web series Murrabba currently being streamed on Pitara TV’s OTT Platform Chaupal is getting good reviews. She stars along side celebrated actors of Punjabi cinema including Mahabir Bhullar, Preet Baath, Dheeraj Kumar and fellow Amritsari artiste Shamsher Dhillon.‘Murrabba’ belongs to crime/thriller genre and Latika said that producing original OTT content is a perfect opportunity for Punjabi entertainment industry to break the mould. “We need to push good content through OTT platforms to change our image as an industry. Most of the Punjabi films and content is from romantic-comedy genre, which worked for a while but that was it. With the coming of OTT platforms and experimental work that is available on these platforms, I believe that it’s a good time for Punjabi entertainment industry to explore genres like horror, crime/thriller and dark Theme.”As for ‘Murrabba’, she said it revolved around the theme of land mafia and human greed. “It’s a story where a piece of land becomes a reason for deaths of a lot of people. It is a commentary on human ambitions, greed and how a common man can turn into a criminal mastermind with just one act,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-late-bloomer-foraying-into-ott-platform-323268
12-10-2021||---||Green Fingers: A garden jazzed up with reclaimed wood||Amritsar, October 11As a neuro-surgeon, Dr Dushant Thaman usually spends his day attending to medical emergencies and performing life-saving surgeries. But he makes sure he spends an hour every morning in his garden, exploring his creativity through the greens.This is a commitment he never forgoes. “I start my day at 5.30 am and prepare myself for the day ahead. I believe that if you give little to the nature, it reciprocates and pays us back. I have carefully nurtured my garden over few years to create a harmony between nature and art,” he says.Dr Dushant says the green thumb was passed on to her by her mother who too is also fond of plants. “I modified the broken bits of an old tree into some creative planters and garden décor. I created a piece of art from a portion of that tree by using a mask and dried out vines to create a figure. It gave me some encouragement to explore my creativity by using plants as art,” he shares.Currently, he has created several corner pieces using garden waste that stand out amid the lush green space. His garden has mostly non flowering variety since he feels flowers are seasonal. “I have malleable variety of bamboo, allamanda , variety of palms, vines, giant monstria, crotons, and native trees,” he informs.Apart from Dr Dushant, his wife, Dr Richa Thaman too actively takes care of the garden. “We like to unwind in our garden after a hard day at work,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/green-fingers-a-garden-jazzed-up-with-reclaimed-wood-323269
12-10-2021||Amritsar||One more tests positive in Amritsar district||Pay tax, get your vehicles backAmritsar: The Regional Transport Authority (RTA) impounded six private long-route buses on different routes and three overloaded tippers here on Monday. Arashdeep Singh Lobana, RTO, said, the buses were impounded from different routes, including Amritsar-Bathinda, Amritsar-Faridkot and the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT road. Most owners of vehicles had not paid tax under the MV Act, he added. Buses would be released after their owners paid due tax and submit no due certificates, he said. Three tippers were challaned for overloading, he added. TNSJoshi Colony gets a new parkAmritsar: While the parks in various parts of the city are in a dilapidated condition, Mayor Karamjit Singh inaugurated another new park, apparently to gain political mileage ahead of poll. The MC has constructed the new park at Joshi Colony in Ward No.10. The park has been developed up for the convenience of residents of Joshi Colony and surrounding areas, the Mayor claimed. Rintu said the park has been paved with interlocking tiles for the general public and special seating arrangements have been made for the elderly. He said a swing has also been set up for children where they can come and play. He said smart lights were installed in the park. TNSSilent fast by Cong workersTarn Taran: Congress leaders and activists observed a silent fast for three hours in front of the main post office here on Monday. They were protesting in support of the farmers’ agitation. Leader Avtar Singh Taneja said the party had been demanding stern action against Union Minister Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish Mishra, besides others responsible for the Lakhimpur Kheri killings. He said the Congress was demanding the repealing of the three contentious farm laws. Most of the workers were either busy on their mobile phones or talking to their fellow participants during the ‘silence fasting’. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-more-tests-positive-in-amritsar-district-323270
12-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Money exchanger robbery: Case solved, four arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 11With the arrest of four persons, the police have cracked the case in which a cloth trader and his money-exchanger son was looted by armed persons near Sultanwind Gate here on September 26.Though the police were tight-lipped over their arrest, sources confirmed the development. Those arrested were identified as Dharminder Singh, alias Gagandeep Singh, alias Haddi, of Jawahar Nagar Mehta Road; Shamsher Singh, alias Sherry, of New Jawahar Nagar; Kishanjit Singh, alias Kishan, of Maqboolpura and Jatinder Lal of Kadranbad village falling under Kathunangal police station here.Davinder Singh, a cloth trader at Golden Cloth Market, near Sultanwind Gate, and a licence holder of Western Union was looted by four armed robbers. His uncle Wazir Singh and his cousin Daljit Singh (Wazir Singh’s son) were also there. He told the police that at 11.15am, a customer Simranpreet Singh came to get UK pound worth Rs1 lakh. In the meantime, four unidentified persons came, three of them equipped with pistols. The accused had covered their faces. The police had procured the CCTV footage of the suspects who as per the complainants pointed pistols at them and took away the bag containing Rs7.5 lakh cash, 560 UK Pounds, 400 USD, 6,200 Dirham from the cash counter and Rs1 lakh cash from Simranpreet Singh and Davinder’s gold chain weighing 13gm.The incident led to criticism of the police as it claimed to have been on high alert following the strike call by farmers and seizure of explosives smuggled from Pakistan with the help of drones.Sources said the police were ascertaining the previous records of the suspects besides trying to recover the weapons used in the crime and the foreign and Indian currency looted at the time of the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/money-exchanger-robbery-case-solved-four-arrested-323271
12-10-2021||---||Day after protest, two booked for murder in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 11A day after the protest outside Gate Hakima police station, the police have booked two persons for murder.According to the complainant, the accused, identified as Baba Basanta and Pinka, brutally thrashed Sikander Singh of Mullechak village around 20 days ago that ultimately led to his death.Around 20 days ago, a group of persons attacked Sikander Singh of Mullechak village, leaving him critically injured over a dispute regarding the possession of religious dera. He was admitted to a hospital, but he succumbed to his injuriesThe family members of the victim had accused the Anngarh police of inaction and favouring the suspects. Assistant Commissioner of Police Parambir Singh and SHO Harkirat Singh assured the family of appropriate action, following which they had lifted the dharna.An FIR under Section 302 of the IPC was registered against Baba Basanta Singh and Pinka, both residents of same village, while no arrest has been made so far. Earlier, the police have started inquest proceedings.Surjit Kaur, wife of the deceased, told the police that around 20 days ago, a group of persons led by Baba Basanta and Pinka had attacked her husband, leaving him critically injured. They beat him black and blue over a dispute regarding the possession of religious dera in the Mullechak village. He was admitted to a hospital. However, the police did not take any action against the suspects due to their influence.On Sunday, when he succumbed to his injuries, the police took action under Section 174 of the CrPC, while the family had insisted on registration of a murder case against the two suspects. SHO Harkirat Singh said a murder case was registered on the statement of Surjit and further probe was on. The body of the deceased was handed over to the family after the autopsy. He said the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-after-protest-two-booked-for-murder-in-amritsar-323272
12-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Cracks appear in adjoining buildings while digging hotel basement in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 11Digging up of basement for an upcoming hotel in the midst of the thickly constructed area has resulted in appearance of cracks in adjoining structures.The civil work for constructing a hotel for the international hospitality chain is in progress on the railway link road, close to the Queen’s Road intersection.As many as six occupants of the buildings, adjoining the construction site, had written to Municipal Corporation Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi on October 4 about the violation of construction by-laws, at the upcoming hotel site, which were threatening their commercial properties.In gross violation of norms, the basement of an upcoming hotel was dug up so deep that it posed a threat to adjoining hotels and buildings while the authorities concerned looked the other way, the complainants said.Sanjay Kumar, who owns a commercial property next to the hotel site, claimed, “The construction of the property is in contravention to the sanctioned plan. The building by-laws governing construction are not being followed. For instance, the basement is 47-feet deep, which is in contravention to the permitted depth of 30 feet.”A damaged ceiling of a room adjoining the hotel site. Tribune photo: Vishal Kumar“The adjoining buildings, which are two and three storeyed, require a minimum gap of 7.5 feet from the new building to be constructed. However, a distance of less than five feet has been kept from the upcoming hotel,” he said.He claimed that due to non-compliance of building norms, cracks have appeared on the walls of his hotel-cum-bar and even the roof had got damaged.Davinder Singh Virdi said cracks had appeared in the basement and ground floor of his 180 square yard commercial property. He recalled that about two years ago the owner of the property started digging up the site. He blamed long delay in construction as the prime reason for weakening of the adjoining structures. Due to this adjoining buildings had become unsafe and unfit for human habitation, he said.The MC Commissioner accepted that he had received a complaint and marked it to the MTP. The MTP was on Monday directed to issue notice to the plot owner for leaving less than permissible 7.5 feet distance between the building and existing structures, he said. The MTP would be writing to the police for an action in this regard, he said. About the upcoming building of the hotel, he said 40-feet depth was passed by the CTP. Non-compliance of the map would certainly invite action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cracks-appear-in-adjoining-buildings-while-digging-hotel-basement-in-amritsar-323273
12-10-2021||---||No let-up in recovery of mobile phones from high-security Amritsar Central Jail||Amritsar, October 11In yet another seizure, the Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated six mobile phones, 41 cigarettes and a modified mobile charger from the ‘high security’ jail complex during a search operation on Sunday.According to information, while three cell phones were recovered from as many prisoners, the remaining were seized from garbage bins and bathroom.Following a complaint by the Central Jail authorities, Islamabad police have booked Sukhwinder Singh of village Zor Singh in Tarn Taran, Sandeep Singh of East Gobind Nagar on Sultanwind Road, Sandeep Kumar, alias Allu, of Ajnala and Guriqbal Singh of Gurchubara village in Bhikhiwind. They were booked under Sections 42, 52-A of the Prisons Act for violating the jail norms.Najjar Singh, Assistant Superintendent of Central Jail said during checking of room number 1 of barrack number 3, the staff found a keypad phone along with extra battery from Sukhwinder Singh, while 41 cigarette butts were recovered from Sandeep Singh. Similarly, a keypad phone with battery and a SIM was seized from Sandeep Kumar. He said two mobiles were recovered from garbage bins, while a phone was found from the bathroom.A recurring thing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-let-up-in-recovery-of-mobile-phones-from-high-security-amritsar-central-jail-323274
12-10-2021||---||High prices of soyabean de-oiled cake worries Amritsar poultry farmers||Amritsar, October 11The sharp rise in the prices of soyabean de-oiled cake (DOC), a byproduct of soyabean oil, has greatly affected local poultry farmers.The rates of poultry feed, which were around Rs30-35 per kg in March, have risen to Rs45-50 per kg. The reason is the prices of soya de-oiled cake have increased from Rs35 per kg in March to nearly Rs100 per kg.Soya cake is a primary source of protein for birds. The sharp rise in the prices is catastrophic for farmers as the rates of broilers were down due to very low demand owing to navratris. This dealt a double blow to farmers as 1-kg broiler was selling between Rs85 and Rs90, which used to be around Rs105 per kg before the navratris. Amrinder Singh, A young poultry farmerA chick during its lifespan consumes around 2.5 kg of feed costing around Rs125 kg these days. Besides, costs on other heads such as power, water, labour, rice husk, vaccines, medicines, vitamins and mortality, it costs roughly Rs100 to a farmer. Sukhwinder Singh, poultry farmerThe price hike in soybean oil and de-oiled cake was the result of corporate cartelisation. Big corporate houses procure the crop in bulk at source, store these and then sell these in little quantity to earn huge profits GS Bedi, poultry farmerLocal poultry farmers rear between 3 lakh and 4 lakh birds making the district self-sufficient in fulfilling its demand of poultry products. After oil extraction, de-oiled cake, which is rich in protein, is sold out to poultry farmers for meeting the protein needs of chicks and broilers. The soya de-oiled cake forms 25 per cent of the feed.Amrinder Singh, a young poultry farmer, said soya cake was the primary source of protein for birds. The sharp rise in the prices of poultry feed was catastrophic for farmers as the rates of broilers were down in the market due to very low demand due to the occurrence of the Navratras. This dealt a double blow to farmers as a kilogram of broiler was selling between Rs 85 and Rs 90, which used to be around Rs 105 per kg before the start of the Navratras.Sukhwinder Singh, another poultry farmer, says a chick during its lifespan consumes around 2.5 kg of feed costing around Rs 125 kg these days. Besides costs on other heads like power, water, labour, rice husk, vaccines, medicines, vitamins and mortality, it costs roughly Rs 100 to a farmer.According to GS Bedi, another poultry farmer with decades of experience in poultry farming, says the price hike in soybean oil and de-oiled cake was the result of corporate cartelization. Big corporate houses procure the crop in bulk at source, store these and then sell these in little quantity to earn huge profits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/high-prices-of-soyabean-de-oiled-cake-worries-amritsar-poultry-farmers-323275
12-10-2021||---||Dengue tally 750: Health Department identifies 40 hotspots in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 11With over 750 dengue cases reported from the district till date, the Health Department has identified at least 40 hotspots in the city. The health officials informed Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni about the situation in the city during a meeting at Government Medical College here on Monday.Health teams will visit every home in the identified hotspot. They will reach out to people and check the area for the presence of dengue larvae. As many as 844 challans have been issued to the owners of houses, shops and other buildings, where dengue larvae were found by the health teams during inspection. Dr Charanjit Singh, Civil SurgeonCivil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said health teams would visit every home in the identified hotspot, reach out to people and check the area for the presence of dengue larvae. He said 844 challans have been issued to the owners of houses, shops and other buildings, where dengue larvae were found by the health teams during inspection.Soni asked the health officials to ensure that the medical staff reach their place of posting by 8 am and remain present at their seat during duty hours. The minister claimed that the situation due to the spread of dengue was completely under control. He said the government hospitals have every infrastructure and sufficient medicines to deal with the situation.The meeting was also attended by director, health, Adesh Kang; Additional Deputy Commissioners Ruhi Dag and Ranbir Singh Mudhal, ADCP Harjit Singh and senior medical officers from the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dengue-tally-750-health-department-identifies-40-hotspots-in-amritsar-323276
