13-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Rice millers in Tarn Taran a harried lot||Rice millers held a strong protest alleging harassment at the hands of procurement agencies as they conduct raids at their mills to check their stock.A delegation of the District Tarn Taran Rice Millers’ Association led by Avtar Singh Taneja met DC Kulwant Singh and apprised him of their problems. They complained that the joint teams of the FCI and Food and Civil Supplies Department were conducing raids at their mills in the name of physical verification to verify their stock. The millers offered the keys of their mills in protest to the DC.There were reports that a huge quantity of paddy was reaching the mandis in the district from other states, which was shown as cultivated in the area.They said paddy was being brought from other states at cheaper rates and was shown as that procured from the farmers in the area at Rs1,960 MSP per quintal, which was much higher than other states. They said when there was only private paddy in stock with the rice millers, as the paddy procured by government agencies had not reached the mills so far, then why were they being harassed in the name of physical verification? — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rice-millers-in-tarn-taran-a-harried-lot-323710
13-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Coal shortage cripples local pharma industry||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 12Global coal shortage has rattled the local pharmaceutical industry. Most of them rely on Chinese active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) for their raw material.Amit Kapur, a pharma unit proprietor, said, it was the second biggest price rise for the local industry after the suspension of air transport between China and India had escalated the rates in May this year. “Coal shortage has forced the Chinese API manufacturing units to curtail production to twice a week, escalating their prices in the global market,” he averred.Similarly, cargo cost has also increased. Transportation cost of a container rose from Rs two lakh to Rs eight lakh between India and China. Once a world leader in the production of APIs in the seventies, India now totally relies on China.He said daily upward rate fluctuation was forcing the manufacturers to pump in more money in their capital. It is heavily affecting the MSME.The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, Amritsar, demanded that the Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India (Set up by the Ministry of Commerce) should step in to control the rising rates of the API. Members of the association said they would be forced to pass on the price rise to consumers.Dr Ravi Dhawan, another pharma unit owner, said, most of the pharmaceutical companies raised the price of their drugs by 20 per cent. However, they cannot do so for those drugs which fall under the Drug Price Control Order (DPCO)-2013. He urged the government to review the rates of those which fall under the DPCO as the manufacturing cost far exceeded the MRP cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/coal-shortage-cripples-local-pharma-industry-323711
13-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Harassment Case: SC commission seeks action-taken report||Tarn Taran, October 12Taking a serious view of the brutal incident in which the sarpanch and villagers of the border village of Assal Uttar assaulted a Scheduled Caste family and molested its woman member over buying a piece of land in the village to construct a house, National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) Chairman Vijay Sampla on Monday sent a notice to the local district administration asking the officials to submit the action-taken report till October 22.However, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.The Commission said as per the information received from the complainant, Ninder Singh, a resident of Assal Uttar village, at least 28 persons, eight of whom have been identified, had assaulted his family. In his complaint to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, he had stated that on January 12 this year, the attackers trespassed into their house to take its possession forcibly.He alleged that the accused attacked them with swords and fired gunshots in the house and tore the clothes of his wife and molested her. Besides, the sarpanch of the village used casteist remarks against the family while others threatened to kill them over purchasing the land, alleged Ninder Singh.He alleged that Valtoha police and other higher officials failed to ensure justice to them.The NCSC had issued a notice to the Divisional Commissioner (Jalandhar Division), the Inspector-General of Police (Ferozepur Range), the Deputy Commissioner (Tarn Taran) and the Senior Superintendent of Police (Tarn Taran) to investigate the matter and submit an immediate report through post or email, based on the facts and information on the action taken on the issue.Sampla cautioned the officers that if action taken report was not received within the stipulated time, then the Commission might exercise the powers of the civil court conferred on it under Article 338 of the Constitution of India and issue a summon for personal appearance before the commission in Delhi.It was a unique incident in itself in which the NCSC had interfered to ensure justice to the aggrieved family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harassment-case-sc-commission-seeks-action-taken-report-323713
13-10-2021||---||Over 100 private buses plying without permit in Amritsar: RTI activist||Amritsar, October 12Suresh Sharma, an RTI activist, has alleged that while the local RTA has issued permits only for two buses, 102 private buses were plying out of Amritsar daily.In a press conference held here on Tuesday, he stated that the local RTA issued permits only for two buses, that too, on the Amritsar-Chandigarh route.He said after checking travel websites and other records he came to know that private buses were plying on five highly remunerative routes. A total of 102 private buses are currently functional on different routes, including 43 on Amritsar-Delhi, 27 buses on Amritsar-Jammu, 18 buses on Amritsar-Chandigarh (only two buses have permits), 10 buses on Amritsar-Jaipur and four buses on Amritsar-Ganganagar routes. He added that many of these buses offer the facility of sleepers, which were banned by the government years ago.As per the 207 clause of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988, police and RTA officials can impound a vehicle without valid permit. He added that even drivers of these buses are liable be punished.He alleged that with the connivance of the RTA’s officials, the state exchequer was incurring finance losses. He stated that in case of an accident, occupants of a vehicle being run without permit, cannot be liable to claim insurance.RTO Arashdeep Singh Lobana said RTO Arashdeep Singh Lobana said he would have to cross check the record before commenting over the matter, since he joined here just a week ago. He said in addition to this, he was also handling two other departments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-100-private-buses-plying-without-permit-in-amritsar-rti-activist-323712
13-10-2021||---||Amritsar residents hold candle march against Lakhimpur violence||Amritsar, October 12Expressing their anguish over the brutal killing of farmers in the Lakhimpur area of Uttar Pradesh by the Union Minister’s son, residents of the holy city today took out a candle march to pay tributes to them and also sought removal of the minister for an impartial probe.They also paid rich tributes to five jawans who attained martyrdom during an encounter with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir.The march was took out by the farmers’ group of the holy city and children and women were also seen holding banners. The march ended at Gumtala on the airport road. Farmer activist Gurdev Singh Mahal, Sikander Singh Gill and others said on one hand, the BJP government was ‘killing’ the farmers, on the other hand, their sons were laying down their lives for the country.They pointed out that the movement of farmers would not only cancel three farm laws enacted by the BJP government, but also expose its corporate and privatisation policies that have been hitting people very hard. They said on October 15, during Dasehra festival, farmers would burn effigies of BJP leaders.Ardas held for slain farmersAmritsar: After paying homage to farmers, who were killed at Lakhimpur Kheri, at the Akal Takht on Tuesday, activists of the Khalra Mission Organisation (KMO) sought that its probe be handed over to the Amnesty International. A delegation of the KMO called upon Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to declare the attack on farmers as a terrorist attack. Jagdeep Singh Randhawa, a leader of the KMO, sought the arrest of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra. They also sought repeal of all three controversial laws on farming and claimed that they were passed to hand over agriculture to corporate houses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-hold-candle-march-against-lakhimpur-violence-323714
13-10-2021||---||Civil Hospital, Amritsar, 2nd in Punjab under Kayakalp project||Amritsar, October 12The Civil Hospital, Amritsar, bagged the second position in state for maintaining cleanliness and hygiene on the premises under Kayakalp project, an initiative of the Union Health Ministry to encourage hospitals to maintain cleanliness.Civil Hospitals at Gurdaspur and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar bagged the top position while the third position was secured by Pathankot district. Health Minister OP Soni distributed a cash prize of Rs 2.12 crore to the government hospitals in state which had sent their nominations under the project.Soni said poor cleanliness and hygienic conditions at a hospitals reflects badly on the reputation of the institute. He said that people coming to the hospitals often judge its expertise and level of patient care on the basis of cleanliness. “Even, if a hospital has excellent infrastructure and manpower, unclean premises would not let patients to have faith in the services of the doctors and medical staff,” he said.Addressing civil surgeons and deputy medical commissioners, Soni told them to ensure that medical staff reaches hospitals on time. He added that late comers would not be tolerated.Secretary Health Vikas Garg said 75 per cent of the cash prize would be given to the concerned hospital and 25 per cent to the staff whose efforts have resulted in the institute winning a position. He added that eight district hospitals, 12 sub-divisional hospitals, and 12 primary health centers from Punjab had participated in the competition. He added that hospitals were judged by a panel of experts on various parameters of cleanliness and hygiene after which the winners were announced.About the projectThe Kayakalp project aims to promote cleanliness and enhance the quality of public health facilities. The purpose of this initiative is to appreciate and recognise their effort to create a healthy environment. It promotes shared sustainable practices related to improved cleanliness in public health facilities linked to positive health outcomes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civil-hospital-amritsar-2nd-in-punjab-under-kayakalp-project-323715
13-10-2021||---||Sanitation takes a back seat as staff crunch plagues Amritsar Municipal Corporation||Amritsar, October 12After the Covid-19 outbreak, now the health wing of the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar (MCA) has claimed to fight dengue on a war footing, but the MCA is facing shortage of sanitation workers.We have written to the state government for recruiting safai karamcharis at the MC. Our sanitation staff is working competently to curb the spread of dengue. However, if the government fills all vacant posts, we will be more efficient to fight against the pandemic or any health emergency. Hopefully, the government will recruit sanitation workers. Malwinder Singh Jaggi, MC CommissionerThere are mainly five types of cadre — chief sanitary inspectors, sanitary inspectors, sanitary supervisors, sanitary jamadars and safai karamcharis — in the health wing of the MC. However, posts are lying vacant in other cadres too, but safai karamcharis are reportedly overburdened. Around 800 posts of safai karamcharis are vacant.Leaders of the employees’ union claimed that there was no direct retirement of sanitation workers for the last few years. The dependents of the deceased workers were being recruited on compassionate ground only.The sanitation workers, who work in the field, do not get leave during any festival. They have to work on weekends too. They have been demanding one-month extra salary for working on government holidays and festivals.Vinod Kumar Bitta, president, Sanji Sangharsh Committee of Municipal Employees, said, “The MCA has around 2,400 sanctioned posts of safai karamcharis. The city is expanding day by day. The number of sanctioned posts is decreasing and the government is outsourcing the firms or employees. Now, there are around 1,600 employees working against 2,400 posts. Out of the 1,600, more than 700 is outsourced.”“The union leaders have been demanding to stop employment on a contractual basis as well as outsourcing. “Private firms exploit sanitation workers. The government should recruit the sanitation workers on regular posts so they no one exploit them. Ironically, the MCA recruited 126 persons during the first wave of Covid-19. That was the time when close relatives did not touch the packed dead body and our workers did all the odd jobs in quarantine centres. After the end of the pandemic wave, the MC sacked them all. It is inhuman.”Malwinder Singh Jaggi, Commissioner, MCA, said, “We have written to the state government for recruiting safai karamcharis at the MC. Our sanitation staff is working competently against the spread of dengue. However, if the government fills all the vacant posts, we would be more efficient to fight against the pandemic or any health emergency. Hopefully, the government would recruit sanitation workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitation-takes-a-back-seat-as-staff-crunch-plagues-amritsar-municipal-corporation-323716
13-10-2021||Amritsar||Covid-19: Amritsar district reports one more +ve case||One arrested with pistolTarn Taran: Kacha Pakka police on Monday arrested Gagandeep, alias Charanjit, a resident of Chabal township, with a country-made 32 bore pistol and 16 live cartridges near Kacha Pakka village here. ASI Harjinder Singh said the accused was in a car (PB-02 AE-5600) when he was signalled to stop by a police party. The policemen searched the car and recovered the country-made pistol and the cartridges from it. The police have registered a case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the accused. OCMan booked for molesting widowTarn Taran: Amarjit Singh, a resident of Warring village, has been accused of molesting a widow of the same village, when she was on her way back from the village gurdwara. The incident occurred two weeks ago but the Chohla Sahib police registered a case on Monday. Victim Amarjit Kaur in her complaint to the police alleged that the accused, who used to chase her often, appeared at the spot on September 29 when she was on her way back home after paying obeisance at the village gurdwara. The accused attacked her and even molested her and tore her clothes, the victim alleged. Sub-Inspector Sumanpreet Kaur, Investigating Officer, recorded the victim’s statement. The police officer said a case under Sections 323, 354-A, 354-B and 354-D of the IPC was registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-amritsar-district-reports-one-more-ve-case-323717
13-10-2021||---||Money exchanger loot: Of 4 absconding accused, one used to exchange currency from victim||Amritsar, October 12A day after the arrest of four prime suspects in the money exchanger robbery case, the city police said four more accomplices were yet to be arrested.The police have recovered a weapon, a magazine, five live bullets, Rs90,000 cash, $400 and 6200 Dirhams and a gold chain from the accused identified as Dharminder Singh, alias Gagandeep Singh, alias Haddi, of Jawahar Nagar Mehta Road; Shamsher Singh, alias Sherry, of New Jawahar Nagar; Kishanjit Singh, alias Kishan, of Maqboolpura and Jatinder Lal of Kadranbad village falling under Kathunangal police station here..Those who are absconding include Gurpreet Singh, Anwar, Tashan and Honey. The police said raids were on to arrest them.Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwiner Singh Bhullar at a press conference here on Tuesday said preliminary interrogation revealed that Gurpreet’s sister lived in America and he used to come to the money exchanger to exchange the currency. He was aware of the fact that foreign currency and lakhs of rupees always remained at the money exchanger’s shop.Those arrested revealed that they targeted the victim following the information provided by Gurpreet Singh.He was yet to be arrested.Davinder Singh, the victim was a cloth trader at Golden Cloth market, near Sultanwind Gate, and was also a licence holder of Western Union Money Transfer. Their shop was located just a stone’s throw away from the Division B and Sultanwind police station.The accused who had covered their faces took away the bag containing Rs7.5 lakh cash, 560 UK Pounds, 400 USD, 6200 Dirham from the cash counter and Rs1 lakh cash from their customer Simranpreet Singh apart from victim’s gold chain, which weighed about 13gm at gunpoint on September 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/money-exchanger-loot-of-4-absconding-accused-one-used-to-exchange-currency-from-victim-323718
13-10-2021||---||2 held with stolen bike, country-made pistol in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 12The Division-A police have nabbed two persons and recovered a pistol and stolen bike from them.They have been identified as Gursimranjit Singh, alias Simu Umarpuria, and Karandeep Singh of the Maqboolpura area. They were held from near the inter-state bus terminus. The police got a tip-off that the duo were drug addicts and used to steal vehicles and sell these to get money to procure drugs.Following specific inputs, they were signalled to stop at a checkpoint near the bus stand. They tried slipping away but were nabbed by the police. When asked about the documents of the bike, they could not produce the same, nor could give any satisfactory answer. They were arrested and produced in court, which sent them to police remand.During interrogation, the police recovered a .32 country-made pistol from Gursimranjit. The police said Gursimranjit had two murder bids and robbery cases registered against him at Vallah and Ranjit Avenue police stations here and has two more cases in Ajnala police station as well.Gang of vehicle lifters busted, 3 held Amritsar: Busting a gang of vehicle lifters, the police have nabbed three persons and confiscated three stolen bikes from their possession. The accused were identified as Vishal of Ajnala, Karanpreet Singh of Gopal Nagar and Jatinder Singh of Waan Tara Singh village in Khalra in Tarn Taran. They were nabbed from the Chatiwind police chowki area on Monday and recovered a stolen bike from them. During investigations, they told that they had stolen the bike from Amritsar. Further interrogation led to the recovery of two more motorcycles. The police authorities said further probe was on and more recoveries are likely to be made from them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-with-stolen-bike-country-made-pistol-in-amritsar-323719
13-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Man loses Rs 1.97 lakh to phishing attack in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 12Even as the police and bank authorities raise awareness regarding cyber frauds and tell them not to share their details with anyone, people are losing their hard-earned money to online fraudsters.In the latest incident, Kanwal Kumar Sareen a resident of Batala Road, fell victim to cyber fraud. A woman swindler posing as a bank manager took the details of his debit and credit cards and later withdrew around Rs1.97 lakh from his account.The incident came to light when he lodged a complaint with the police when he got the message of withdrawal of money thrice. By the time he saw the message and reported the same to the bank authorities, the accused had withdrawn Rs1.97 lakh from his bank account.The number from where the call was made was found to be fake. The call was made from Uttar Pradesh. As per the investigation, the number was never procured by the person on whose name it was issued. The police have registered a case under Sections 419, 420 of the IPC and 66-C and 66-D of the Information Technology Act against unidentified fraudsters.Kawal told the police that he got a phone call from 72330-99508, who identified herself as Divya Sharma, SBI Bank Manager. She told him that his credit card number was getting blocked and she would restore the same. She sought the CVV and OTP from him. She also took the details of his debit card from him. Later, he found that Rs72, 984 and Rs24,892 were withdrawn from his debit card and Rs99,703 from his credit card.Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Investigations, said bank authorities always alert people not to share card details such as CVV and OTP as bank officials never seek the same. Yet people make mistakes and get defrauded. He said people should be alert and not respond to such calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-loses-rs-1-97-lakh-to-phishing-attack-in-amritsar-323720
13-10-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar: Dengue crisis far more alarming than it appears||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 12Even as the district Health Department has reported only around 750 dengue cases, a reality check reveals that the actual number of patients, who are sick with dengue-like symptoms especially high fever and a drop in platelet count, is much more.As per the government policy, a patient is considered a dengue positive case only if he or she tests positive in MacElisa test. However, a large number of people prefer simpler and common tests as blood count and platelet count instead of the government mandated test.This tendency among the larger population to undergo tests other than those mandated by the government is not new. Even during the first wave of the pandemic, people had relied on X-Ray and CT scans instead of the RT-PCR.A city-based journalist said: “Five members from my family fell sick and none of them got the MacElisa test done. As a result, none of them were part of the government figures.” Another resident working with the Health Department said: “My mother and I feel sick and our platelet count dropped significantly. But both of us are not part of the government figures.”He said a change in policy was required as even if there were only 750 official dengue cases in the district, what were others suffering from?Residents feel the actual number of cases was far greater than actual figures and the government policy was merely acting as a tool to keep the dengue count low in reports.“If a large number of people are having dengue and their platelet count is dropping and if this is not dengue, then it can be any other disease and is a serious concern,” said Jagbir Singh, a city resident, demanding that instead of waiting for the weather to change, efforts must be made to contain the disease.Meanwhile, Health Minister OP Soni conducted a high-level meeting with health officials from the entire state to take stock of the efforts being made to contain the spread of dengue. He said around 5,500 cases have been reported from the state, adding that over 18,000 people from the state have been tested for dengue so far.What STATS say#as per the govt policy, a patient is considered a dengue case only if he/she tests +ve in MacElisa test||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-dengue-crisis-far-more-alarming-than-it-appears-323721
13-10-2021||Charnajit Singh Teja||Defaulters on radar: Tax not paid, Amritsar Municipal Corporation finally begins sealing buildings||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 12Finally, the property tax wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) has sealed 20 major commercial buildings in the city to press residents to pay the pending tax.In a massive sealing drive, a team of the property tax wing led by nodal officer Daljit Singh sealed one of the prominent hotels — Mohan International — in the city. The hotel management hadn’t paid the tax for the last few years. Burger King, one of the prominent food brands in Novelty Complex, was also sealed by the MC team. However, the management gave cheques in the evening and it would open tomorrow.I have instructed the staff of the property tax wing to seal 130 properties every week. They have to seal two buildings of a category in a week. Initially, we are focusing on prominent commercial establishments but no one will be exempted. We will also take action on residential units. The recovery target is a secondary thing; we have to pay tax if residents expect good roads and other infrastructure in the city. Malwinder Singh Jaggi, MC CommissionerA newly constructed Dara Hotel on the bypass was also sealed but the owner got tax exemption under some policy of the state government. The MC officials claimed that the case was being discussed with legal experts.The MC teams sealed two hospitals including Sarabjot Hospital at Putligarh and Lamba Hospital at GT Road. A salon and gym was also sealed at Khandwala. Another hotel on Sultanwind Road and an ATM of Union Bank was also sealed.MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi said: “I have instructed the staff of the property tax wing to seal 130 properties every week. There are mainly 13 types of commercial properties such as industrial units, banks/ATMs, corporate offices, multinational company offices, brand stores, hotels/guest houses, hospitals/nursing homes, private educational institutes, marriage palaces, automobile agencies, mobile towers, shopping malls, and boards/corporation offices. They have to seal two buildings of a category in a week. We will seal the building of a defaulter, who never paid tax and one who used to pay tax but has not paid during the previous years. Initially, we are focusing on prominent commercial establishments but no one will be exempted. We will also take action on residential units. The recovery target is a secondary thing; we have to pay tax if residents expect good roads and other infrastructure in the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/defaulters-on-radar-tax-not-paid-amritsar-municipal-corporation-finally-begins-sealing-buildings-323706
