14-10-2021||Books are best friend of 55-year-old Dr Tarsem Singh Golan||Tarn Taran Diary: Books are the best friends, says Dr Tarsem Singh Golan||Provide drinking water to visitors, MC toldHeera Singh Kandianwala, a social worker, has appealed to the administration to make arrangements to provide safe drinking water to visitors coming to Tarn Taran. The practise of providing safe drinking water was started since the establishment of the town by fifth Sikh Master Guru Arjun Dev by digging wells, he said. The remnants of these wells were still here, he added. Visitors, who came to the holy town to pay obeisance or for business purpose faced problems as potable water was not available at even a single point in the whole town, he said. Hand pumps too were non-functional, he added. The Municipal Council had deployed a water tanker to water plants in the town, he said. The civic body did not provide water for visitors, he added.Villagers remember Dilbagh Singh DalekeResidents of Daleke village still remember selfless services of Dilbag Singh Dalake, who represented the Tarn Taran constituency in Vidhan Sabha twice. Daleke was minister in Giani Zail Singh led state government and Vidhan Sabha Speaker in Rajinder Kaur Bhathal led state government in 1996-97 for a short term. He unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha election in 1996. He died 18 years ago. His residence and landed property is still in the village and looked after by a caretaker. His wife lives in Mohali. Dalake has two sons and two daughters. Both sons are settled in Canada. His two daughters are married and settled in Delhi and Kapurthala, respectively. Mandeep Singh (25), a village resident, said his grandfather Mehanga Singh often remembered Dalake’s selfless services to the people. Harjit Singh (47), village sarpanch, while recalling Daleke said he was honest and real servant of the humanity. Most politicians amassed huge wealth during their short-term political career particularly when they were ministers, he added. Daleke’s landed property was sold to pay back dues while he served people during his active political career, he said. They were proud of Daleke, said villagers. None from Daleke’s family could follow in his footstep to serve people, villagers added. — Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-books-are-the-best-friends-says-dr-tarsem-singh-golan-324211
14-10-2021||Amritsar||International Girl Child Day||Dr Manjinder joins as principalAssociate Prof of the School of Punjabi Studies, Guru Nanak Dev University, Dr Manjinder Singh assumed office as principal of School of Punjabi Studies. On his first day as principal, Dr Singh said he would remain dedicated to the development of the Punjabi language, literature and culture and would work for the betterment of the department. Dr Manjinder Singh started his teaching journey in 2008 from Guru Angad Dev College, Khadur Sahib (Tarn Taran) and has been working continuously since 2014 as an assistant professor at the School of Punjabi Studies, Guru Nanak Dev University. His area of specialisation is linguistics and Gurbani. He has published three books so far and more than 40 of his research papers in national and international research journals.GNDU ResultsThe results of MA Public Administration (Sem– II), MA Police Administration (Sem-II), MA Religious Studies (Sem-II and IV), MA Public Administration (Sem – IV), MSc (Computer Science) (Sem – IV), B.Com. (Sem – IV), Shastri (Bachelor’s), Sem- II, Shastri (Bachelor’s), Sem– IV, Shastri (Bachelor’s), Sem – VI, Sahitacharya (Masters), Sem – II, Sahitacharya (Masters), Sem – IV, BA BEd. Four Year Integrated Course Sem-II, BA BEd. Four Year Integrated Course Sem-IV, BA B.Ed. Four Year Integrated Course Sem-VI, BA/BSC, Sem-IV, BED Sem-IV, B.A Journalism & Mass Communication, Sem-IV of session May 2021 are declared by the Guru Nanak Dev University. The results will be available on university website www.gndu.ac.in. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-girl-child-day-324212
14-10-2021||Amritsar||Raj Kumar Verka inaugurates dental scanner, elevator at GDCH||Medical Education and Research minister Raj Kumar Verka on Wednesday inaugurated a new dental scanner and a lift for the patients at Government Dental College and Hospital (GDCH) here.Dr Jeevan Lata, principal, said the dental scanner installed was the most advanced available technology and it would help them provide better services. The scanner would help dentists get complete dental scans of patients coming to hospital.As the institute has its operation theatre on the first floor of the building, patients’ stretchers had to be carried through staircases. The college authorities said a long-pending demand had been fulfilled with installation of the elevator. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raj-kumar-verka-inaugurates-dental-scanner-elevator-at-gdch-324201
14-10-2021||---||Delegation of aided colleges meets Education Minister||Amritsar, October 13A 15-member delegation of Non-Government Aided Colleges Management Federation (NGCMF), Punjab, and Chandigarh, headed by NGCMF president, Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina met Education Minister Pargat Singh in Chandigarh and apprised him of various issues faced by aided colleges in Punjab and Chandigarh.The NGCMF, which is a non-political and non-religious organisation of 142 non-government college managements in Punjab and Chandigarh, has been lately fighting a number of challenges in the recent past.The delegation demanded that the 75% deficit grant in the aid scheme should be scrapped immediately and the old pattern of 95 per cent grant in aid scheme should be restored for all categories of teachers. The payment of gratuity, earned leave encashment and CPF through the 95% grant in aid scheme, clearing of pending scholarship to SC students in one installment, taking back the decision to appoint DPI nominees into the Managing Committees, were some of the other issues taken up during the meeting.Chinna said Pargat has mentioned that the uplift of the higher education was the top-most priority of the current state government and they would address all pending administrative and financial issues of the aided colleges with an open heart.The other issues that cropped up for discussions were filling up of the teaching staff posts, periodic review of posts of teaching as well as non-teaching in colleges, logical reservation policy, uniformity in the admission, examination schedule and syllabus in the state run three universities, waiving off the road tax on vehicles owned by the colleges for carrying students to their respective colleges.PCCTU seeks 7th Pay CommissionMeanwhile, a delegation of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teacher’s Union (PCCTU) from Amritsar also met Pargat Singh and discussed their long pending demands including implementation of Seventh Pay Commission wages, delinking of UGC scale and Service Security Act. Pargat Singh has said the government was serious about the problems and demands of college teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/delegation-of-aided-colleges-meets-education-minister-324199
14-10-2021||---||1.06L MT of paddy procured in Amritsar district, stubble burning on rise||Amritsar, October 13With the arrival of 33,277 metric tonnes of paddy in different markets of the district on Wednesday, a total of 1.22 lakh MT of the crop has arrived in district mandis so far. The harvesting of paddy has picked up pace and so are the incidents of stubble burning.The mandi board officials stated that 32,195 MT of paddy was procured on Wednesday. Till the start of procurement in district, a total of 1.06 lakh MT of the crop has been procured. Additionally 7,182 MT of paddy was procured by private buyers.In comparison to other areas of the district, the harvesting is faster in Rayya and Jandiala areas, which are the major vegetable belts in the area. The agriculture officials stated that both these areas are the first areas from where field fires are reported.While the state government has provided hundreds of machines of different kinds to farmers in the district on alternative management of crop residue after harvesting of paddy, farmers, especially vegetable growers, stated that shortage of time is a crucial factor for adopting alternates to burning.“The time between harvesting of paddy and sowing of vegetable crops is very less. If the residue is managed without burning, it will take time and vegetable sowing would be delayed. This will mean that farmers won’t be able to cultivate the third crop, which they do to supplement his income,” said a farmer.The farmers also stated that a viable industrial use of the crop residue should be found or farmers should be compensated for additional cost they incur on managing crop residue without burning. “Burning requires only a match stick while alternate management requires at least Rs 2,000 per acre. With farm incomes already low, there is no incentive for farmers,” said another farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-06l-mt-of-paddy-procured-in-amritsar-district-stubble-burning-on-rise-324202
14-10-2021||---||Rising petrol, diesel prices leave middle-class families shattered||Amritsar, October 13With prices of petrol and diesel touching Rs 106.20 and Rs 95.97, respectively, in the district on Wednesday, common people are crying for government’s attention.Naresh Johar, a senior citizen, says he prefers walking or commuting in autos to reach destinations within the city. For even a small distance, autos have started charging Rs20 per person. They cite the rising prices of diesel as the reason behind hike in commuting charges of autos.The government has failed to contain the prices of fossil fuel, the cascading effect of which can be seen on all kinds of articles, especially essential commodities. Numerous studies indicate that the total expenditure of a family on fuel bills, kitchen groceries, and milk were at par.Jyoti, a housewife, said she recently bought an LPG refill for Rs940.50. Over a fortnight ago, its price was Rs935. In addition to this, delivery men ask for Rs30 to Rs40 extra over and above the cost of a refill, she said. In the name of subsidy refund, the government was paying meagre amount to LPG consumers, she added.She said the government was closing all doors of help to middle and lower middle-class families. “However, when it comes to guarantee of income and employment to people, it has got only hollow statements and fake assurances,” she added.Buta Ram, a grocery store owner, said the prices of almost all grocery items had gone up when the Covid-induced lockdown was imposed in March 2020. A litre of vegetable oil is being sold between Rs170 and Rs190, which earlier used to cost between Rs90 and Rs110 per litre.A litre of refined oil is being sold between Rs150 and Rs160, which earlier used to sell between Rs90 and Rs110. Similarly, the rate of one kilogram of sugar has risen from Rs35 to Rs45 followed by masar from Rs70 to Rs100, chana dal from Rs65 to Rs90 and kabli chana from `95 to Rs120.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-petrol-diesel-prices-leave-middle-class-families-shattered-324200
14-10-2021||Amritsar||Covid-19: One tests +ve in Amritsar district||‘Youth will form next state govt’Amritsar: The NSUI state president, Akshay Sharma, on Wednesday asserted that youngsters would form Punjab government next year. Addressing a gathering at Nawan Punjab Naujwanan Naal Rally here this afternoon, Akshay said the Congress in the last four and half years had fulfilled aspirations of youngsters with several initiatives. “Youth power is at the core of Punjab’s future trajectory and they will decide our state’s upward rise,” Akshay said while adding that the opposition, including SAD would be wiped off, in the forthcoming polls. The NSUI national president, Neeraj Kundan, also addressed the rally. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-one-tests-ve-in-amritsar-district-324210
14-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran: Getting rotten wheat, complain residents of Palasaur village||Tarn Taran, October 13Residents of Palasaur village here, beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, on Wednesday resented the delivery of rotten and unconsumable wheat to them by the Food and Civil Supply Department. The wheat was given to the depot holders on Monday and most of the stock had been distributed among the beneficiaries till date.Village resident Gurpreet Singh and his wife Mandeep Kaur said the wheat given to them was rotten and dust was mixed in it. The couple said a foul smell was emanating from it, besides looking discoloured. Gurpreet said when they served the wheat to their animal even it too did not eat it.Tarlochan Singh, owner of the house where the stock is stored, said many residents had visited the house since they were delivered the wheat and they were complaining of the poor quality of the wheat supplied to them.Gurbhej Singh, former sarpanch of the village, said, “Water is sprinkled on wheat bags to make these heavy, that’s why the foul smell was emanating from it. The former sarpanch demanded a high-level inquiry into the matter.”When contacted, District Food and Supplies Controller (DFSC) Sukhjinder Singh said, “Sometimes some of the rotten gunny bags are loaded mistakenly by labourers on to trucks.” He said the rotten wheat could be returned to the department and the new stock taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-getting-rotten-wheat-complain-residents-of-palasaur-village-324208
14-10-2021||---||Revisiting prolific life of Indian theatre's doyenne||Amritsar, October 13Ritu Menon, writer and publisher, discussed her book Zohra - a biography that traces the journey of an exceptional woman and artist - the doyenne of the Indian Theatre - Zohra Sehgal. The event took place at the ongoing Sanjha Punjab festival by the Majha House. Menon, who is the co-founder of Kali for women, a publishing house dedicated to publish works of women in India, was in conversation with writer Jerry Pinto and Aamer Hussein.Ritu, who is a Padma Shree recipient, said she was immediately drawn towards penning a biography of Zohra, as she always found her to be exceptional. And not just as a subject, but as a subject for a feminist book. "Biography is a neglected genre in India and Zohra was the only person, who was well-versed in all performing arts except music. She managed to do all this at a very particular time junction. She happened to be at the right place at the right time. She was with Uday Shankar, with Prithviraj Kapoor when they were breaking the mould. She was in London when multiculturalism was just beginning. And to me that is simply extraordinary. As a woman and a publisher, I simply had to document this," she said. When asked about how she had chronicled Zohra's life, Ritu said Zohra had spent most of her acting years in England and very little in India."It is interesting that her acting career consists of only small, character roles because she was already in her fifties. But she did such a wonderful job performing these character roles that she got noticed and roles began to be written for her. And that is the period I am more interested in," she said.The book has a chapter titled 'Intermission', which according to Ritu explains Zohra Sehgal's time in Delhi when she was not performing at all and worked as an administrator. "Her life just happened to be very like a play with all its divisions. So, I called that particular period of her life intermission," she said.Ritu says, "When she was 18, she decided to go to Europe not to become a pilot but a dancer. And that is as exceptional a decision as she was a woman and not many people might know about it."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/revisiting-prolific-life-of-indian-theatres-doyenne-324209
14-10-2021||---||Restricted celebrations, low demand hit effigy makers this Dasehra||Amritsar, October 13Reeling under the effects of pandemic since last year, artists, who earned their living by making effigies of ‘Ravana’, ‘Meghnad’ and ‘Kumbhkarana’ stare at another disappointing season as the demand for effigies has gone down drastically.An otherwise busy Dasehra season used to begin for these artists a month before the festivities as bulk orders were received for making effigies. Since no-show last year and impact of inflation and restricted festivities families of these artists are now work as daily wagers to earn their livelihood.Rama, whose family has been making Dasehra effigies from the past 30 years, says they had received only three orders this year. “We used to make at least 20 to 30 effigies during this time earlier, but this year only three orders have been completed. There are 15 members in our family, who are in this business of making effigies. With no work, our income has taken a big hit. We have not earned enough to properly feed our family,” he shared.Rama works with 10 other artists in his team, who have similar woes to share. “Most artists, who used to make Ravana effigies, have become vegetable vendors or work as labourers. The ones, who have been issued permit by the authorities concerned, can make effigies and sell them. The rest are looking for other employment opportunities,” Rama added.Inflation has also affected the effigy making business. The prices of raw materials used to make effigies have almost doubled in the past three years. The price of wood and bamboo used in the effigy has increased from Rs120 per kg to Rs180 per kg. The paper, which artists used to get at Rs10 per kg, is now available at Rs35 per kg today. In such a situation, making Ravana effigy has become twice expensive as compared to the previous years. Ravana effigy used to be ready for Rs500 per foot, but today it is selling at Rs1,000 per foot.The families in Shekhan Da Karkhana, near Lahori Gate, have been making Ravana effigies both big and small since many decades. While the smaller ones are made and sold at Rs100 to Rs150 per piece, the price of bigger effigies has gone up considerably.Joginder Singh, who has been making Ravana effigies for the last 55 years, says, “Only five to six families are now in the effigy making business in the city. Last year, permission was not given to make effigies due to the Covid pandemic. Ravana effigies were not burnt anywhere except in some rural areas last year. This year, there are not more than six to seven orders across the city. Apart from Ranjit Avenue, there are some big orders from the rural area too, but that doesn’t suffice for the business. Earlier, there were 30 to 35 orders for bigger effigies every year.”The tallest effigy is of 130-ft RavanaThis year, the Dasehra festivities will be held at three locations only. The tallest Ravana effigy with a height of 130 ft will be erected at Trillium Mall while 125 ft Ravana will be burnt at Dasehra ground in Ranjit Avenue. Third venue for celebrations will be at Dasehra Ground, near Bada Hanuman Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/restricted-celebrations-low-demand-hit-effigy-makers-this-dasehra-324204
14-10-2021||---||Amritsar: Ludhiana woman held in Green Avenue robbery case||Amritsar, October 13The city police have nabbed a woman from Ludhiana for her involvement in a robbery incident at Green Avenue locality where two persons looted an elderly woman and her caretaker last Friday.The arrested woman has been identified as Jaswinder Kaur, a resident of Ludhiana. The robbers have been identified as Jaspreet Singh and Arashdeep Singh, residents of Lohara Road, Ludhiana.DCP (Detective) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar stated that the victim, a house owner in Green Avenue, had hired Jaswinder Kaur for Rs19,000 per month for taking care of the elderly woman, Prabha Tandon, through a Zirakpur-based firm. Jaswinder left the job on October 3.During police investigation, Jaswinder Kaur confessed that she was under a heavy debt. After leaving the job, she planned the robbery with the help of her son-in-law Jaspreet Singh and his brother Amandeep Singh, alias Ashu.On October 8, three persons — Jaspreet, Amandeep and Arashdeep — entered the house and snatched gold jewellery from Prabha Tandon and attacked caretaker Nikita. The accused took away three mobiles and two gold bangles from Tandon.The DCP said the trio came from Ludhiana, two on a bike and one on bus. After committing the robbery, they changed the clothes and returned. The police analyzed the CCTV footage of all the routes and got clues about the accused.“Jaspreet, Amandeep and Arashdeep are still absconding. Separate teams have been constituted to raid their probable hideouts. They will be nabbed soon,” said Bhullar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-ludhiana-woman-held-in-green-avenue-robbery-case-324203
14-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||No more takers: Philately losing its charm to digitisation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 13Once a popular hobby, stamp collection is no longer a fad among the youth. It is clear from the Amritsar Philately Club (APC), which has less than 20 members. Formed in 1974-75, it initially used to have 80 to 100 members.Till a few years ago, Philately Day used to be celebrated by holding a day-long exhibition at the General Post Office (GPO). Members of the ASC had painstakingly procured steel frames fixed with glasses to showcase their collections in style to visitors.Pradeep Thacker, president of the APC, recalled that he was among the founder members of the APC. People from the industry, employees, service class, besides students used to be the members of the club. The 67-year-old had started collecting stamps when he was in the high school. He said there was a time when a keen collector would assemble used and discarded stamps. Gradually, the government started printing and releasing costly and commemorative stamps.He held digitisation responsible for fading interest in philately. Post office staff finds it convenient to issue digital receipts on speed post and courier, instead of pasting stamps for which they have to maintain a separate register.An avid philatelistAnother member of the APC, Neeraj Jain, 55, said he had invested Rs five lakh on his hobby of collecting stamps during the past four decades. About its current market value, he said, it was zero but he steadfastly stored these in a full-fledged almirah. “The member of the APC hardly hold any meetings. Around three years ago, meetings of the APC used to meet twice a month, he recalled.“Youngsters are no longer in touch with any such hobby. They hardly know the price of a single postcard.”Once ubiquitous red coloured-letter boxes on roads are now a rare sight. He recalled that there used to be close to 100 members of the APC nearly 35 years ago. After the release of a stamp, no district-level seminars have been organised to discuss the subject highlighted on the stamp and associate youth in it.Varun Aggarwal, general secretary of the APC, said due to Covid protocol, the programme was organised with limited gathering.Unsung heroes remembered A low-key programme was held to mark the Philately Day at the General Post Office on Wednesday. Dr Rajiv Devgan, Principal, Government Medical College, released a special cover on unsung heroes of different regions. Freedom fighter Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna, founder of the Ghadar Party, was prominently mentioned in the cover along with his photograph. He was the native of the Bhakna village situated on the Amritsar-Attari road. His great grandson Jasbir Singh Bhakna also took part in the release of the special cover. The cover mentions in Hindi and English that Baba Bhakna, January 22, 1870-December 21, 1968, was an Indian revolutionary who struggled against slavery and injustice. He was the founding President of the Ghadar Party and participated in the ‘Ghadar Movement’ of 1915. He was in jail for a long time during the freedom struggle of India. The price of a special cover with cancellation is Rs30 and without cancellation is Rs25.What makes philately a special hobby?Philately is a delightful hobby that sharpens and satisfies one’s aesthetic tastes. While expanding knowledge of and interaction with the world, one gets to know interesting details of politics, history, prominent personalities, national and international events, geography, flora and fauna, agriculture, science, monuments, soldiers, warriors, scientists, arms and ammunition, modes of transport etc. This process of learning becomes more delightful through visuals and brief write-ups. In addition, philately cultivates a meticulous and focused attention to detail. It also helps in making friends across boundaries and age-barriers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-more-takers-philately-losing-its-charm-to-digitisation-324198
14-10-2021||---||Rs 5-lakh robbery case solved, three arrested in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 13The city police have arrested three persons, who robbed a cloth trader of Rs 5 lakh in Vakila Wali Gali in Katra Jaimal Singh inside the walled city on Sunday, from Anandpur Sahib.The suspects have been identified as Simarpreet Singh (22), alias Gughi, a resident of Ganda Singh Colony on Tarn Taran Road, Dinesh Kyshap (30), alias Kali, of Rambagh area, and Yogesh Kumar (21), alias Jeesu, a resident of Husainpura. The police have recovered Rs 3.67 lakh from the accused persons.All three accused work at different cloth shops in the same market. They were aware that the trader from Anandpur Sahib visited the market on Sundays. They kept an eye on the victim and targeted him last Sunday. Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of PoliceThe victim, Jagjiven Singh, had visited Gali Vakila Wali, a famous cloth market in the Katra Jaimal Singh area, on Sunday when a youth snatched his bag containing Rs 5 lakhArjan Singh, SHO, E-Division police station, stated that after the robbery they had procured the CCTV footage of the incident, in which a youth was seen running away after snatching the bag from the victim. We have initiated the technical investigation and identified the main accused, Simarpreet Singh Ghughi. His accomplices were also identified and the police nabbed them. The police have also recovered Rs 3.67 lakh from them.The police produced them in court which remanded them in police custody. The police said during the preliminary investigation, the accused confessed to their crime, but the police suspected that they might be involved in other crime incidents too. The police will investigate the total number of gang members and their involvement in other crimes. The accused do not have a criminal record before this robbery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-5-lakh-robbery-case-solved-three-arrested-in-amritsar-324207
