15-10-2021||---||Action mode on, Amrtisar civic body seals 24 properties of defaulters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14Twenty four properties of tax defaulters were sealed by the property tax wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) on the third consecutive day of the sealing drive on Thursday.Property taxThe sealing drive will continue in the city. We have data of all commercial and residential properties. Every resident, who owns a taxable property, has to pay property tax. We are focusing on commercial establishment as they contribute more to tax, but small units will also face same action. — Daljit Singh, Nodal officer for property taxTargeting major commercial establishments, the MC sealed an office of the nationalised bank, two mobile towers, two hotels, a chicken factory and brand showrooms.Soon after sealing of properties, several owners approached the MC and deposited their dues on the spot. Ten property owners paid outstanding tax dues after which the MC opened seals of their properties in the evening today. Similarly, eight owners, whose properties were sealed yesterday, cleared their dues.After initiating the sealing drive, the MC has witnessed a significant rise in tax recovery. The MC has collected Rs76 lakh from property tax defaulters.Daljit Singh, nodal officer for property tax, said they had issued 14,000 notices to defaulting property owners in the city. Many property owners had already paid their tax dues, he added. Still, there were a large number of property owners, who were reluctant to pay their tax, he said. “The sealing drive will continue in the city. We have data of all commercial and residential properties. Every resident, who owns a taxable property, has to pay property tax. We are focusing on commercial establishment as they contribute more to tax, but small units will also face same action,” he added.Meanwhile, MC officials have received a tip-off about a few owners, who have broken seals of their properties. A case would be registered against the owner if he/she breaks seal of the property without clearing property tax dues, said civic body officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/action-mode-on-amrtisar-civic-body-seals-24-properties-of-defaulters-324902
15-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Shopkeepers oppose Amritsar civic body's anti-encroachment drive||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14In view of Parkash Purb of Guru Ram Das, a team of the estate wing led by Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh, visited the area around the Golden Temple today, to remove encroachments, which pose hurdles to commuters and pedestrians.Vendors and shopkeepers opposed the drive and raised slogans against the Amritsar Municipal Corporation and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC).Officials of the MC filed a complaint against three shopkeepers, including a dhaba owner, to the Commissioner of Police for allegedly misbehaving and abusing the civic body staff.The MC removed encroachments from Heritage Street, Jallianwala Bagh Road, Lassi Market and Braham Buta.As the team reached backside of Akhara Baba Shri Chand, a few shopkeepers opposed the move.The Estate Officer said as per the decision taken during a meeting of SGPC with the administration on October 9, it was decided to remove illegal occupants, ahead of Parkash Purb.As shopkeepers raised slogans, a large number of people gathered on the spot. The MC’s earth mover was seized by mob and employees were abused. As a result, the operation had to be stopped .“Arrival of pilgrims increases during festive season. We appealed to vendors and shopkeepers not to illegally occupy the footpaths and corridors,” said the Estate Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shopkeepers-oppose-amritsar-civic-bodys-anti-encroachment-drive-324904
15-10-2021||---||Installation of HSRP need of the hour to curb crime: Soi||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14The installation of High Security Registration Plates (HSRP) on all vehicles is the need of the hour to curb crime in the border district. Though the state government has launched the programme of fixing HSRP in 2012, it was going on snail’s pace and ironically the traffic police also failed to start any enforcement drive in this connection, this was stated by Dr Kamaljeet Soi, member, National Road Safety Council, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.He said almost 20 lakh vehicles were still plying on roads without the HSRP and thereby adding new and alarming dimensions to the criminal activities. “Complete implementation of the HSRP and effective follow up is the need of the hour,” he pointed out.Chairman of NGO Raahat and president of Global Soceity of Safety Professionals, Soi was here to launch Mission Safe Amritsar.He said there were also cases wherein some miscreants were found affixing counterfeit HSRPs on vehicles. “Although some vehicles have been impounded by the police, a large number of vehicles are still plying on roads without the HSRPs. An immediate action is required to stop this menace or these vehicles will remain a threat to the security of the city, state in particular and the nation at large,” he added.Soi said the office of the State Transport Commissioner, Punjab, sent a communication in August this year to all the Regional Transport authorities as well as to the SDMs in the state highlighting the same concern. “As per the notification, vanity numbers allotted to vehicle owners in lieu of payment after June 1989 with registration mark other than “PB” state code and other parts of the registration mark and not in conformity with the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 should be surrendered to the state. Also, vehicle owners have been asked to get new registration marks in conformity to the above said Act,” Soi added.“The situation here was completely marred by traffic disorders, flagrant and brazen violations,” said Soi. He also highlighted some chronic issues at particular spots in and around the city resulting in accidents causing injuries and loss of human life and as a result city making it into the list of 20 most unsafe cities as per the WHO report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/installation-of-hsrp-need-of-the-hour-to-curb-crime-soi-324905
15-10-2021||---||Amritsar jail inmates clash, 1 injured||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14A Central Jail inmate clashed with another prisoner leaving him injured on Wednesday.Subheg Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, said prisoner Surjit Singh of Saidpur Kalan quarrelled with Baljinder Singh, alias Fauji, of Guru Nanak Colony, Chheharta, leaving him injured.Subheg said he, along with a jail guard, rescued him and took him to the jail hospital, from where he was referred to the Civil Hospital.The police have registered a case under Section 52 of the Prisons Act in this connection against Surjit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-jail-inmates-clash-1-injured-324906
15-10-2021||---||Two booked for Rs10-lakh fraud||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, October 14Woman and her son, both residents of Wara Sher Singh, falling under the jurisdiction of Patti Sadar police have been booked for duping their close relative of Rs 10 lakh.The accused have been identified as Paramjit Kaur and her son Dharampreet Singh. The victim, Karam Singh, told the police that the accused took Rs 10 lakh from him around three years ago.He said the payment was made through cheques. Karam said the accused neither gave him possession of the land nor were returning his money. Investigating Officer Darshan Lal said the accused were absconding and raids were on to nab them. A case has been registered under Sections 420 and 406 of the IPC against the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-rs10-lakh-fraud-324907
15-10-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Cath lab finally sees the light of day||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14More than a decade after the proposal to set up a catheterisation laboratory (cath lab) at Government Medical College (GMC) here was first mooted, the dream of a poor patient getting cost-effective cardiac surgery has finally been realised with the lab becoming operational.The college authorities said on the first day of the cath lab, five interventional procedures — four angioplasty and one angiography — were performed.GMC Principal Dr Rajiv Devgan said: “We had got the staff required for the lab and permission to start the treatment around three weeks ago. After this, we had set a target for a month, but due to dedication of the team we managed to start early.” The proposal to set up the lab was mooted in 2010.Dr Devgan said the cardiac interventional procedures at the GMC cath lab would be provided at much affordable cost and as per the government policy.“A procedure which costs around Rs2lakh at a private hospital will be available for around Rs50,000-Rs60,000,” he said, adding that Ayushman Bharat Insurance Scheme beneficiaries would also be covered.In the present scenario, when heart ailments are no more seen as a sedentary lifestyle disease of the rich and even a poor, hardworking rickshaw puller could be a patient, cost-effective treatment would be a boon for the general public.Dr Devgan said: “The lab would be run on alternate days initially. In the last few days, we had identified five patients, who were operated and discharged.” In the coming days more surgeries would be performed, he added.“This is just the beginning. We will have to see how much workload can be handled effectively,” he said. Earlier, the Department of Cardio Thoracic and Vascular Surgery had reached a milestone in 2014, when the state’s first open heart surgery was performed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cath-lab-finally-sees-the-light-of-day-324908
15-10-2021||---||SKM postpones protest on Dasehra||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) decided to postpone burning of effigies of BJP leaders by one day in view of the Dasehra celebrations. Earlier, the SKM had announced to burn effigies of PM Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, MoS for Home Ajay Mishra Teni, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and others on Dasehra (Friday), but respecting religious sentiments of the general public, it decided to postpone the protest.As per the new decision, the effigies would be burnt at various places in the district on October 16 (Saturday).Farmer leaders stated that on October 16, programmes would be held at Attari, Chogawan, Mehta, Jandiala, Rayya, Majitha, Ajnala and other townships apart from city. The SKM leadership has also announced ‘Rail Roko’ programme for October 18.Farmer leader Rattan Singh Randhawa said, “Lakhimpuri Kheri violence is a crime against humanity. We will burn effigy in protest on October 16.” He added that the Centre was still trying to save the minister, his son and henchmen, who under a criminal conspiracy had killed peacefully protesting farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/skm-postpones-protest-on-dasehra-324910
15-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Food samples collected||Two more test positive in distAmritsar: After two positive cases were reported on Thursday, the district tally increased to 47,335. The district also reported recovery of two cases, with which the recovery count increased to 45,736. At present, the district has a total of four active cases. Meanwhile, 14,166 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Thursday. Of these, 8,650 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 5,516 received the second dose. TNSGNDU hosts art exhibition in cityAmritsar: ‘The Gallery — History and Dreams’, an exhibition of works by students of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) was held on Thursday under the aegis of the Fine Arts Club of the university. The exhibition was organised under the mentorship of Ashvind Kaur. The exhibition displayed art works in all genre, including digital art and sketches. Navdeep Singh Suri, former diplomat and grandson of novelist Nanak Singh, inaugurated the exhibition in the presence of VC Jaspal Singh Sandhu. Harpreet Singh, convener, Fine Arts Club, said the exhibition was divided into specific categories of art work. It also displayed utensils, musical instruments of the ancient era and several things related to Punjabi culture. He said the exhibition involved pictures of development of the GNDU as, clicked over the years. Shivam Mahendru, won the first prize in painting event, while Loveleen, won second prize for pencil shading of a portrait of her grandmother. Sudhanshu Rampal and Anureet Kaur, shared the third prize for drawing movie characters and pencil portrait composition, respectively. Savreet Kaur, a caricature artist, had a live interaction with visitors at the exhibition, displaying her skill. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/food-samples-collected-324911
