16-10-2021||Dear SSP Sahib||An open letter to SSP Bhullar||We, the residents of Batala, accord you a warm welcome as our new police chief. Incidentally, you have been assigned to do duty in what is widely perceived to be the “most politicised police district” of Punjab. Here SSPs are changed without any rhyme or reason. One of your predecessors, Harpreet Singh, stayed for just 49 days. The officer whom you have replaced, Ashwani Kapur, had a term of barely two months. The august office of yours, unfortunately, has been reduced to a game of musical chairs. It is considered to be an achievement of sorts if an SSP spends more than a year in office. In this context, our best wishes are with you.Sir, it is well known in police circles that some officers who occupy the SSP’s chair suffer from the Dunning-Kruger effect. It is a cognitive bias in which some individuals suffer from illusory superiority, mistakenly rating their ability much higher than average. We sincerely hope you will keep this dreaded phenomenon at an arm’s length. Your area of jurisdiction extends to five Assembly seats, of which four are represented by Congress MLAs. These four legislators have a finger in each and every pie in Batala — be it political or social. They are also in the habit of stepping on each other’s toes. This makes life difficult for an SSP. Out of these four, two hold exalted posts — one as the deputy CM and the other as a Cabinet minister. The deputy CM interferes, rather intervenes, only and only when it is absolutely necessary. Otherwise, he will rarely bother you. And whenever he does, just remember it will be for the sake of justice and truth. He does not meddle in the normal working of the Police Department despite the fact that he holds the Home portfolio. He is a man who gets angry only and only when justice is denied or the truth is intentionally buried deep in the sands of time. It remains in the realms of speculation as to how you will satisfy the self-esteem of the other three. The joke doing the rounds is that one can often see them driving their cars without anybody occupying the next seat. That seat is reserved for their egos! The Cabinet minister has a special interest in the city. If you have to swim with the political tide you will have to take his calls even at midnight.You will also have to contend with a powerful three time ex-MLA in Ashwani Sekhri. The man is working for the welfare of the city in his own sweet way, inaugurating a project here and laying a foundation stone there. His father was also an MLA and the family is politically well-entrenched. He, too, will be calling you at unearthly hours seeking the odd favour. To his credit, one quality that he has is that he always calls a spade a spade. Do not ever think that because he is not an MLA he does not have influence. The irony here is inescapable. Despite himself not being in power, he has the potential to upset the applecart of even the most powerful. Please do something about the traffic problem which is intricate as well as multifaceted. Parking space in the entire city is at a premium. This only adds to the existing traffic woes. We request you to take a leaf from the book of Nanak Singh, SSP of the adjoining police district of Gurdaspur. He has eased traffic congestion by establishing dividers of important roads. The worst traffic offenders can be found on the City road, Cinema road, Nehru Gate, Pahari Gate and the bus-stand. This is an election year. Obviously, you will be regularly pressurised to let off the hook offenders engaged in selling illicit hooch, those involved in developing illegal colonies and even traffic violators. May we remind you that last year more than a 100 people died after consuming hooch being sold in the labyrinthine streets. The politician will try to stop you dead in your tracks if you wield the stick. When a politician challenges you, please stand up and be counted. We will savour that sight! Some of your predecessors were spoon-fed by these politicians and hence came a cropper when it came to dealing with the hooch mess. One thing is for sure — you have, and will be guided, by able administrators including Gurdaspur DC Mohammad Ishfaq, IG (Border) Mohnish Chawla, Batala SDM Shayari Bhandari and Chairman of the District Planning Board Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar. These people can help you put some soul in this ‘steel-town’.Vox Populi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-open-letter-to-ssp-bhullar-325046
16-10-2021||Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring||Acting tough on illegal buses||Kasturi Seth back in the saddleKasturi Lal Seth is back in the saddle as the Chairman of the Improvement Trust Courtesy, Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa. He was removed in August when RS MP Partap Singh Bajwa brought in his man, Pawan Kumar Pamma, as the IT Chief. At that time, Seth was indeed unceremoniously sacked. Now, it was the turn of Pamma to be sacked in the same manner. Indeed, it takes two to a tango!(Compiled by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/acting-tough-on-illegal-buses-325047
16-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Students win gold in kickboxing||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-win-gold-in-kickboxing-325048
16-10-2021||---||An attempt to write Punjabi poems the Japanese way||Amritsar, October 15Writer Rajwant Bajwa, unconventional in her approach towards writing, has released two of her latest books recently. The two books — Chedd Koi Raag, a compilation of Punjabi poetry; and other Satrangi Piing is a collection of poetry in Haiku. Haiku, a Japanese genre of poetry uses just three lines on verse. It is lesser-known form in Punjab and Rajwant says that it’s a courageous attempt. “Haiku is otherwise quite difficult to attempt from traditional forms of poetry as it involves technicalities and writing Hailu is like solving mathematics. I had been attempting Haiku since 2003 and I used to write and share it with my friends and peers in literary circles for responses. Over the years, I gathered my confidence and finally took the risk to publish Haiku,” she shares.Rajwant Bajwa has never shied away from experimenting and she says that she remains open for reactions regarding her book. “I am open to critics as I want to learn from them. I have been actively participating in Haiku literature in Ottawa, which is considered the hub of rising Haiku poets. I have attended conferences on Haiku in Lahore as well before 2020. I spent the pandemic putting a hold on my books as the were supposed to get published in 2020. I have complied over 1000 poems in the book Satrangi Piing and it has been published not considering the commercial aspects but I just wanted to contribute in promoting Haiku in our literary circuit,” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-attempt-to-write-punjabi-poems-the-japanese-way-325049
16-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Man held for raping 6-year-old in Tarn Taran||Staff seek regularisationAmritsar: Members of the Non-Teaching Union of Meritorious Schools met Education Minister Pargat Singh at the Punjab Bhawan regarding the issue of regularisation. State president of the union Surinder Kumar said the union had demanded that the non-teaching staff of the meritorious schools be regularised in the Education Department. They informed the minister that in 2018, a notice was issued by the Education Department to regularise all staff under Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA)/ Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RAMSA) in the department. Under the notification, the non-teaching staff of meritorious schools had also accepted the basic pay policy for regularisation in the Education Department. Surinder said regarding the demand made by the union, the Education Minister asked the Education Secretary and the officials of the Education Department to provide information about the case. “He asked the top brass of the Education Department to expedite the departmental process of regularisation of non-teaching staff of meritorious schools in the Education Department. We will wait for the response from the department and act accordingly,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-for-raping-6-year-old-in-tarn-taran-325050
16-10-2021||---||Minor reunites with family after 3 years||Amritsar, October 15A minor child who was allegedly kidnapped from Lucknow three years ago was found at the Amritsar railway station here. He was rescued by the Child helpline activists and later reunited with his family on Friday.The victim was identified Satyender Yadav (14), a resident of Mohana village in Uttar Pradesh. Naroon Stenly, an activist of Child helpline, said a railway class IV employee found him at the railway station and informed them about him.He said after counselling, Yadav told about his family at Mohana village while saying that he was kidnapped by a truck driver from his village three years ago and sold him at a dairy in Daleke village near the Indo-Pak border. After a year, he was further taken to Khatrai Kalan village. He informed the child helpline that he was never given proper food.Naroon said Yadav told that a few days ago he along with his owner had gone to a village fair. The man gave him some rupees and asked him to buy some eatables. He informed that with the money he escaped from there and took a bus and reached the railway station here.He said after getting his residential address they contacted their colleagues in Lucknow who traced his family. His father Surinderpal Yadav came here to take him back. It was an emotional reunion after three years. His father said the family had lost hope of his return. They had lodged a complaint with the police at that time but it did not take any interest.Naroon said they produced the child before the Child Welfare Committee and formally handed him over to his father. A complaint was lodged to identify the kidnapper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-reunites-with-family-after-3-years-325051
16-10-2021||---||Amritsar students shine in JEE Advanced||Amritsar, October 15Several students from the city performed exceptionally well in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced, the results of which were announced late on Thursday.Chaitanya Gupta, a student of DAV Public School, Amritsar, made his school proud by securing an impressive AIR 219 in the JEE Advanced-2021. Vaibhav Sobti, a student of Senior Study II, scored AIR 528, while Shubham Gupta of the same school scored AIR 1951.Manav Goyal, a student of Shri Ram Ashram Public School, scored AIR 1893.Kriti Arora, a student of Sidana International, scored 2197 AIR and was the top scorer among girls in the city. She had scored 99.68 percentile in JEE Mains and 96.6 per cent in the CBSE exams. Her father is a businessman and mother a teacher. Kriti is planning to join computer engineering in one of the IITs, as she plans to be a software engineer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-students-shine-in-jee-advanced-325052
16-10-2021||---||Regularisation fee: Amritsar Municipal Corporation to crack whip on defaulting colonisers||Amritsar, October 15A large number of illegal colonies are being developed under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA). The regulations process is also in limbo.Malwinder Singh Jaggi, Commissioner, MCA, held a meeting with officials of the municipal town planning wing here on Thursday. The Commissioner instructed them to recover the pending regularisation fee from the colonisers, whose illegal colonies were regularised under the Regularisation Policy, 2014, of the state government.According to information, the MTP wing of the MC had regularised 87 colonies as per the recommendations of the regularisation policy. Ironically, the colonisers have not deposited the regularisation fee so far. Jaggi asked the officials to collect the regularisation fee or take an appropriate action against defaulting colonisers.Besides, there are 26 illegal colonies, which had applied for regularization, but didn’t pay the fee till date. The Commissioner instructed to the officials to send reminders to the colonisers to complete the process, pay the regularisation fee or face the music. “In case, the colonisers do not pay the fee, the MC would disconnect the water and sewer connections of these colonies,” said the MC Commissioner.Malwinder Singh Jaggi also took a serious view of the fact that work was going on in illegal buildings without the building plan approval in the city. He asked the officials to take strict action against the violators otherwise the official concerned of the Municipal Town Planning (MTP) wing would face action.The Commissioner asked them to prepare a list of defaulting colonisers and pending amount so the action could be taken accordingly. The officials were deputed to prepare lists and send reminders to colonisers.It is worth mentioning here that there are more than 350 illegal colonies developed around the city and a number of colonies are still being developed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/regularisation-fee-amritsar-municipal-corporation-to-crack-whip-on-defaulting-colonisers-325053
16-10-2021||---||Woman caught unawares, robbed of gold bangles in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 15A gang involved in duping people of their gold ornaments by making them sit in their car has struck again. This time, a couple fell victim to a gang that involved two women and a man.The victim came to know about the theft when the accused fled away from the spot leaving them behind.Sukhdevi, the complainant and resident of Ram Nagar Colony in the Islamabad area, said she came to pay obeisance at Mata Lal Devi Temple in the Rani Ka Bagh area along with her husband. She said as they were entering the temple, a Swift car approached them, in which two women were sitting at the back seat, while a man was driving the car.She said the two women called her and told her that they have come to seek a marriage proposal in their area and requested them to sit in their car for a few minutes to get more information. She said her husband sat next to the driver’s seat, while she sat with the two women at the back. She said after half an hour, one of them said she was not feeling well and asked the couple to go out of the car, as she wanted to puke. She said she and her husband came out and the accused fled in the car.She said they could not understand what happened at that time and later found that her two gold bangles were missing. A complaint was lodged with the Civil Lines police, which have registered a case under Sections 379 and 420 of the IPC against unidentified persons in this regard.Ironically, this is not the first such instance. Earlier, too, similar incidents with same modus operandi have occurred and the police have failed to nab the suspects so far. A couple of months ago, an anganwari worker was robbed of her gold bangles with the same modus operendi from near the same temple.The police authorities said investigations were underway, while there was no breakthrough so far.Modus operandiSukhdevi of Ram Nagar Colony said she came to pay obeisance at Mata Lal Devi Temple in the Rani Ka Bagh area along with her husband. She said as they were entering the temple, a Swift car approached them, in which two women were sitting at the back seat, while a man was driving the car. Two women called her and told her that they have come to seek a marriage proposal in their area and requested them to sit in their car to get more information. She said her husband sat next to the driver, while she sat with the two women at the back. She said after half an hour, one of them said she was not feeling well and asked the couple to go out of the car, as she wanted to puke. She said they could not understand what happened at that time and later found that her two gold bangles were missing. Not the first timeIronically, this is not the first such instance. Earlier also, similar incidents with same modus operandi have occurred and the police have failed to nab the suspects so far. A couple of months ago, an anganwari worker was robbed of her gold bangles with the same modus operendi from near the same temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-caught-unawares-robbed-of-gold-bangles-in-amritsar-325054
16-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Peaceful Dasehra celebrations held in Amritsar, no untoward incident reported||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 15Even as the police remained on toes for providing security at various places, where Dasehra festival was being celebrated and effigies burnt, many committees organising programmes during celebrations preferred not to do so keeping in view the security threat and health crisis created by the ongoing Covid pandemic and spread of dengue.Permission was granted for burning effigies at four spots where programmes were held peacefully without any untoward incident.Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni lighted an effigy at the Durgiana Temple Dasehra ground while former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal did so near Trillium Shopping mall. This programme was organised by former Cabinet minister Anil Joshi, who joined SAD recently, after he was expelled by the BJP for speaking in favour of farmers’ agitation against the three controversial farm laws.A member of Dasehra organising committee, near Mata Bhadra Kali Temple, near Khazana Wala Gate, said they decided not to organise any programme in view of the Covid pandemic and dengue in the holy city. Similarly, the Panch Rattan Krishna Temple Committee also did not organised any programme on the occasion of Dasehra.Parminder Singh Bhandal, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, said an alert was sounded following seizure of explosives near the international border. Security was tightened in the city, Bhandal added.“Permission was granted at four places where ADCP rank officer was entrusted the job of providing fool-proof security. Anti-sabotage teams and sniffer dogs were pressed into service. Areas around the four spots were thoroughly checked. Security was also provided at these sites in the night so that no anti-social elements could create trouble,” said Bhandal. Besides, security was also beefed up around religious shrines and vital installations, Bhandal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/peaceful-dasehra-celebrations-held-in-amritsar-no-untoward-incident-reported-325055
16-10-2021||---||Covid guidelines go for a toss during Dasehra celebrations in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 15Ravan Dahan marked Dasehra celebrations here today. Hundreds turned out to watch Ravana, Kumbhkaran and Meghnad go up in flames after an year due to the Covid pandemic.Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni was the chief guest at the celebrations held at Durgiana Temple, while former Deputy Chief Minister and Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal was the chief guest at the celebrations held in Ranjit Avenue.Soni while addressing the gathering at Durgiana Temple said, “Dashera festival reminds all that only good deeds of a person are remembered.” The celebrations at Ranjit Avenue were completely political as former minister and ex-MLA from Amritsar North Anil Joshi, former ministers Bikram Singh Majithia and Daljit Verka were present on the stage.The highlight of the celebrations was floats/tableaux prepared by Ramleela committees depicting significance of the festival.Apart from Durgiana Temple and Ranjit Avenue, effigies were also burnt at Trillium Mall, Verka, Chheharta, Majitha Road, bypass and Ram Nagar Colony, Islamabad.Despite restricted celebrations allowed by the administration in wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, no guidelines were followed at venues as crowds of people were seen without face masks. All venues were overcrowded. This was despite clear instructions that only half of the capacity of venues was to be utilised during Dasehra celebrations. Social distancing too went for a toss as unregulated crowd thronged venues.Celebration held in Tarn Taran as wellTarn Taran: Dasehra was celebrated in Tarn Taran with great traditional fervour. The bazaars and shops, particularly that of sweets, utensils and fruits, were colourfully decorated. People in large numbers gathered to see the effigies of demon king Ravana, Kumbhkaran and Meghnad go up in flames at the local Dasehra ground on Friday. Tarn Taran MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, put the effigies on fire. Effigies were also burnt in Patti. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-guidelines-go-for-a-toss-during-dasehra-celebrations-in-amritsar-325043
16-10-2021||---||Singhu murder case: Victim’s sister junks sacrilege charge||GurbaxpuriTarn Taran, October 15Raj Kaur, sister of Lakhbir Singh of Cheema Kalan village here who was found dead at Singhu border, has questioned the circumstances leading to his murder. She said, “He was a drug addict and had just Rs 50 in his pocket. He couldn’t have travelled to Delhi on his own to commit sacrilege. There is a conspiracy behind his killing.” Lakhbir had been living with his sister after his wife and children left him a couple of years ago. Raj Kaur said Lakhbir used to steal utensils and other items from home and neighbourhood to get his daily dose of drugs.She said Lakhbir took Rs 50 from her on Wednesday to go to Jhabal. She said he went along with a person who was in the guise of a Nihang. He also attended a marriage function in the village on Wednesday and consumed liquor. She said he would often talk with someone on phone whom he addressed as “Sandhu sahib” and claimed that he had developed contacts with the “higher-ups”.Avan Kumar, village sarpanch, said it was matter of investigation that how an addict who had just Rs 50 in his pocket reached Delhi and committed an act of sacrilege.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/singhu-murder-case-victims-sister-junks-sacrilege-charge-325173
