17-10-2021||Amritsar||Paper reading & singing competition||Business Plan Contest organisedZannat of Class XII and Shabtaab Singh Khaira, of Class XI, both students of Spring Dale, were adjudged as the winners in the “LPS - Let’s Start Up” - A business plan competition. The competition was organised by Learning Paths School, Mohali, on the virtual platform. The team secured the first position competing with the top-level schools of the region. School principal Rajiv Kumar Sharma shared with joy that the team under the guidance of their teacher Amit Mehra competed in three rounds and showcased their business and entrepreneur skills in presenting the business plan on producing sustainable plastic for the toy manufacturers was appreciated by the judges on its viability, cost effectiveness eco-friendly nature and was praised for presenting the projected financial statements.Seminar on Cyber SecurityTo celebrate the cyber security month, a webinar was organised on Saturday at Khalsa College of Engineering and Technology (KCET) in association with the Institution Innovation Cell of the College (KCET-IIC) on ‘Cyber Security and Its Emerging Applications’. The resource person Dr Rakshit Tandon, Director ‘Hackershala’ highlighted the new challenges and solutions of the rising threat to the security of the internet and cyber world which has become part and parcel of our daily lives. Dr Manju Bala, Director KCET said in this technological era, awareness of cyber security is the need of the hour. She said with the people sharing data through various online portals with one another, it is important that we all be aware about security related to this. Tandon who is a cyber-security enthusiast discussed in detail about various trending cyber threats and the common cyber traps data users fall into.DAV students excel in MSc ChemistryDAV College students in MSc (Chemistry) Sem- II secured six positions as the results were declared by GNDU. Deeksha Tuli and Anmol Arora of MSc (Chemistry) Sem-II have bagged first and second positions securing 431/450 and 427/450 marks respectively. Jasmine, Akshit, Harmanpreet, Shubhangini got fourth, fifth, seventh and ninth positions respectively by securing 417, 415, 411 and 405 marks out of 450. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar congratulated the students and applauded the efforts of the head and faculty of PG Department of Chemistry. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paper-reading-singing-competition-325568
17-10-2021||---||Shweta Kapoor’s works displayed at art gallery||Amritsar, October 16 In the fifth session of the Sanjha Punjab festival organised by Majha House, four eminent poets came together to weave a tapestry of peace, love and hope across borders. Participating in this online session were poets from Pakistan Neelam Bashir, Anjum Qureshi and Davinder Saifee and Arvinder Chamak from India.  Prof SS Behl, member, Majha House, said: “History shows that whenever people are separated by arbitrary borders drawn by divisive politics, the affected people keep on striving to create means to come together once again. One such effective bridge has always been poetry, which is truly the expression of heart.”  Arvinder Chamak, who was also the moderator of the session, requested Neelam Bashir to talk about her massively popular song ‘Guandanen gal sun’, performed by her sisters and actors Bushra Ansari and Asma Abbas. “I realised that peace cannot be achieved anywhere without the active participation of women. When I wrote this song, I had no idea that it would take the world by storm and the calls of love and gratitude that I received from India far outnumbered Continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shweta-kapoors-works-displayed-at-art-gallery-325569
17-10-2021||---||‘Patti-Makhu railway track to help traders’||Amritsar, October 16Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni and Industries and Commerce Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli held a meeting with importers and exporters here on Saturday.Kotli said Patti-Makhu railway track would commence soon and link Amritsar and Ferozepur. He said it would reduce transportation time of cargo between Mumbai and Punjab. He said the government was working to give relief to public under the institutional and professional taxes. Kotli said one-time settlement scheme would be relaunched to give benefits under the VAT.Soni said a delegation of traders would soon meet Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. RS Sachdeva, an industry representative, stressed on opening bilateral trade with Pakistan to give thrust to trade and industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patti-makhu-railway-track-to-help-traders-325570
17-10-2021||Amritsar||Trader loses Rs 2 lakh in phishing attack||In yet another incident of online fraud, a knitting trader lost Rs2 lakh from his account in May this year. Following a probe, the police have registered a case against two persons identified as Purunda Negua of Midnapore, West Bengal, and Sandip Sadhu of Ahmadpur, West Bengal. Till now, no arrests have been made.The victim, Dharminder Sethi, stated to the police that the accused made two online transactions from his account in a fraudulent manner. Ironically, he received a message of withdrawal of the amount several hours later. He alleged that money was withdrawn from his account due to negligence of the bank authorities.The police have registered a case under Section 420, 120-B IPC and 66-D of the Information Technology Act against the two accused. Cops said further investigation was under progress and efforts were on to nab the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trader-loses-rs-2-lakh-in-phishing-attack-325571
17-10-2021||---||Chandigarh-based couple carjacked, five men booked||Amritsar, October 16In yet another incident, five unidentified armed persons snatched a car from a Chandigarh couple from near Manawala here on late Thursday evening. Though the police have registered a case in this regard, there has been no breakthrough so far.Parul Bhardwaj, a resident of Sector 42-C, told the police that around 10pm on Thursday, they reached near Manawala. He said they halted their car (CH-01-BJ-8723) for answering nature’s call and when he came back, five persons who were travelling in a car, stopped them.He said two of them entered his car and asked them to get out. He said apart from the car, they also took away his laptop, purse and three expensive mobile phones. The car also contained a bag containing gold jewellery, purse of his wife Jaipreet Kaur.Sawinder Singh, investigating officer, said CCTV cameras in the area were being scanned to find some clues about the suspects. The mobile phones were switched off near the Amritsar bypass road. He said further investigations were under progress.Not the first timeEarlier, a youth Arshdeep Singh was allegedly shot dead by some carjackers on October 8. The police were yet to make any breakthrough in that case as well. He along with his friends had also stopped the car to answer nature’s call by the roadside, when unidentified robbers entered his car. Arshdeep tried to resist but he was shot dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chandigarh-based-couple-carjacked-five-men-booked-325572
17-10-2021||---||Bank manager held for Rs 3.75-lakh fraud||Amritsar, October 16The police have arrested a manager of a private bank for allegedly withdrawing money fraudulently from the account of an NRI identified as Tejinder Singh of Canada. The victim originally hails from Fairland Colony located on the Fatehgarh Churian Road here.The bank manager identified as Punit Kumar of Jandiala was arrested from the Delhi airport, after he returned from Dubai. A case under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC was registered against him at the NRI police station here.Tejinder Singh in his complaint said he has his saving account at a private bank located on Court Road here. He said on December 5, 2011, an amount of Rs6.69 lakh was deposited in the account and in 2014 the amount increased to Rs7.44 lakh, which included the interest. He said Punit Kumar was a Relationship Manager at the bank.He said taking advantage of his post he got released a cheque book of his account after filing a request. He said he forged his signatures and withdrew Rs3.75 lakh from his account on different dates.When an inquiry was initiated against the accused, he escaped to Dubai, following which a lookout circular was issued on his name. The police authorities said on October 13, he returned from Dubai and was detained by the airport authorities at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. The NRI police were informed about this and on Thursday, a team went to Delhi and took him in custody.He was produced before the duty magistrate, which sent him to police remand for further investigations, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bank-manager-held-for-rs-3-75-lakh-fraud-325573
17-10-2021||Amritsar||Arrears of power consumers waived in Amritsar||Providing relief to power consumers from poor families after the economic distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Deputy CM OP Soni on Saturday announced the government’s move to waive the pending bills of consumers of up to 2 KW load.Formally making the announcement, he also waived bills of consumers who were present there. He said this pro-poor decision taken by the Cabinet had been implemented at the grassroots level in response to the long-standing demand of the people whose power connections were cut off due to non-payment of bills. He said now the Punjab Government would pay the arrears of such defaulters itself.He said arrears up to Rs 11,000 crore had been waived across Punjab. Soni said in the city alone, arrears of Rs 50 crore had been waived today, which will benefit more than 45,000 people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arrears-of-power-consumers-waived-in-amritsar-325574
17-10-2021||---||Handwashing Day: Clean hands to cut risk of common infections: Doctors||Amritsar, October 16An event to sensitise general public regarding the hand hygiene was organised at Community Health Centre, Manawala, on Saturday. The event was organised as part of the awareness drive initiated as part of the Global Handwashing Day, which was observed on October 15.People should be aware about the importance of proper handwashing technique as it saves them from various infections. One should wash hands with soap for at least 20 seconds. It helps in killing germs. Dr Sumit Singh, Senior Medical OfficerPeople should not touch their nose, eyes and mouth, including face mask, after touching any object which may be contaminated. Dr Charanjit Singh, Civil SurgeonSenior Medical Officer Dr Sumit Singh said people should be aware about the importance of handwashing and proper hand washing technique as it saves them from various infections. “One should wash rinse hands with soap for at least 20 seconds before washing it off the hands. It helps in kills the germs,” he said adding that kids should be taught the technique by teachers and parents as it they would inculcate this good habit, it would help them stay healthy throughout life. He added that most of the respiratory and diarrheal infections are communicated from one person to another through hands.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said, “People should not touch their nose, eyes and mouth, including face mask, after touching any object which could have been contaminated or after shaking hands with persons.” He added that Global Handwashing Day is an apt time to learn this hygiene tool and educate others about the same.Block Extension Education Sourav Sharma said, “We are using innovative and interactive tools to create awareness among the public especially small children.” He said that hand washing technique may seem trivial but most people who do wash their hands do not do it properly as a result of which chances of getting infected are more. Senior Pharmacy officer Manjit Singh, lab technician Kashmir Singh Kang and other health staff took part in the drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/handwashing-day-clean-hands-to-cut-risk-of-common-infections-doctors-325575
17-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Rs 600-cr Bus Rapid Transit System corridor awaits repair in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 16The design of the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS), stated to be a faulty one, has been triggering accidents amid infrastructural shortcomings on a regular basis. On September 18, a youth lost his life when he was allegedly run over by a BRTS bus near the Golden Gate area.The authorities appear to have failed to conduct maintenance and install reflectors to avoid accidents.Started in 2016, the multi-crore BRTS project has been lacking maintenance and remained neglected. The project is worth Rs 600 crore, but the lanes don’t appear to justify the colossal amount invested in construction as they are in pathetic condition at many points, say residents, adding that poor planning and usage of substandard material has done most of the damage to its infrastructure.The grills installed alongside the corridors are also missing from several locations. For officials, drug addicts are the usual suspects. Some broken grills, too, are lying on the road leading to accidents. The reflectors and other traffic infrastructure are also missing.Most of the accidents happen when commuters on the main road fail to recognise the starting point of the corridor.In 2019, a committee constituted by the state government had identified nine black spots on the 31-km-long BRTS corridor.After the study, traffic experts had written to the Public Works Department to take appropriate action to prevent accidents, but the latter is yet to act.Black spots had been identified at Bhandari Bridge, BRTS station outside the railway station, Valmiki Chowk, Putligarh Chowk, Civil Hospital, Ramtalai Chowk, Husainpura Chowk, Mall Mandi Chowk and Alpha Mall.Experts claimed that lack of proper signage, reflectors and other safety infrastructure led to accidents on the BRTS corridor.Gopala Dhawan, a traffic expert, who studied the accident patterns in the BRTS lanes, said the authorities should install reflectors and signage of no entry of other vehicles and a dedicated bus lane on every entry point. “Such signage is missing on the route. Secondly, the authorities have to educate the commuters and city residents about the rules and risks,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-600-cr-bus-rapid-transit-system-corridor-awaits-repair-in-amritsar-325576
17-10-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar district reports two more +ve cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-two-more-ve-cases-325577
17-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Minor raped in Saidpur, 1 booked in Tarn Taran village||Finally, the police have registered a rape case three weeks after a 13-year-old girl was raped in Saidpur village.The accused has been identified as Jaswinder Singh alias Jassa Halwai (35). SI Geeta recorded the statement of the victim wherein she said the accused sent intoxicants to her on September 26, which she mixed in her parents’ food.She said after her family members fell asleep, she went to the house of the accused where he raped her. The police have registered a case under Sections 376 of the IPC, Section 3/4 of the POCSO Act. The medical of the victim was not conducted as the victim’s family was not ready for it. The accused is at large. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-raped-in-saidpur-1-booked-in-tarn-taran-village-325578
17-10-2021||---||Poets weave a tapestry of peace, love & hope across borders||Amritsar, October 16In the fifth session of the Sanjha Punjab festival organised by Majha House, four eminent poets came together to weave a tapestry of peace, love and hope across borders. Participating in this online session were poets from Pakistan Neelam Bashir, Anjum Qureshi and Davinder Saifee and Arvinder Chamak from India.Prof SS Behl, member, Majha House, said: “History shows that whenever people are separated by arbitrary borders drawn by divisive politics, the affected people keep on striving to create means to come together once again. One such effective bridge has always been poetry, which is truly the expression of heart.”Arvinder Chamak, who was also the moderator of the session, requested Neelam Bashir to talk about her massively popular song ‘Guandanen gal sun’, performed by her sisters and actors Bushra Ansari and Asma Abbas. “I realised that peace cannot be achieved anywhere without the active participation of women. When I wrote this song, I had no idea that it would take the world by storm and the calls of love and gratitude that I received from India far outnumbered those from here. It became even more apparent that songs of peace and love resonate alike everywhere.”Davinder Saifee said peace cannot come unless you are fearless. “What I have always felt that even if you are writing for love and unity, you must be fearless in your expression. If it is up to our politicians to be divisive and to suppress voices of dissidence, it becomes every poet’s duty to speak against these forces fearlessly,” he said.Anjum Qureshi, too, shared her experience about how poetry transcends borders and barriers. “I remember that when my first book of poetry ‘Main Labhan Chali’ was published, I received a call that a scholar from India had done his Ph.D on it. I was delighted to find that my poems had found resonance with people, who live across the border. It just goes to show that in our hearts, we were all still united, bound to each other,” she stressed.Arvinder Chamak said the festival was dedicated to the memory of Kamla Bhasin, the fearless activist. “All through her life, she fought oppression and was very vocal for the freedom of expression. Sanjha Punjab, an initiative of Majha House, is also devoted to the cause for freedom and love and peace and unity across borders everywhere. And today, through heart-wrenching, sensitive and fearless poetry, we have once again shown that borders or no borders, our hearts beat alike. We all harbour the same hopes and our fears are the same too. We might be divided by borders, but our hearts will always beat as one,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poets-weave-a-tapestry-of-peace-love-hope-across-borders-325579
17-10-2021||---||15 more properties sealed by Amritsar Municipal Corporation||Amritsar, October 16The property tax wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) was active on weekend too. The officials sealed 15 commercial establishments for the non-payment of property tax here on Saturday.Seven out of 15 defaulters deposited the pending tax soon after their property was sealed, while eight properties are still sealed.Commercial properties, which are doing a good business on prime locations of the city, are reluctant to pay tax. We don’t want to defame any brand by sealing its doors, but property owners should respond to our notices and pay due tax on their own. Daljit Singh, Nodal officerOn Saturday’s action, the MC sealed two prominent hotels including Khyber Intentional on Queen’s Road and Country Inn. The Country Inn management assured to pay the tax on Monday.Apart from this, a famous makeup saloon and Hide Out bar was also sealed on Old Jail Road. Two showrooms in a shopping complex at Lawrence Road were sealed. A nationalised bank was also sealed but they paid pending tax amount on the spot. Some shops of goldsmiths were about to get sealed but with the assurance of local councillor, the action was postponed.The property tax wing has sealed more than 80 commercial units, including several prominent hotels, restaurants, banks and brand showrooms, during the last one week. The MC has collected around Rs80 lakh from these establishments.Daljit Singh, nodal officer for property tax, said the commercial properties, which are doing a good business on the prime locations of the city, are reluctant to pay the tax on their own. “We don’t want to defame any brand by sealing its doors, but the property owners should respond to our notices and pay the tax on their own,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/15-more-properties-sealed-by-amritsar-municipal-corporation-325580
17-10-2021||---||Dengue case count crosses 1,000-mark in Amritsar district||Amritsar, October 16The dengue count in the district has reached 1,029 with 379 new cases reported by the Health Department in the last four days. Also the number of patients undergoing treatment at private hospitals or recovering at home with the symptoms similar to dengue is much more.The situation has aggravated to the extent that people have been finding it difficult to find a bed in hospitals. A family member of a patient said, “Even the costliest and biggest hospitals in the city are short of beds.” He said he had to use his influence to get a bed at a private hospital, which claimed that they already had admitted more patients than their capacity.The health authorities said spread of dengue would reduce with a drop in temperature. “Dengue period many extend by 15 more days,” said a health official.The Amritsar Municipal Corporation has claimed to conuduct fogging in all 85 wards every week. The lack of awareness among general public about dengue was also one of the reasons behind the current situation.Principal Kulwant Singh Ankhi said, “People should drain out water from fridge, change water of plants and should not let water stagnate in coolers or utensils as it helps in breeding.”A senior official of the Health Department said, “No doubt the number of patients are high, but viral fever, which results in low blood platelet count is also active.” He said a few patients who had reported low platelet count tested negative for dengue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dengue-case-count-crosses-1-000-mark-in-amritsar-district-325581
17-10-2021||---||Farmers’ organisations burn effigies of PM, Amit Shah in Amritsar district||Amritsar, October 16On the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the farmer organisations burnt effigies of corporate honchos and BJP leaders over the killing of four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri, who were protesting peacefully, at various locations of the district. Effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Ajay Kumar Mishra were burnt at 15 places, including Raiya, Majitha, Ajnala, Attari, Chugawan and Nawan Pind.Speaking on the occasion, union leader Palwinder Singh Jethunangal said at present, Modi, Yogi and Amit Shah had come up with an awkward weapon — skyrocketing inflation — with which they were hitting every section in the country. They are showing its fascist face by not paying attention to solving their problems. Prof Parminder Singh, Amolak Singh Mehta, Amandeep Singh Arati Union President, Sumeet Singh and Sucha Singh Ajnala stated in their address that the Union Government should solve the problems of the farmers as soon as possible to save agriculture.“Handing over Punjab to BSF up to 50 km from the border could have very deadly consequences. We have to give the answer in the form of peace and tranquility as the people of Punjab and the country will not allow the Modi-inspired policy of prolonging their rule,” said Parminder Singh.City residents hold demonstration Amritsar: Effigies of top BJP leaders, including PM Narendra Modi, were burnt by residents of the holy city against the atrocities on farmers and the sale of the country to big corporate houses instead of repealing the three contentious laws here on Saturday. The demonstration was led by the Holy City Farmers’ Group, in which a number of residents, including children and women, participated. The residents, who were holding banners, raised anti-BJP slogans. In Tarn Taran, centre’s approach to defame stir condemnedTarn Taran: On the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the protesting farmers and other mass organisations on Saturday organised protest rallies in different parts of the district. They were protesting against the Lakhimpur Kheri (Uttar Pradesh) violence in which eight persons, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed on October 3. Effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, political leaders and honchos of the corporate sector were burnt in the rallies. Workers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, organised a rally near the District Administrative Complex (DAC) in which a huge number of farmers and women participated. Sawinder Singh Chutala, state leader (KMSC), and Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president (KMSC) of the organisation, were among others who spoke on the occasion. The leaders sharply condemned the Union Government for its communal approach to defame the farmers’ agitation and also condemned the repressive tactics of the Union Government to muzzle the peaceful agitation. The farmer organisations affiliated with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha organised a rally at the local Gandhi Municipal Park and burnt an effigy here. On the occasion, Baldev Singh Pandori, Ajaib Singh Aladinpur and others demanded a repeal of the three contentious farm laws. The farmers and other sections organised protests and burnt effigies at Chabal, Sarai Amanat Khan, Bhikhiwind, Khemkaran, Kot Budha, Patti, Harike, Sarhali, Naushehra Pannuan, Chohla Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Fatehbad and other areas too. The organisations warned the Union Government against its inhuman approach in handling the farmers’ agitation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-organisations-burn-effigies-of-pm-amit-shah-in-amritsar-district-325582
