18-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Intoxicant seizure : Chemist’s shop sealed in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 17Days after the seizure of huge quantity of sedative pills, the Amritsar rural police have sealed the shop of a chemist, identified as Vivek Mahajan, who was at large since the seizure.The case in a nutshellIt all started with the arrest of Karamjit Singh of Ram Divali Hindua village on October 2. The police recovered 100 intoxicant tablets from him. When the police started probing the backward link, they arrested a quack Kirpal Singh of Verka, from whose possession the police recovered certain intoxicants. During their interrogation, the police held a medical representative, who used to supply the same to them. He was identified as Rohit Kumar. His arrest led to the arrest of a chemist Naveen Gupta from Katra Sher Singh area on October 4. The police confiscated 13, 500 tablets from his shop. His interrogation led to the confiscation of 1.8 lakh sedative pills and arrest of another chemist Manu Mahajan on October 7. His arrest lead the police to Ankush Mahajan, another chemist on October 10.It is suspected that a huge quantity of intoxicants was stashed inside the shop. A number of calls to Vivek Mahajan's family members and relatives for opening the shop for carrying out search proved futile and therefore, the police had to seal his shop. Raids are on to nab Vivek. —  Himanshu Bhagat, SHO Kathunangal police stationThe police have till now made seven arrests in the case and further investigations were still on.The police said it suspected that there were huge quantity of intoxicants stashed inside the shop. A number of calls to Mahajan’s family members and relatives for opening the shop for carrying out search proved futile and therefore, the police had to seal his shop, said Himanshu Bhagat, SHO Kathunangal police station, adding that raids were on to nab Vivek Mahajan.Those arrested in the case till now include Naveen Gupta, Rohit Kumar, Manish Mahajan, Karamjit Singh, Kirpal Singh, Munna and Ankush Mahajan. Besides Vivek, the police were also conducting raids to nab another accomplice Sunny Tarzen in the case.The police said the accused used to procure sedatives from Bhopal and Uttarakhand. Recently they had procured medicines worth Rs5.4 lakh, the police officials said. Of this, 1.92 lakh intoxicants were seized by the police.“Though they used to procure the same on bills, they used to sell these further without any documentation or bills,” said an official privy to the investigation.According to the police source, the police have also prepared a list of over 24 chemists who were allegedly involved in the illegal sale and purchase of sedatives. Investigations were under progress to ascertain the facts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/intoxicant-seizure-chemists-shop-sealed-in-amritsar-326068
18-10-2021||---||Every bus plying on Punjab roads will have to pay tax, says Transport Minister Raja Warring||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 17Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring made a surprise visit at Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Inter State Bus Stand (ISBT) on Sunday, where 20 unauthorised buses of private operators, including one bus of the Orbit Aviation, was impounded due to incomplete documents.He said: “The evasion of tax, plying of illegal buses and bus mafia will not be tolerated. Every bus, which plies on the state’s roads, will have to pay taxes.” He said Punbus and Pepsu were earning profit of Rs40 lakh per day after the strictness against illegal and unauthorised private buses and bus mafia. He said: “I am trying to increase daily income of the department by Rs1 crore.”Besides inspecting taxes of buses, trucks and other vehicles, he also directed the officers of the Transport Department to ascertain current condition, including the age, pollution level and safety of the vehicle to ensure that these vehicles do not endanger anyone’s life on roads.The minister also reprimanded the officials for the lack of cleanliness at the ISBT. Looking at the minister lifting litter, officials in attendance also followed suit and started removing refuse from the ISBT.He said public places such as bus stands and interior of buses should be clean like one’s own house and warned officials that such negligence would not be tolerated in future.He interacted with passengers at the ISBT and those in the buses. He said as many as 842 new buses would be added in the fleet of government buses so as to provide better facilities to the passengers in the state. He said soon a tender worth Rs22 crore would be passed to improve the condition of workshops.Taking a dig at SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, he said during his government, state-run buses were ignored and private transport companies were given a free hand.On the expansion of the BSF’s jurisdiction at the borders of Punjab, he claimed that the secret alliance between the SAD and the BJP was intact. To buttress this, he pointed out that former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal continues to occupy the allotted house in Delhi and security cover by the NSG. He said no Congress leader in the state has an NSG cover.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/every-bus-plying-on-punjab-roads-will-have-to-pay-tax-says-transport-minister-raja-warring-326069
18-10-2021||---||Weekend rush at Darbar Sahib inconveniences residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 17With three consecutive holidays, a huge rush of devotees at Darbar Sahib led to traffic jams in the interior parts of the city here on Sunday.Visitors faced inconvenience while searching for parking space as all parking lots were full. The entry of vehicles on the overbridge leading to the Saragarhi parking, which is the main parking lot for visitors of Darbar Sahib, was blocked. This further led to jams on Gheo Mandi Chowk and Sheran Wala Gate Chowk.The devotees were seen scurryng for parking spaces on the Outer and Inner Ring Roads of the walled city.Davinder Singh, a devotee from Rauke village of Moga, said: “We reached the holy city around 9 pm on Saturday. We waited for two hours for the parking at Saragarhi. Then, we left the city early morning to pay obeisance to some other gurdwaras on the periphery of the city. Later, when we returned, the Saragarhi parking was full. It took two hours to find a space for parking. We have parked our car on the roadside and are afraid of theft.”Hardeep Singh, another devotee from Sangrur, said: “There should be a good arrangement of parking and public transport for Darbar Sahib. We have parked our car near the bus stand and walked towards the shrine. The roads were jam-packed and not fit for pedestrians. Not only this, there is no proper public transport to reach the Golden Temple by parking vehicles away from the walled city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/weekend-rush-at-darbar-sahib-inconveniences-residents-326070
18-10-2021||---||Jalandhar district reports no fresh Covid case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 17The district Health Department has not reported any new Covid positive case on Sunday. It has, however, reported recovery of one patient, with which the total recovery count increased to 45,739.The district has reported a total of 47,338 positive cases so far and 1,595 deaths due to the disease. At present, the district has a total of four active cases. Meanwhile, 946 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Sunday. Of these, 531 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 415 received the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jalandhar-district-reports-no-fresh-covid-case-326071
18-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Showing the way: Straw management’s hands-on experience||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 17Satnam Singh, a farmer of Rajjian village in Ajnala, has set an example for others by not burning crop residue for the past 12 years.Satnam and his brother, who own 18 acres, adopted all the available mechanism for straw management.I have been doing farming for the past 12 years and have never burnt crop residue in the fields. In 2008, I began using 'happy seeder' and 'zero tillage'. Earlier, we had to scatter stubble manually in the field. Now, combine harvesters can chop and scatter crop residue in the fields. It is very helpful for farmers. — Satnam Singh, A farmer of Rajjian village in AjnalaSatnam said, “I have been doing farming for the past 12 years and have never burnt crop residue in the fields. In 2008, I began using ‘happy seeder’ and ‘zero tillage’. Earlier, we had to scatter stubble manually in the field. Now, combine harvesters can chop and scatter crop residue in the fields. It is very helpful for farmers.”Satnam got recognition from various agricultural agencies, including Punjab Agricultural Management and Extension Training Institute (PAMETI), Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) and the Agriculture Department, for his efforts to save the environment.Soon more farmers from Rajjian village started to follow Satnam as he was able to get more yield from the fields by not burning stubble.In 2018, Rajjian village was chosen under United Nations Environment Project (UNEP), for not burning stubble in the fields. With Satnam’s motivation and machines provided under the UNEP, most farmers began straw management.“Continous efforts and the state government’s financial aid are needed to stop stubble burning. Farmers have to be motivated to adopt straw management techniques,” said Satnam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/showing-the-way-straw-managements-hands-on-experience-326072
18-10-2021||---||Stubble burning goes unchecked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 17Despite tall claims by the government to curb stubble burning, farmers are burning paddy straw in their fields in the area. The departments concerned have failed to check the practice even in the peripheral areas of the city.Dense smoke can be seen in paddy fields as farmers are burning the paddy straw everywhere. Vegetable growers and dairy farmers are preparing their fields for vegetables and fodder.Farmers claim that they cannot afford mulching the straw in fields or other solutions suggested by agricultural experts.“There were a few farmers, who were adopting some techniques of plough or storage of paddy straw. But they have to spend money at least 4-litre diesel extra on one acre to chop the stubble with harvesting combine. The mulching process also needs money. The debt-ridden farmers can’t afford this. The government should bear the expenses if they want to address the problem. The speeches to save the environment would not give any solution. No farmer wanted to burn the paddy straw in the fields but there should be some viable solution,” said Jeewan Singh, a farmer at Khankot village.“The government does not want some strict action against farmers. It is an election year and farmers are already organised against farm laws. The strictness would agitate them,” said an agriculture official requesting anonymity.The Agriculture Department has been conducting awareness programmes to apprise farmers of the ill-effects of straw burning on soil health and the environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stubble-burning-goes-unchecked-326073
18-10-2021||---||Woman ends life, husband booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 17Rajwinder Kaur (32), a resident of Lohgarh village, falling under the jurisdiction of Khalchian police ended her life by consuming some poisonous substance.Following the complaint filed by the victim’s family, the police have booked her husband, Sarabjit Singh on charges of abetment to suicide.The police handed over the body of the victim to her family following autopsy.Sub-Inspector Tejpal Singh (investigating officer) said Raj Kaur, mother of the victim, told the police that her daughter got married to the accused around five years ago. She said they had given sufficient dowry as per their capacity. However, the accused started harassing her for bringing insufficient dowry. She said Rajwinder told her a number of times about this. She said perturbed over the continuous harassment, she consumed some poisonous substance. The police have registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC against Sarabjit and further investigations were under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-ends-life-husband-booked-326074
18-10-2021||Citizens should ask for good governance||Open House:  Should sops or good governance be a priority for political parties to seek votes?||Instead of providing sincere, efficient and hard working governance, the whole concept of election is now confined to announcements of freebies to voters. Politicians do provide freebies from the taxpayer’s money and get a bigger cut for themselves in form of many perks. In addition to numerous facilities our representatives do get pension after retirement for the services they render as MP, MLA or MLC. Strangely ex-MP get pension even if he is getting pension as MLA or MLC. Further their pension amount depends upon the number of terms they served in state legislature or Parliament. So they do announce freebie for the voters openly but do get many benefits for themselves. To have enhanced pension for number of terms or representing in different houses also fall in the category of freebie. But voters can’t oppose it because they are also attracted to these benefits of freebie. So, instead of asking for freebies, we as responsible citizens should ask for good governance.Harsh Johartaxpayers want Essential servicesIn our country, starting with birth certificate and ending with death certificate, we are to pay for all sorts of services then what is the purpose of freebies? First of all, vigilant voters should ask for the proper supply and maintenance of the essential services. If we get proper power and water supply, then we save money on inverter/ generator and RO system respectively. Similarly, if we pay road tax then why we are charged toll tax? The government is to provide security to every citizen, but everywhere private watchmen render services in residential and commercial areas. Now, further burden of installation of CCTV cameras is added for security purpose. Only negligible part of the population is getting education and health facilities at government institutions, rest are subjected to private institutions with exorbitant charges. So instead of getting freebies we as voters should ask the politicians to provide us basic necessities of life and create more and more employment opportunities so that people can themselves earn and pay for it.Nityanshi ChopraPoll confined to caste politics, freebies onlyIndia is a poor country, inhabited by rich politicians. To prove this saying no special survey is required, the data already in public domain about BPL families and details of assets of politicians while filing nomination papers are more than sufficient to endorse it. What is the meaning of election manifesto, detailing economic and other policies of a particular political outfit, when a hungry voter is in search of two times meal? The old saying, when asked for sum total of two plus two; a hungry man replied four chapaties, is relevant even today. In response to a question, in an interview, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal rightly said, “If you don’t live up to your manifesto, people don’t get angry”. Hence, our whole election exercise is confined to freebies and caste system and our politicians do play to it thereby forgetting governance and development.Naresh JoharDon’t get swayed, vote on crucial issuesEven as the din of electioneering is yet to reach its crescendo, the nooks and crannies of the assembly constituencies in the state have started resounding with promises of free electricity, waiver of outstanding power bills, free and uninterrupted water supply, and good roads, with the aspiring candidates trying to sway the electorate with grand promises and unlimited offerings. But it’s more of political rhetoric, which is likely to be forgotten when the chosen ones come to power. More often than not these offerings vanish into thin air once a candidate is elected, with the voters being left high and dry. It’s a time-tested fact that requires little validation. While sops definitely do sound lucrative, voters shouldn’t be swayed by these as only time will tell whether these would become reality or not. Considering the prevailing state of affairs, the state needs able and visionary statesmen, who can offer good governance, which would eventually smoothen things out, thereby negating the need for sops.Shaheen P ParshadBring law againstthis stark briberyThe politicians treat voters like a king treats his subjects. They keep them starved and just before the elections, they dole out freebies or other sops only to entice them to get their votes. They, in a way, own their constituency and quarrel over it like dogs, and the whole game is to gain power and then to remain in power, by hook or by crook. For them, the voters are a ‘cattle class’ whose memory is short and analytical power nil. Amid unequal incomes, rampant unemployment and abject poverty, freebies such as aata daal, cooking gas cylinders or lure of free electricity are all very efficient vote catching devices, even if the exchequer is empty, and the state is facing the worst power crunch in history on account of coal shortage. The previous government gave away thousands of free bicycles to girls with only votes in view. In fact, parties promise the moon in their manifestoes, but, if they come to power, they forget everything and abandon their constituencies after the elections and the leaders live in palatial luxury. The poor and ignorant masses don’t understand that it is their own money, the taxes they paid indirectly while purchasing petrol, diesel, commodities etc. which is squandered in such ‘sangat darshan’ extravaganzas invented by the previous government. The Election Commission should ban this practice. In fact, it is high time there is legislation to check this ‘legal’ form of bribery which is the bane of a multi-party system bereft of any ethics or values.Mohan SinghResist such practices of politiciansPoll freebies announced by parties ahead of election are political gimmicks to lure gullible voters with intent to grab the seat of power by hook or crook. This freebies culture has played havoc with state’s financial resources impacting the infrastructural development and good governance the most. Free electricity, free bus travel, loan waivers by banks has turned these entities to a white elephant and a hub of corrupt practices. People are still deprived of basic facilities like better road network, potable water facility, uninterrupted power supply & affordable health & education infrastructure even after decades of populist poll promises offered by various political parties of every hue & cry. It is time, the parties should shun this wrong practice adopted till now for a better tomorrow. People want better public utility services, job avenues & rise in living standard & not the lollypop of smartphones and laptops. Good governance, free of corruption is the key to a holistic development of a state. Good governance would automatically lead to increase in tax revenue collection & decrease in debt burden for better fiscal management of state treasury. The ECI should ban parties making lofty promises in their election manifestos without having any budgetary provisions and treat it as violation of the model code of conduct. Legal action must ve taken political outfits which are making mockery of democracy.Anil VinayakPeople get attracted to freebies easilyIdeally, good governance should be the priority for seeking votes. I don’t believe there is any argument against that but if the government knows it has been incompetent or hasn’t lived up to its promises and expectations, it’s going to go around distributing freebies to the public as one last desperate step to hypnotise voters. Which makes sense for them to do honestly, but is it right? Unfortunately, people’s moral compasses stop working on the sight of anything free. The capability, credibility and reliability of any party should be the factors which need to be taken into account before voting for them, not the brand of the alcohol or size of the cash bundle being distributed for votes. It’s interesting to see how these parties follow the democratic set-up but plague it for their own convenience and to cover up their ineptness. Luring the crowd with free items shouldn’t be allowed at all in my opinion; the fate of the general population shouldn’t be tampered with by a few rapacious weak-minded individuals, considering how every single vote can make a difference. The government should do well for the people in the end days; leave a legacy which persuades the people enough to vote for them instead of buying their votes through free items.Gurjas SinghNothing more than a trap to lure votersIt is the good governance, not the so-called freebies that should take precedence over sops. As the normal development projects fail to deliver, political parties and governments, without exception, take the support of crutches of freebies before election time to win the loyalty and allegiance of the voters for coming to power. There is no logic and justification for sops, rather this is pure populism which demonstrates that parties and governments have no vision whatsoever how to change things for the good of the people. It is a sort of trap to lure voters and the people living in poor economic conditions just walk into the trap unmindful of how it shakes the very roots of free and fair poll. Society needs virtuous, far-sighted, consensus oriented and not demagogic leaders to provide lasting solutions to the problems of the electorate. Therefore, the public should not fall for free atta-dal, free 300 units of power, free bus-ride, subsidies etc. but it should demand vociferously free education for its children, free MBBS like courses, jobs for its wards, power at affordable rates, essential commodities at reasonable prices, health services within the easy reach of one and all, good roads, pollution free environment in the cities, end of corruption ,drug abuse free society, justice, top-notch law and order , accountability of public servants etc. People should vote taking into consideration the merit, credibility, character and personality traits of an aspiring candidate. There must be a provision to recall the elected representatives if they fail to fulfill their lofty promises dangled before the credulous people. All concerned must know that the way out of poverty and corruption is paved with good governance, not with freebies and sops. Hence, temptations such as sops and freebies must be resisted. Parties are more concerned about winning elections by hook or crook than serving the people in earnest. And sops are nothing short of political corruption.Tarsem S BumrahIt’s the taxpayer who bears the bruntCome the pre- election year, spree of doling freebies is in full swing. This politics of freebies is nothing but an illegal way of vote buying act indulged in by the politicians in or out of power of states going to polls in few months. Free 300 power units were promised by Kejriwal which has now been upped to 400 by Sukhbir. Ruling dispensation in Punjab is not much behind the opposition parties in making promises through the politics of freebies. These efforts of swaying by offers of freebies especially the free power for a section of society is at the cost of the majority of the public who has to pay their bills. Freebies like free power to farmers and a section of society is one of the main causes of unscheduled power cuts. Anything given free is root cause of shortage of any commodity and so is in the case of power shortage in summer when consumption of electricity is at the peak. By increasing any amount of power production there will always be a shortage if free power is given because when something is free it is used much more and is also wasted. It has become a political gimmick to promise freebies by all the political parties, so when any of these parties come in power, they try to fulfill the promises they had made. The result is that during summer and heat waves, any installed power capacity falls short of demand, because those getting free power consume much more than even their requirements and needs. Free power to any section of society is an injustice to those who are paying their high power bills through their nose. All promises of freebies made by political parties must be banned by Election Commission or by the Supreme Court of India. Lure of freebies needs to be replaced with promises of good governance, which can bring about a pleasant change in the lives of people.LJ Singhpoll manifesto should be a legal documentIt has become a common practice for the politicians to make big promises in their election manifestos and then forget about them after getting elected. There should be a law to make the election manifesto of the elected party a legal document as soon as it comes into power. There should be some strict penalties if the party fails to abide with its pre-poll promises so that it stimulates them to work for the betterment of people. People should also do their part and constantly inquire with the elected representatives about the things they promised and the things they delivered.Jatinderpal Singh BatthNot good for welfare of any stateCertainly, good governance should be the priority of political parties for seeking votes. The voters are very much disgruntled by false promises of political parties in order to just grab power. Crime has increased manifold times in Punjab and political parties seeking votes should make it primary issue in order to ensure good governance by them if voted to power. Development of infrastructural activities such as roads and making power surplus Punjab should be included in sops.SANJAY CHAWLAFreebies, good administration can co-existQUESTIONEvery year, we pledge to celebrate cracker-free Diwali, but it somehow vanishes into thin air. What steps the district administration must take to make eco-friendly Diwali a success? Do you think it is the sole responsibility of the administration only to curb pollution?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 21)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-should-sops-or-good-governance-be-a-priority-for-political-parties-to-seek-votes-326076
18-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Tension grips Patti over possession of gurdwara||Tension gripped Patti area over the possession of historical Gurdwara Bhath Sahib by a group of Sikhs led by Nihang Prem Singh.Several persons including Sewadars Lovepreet Singh and Ranjodh Singh and two minor children are locked inside a room for the last 36 hours. They had posted a video on social media, while writing a suicide note. They said in case they died, only the police administration, one Baba Avtar Singh and Nihang Prem Singh would be responsible for their death.Speaking to mediapersons, Bibi Daya Kaur, one of the members from the victims’ side, said Avtar Singh had no rights over the possession of the gurdwara. She said due to political patronage, Baba Avtar Singh with the help of the police administration was forcibly taking possession of their property. She along with Baba Gurbachan Singh alleged that Sewadar Nahbir Singh was kidnapped by the police and taken to an undisclosed place. She said if the administration failed to provide justice to them, they would go to Gurdwara Bhath Sahib tomorrow and the police administration would be responsible for any untoward incident there. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tension-grips-patti-over-possession-of-gurdwara-326077
18-10-2021||---||CME on abdominal imaging, 405 radiologists attend event||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 17A continuous medical education (CME) session on abdominal imaging was organised by the Indian Radiological and Imaging Association (IRIA) on Sunday.The event was attended by 405 radiologists from different states of the country. Dr Ramesh Chander, president, IRIA, Punjab, said delegates were given hands-on training by the experts from different institutions. He said latest techniques and trends in the field of imaging were discussed by prominent radiologists including Dr Vara Prasad, chairman, Indian College of Radiology and Imaging; Dr Maha Prakash and Dr Kushaljit Sodhi from the PGI. Dr Ramesh said the CME had been accredited seven credit hours by the Punjab Medical Council.The conference was inaugurated by Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Commissioner of Police, Amritsar; Dr C Amarnath, IRIA president; and Dr Sandeep Kavthale, secretary IRIA. Dr Sukhchain Gill highlighted the role of radiologists in the field of medicine and exhorted them for their efforts during the Covid pandemic.Dr Ramesh Chander said IRIA had approved the venue of the national conference scheduled for January 2023 after visiting Guru Nanak Dev University. He said the national conference in the city would be attended by 10,000 delegates from across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cme-on-abdominal-imaging-405-radiologists-attend-event-326078
18-10-2021||Amritsar||Singhu killing not Sikhs vs Dalits issue, says Dal Khalsa||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/singhu-killing-not-sikhs-vs-dalits-issue-says-dal-khalsa-326079
18-10-2021||Amritsar||Farmers’ Rail roko protest today||Theft at school: one arrestedTarn Tara: Gursahib Singh of Bhure Gill village has been arrested by the Sadar police with items stolen from a government school on Saturday. Sub-Inspector Kewal Singh said the accused had stolen one 43” LED, three speakers and a school bell on Dasehra, when the school was closed. The police officer said the stolen items have been recovered from him. A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered in this regard. OCJatt Maha Sabha holds meetingTarn Taran: The district unit of the All-India Jatt Maha Sabha in its meeting organised here on Sunday sharply condemned the Union Government for increasing the range of the BSF from 15 km 50 km. The sabha members said it would be totally against the federal system of the country and the rights of states. Mehar Singh Chutala, district president, said in the move of the Union Government, the existence of Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Ferozepur and that of Fazilka would be eliminated and the six districts would be under the Union Government’s rule. Chutala said Punjabis would not allow this anti-Punjab policy to be implemented in any way. Baljinder Kaur, Harcharan Kaur and other leaders, too, spoke on the occasion. OCSBI organises loan utsavAmritsar: State Bank of India (SBI) organised a ‘loan utsav’ for its customers at gurdwara Santokhsar on Sunday. General Manager Sumeet Phaka said in order to fulfill the dreams of customers during the festive season, the loan utsav was held and even sanction letters for housing loans were also given. He said they want to to ensure both safety and trust of cutomers through SBI General Insurance and SBI Life. The one-day loan festival was organised by Rajesh Kumar and Mahesh Kumar Modi, Regional Manager, Regional Business Office Amritsar-1 and Amritsar-2, respectively. SBI Chief Manager Sumit Gautam and Shashi Gupta were also present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-rail-roko-protest-today-326080
