19-10-2021||---||Farmers block rail tracks in Amritsar, Tarn Taran, passengers suffer||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18On a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha demanding action against Union MoS Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish Mishra, farmers blocked railway tracks at different places in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts on Monday. The farmer leaders stated that the BJP government at the Centre was trying to save Minister of State for Home and his son.The farmers demanded that Ajay Mishra should be immediately sacked from the Cabinet and arrested for planning the murder of farmers by crushing them under the wheels of vehicles.The farmers also criticised the Union Government for extending the power of BSF to conduct searches within 50 km from the International Border in Punjab. Moreover, they also criticised the government for the spiralling prices of diesel and petrol.Farmer leaders Rattan Singh Randhawa, Balbir Singh Dudala, Jatinder Singh Chinna and others demanded that BJP leaders should stop spreading lies and hate against farmers, who had been protesting peacefully for more than a year. They demanded that the three controversial agriculture laws should be immediately repealed.In Tarn Taran district, the farmers protested at three different places on the Amritsar-Khemkaran railway route despite the fact that the train services have not been resumed after these were suspended due to the Covid-induced pandemic earlier last year.Activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and unions associated with the SKM staged protests in Tarn Taran city while members of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha blocked the railway tracks in Patti town.Sarwan Singh Pandher of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee said, “While the farmers are not getting the right price for their produce, consumers are forced to buy these at much higher prices.” The recent increase in prices of onion, tomato and apples for the consumers can be attributed to the monopoly of corporate houses.Train schedule disruptedWith farmers blocking the rail traffic between 10am to 4pm, the railway schedule got disrupted. Despite that, a majority of passengers showed solidarity with the farmers. During their ‘rail roko’ protest, some trains originating and departing from the Amritsar railway station were affected. The New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi, the Saryu Yamuna Express and the weekly Amritsar-Nanded Express were among the affected ones. Besides, popular trains Shan-e-Punjab Express (which arrives here at 2.15pm and departs at 3.15pm) and Nangal Dam Express did not reach the station. Railway officials stated that they did not cancel any trains and would operate them after rearranging the schedule in the evening. The worst-sufferers were passengers of long-destination trains as they had booked their tickets in advance. They cannot afford to forego their reservation despite already knowing announced protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-block-rail-tracks-in-amritsar-tarn-taran-passengers-suffer-326490
19-10-2021||---||Rs 10-cr grant released to clean Amritsar's Tung Dhab drain||Amritsar, October 18Efforts were being made to clean and revive the Tung Dhab drain in phases, said MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, during a meeting with officials of the district administration, the Municipal Corporation and the Punjab Pollution Control Board held here on Monday.“After cleaning the drain, water from the Jethuwal canal will be released to revive it. For this, a channel to link the drain with the canal will be constructed at a cost of Rs7 crore. Waste is being discharged into the drain by 74 dairies, factories and inhabitants of 17 panchayats. It is not possible to clean the drain in one go,” said the MP.Under the first phase, diaries will be encouraged to establish biogas plants and ‘chappars’ (ponds) will be developed in 17 villages. Aujla said the government had released Rs10 crore for cleaning the drain and the capacity of the sewage treatment plant would be increased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-10-cr-grant-released-to-clean-amritsars-tung-dhab-drain-326491
19-10-2021||---||Amritsar police to bring gangster  Jagroshan Hundal on production warrant from Mohali||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18Another notorious criminal Jagroshan Hundal, wanted in the killing of notorious gangster Rana Kandowalia, has been nabbed by the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU), Mohali, from Mohali. The city police would also bring him on production warrant and arrest him in the murder once he is sent to judicial custody after investigation by the OCCU.Jagroshan Hundal along with his accomplices had gunned down Rana Kandowalia in a private hospital on Circular Road on August 3. The police have arrested around four persons in the case so far, while Jagroshan Hundal, the prime suspect in the case, has been evading arrest since.Hundal was an accomplice of notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and Lawrence Bishnoi and on their instructions he had committed several crimes in the last few years, said the police.Assistant Commissioner of Police Harminder Singh said Hundal was arrested in Mohali while he was planning to execute some crime. He said the police would bring him on production warrant to arrest him in the Kandowalia murder case. Hundal had several criminal cases registered against him in Amritsar, Batala, Ludhiana, Mohali and Chandigarh.According to the police, in 2017 he had kidnapped a youth, Karan, and later killed him in Tarn Taran area. He was arrested over a year ago and later came out on bail. However, he again started his criminal activities on the directions of Bhagwanpuria and Lawrence Bishnoi.Bhagwanpuria had an old rivalry with Kandowalia who had threatened to kill Jagroshan a few days ago before he was gunned down.A team of the OCCU arrested Hundal from Sector 91 in Mohali and confiscated a revolver and 15 cartridges from his possession on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-to-bring-gangster-jagroshan-hundal-on-production-warrant-from-mohali-326492
19-10-2021||---||Four test positive for Covid in dist, no death||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18Four persons tested positive for Covid here on Monday taking the total count of cases in the district to 47,342. The health authorities also reported recovery of one patient from the disease. With this, the total number of patients, who recovered from Covid, has increased to 45,740 in the district. At present, the district has seven active cases.Meanwhile, 5,099 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive here on Monday. Of these 2,653 received their first vaccine dose while 2,446 got jabbed against virus for the second time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-test-positive-for-covid-in-dist-no-death-326493
19-10-2021||---||Khalsa College, Amritsar, opens Sikh research centre for public||Amritsar, October 18The Sikh History and Research Centre at Khalsa College opened for public after a long delay due to the pandemic. The project was undertaken by the college management to create a space dedicated to the history of the Sikh culture. The centre houses rare artifacts, manuscripts, paintings and other items from the 18th and the 19th century.Dr Joginder Singh, in charge, research centre, said, “Tourists, research scholars and students are regular visitors to the museum section at the centre. It has five galleries, each dedicated to a specific subject, and there is no entry fee for the visitors. Only the ones, who want to use the Sikh history library, have to pay Rs 200. The library has over 7,000 books, scriptures and documents significant to the Sikh history.”The work on the centre began in 2019, and was supposed to finish by 2020. However, it was delayed due to the lockdown. The key attraction for the scholars at the centre is the library, which has historical documents and journals brought from Britain and Lahore. The manuscripts include ‘Pothi Mehrban’ and ‘Janam Sakhi of Guru Nanak Dev’. There are approximately 6,397 books, of which, over 500 are a century-old. Apart from this, two old ‘birs’ of Guru Granth Sahib are also present.Dr Joginder Singh said, “International research scholars have shown interest in visiting the centre. Recently, we hosted an eminent historian and researcher from Hyderabad. We hope to establish the centre as a seat for excellence in Sikh literature.” The museum and library are open for visitors from 9am to 4pm, on week days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-college-amritsar-opens-sikh-research-centre-for-public-326494
19-10-2021||---||4 holy books burnt in fire in Majitha||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18Four religious books were damaged in a fire incident reported from the Majitha area on Monday. While members of the community have termed it an act of sacrilege, the police investigation reveals that the fire erupted due to short circuit. No substantial proofs were found, which could establish the fact that the incident was an act of sacrilege, said the police.We are not leaving any angle out of the probe. Forensic teams have collected samples from the spot to ascertain the cause behind the incident —  Abhimanyu Rana, Assistant Superintendent of Police“As per preliminary probe, fire erupted because of the short circuit. Investigation is still under progress,” the police added.Mohammad Irshad, a resident of Ward No. 5 in Majitha, stated to the police he worked as sewadar of the Jama Masjid and Dargah Baba Jahoor Shah, located on the Kathunangal road in Majitha. Irshad said his residence was in the Dargah. Yesterday morning, when he woke up for performing sewa he saw fire in the room adjoining Dargah, Irshad added. He immediately opened the room and found some holy books kept on the fridge burning in the fire, said Irshad. He saw a petrol bottle near the window, which indicated that some miscreant had started fire, Irshad added. The miscreant entered room after scaling wall of the Dargah, said Irshad.Abhimanyu Rana, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), said initial probe revealed that short circuit had caused fire. No movement of any person was found in the CCTV footage of the camera installed at the Dargah, the ASP added.“We are not leaving any angle out of the probe. Forensic teams today collected samples from the spot to ascertain the cause behind the incident,” the ASP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-holy-books-burnt-in-fire-in-majitha-326495
19-10-2021||Amritsar||SGPC to start Sikh Mission in Ujjain||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) would set up a Sikh Mission at Gurdwara Sri Guru Nanak Ghat, Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh.Two days ago, the Sikh Sangat (Community) of Ujjain met SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur in Indore during a religious congregation organised in the memory of late Gurdeep Singh Bhatia, former president of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh Kendri Sri Guru Singh Sabha. They briefed her about the ongoing works at Gurdwara Sri Guru Nanak Ghat at Ujjain.Bibi Jagir Kaur announced that a Sikh Mission would be set up at Ujjain through the SGPC Dharam Prachar Committee and pracharak jathas (preachers’ groups) would be sent to the area. “This Sikh Mission will work for promoting the Sikh faith in Madhya Pradesh as well as in the nearby border areas of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-to-start-sikh-mission-in-ujjain-326496
19-10-2021||---||Protests over expansion of BSF jurisdiction||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18Members of the Amritsar unit of Aam Adami Party (AAP) on Monday burnt the effigies of Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for extending the jurisdiction of the BSF up to 50 km inside the international border in Punjab.‘Move against spirit of federalism’During a protest held here at Puttalighar Chownk on the GT road they burnt their effigies. They raised slogans against Channi for ‘selling rights’ of state to the BJP government.Jeewan Jot Kaur and Prabhbir Singh Brar, president and general secretary of the district unit of AAP (Urban), said they are against the move of the Centre extending the BSF’s jurisdiction. They accused that CM Channi met the Home Minister Amit Shah with the plea of drones from Pakistan straying into the Indian territory and border being vulnerable.AAP leaders Harwant Singh Umranangal and Seema Sodhi accused the Narendra Modi government for weakening the federal structure of the country.Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, October 18In a protest against expanding the BSF jurisdiction up to 50 km inside the international border in Punjab, workers of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) burnt effigies of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday.The workers were led by Baljit Singh Khaira, in-charge, Khadoor Sahib constituency and Gurwinder Singh Beharwal, district president.Party leaders Kashmir Singh Sohal, Ranjit Singh Cheema, Gurdev Singh Sandhu, Harpreet Singh Dhunna and other while addressing on the occasion alleged that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in his first meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah gave him the nod to expand the power of the BSF. They added that the step will put the border area farmers in trouble as they have to approach both the central and state government in case any dispute arises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protests-over-expansion-of-bsf-jurisdiction-326497
19-10-2021||---||Sri Guru Ram Das University organises conference on palliative care||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences in association with National Association of Palliative Care for AYUSH and Integrative Medicine (NAPCAIM) organised a palliative care conference here.The theme for the conference was “Leave no one behind, equity in access to palliative care.”Dr Baljit Kaur, Assistant Director, Health Services Punjab, was the chief guest at the event. She emphasised on the role of Guru Nanak Dev in providing compassionate care to the people suffering from leprosy at those times.The keynote address was delivered by Dr Katherine Pettus, Senior Advocacy Director, International Association of Hospice and Palliative Care, USA on the topic role of advocacy in palliative care and by Dr Gregorio Zuniga, assistant professor, Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Canada, on the topic equity in pediatric palliative care.Dr Bhupinder Singh Walia, member, Punjab Medical Council, Dr Abhijit Dam, president, NAPCAIM and Dr Piyush Gupta, secretary, NAPCAIM, shared their views about the importance of palliative care.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sri-guru-ram-das-university-organises-conference-on-palliative-care-326498
19-10-2021||---||Residents flay MC over dog menace||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18Though the Municipal Corporation is undertaking sterilisation of dogs to curb the menace in the city, the canines continue to trouble the tourists visiting the Darbar Sahib.After the launch of the Animal Birth Control Centre, the MC officials had promised the residents that they would address the problem of dog menace on priority. The authorities are aware of the increasing number of animals in the area surrounding the Golden Temple. Movement on the heritage street has become difficult as dogs can be seen roaming in this area.Residents say the dogs get aggressive on seeing the visitors and often attack them.Ravi, a tourist from Delhi, said, “About 15-20 dogs keep on roaming in the narrow street. They bark at each other and may attack the visitors too.”As per the MC, 15 dogs had been sterilised every day after the Animal Birth Control Centre at Naraingarh became functional. Over 1,000 dogs had been sterilised so far, the officials said. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the Animal Birth Control Centre had the required infrastructure and the civic body would speed up the process of sterilising dogs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-flay-mc-over-dog-menace-326499
19-10-2021||Amritsar||2-day UNESCO club seminar concludes||The confederation of UNESCO Clubs and Associations in India in collaboration with Chief Khalsa Diwan organised a two-day seminar on the theme ‘Save Water, Save Life’ at Central Khalsa Orphanage on October 17 and 18. The closing ceremony that was held today saw a cultural programme where students and participating delegates enjoyed music and dance events. Dressed in their ethnic attire, students put up an entertaining show through folk duet and orchestra. Students brought the auditorium alive with various aspects of the Punjabi folk culture through their scintillating performances. Class X CBSE toppers were honoured with mementos, certificates and other gifts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-day-unesco-club-seminar-concludes-326500
19-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Cost constraint: Gujjars only takers of paddy straw bales||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18Gujjar, a nomad community that keeps cattle, are the only takers of bales of paddy straw in the area. Farmers in the vegetable grower belt are using the baler mechanism in their fields for straw management, but they don’t find many buyers of paddy straw bales.The preparation of bales is a costly process as a farmer pays Rs2,000 per acre to baler machine operators and approximately Rs1,000 for fuel consumption.After spending Rs3,000 per acre, there are a few takers for paddy straw bales. Meanwhile, experts of the Agriculture Department are promoting the mechanism, which poses a challenge for its users.Agriculture experts claimed that more people had adopted the baler mechanism for paddy straw management this year. The government should link industry and millers with farmers, who can buy these bales and use them as fuel, they added.Sukhraj Singh Gill, agriculture officer, Verka, who is promoting the baler technique to curb stubble burning said, “We are promoting this technique only in those areas where farmers grow vegetables. Otherwise, we suggest incorporating the crop residue in the field to maintain soil health. If farmers sell or burn straw, it will cause deficiency of nutrients in soil.”Gill has tied up Gujjars, who pay for the baler machine, while farmers pay for the cutter. With this association, a Gujjar get bales at Rs2,000 and the farmer manages his straw at Rs1,000.“The Gujjars have limited capacity. One Gujjar family can purchase maximum 10 acres of paddy straw. What other farmers will do. The government agencies should explore more areas, where these bales can be used and from which farmers get its viable cost,” said Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cost-constraint-gujjars-only-takers-of-paddy-straw-bales-326501
19-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar market turns into waste dump||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 18Crores spent on raising a full-fledged market at Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar on the Vallah road have gone waste. As no regular shop has opened in the market people use it as place for parking vehicles and disposing of garbage. Long delay in lifting garbage has turned the place into a breeding ground for mosquitoes.A resident Sarbjit Singh said, “Passing through the stretch has become an onerous task. Stench emanating from the garbage dump and mosquitoes discourage people from venturing on the road. This is despite the fact that wholesale fruit and vegetable mandi is located close to the market.”The Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) had constructed over 30 double storey shops with a basement in 2007. Most shops remain locked, giving the impression of being unoccupied. So, people freely dump their garbage in the parking area of the market.Built on an area of 85 square yard, each shop has constructed area of about 800 square feet with an attached toilet and even provision for a pantry. Moreover, the entire market is open from two sides with enough room for cross ventilation.Ravinder Kumar, Executive Engineer, AIT, said, “Despite best efforts people did not evince interest in buying these shops. The Trust managed to auction only five shops and these, too, remain locked. Finding the market unoccupied, people from the surrounding areas dump their garbage here. They do not heed to repeated warnings issued from time to time to prevent them from dumping waste in the market.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sri-guru-teg-bahadur-nagar-market-turns-into-waste-dump-326502
19-10-2021||Amritsar||Vigyan Mahotsava at DAV College, Amritsar||Inter-College Cultural competitionsYouth Festivals of Guru Nanak Dev University are starting from October 19. A large number of student-artists will participate in these festivals. Prof Anish Dua, In charge, Youth Welfare Department and Dean Student's Welfare while giving details about the festivals said that first festival of 'B' Zone is going to organise from October 19 to 21 in which GNDU affiliated colleges of Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran districts are participating. The festival will be organised in various venues Dasmesh Auditorium, Guru Nanak Bhavan Auditorium, Conference Hall, Architecture Department and Lecture Theatre Complex of the Guru Nank Dev University. He said Youth Festival of Education Colleges is to be organised from October 25-27 and GNDU Govt./Constituent college/Associate Institutes' youth festival is scheduled from October 29-31. The youth festival of 'D' zone of Kapurthala and NawanShahr district colleges will be held on November 6-9 and from November 12 to 15. TNSRefresher course in humanitiesAn online two week refresher course was inaugurated by UGC-Human Resource Development Centre of Guru Nanak Dev University. Prof Sudha Jatinder, Director HRDC of the university welcomed the chief guest Prof Hardeep Singh, Dean, Academic Affairs, and all participants. Prof Hardeep Singh delivered the special address and said very soon such courses will be switched over to offline mode. He mentioned that this course will help in providing insights into understanding the importance of Humanities as a discipline as well as its role in our day-to-day life. Dr Rajvir Kaur, Dy Director HRDC presented the scheme of the course and introduced them with the framework of various activities to be undertaken by participants for next two weeks. TNSVoter’s Awareness Camp organisedA voter’s awareness camp for registration of new voters was organised at Saroop Rani Government College for Women, Amritsar, Amritsar North Constituency, in which students were sensitised towards voting process and encouraged to register. This form can be filled by students on National Voter Service Portal ( www.nvsp.in ) or Voter Helpline App . Nodal Officer of the College, Prof Kiranjit Kaur and Sector Officer, Davinder Saini were present along with the BLOs in the area. They said new voters can also download their forms and information from National Voter Service Portal ( www.nvsp.in ) or Voter Helpline App ( Voter). Helpline App) and apply from home as well. TNSAdmission schedule for Dec examThe online submission for December 2021 examination forms and fees for Under Graduate Sem 1,3,5,7,9, and Post Graduate Sem 1,3 for Private/Regular students through online portal http://collegeadmissions.gndu.ac.in/loginNew.aspx scheduled. Prof. Manoj Kumar, Prof. Incharge Examinations said that the process for filling online semester examination form (full subjects/re-appear/special chance/additional subject and improvement) and fee through online mode or draft/cash at University cash counter for Private candidates and manual form (special chance/additional subject) for annual supplementary has been started. Last date of private students for printing fee slip/to select subjects on portal and generate the challan by colleges is November 15, 2021 without late fee. TNSArmanpreet 3rd in singing contestTarn Taran: Armanpreet Singh, a student of Guru Amar Das Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib, brought laurels to the school by winning Shining Star State Award, 2021 in singing by bagging third position. The state-level competition was organised by E-max India at Sri Muktsar Sahib recently. School Principal Manisha Sood said Armanpreet Singh was honoured by the school managing committee on Monday. Director of the school Jatinderpal Singh Randhawa congratulated Armanpreet Singh. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vigyan-mahotsava-at-dav-college-amritsar-326503
19-10-2021||Amritsar||Man held with illegal weapon||prisoners clash in Central JailAmritsar: Two groups of prisoners clashed at the high security Amritsar Central Jail here on Monday. The police have booked eight prisoners in this regard. They were identified as Palwinder Singh, aka Pindi of Rajasansi, Nitin Kumar of Kot Khalsa, Gursharanjit Singh, alias Chini of Kotli Sheikhan, Rahul of Chawinda Devi, Vishal Singh of Faizpura, Jaswinder Singh of Patti Hindu Sanghna in Chatiwind, Amritpal Singh of Chheharta and Paramjit Singh, alias Billa of Guru Ka Khuh in Tarn Taran. Balvir Singh, Assistant Superintendent of Jail, said Palwinder, Nitin and Rahul had an old enmity with the remaining prisoners. They were lodged in barrack number 4 when they clashed with each other, he added. A complaint was lodged with the Islamabad police against them, which registered a case under Section 52, Prisons Act, for violating jail rules, he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-with-illegal-weapon-326504
