20-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Two bomb shells recovered from a house in Patti||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-bomb-shells-recovered-from-a-house-in-patti-326971
20-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Girls shine in poster-making contest||Students take part in virtual meetAmritsar: The PG Department of CS and IT, DAV College, Amritsar, was selected as a local hub for Asia Pacific Regional Internet Governance Forum (APRIGF-2021). Students of BCA, BSC (IT), BVOC, MSC, and PGDCA participated online in the four days virtual forum held in hybrid mode in Amritsar. This information was shared by principal Dr Rajesh Kumar. During the breakout session, Prof Priyatosh Jana, vice president, ISOC India, Kolkata Chapter, conducted IGF workshop for the college students. Students signed the solidarity statement regarding growing concern to the Internet community in Afghanistan and Myanmar. A quiz competition was held on the topics covered in the conference and the winners were awarded with certificates.MP Malik inaugurates open gymMP Shwait Malik inaugurated an open gym on the premises of Shri Ram Ashram Public school. Two gyms were installed in both The Mall branch & Batala Road branches of the school by the funds provided by Malik out of his MPLAD funds. Malik who was an alumnus of the school of 1978 batch, shared his memories and his journey of becoming an MP. In his brief speech, he urged students to make the best use of this gym as exercises keep them physically fit and disease free. The school has ‘All Purpose’ a well-equipped indoor gym but this open gym is more accessible to every child in the school during school hours also. He promised to install a play station for the nursery wing and assured every support to the school in future also. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girls-shine-in-poster-making-contest-326969
20-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Stone laid for road works damaged||The foundation stone of laying interlocking tiles at the T-Point on Sarhali Road near Majha College for Women by Cabinet minister has been found damaged.Sukhbinder Sarkaria had laid the foundation stone on August 14 to lay interlocking tiles on both sides of Sarhali Road. It’s surprising that the road is thoroughfare and officials and politicians often pass the road daily many times.Jatinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh and other shopkeepers running their establishments near the foundation stone site said they found the stone damaged a few days ago when they came to their shops in the morning.The shopkeepers alleged some vehicle might have hit it. At the same time, they said the poor material was used in the construction of the stone.Rajnish Arora, SDM-cum-Administrator of the local municipal council and Sharanjit Kaur, Executive Officer of the MC, failed to give a clarification in this regard. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stone-laid-for-road-works-damaged-326968
20-10-2021||---||Zonal youth festival kicks off at GNDU||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 19Power-packed bhangra performances kicked off the inaugural day of the Zonal Youth Festival at GNDU. After a gap of two years due to the pandemic, the usual buzz around a youth festival returned as teams from Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Taran Tarn districts competed in various cultural activities.While inaugurating the youth festival Amritsar Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh, remembered his own college days as he talked about the importance of memories made during such culturally festivals. Prof Anish Dua, Dean Student’s Welfare and in-charge of Youth Welfare Department, said students of 13 colleges are participating in about 36 art items in the three-day festival.On the first day, bhangra performances enthralled the audience at Dashmesh Auditorium. Apart from bhangra, group shabad/bhajan, group songs, classical instrumental percussion, classical instrumental non-percussion, classical singing, war singing, kavishari, painting on the spot, cartooning, poster making, collage making, on-the-spot photography, clay modeling, installation competitios were held throughout the day. The university authorities maintained that all precautions are being taken to ensure that the festival is held keeping in mind health safety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/zonal-youth-festival-kicks-off-at-gndu-326967
20-10-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar MC seals properties of 20 tax defaulters||The property tax wing of the Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) sealed 20 properties of tax defaulters here on Tuesday. Three of them paid the tax amount on the spot and MCA officials opened the seal. During the ongoing sealing drive, the property tax wing had sealed 17 properties on Monday. Seven property owners paid the dues and opened their shops.Daljit Singh, nodal officer for property tax, said, “Six shops have been sealed on Dhapai Road, four commercial establishments on Airport Road, a banquet hall and three shops in Katra Moti Ram have been sealed.MC officials claimed that the drive would continue in the next few days. Daljit urged the traders and residents to pay the dues to avoid inconvenience. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-seals-properties-of-20-tax-defaulters-326966
20-10-2021||Amritsar||‘Resume Metro bus service to Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Amritsar||Local NGOs have urged Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and the district administration to resume the city metro bus service under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) that was launched with much fanfare on August 17 from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Amritsar, to Gheo Mandi Chowk near the Golden Temple. The bus route was suspended two weeks after the start, due to demonstration by private mini-bus operators.Office bearers of Fly Amritsar Initiative and Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) expressed their displeasure that city airport is the only international airport in the country that is without public transport connectivity with city centre and other cities of Punjab and neighbouring states despite receiving many international and domestic flights.On the contrary, state transport department runs Punbus and PRTC Volvo/Mercedes deluxe bus service from many cities of Punjab to Delhi.Sameep Singh Gumtala, Fly Amritsar Initiative, said passengers from Punjab, especially the NRI diaspora, and even airlines have often expressed their discontent for Amritsar Airport not having inter-city and inter-state bus connectivity. The long-standing demand was partially met with the start of metro bus service from the airport to Gheo Mandi Chowk, located at walking distance from the holy precincts of the Golden Temple.The administration though has been trying hard time to make Metro Bus a success, but most of the routes are not succeeding due to various reasons. However, the bus route from the airport to Gheo Mandi was successful from day one with ridership increasing to over 1,400 passengers daily. Thousands of travellers on this route in future will reduce the number of vehicles on roads, said Gumtala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/resume-metro-bus-service-to-sri-guru-ram-dass-jee-international-airport-amritsar-326965
20-10-2021||---||SAD leader Anil Joshi alleges scam in ration distribution||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 19Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Anil Joshi has alleged that an individual in connivance with Congress MLA has been managing subsidised ration of 15 depots.Joshi said, “The needy are complaining of not getting adequate supply. A family having five members was given ration just for two persons. Many blue card holders are running from pillar to post after their names were struck off from the lists of beneficiaries.”“After I raised voice against this injustice, I received a video in which depot holders are threatening to burn his effigies across state. I does not fear and stand by impoverished people and will not tolerate their rights being snatched away,” said Joshi.‘Sidhu cannot become CM’Former local bodies minister Anil Joshi said PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is unlikely to become Chief Minister. Once an aide of Sidhu, Joshi said as he belongs to the Pandit community, he knows that Sidhu does not have a line on his palm, which can make him the Chief Minister.He said the government released stock of ration for 10 months during the Covid-19 induced lockdown and some depot holders installed their own flour mills.Joshi claimed that it obviously hinted that there was connivance among officials and the minister. He said he would write to Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and seek Vigilance Bureau probe.He also asked PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to show where he had spent Rs 60 crore as an MLA during the last five years.Joshi also condemned the Health Department under for its inability to curb dengue. “More than Covid-19, people suffering from dengue are dying. All hospitals are overcrowded. Government issued health cards are not being accepted,” said the Akali leader .He equated the Congress government to a chit fund company, which promise to double the money within months. Similarly, they are promising free utilities, including power and water, he said.He said the Centre should find solution to the demands of the agitating farmers and urged farm leaders to avoid frequent bandhs as they hit the state’s economy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-leader-anil-joshi-alleges-scam-in-ration-distribution-326964
20-10-2021||Amritsar||Two nabbed in Green Avenue robbery case||The police have nabbed two suspects in a robbery case in which an elderly woman, a resident of the Green Avenue locality, was looted by armed looters on October 8. Earlier, the police had arrested a woman in this regard.Those arrested were identified as Jaspreet Singh alias Prince and Arshdeep Singh alias Ashu, both residents of Ludhiana. The police recovered the gold bangles, a bike and sharp weapons used in the crime.Sarabjit Singh Bajwa, Assistant Commissioner of Police, said on October 8, unknown persons had entered the house of Prabha Tandon and looted jewellery and three mobiles.The CCTV footage of the incident had gone viral. During the investigation, the police had arrested Jaswinder Kaur of Ludhiana. She used to do job at the house and recently left the job. She had planned the robbery along with her son-in-law Jaspreet and his brother Arshdeep Singh.He said a sword, a bike, besides two gold bangles were recovered from them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-in-green-avenue-robbery-case-326963
20-10-2021||---||Guru Nanak Dev University inks pact with National Defence Academy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 19Cadets, who get boarded out midway of their three-year training at the National Defence Academy (NDA), can now continue studies without losing an academic year.A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was on Tuesday signed between Guru Nanak Dev University and the National Defence Academy, Pune, in the presence of Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Sandhu and Lieutenant General Asit Mistry, PVSM, AVSM, SM, VSM, Commandant, National Defence Academy, and Prof (Dr) Om Prakash Shukla, Principal, National Defence Academy, Pune.Professor Sandhu emphasised that this marked the beginning of a new era of cooperation between GNDU and the NDA. He said, “The objective of the agreement is to provide much-needed migration to the boarded out cadets of NDA for continuation of their studies at Guru Nanak Dev University. It is a great step towards rehabilitation to such cadets to complete their essential qualifications by way of lateral entry into BA/BSc/BSc (Computer Science) and B.Tech /BBA/BCom programmes at Guru Nanak Dev University.”Lieutenant General Asit Mistry in his message said, “The academy decided to sign MoUs with various reputed universities in consultation with the Headquarters-Integrated Defence Staff (HQ-IDS) so as to assist such cadets in transferring their credits. Such a step would remove the fear of uncertainty and academic loss from the minds of young and capable aspirants.”Prof Hardeep Singh, Dean (Academic Affairs), said in order to provide much- needed rehabilitation, the university had approved the provision for the boarded out NDA cadets to be allowed to get admission in even semester of corresponding course in GNDU and also appointed Dr Preet Mohinder Singh Bedi as professor in-charge to coordinate with officials of the National Defence Academy.According to the NDA authorities, around 6,000 cadets have passed out from the academy over the last 10 years. In this period, approximately 2.3% cadets (around 138 cadets) had withdrawn from the academy for not being able to meet the academic goals, outdoor training, discipline standards or due to injuries/medical conditions during the course of training or old medical disorders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-dev-university-inks-pact-with-national-defence-academy-326962
20-10-2021||---||Sarpanch nabbed for snatching bid||Amritsar, October 19Five persons tried to rob two youngsters who were heading back from grain market after unloading paddy. However, the victims resisted their attempt, and counter attacked the miscreants. Taken by surprise, four of them allegedly fled away, while one of them was nabbed and handed over to the police.The accused has been was identified as Harman Singh alias Happy, who is a sarpanch of Mahadipura village, in Majitha.The vicitm, Ravinder Singh of Begowal village, told the police that on Monday, he along with his cousin Sukhpal Singh were heading back to the village on a tractor after unloading paddy at the grain market in Dhade village. He said when they reached near Chhota Kathnunangal, five unknown persons attacked them with iron rods, took out Rs 500 from his pocket and asked to handover whatever we had with us.Ravinder said he and his cousin also took out an iron rod from his tractor and attacked the miscreants. Left surprised, the accused fled away from the spot. Somehow, the duo managed to catch Harman.Assistant Sub-Inspector Ajit Singh (Investigating Officer) said Harman was unanimously elected as a sarpanch of Mahadipura village after the demise of his father Chhinda Singh.The ASI said Harman was produced before the court, which sent him to three-day police remand. He said further investigations were under progress to identify and nab his accomplices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarpanch-nabbed-for-snatching-bid-326959
20-10-2021||---||Amritsar: Money, efforts to conserve, renovate Rambagh Deorhi go down the drain||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 19Money and efforts used to restore and make the Deorhi at the Rambagh Gate functional as a site for heritage tourism seems to have failed as the 200-year-old structure remains locked two years after the completion of the project.A significant part of history, the Deorhi opens as a passage to the historic Rambagh Gate, a witness of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s era and a place of court interaction during the time. It was among the 12 historic structures restored under the HRIDAY project with noted conservation expert Gurmeet Rai leading the conservation work.In 2019, several months after the restoration work was completed on the Deorhi, it was opened briefly for the public by the MC. But without any promotion and lack of vision for its operation, the footfall remained low. In early 2020, due to the pandemic, it was shut down completely. Post-lockdown, it still remains shut for the public.During the expansive conservation project, it was planned to have a ‘lok virsa’ museum for the public and a small segment to showcase folk and trade culture of the state was also set up on the premises. A light and sound show was also started briefly. A roof top cafeteria was to be made functional at the earliest. But after the site was handed over post-restoration, the MC has failed to make it commercially viable and operational.In the meantime, the heritage building remained shut due to which it has been becoming vulnerable to damage. Despite repeated calls by experts, the site remains shut and several street vendors have now set up shops outside the gate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-money-efforts-to-conserve-renovate-rambagh-deorhi-go-down-the-drain-326948
20-10-2021||---||SGPC to construct 1,500-room sarai near Golden Temple||Amritsar, October 19The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has decided to expand accommodation facilities for sangat, which visit the city to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple.During the SGPC’s executive committee meeting on Tuesday, SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, approved the construction of a new sarai (1,500 rooms). The sarai would be constructed at Hansli near Gheo Mandi Chowk.The SGPC chief said ‘kar sewa’ of the new sarai has been entrusted to Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuriwale and its construction would begin on November 1.“A parking lot will be built on the ground floor of the five-storey building and a store will also be developed for storing ration offered by sangat for Sri Guru Ramdas Langar Kitchen. Moreover, the old building of Sri Guru Ramdas School near Gurdwara Sri Ramsar Sahib will be restored,” she said.New jora and gathri gharA newly-built jora and gathri ghar (shoe and cloak house) for the convenience of sangat was inaugurated today.The jora and gathri ghar near Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall has been developed by the SGPC.Bibi Jagir Kaur said the SGPC was constantly working for the convenience of sangat. She said the SGPC in association with Kar Seva Bhuriwale, has expanded the jora ghar and gathri ghar, which has a capacity to keep shoes of around 20,000 pilgrims. The SGPC chief honoured Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuriwale and others with siropas.SGPC employees get DA hikeThe SGPC approved 3 per cent increase in the dearness allowance (DA) of employees of the SGPC. Apart from the 3 per cent increase in the DA, a special allowance of Rs 1,000 would be given to those employees who have salary up to Rs 20,000, and Rs 500 to those with salaries between Rs 20,000 and Rs 40,000.Bibi Jagir Kaur said despite financial crisis due to the pandemic, salaries of SGPC employees were paid. She also lauded the work done by the employees to tackle the Covid.SGPC executive also recited ‘Moolmantra’ and ‘Gurmantra’ to pay tributes to SGPC member Jathedar Sewa Singh Sekhwan, Hakim Satnam Singh, who was killed in Pakistan, Ragi Bhai Surinder Singh Jodhpuri, Principal Supinder Kaur, who was killed in Srinagar, and farmers who were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-to-construct-1-500-room-sarai-near-golden-temple-326947
20-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Bioremediation project on garbage dump at Bhagtanwala fails to provide relief to residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 19A much-hyped project of bioremediation of garbage at the Bhagtanwala dump yard by the Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, to vacate the 20-acre dumping ground failed to provide any relief to city residents. Machines installed at the dump for bioremediation have been lying defunct for several days.MC officials claimed that the machines got damaged due to the rainy season and they had asked the solid waste management company to get the same repaired.The MC had started the process of bioremediation of garbage at the Bhagtanwala dump in 2020 with a hope to remove heaps of garbage within two years by processing the same.The solid waste management company, MSW, hired by the MC, has been initiating bioremediation of garbage at a snail’s pace. They are using trimble machines and ballistic separators to segregate the waste. There is around 15 lakh MT of garbage on the site.As per the MC’s plan, the company is supposed to vacate six acres of land within the first six months. Afterwards, they are supposed to set a plant to convert garbage into green coal. However, no plan has been implemented yet.Sanjay Sharma, an activist of the sangharsh committee against dump said: “Instead of removing the garbage, the government has piled up more waste during the past few years. The SAD government had vacated a few acres adjoining residential localities. But the present Congress government dumped organic garbage near localities to decompose it. We are residing in hell-like conditions. The promise to shift the dump was not fulfilled by the Congress government. Bioremediation is mere an eyewash. The company installed the machines but did not operate them. They vacate some areas by burning garbage in the name of accidental fire. Bioremediation is not a solution, the authorities should shift the dump.”The civic body had started dumping waste at Bhagtanwala in the 1990s, on around 20 acres of ground adjoining the grain market. Residents of Bhagtanwala had been demanding to relocate the dump yard since 2006. A sangharsh committee had hit the ground in 2014 and stopped the protest after getting assurance from senior Congress leaders before the 2017 Assembly elections. Capt Amarinder Singh had assured at Bhadarkali Mandir that the dump yard would be shifted and the point was also mentioned in the Congress election manifesto. Manpreet Badal promised to construct a chest hospital on the vacated land of the dump.Bioremediation is one of the major components of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also directed the civic body to initiate bioremediation of garbage in 2019. Despite tall claims, the MC failed to get any significant result from the process so far.Dr Saurab Chawala, municipal health officer, said: “The machines have got some technical issues. These company will resume its operations soon.”Machines lying defunct at yardMachines installed at the dump yard for bioremediation have been lying defunct for several days. MC officials claimed that the machines got damaged due to the rainy season and they had asked the solid waste management company to get the same repaired.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bioremediation-project-on-garbage-dump-at-bhagtanwala-fails-to-provide-relief-to-residents-326946
20-10-2021||---||Showers ahead: Farmers hasten harvesting after Met forecast||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 19The recent change in weather conditions and meteorology forecast predicting showers have hastened the paddy harvesting process in agricultural fields as farmers are eager to sell the crop to avoid any damage to it due to the rains.The area had witnessed mild showers on Sunday night and the weather remained partially cloudy during the past two days, which have added to the fear of the agrarian community. Though the paddy crop is fully ripened, farmers are delaying the harvesting so that the moisture content in grains drops to optimal level.Meanwhile, officials of the mandi board said a total of 2,25,728 metric tonnes of paddy crop had already arrived in markets so far during the current season. Of the total arrival, a total of 2,17,680 metric tonnes of produce had already been procured by different government procurement agencies. District officials expect a total arrival of around 5 lakh MT of paddy this season.The officials said 18,975 MT of crop arrived in the markets on Tuesday. The procured produce was being swiftly lifted for grain markets to make space for the arrival of more produce.Besides parmal varieties of rice which are purchased by government agencies, 1,48,905 MT of basmati varieties have also reached the market. The basmati varieties are purchased by private buyers.The officials said basmati varieties were being purchased at a cost of Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 per quintal. The prices for the basmati grains are higher this year as compared to the previous year as due to low prices last year, most of the farmers had preferred not to cultivate these varieties this season.The agriculture officials said the harvesting would further pick up pace in the coming days. Meanwhile, the farmers had already initiated sowing of vegetable crops, especially peas and potato.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/showers-ahead-farmers-hasten-harvesting-after-met-forecast-326945
