21-10-2021||Amritsar||One death, two fresh cases in Amritsar district||‘Maintain quality in food items’Amritsar: In view of the festival season ahead, the Health Department has asked food business operators to provide quality and unadulterated food items to the consumers. The department has warned of strict action against food businesses operating without license from the department under Food Safety Act. District Health Officer Dr Bharti Dhawan said food operators are required to follow all guidelines of the act, including those associated to health requirement of the workers. She said action is being taken against the defaulters who do not match the guidelines laid down by the Health Department. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-death-two-fresh-cases-in-amritsar-district-327501
21-10-2021||The administration lacks sincerity when it comes to providing relief to residents from stray dogs in the district. One can see 10 to 15 dogs in every nook and corner of the rural and urban areas. Around five years ago||Tarn Taran Diary: No end to stray dog menace in district||Comrade with bank balance of Rs806Comrade Darshan Singh Chabal had represented this Vidhan Sabha segment four times and served at the grassroots level. During his 20 years tenure, he made no movable or immovable property. At the time of his death in 2000, his bank balance (State Bank of Patiala, Chabal) was only Rs 806. He was first elected in 1952, then again in 1969, 1977 and 1980. As his honesty was often discussed during the meetings of the CPI, EMS Namboodiripad, who was sworn as a Chief Minister of Kerela in 1957, came to visit Comrade Chabal at his village. He had a kutcha house whose roof was supported with wooden planks. He could have constructed a pucca house after his elder son got a job in the Education Department in 1971. He had no other movable or immovable property in his name throughout his life. He represented Tarn Taran and Attari constituencies in the Vidhan Sabha. Those were the times when MLAs used to travel by buses. During the Assembly session, he used to travel by the bus from Attari via Chabal- Chandigarh. Those days, every roadways bus had two seats reserved for the MLAs /MPs. After deboarding at Chandigarh bus stand, he used to march on foot to reach the Vidhan Sabha. He left school in Class VIII due to poor financial condition of the family as his father was a farm labour. Later, he joined the Communist movement and fought for the country’s freedom. Comrade Chabal was sent to the prison for eight years by the Britishers and he lost four children due to lack of proper care.Girl bags Canadian scholarshipPawanpreet Kaur of Goindwal Sahib and Tanya Sharma of Fatehbad brought laurels by obtaining 7.5 bands in IELTS. As a result, Pawanpreet got scholarship worth CAD 10,000 from University of Canada West, Vancouver, Canada. Belonging to a family of marginal farmer, Pawanpreet obtained 90 per cent in Class XII and 87 per cent in graduation. Pawanpreet said her mentor was Dr Ramandeep Kaur Randhawa, who made her quite efficient in reading, writing, listening and speaking. Tanya obtained 9 bands in listening module with 7.5 bands overall in IELTS. Tanya scored 96 per cent in Class XII and was a district topper. Her father runs a small shop in Fatehbad village (near Goindwal Sahib).(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-no-end-to-stray-dog-menace-in-district-327500
21-10-2021||Amritsar||20-year-old ends life in Amritsar hotel room||A 20-year-old youth committed suicide by hanging himself in a hotel room near the bus stand here on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Tajinder Singh, a resident of Macchiwara in the Khanna area.The hotel staff informed the police that Tajinder checked in at 5 am on Monday and was to check out at 12 noon on Tuesday. When he didn’t check out till this morning, the hotel staff opened door of his room with a duplicate key. The staff found his body hanging from a ceiling fan in the room.The staff said he was a resident of Kharar as mentioned on the Aadhaar card. On being informed, a police team from the Ram Bagh police station, led by SHO Ashwani Kumar, reached the spot and initiated investigation. The police found that Tajinder was a resident of Machhiwara. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/20-year-old-ends-life-in-amritsar-hotel-room-327499
21-10-2021||Amritsar||Covid seminar for volunteers||Mount Litera hosts 2-day summitMount Litera Zee School, Amritsar, held two-day Acropolis Senior National Students’ Knowledge Summit that saw participation from students of 23 schools from across 13 states. The second edition of virtual symposium, Acropolis, was a tribute to the martyrs of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Dr Jagpreet Singh, Headmaster, The Doon School, Dehradun, along with Sumer Singh, who was the knowledge resource curator and mentor for the event. The event highlighted the level of awareness among students as they participated with enthusiasm and dexterity in different segments that included Baba Ala Singh Memorial Multi-Format Debates in English, Jallianwala Bagh Centenary Memorial General Quiz, Gursharan Singh Memorial Discursive Writing and Amrita Shergill Memorial Visual Arts Exploration as Museum of Living Material Memories Challenge. The overall champions of Acropolis Senior National Students’ Knowledge Summit was Mahatma Gandhi International School, Ahmedabad. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-seminar-for-volunteers-327498
21-10-2021||Amritsar||Cleanliness drive by Nehru Kendra||Members of the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS) held a cleanliness drive in streets around Jallianwala Bagh on Wednesday. They were led by Shatrudra Pratap Singh, a member of the board of governance of the NYKS. They visited the historic bagh as a part of the 75th anniversary of Independence. Among others, Bikram Singh Gill, director, NYK, Punjab, was also accompanying. Before starting the cleanliness drive, they paid floral tributes at Jallianwala Bagh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cleanliness-drive-by-nehru-kendra-327497
21-10-2021||---||GNDU youth fest a low-key affair||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 20The day two of the Zonal Youth festival at Guru Nanak Dev University saw the students participating in various competitions, including costume parade, mime, mimicry, skits, one-act play, song / ghazal, folk song, allocation, poetic symposium, debate, quiz (preliminary), rangoli and phulkari. Over 400 students from the constituent and associate colleges of GNDU from Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Taran Tarn, are participating in the youth festival.The first half of the day saw live performances in general dance, giddha, western vocal solo and western group song competitions while the second half of the day saw students demonstrating their creative skills in rangoli, henna and wooden models.These competitions are being organised simultaneously on four different stages, including Dasmesh Auditorium, Guru Nanak Bhawan and Sangat Hall, on the university campus.Despite the offline buzz returning to campus due to the youth festival, the authorities are ensuring social distancing. Therefore, not many students are allowed to gather in auditoriums for the live performance competitions.Reena Sethi, a student from GNDU, who joined her friends to watch giddha, said, “The auditoriums used to be packed beyond capacity during bhangra and gidda performances as students used to cheer for their respective teams. But we are missing the crowd though it’s a necessity under given circumstances.”Similarly, the exhibition based creative and fine art competitions too are only witnessing low footfall due to safety guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-youth-fest-a-low-key-affair-327496
21-10-2021||---||40 J&K cops on mission unity||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 20A motorcycle rally dedicated to National Unity Day has been organised by the Jammu and Kashmir Police, which reached the city on Wednesday.The J&K police personnel who started wfrom Uri in Srinagar on October 18 will pass through different states, covering a distance of 2,536 km. The rally will end on October 31 at the ‘Statue of Unity’ at Kevadia in Gujarat.The J&K cops passed through Jammu, Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Batala, and reached the Amritsar Commissionerate of Police. The riders were welcomed by Assistant Commissioner of Police Paramvir Singh Saini. After that Jammu and Kashmir police personnel paid homage to the martyrs at Jalliawala Bagh and paid obeisance at the Golden Temple.DSP Ghulam Hussain, who was leading the motorcycle rally, said, “Forty jawans are participating in the motorcycle rally, which demonstrates national unity in every city and town.”He thanked the Commissionerate of Police, Amritsar, for according a warm welcome and left for his next destination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/40-jk-cops-on-mission-unity-327495
21-10-2021||---||Psychological impact of militancy||Amritsar, October 20The entire generation suffered deep psychological scars during the 80s when Punjab dealt with militancy in the bloody aftermath of Operation Bluestar.While political and its social impact has been documented and discussed, writer and noted psychologist, Anirudh Kala, has come up with a book, ‘Two and a half rivers’, which draws attention to the psychological impact of the events.Kala informed about his book in conversation with author Amandeep Sandhu in a session of the month-long literary celebrations under ‘Sarhard Anhad Naad’ festival of Sanjha Punjab initiative by Majha House.Sandhu, who has delved into the subject of emotional and psychological trauma through his book, ‘Journeys through the faultlines’, said among other problems during the time of distress, Punjab has also dealt with the trauma of caste system.And Kala’s book also has a Dalit character. Kala said being a psychiatrist and Punjabi himself, he understands the anguish faced by the Sikhs during this time. “The protagonist of the novel is a doctor, who has links with terrorists and ends up being a victim of both the terrorists and the police. Since, I have lived through that phase and I wanted to write about it. Apart from this, there haven’t been many books written about this period, which I as a Punjabi find baffling,” said Kala.Talking about the tile of the book, Kala said ‘Two and a half rivers’ was not the original title. “The book has Shamsi, a Dalit girl, who is one of the main characters in the novel. The title I had in mind originally was ‘The dancing girls of ucha pind’, which represented this girl. But it wasn’t considered an appropriate title. We thought of some others titles and then ended up finalising this one,” said Kala.Sandhu also remarked upon the fact that the book also deals with issues of the Dalits. “Through Shamsi, Kala represents her entire caste and what she goes through is not her individual humiliation or pain, it is that of her entire caste,” said Sandhu.“I have explored this theme in detail as I feel that this caste system is wreaking havoc with psychological state of many. I am sad and ashamed to say that even in the 21st century, we have a caste system where some are treated as untouchables and are not allowed to enter temples and gurdwaras. My aim is always to educate people about mental health, focusing on eradicating stigmas, labels and prejudice,” said Kala. He said, “This novel is a vehicle of my thoughts. The caste system is still prevalent and it should be removed from our society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/psychological-impact-of-militancy-327494
21-10-2021||---||Seven activists booked  for damaging property in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 20Activists fighting against pollution allegedly caused by a sugar mill at Buttar Sivian village and regular traffic congestion on rural roads have been booked for damaging public property. The development comes after activists installed iron rods on a road to stop heavy vehicles, which they claimed caused traffic congestion on rural stretches, here yesterday.As many as seven activists, including a woman, have been booked in this regard. Mandeep Singh Dhardeo, who was leading the demonstration, has been arrested on the complaint of the chief security officer (CSO) of the sugar mill.Those booked have been identified as Randeep Singh, Surjeet Singh, Balwinder Singh, Balwinder Kaur, Baljinder Singh, Sahmsher Singh and Arashdeep Singh, all residents of Buttar Sivian village.ASI Parshotam Lal, the investigating officer in the case registered at the Mehta police station, said the chief security officer of Rana Sugar Mill had complained that its management had hired tractor-trailers to ferry paddy straw for boilers of the mill. The accused blocked movement of tractor-trailers by holding a sit-in on the road, the ASI added. They had also installed iron rods on the road to stop the movement of vehicles, said the ASI. They had damaged the road, the ASI added.On the complaint of the CSO, the police arrested Madeep Dhardeo and other demonstrators and registered a case against them for damaging public property, said the ASI.Earlier, Dhardheo held a demonstration and blocked the traffic at Buttar Sivian village on October 18. He had claimed that panchayats of three villages had passed a resolution to not to allow vehicles of the mill in the village.While addressing protesters, the village sarpanch had alleged that the mill management was using the road illegally for the past 32 years. He claimed that the mill had separate roads to transport goods, but didn’t use them. The panchayats had reportedly had issued three notices to mill management in this regard.The Dayalgarh gram panchayat sarpanch, Charanjit Singh, claimed that in case of accidents with tractor-trailers people didn’t dare to file police complaints as the mill owner was an influential politician.The activists were fighting against the mill management for causing air and water pollution in the area for the past several years, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seven-activists-booked-for-damaging-property-in-amritsar-327493
21-10-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar District Library: A heritage haven for bibliophiles||The District Library, which is shifted to the old DC office, will now be having new segments for bibliophiles. With the new venue being more spacious, the library that was earlier confined to two rooms in Rani Ka Bagh, will now have a children segment, an AV lab-cum-hall and a specific segment to display research papers, periodicals and journals. It will now also have an exhibition-cum- seminar hall.District librarian Prabhjot Sandhu said, “Despite opposition from some members, the new building is fit for technological and infrastructal upgrade. The library at Rani Ka Bagh was established in 1982.”Sandhu said people need to understand that with time and rise in population, the new venue will offer services of a modern library.Set adjacent to the new District Administrative Complex, the new library has been established in a heritage building, which offers all amenities, missing in the old library. The shifting was completed in a month’s time to reopen library for the public. “We are setting up lighting and a few technical support systems for the library. It’s open for those, who want come and read,” said Sandhu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-library-a-heritage-haven-for-bibliophiles-327492
21-10-2021||---||Covid heat: Amritsar railway station vendors seek 100% rent waiver||Amritsar, October 20After the railways waived off the entire rent of shops and vends at the Moga railway station for the lockdown period, which was imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, local vendors sought the same format for the Amritsar railway station.The Ferozepur Division waived off 94.47 per cent of the annual licence fee of all categories of vending contracts for the period starting from June 1, 2020, to December 21, 2020, on the basis of volume of passenger traffic and footfall at the station.The local vendors forwarded a copy of the ‘’relief’’ letter released by the Ferozepur Division to the Station Superintendent, Moga. It intimated that 100 per cent relief from the annual licence fee for the period June 1, 2020, to December 21, 2020, has been announced.They demanded that on the lines of the Moga railway station, they should also be given 100 per cent waiver. They said their losses were much higher. Since the footfall was high at the local railway station, they have to maintain plenty of stocks. They had to incur losses on the account of losing their entire stocks, especially of eatables, medicines and other stuffs due to the prolong lockdown. Either rats destroy the eatables or the items reach expiry dates.Seema Sharma, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), said the decision was taken before she joined the office on August 10. “After contacting the officials concerned, I came to know that it was done as per the Railway Board’s instructions and the laid down procedure.”She added that the case of the Amritsar railway station was different from the Moga station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-heat-amritsar-railway-station-vendors-seek-100-rent-waiver-327490
21-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar: Dengue continues to wreak havoc at Vallah veggie market||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 20Many traders, their employees and labourers working at wholesale fruit and vegetable market in the Vallah area continue to suffer from dengue. Three employees of the market committee, managing mandi, are also in the grip of the mosquito-borne disease.Arvinder Singh, president, Fruit Merchants Welfare Association, said nearly 30 per cent of people working in mandi were suffering from dengue. Despite supplying fresh fruit and vegetables to the entire city, the mandi did not figure in the priority list of the authorities concerned, he rued.So far, fogging had been done in mandi only a few times, he added. “It’s not sufficient to contain the spread of dengue,” he said.“Heaps of waste, generated from fresh farm produce, keeps rotting in the market. There are no arrangements for its prompt removal,” he added.Kanwaljit Singh Pahwa, another wholesale trader, said tardy garbage lifting and pressing of insufficient equipment into service were taking a toll on the health of traders and their employees in the market.He claimed that only a few tractor-trailers were deployed for lifting garbage in mandi. Heaps of garbage were generated daily from 650 tonnes of fresh farm produce reaching market regularly, he added.There were 4,000 traders, their employees and labourers in mandi, he said. Besides, an equal number of floating population of farmers and customers visited the market, he added.Commission agents Jatinder Khurrana, Prabhjot Singh, Paramjit Singh and Ranjit Singh said they were also suffering from dengue.Gaya Ram, a migrant labourer, who returned to work after recovering from dengue, said his financial losses had doubled after he fell ill. His daily earning stopped for over a week, Gaya Ram added. He paid from his own pocket for his treatment, said Gaya Ram.Despite repeated attempts market committee secretary Sukhdeep Singh could not be contacted for his comments on the issue. Even text messages sent to his phone did not yield any response.Malwinder Singh Jaggi, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said the civic body would promptly carry out fogging at hotspots in the Vallah mandi as the matter had been brought to its notice. “I will instruct the staff concerned to do regular fogging in mandi. People working in the mandi should not allow fresh water to accumulate in their surroundings as dengue larvae germinate in it,” Jaggi added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-dengue-continues-to-wreak-havoc-at-vallah-veggie-market-327489
21-10-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Stubble burning: No action in sight||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 20While the government had made tall claims to check burning of crop residue in the fields and warned of strict punishment against the violators, the proposed action is invisible on ground even as farm fires are occurring as usual.The lack of implementation of rules related to burning of stubble is quite visible as the farmers are flouting the ban with impunity. While nearly half of the area under paddy crop has already been harvested, the administration is yet to take action against even a single farmer.“If action is taken against the first violator, it would prove as a deterrent for those who would follow them. If action is taken against a few after every farm has been cleared of residue with fires, it would not have any effect even during the next year,” said a resident demanding that fires must be stopped.This indifferent attitude towards the farm fires would further embolden other farmers who too would resort to burning of residue when they see no action against the ones who had burnt residue before them.The administration is yet to take action against any violator even as there is no visible change in the scenario as compared to previous years. The burning of crop residue, apart from causing environmental pollution and degrading soil health, is also a cause of inconvenience for the commuters as smoke hinders visibility resulting in chances of road accidents.A resident Shamsher Singh said: “The burning of crop residue in fields close to roads results in creating a smoke screen on the road as a result of which drivers cannot see the vehicles coming from the opposite side.” In the previous years, many accidents, especially involving two-wheelers, were reported due to low visibility caused by smoke.Additionally, these fires also result in damaging the saplings and trees planted alongside the roads in rural areas. Many large trees can be spotted burnt at their base in rural areas. Smoke trouble for commuters in area||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stubble-burning-no-action-in-sight-327488
