22-10-2021||---||Police Commemoration Day: Tributes paid to martyrs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 21Rich tributes were paid to the martyrs of the Police Department and paramilitary forces on the Police Commemoration Day, which was observed at the Amritsar Police Lines and Amritsar Rural Police Lines on Thursday. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and IG Border Range Manish Chawla presided over the respective functions.After laying the wreath in memory of the martyrs at a memorial in Amritsar Police Lines on Lawrence Road, the Police Commissioner said during September 2020 to August 2021, as many as 377 cops and jawans and officials of the paramilitary forces, including two policemen of the Punjab Police, have laid down their lives in the line of duty.“Police Commemoration Day is celebrated all over the country to pay rich tributes to those who laid down their lives in the line of duty in the state police and paramilitary forces. The day is celebrated after 10 CRPF jawans were martyred on October 21, 1959, in Ladakh, while patrolling at the Indo-China border,” Dr Gill said.He said as many as 119 officials and jawans in the Amritsar Police Commissionerate were martyred during the black days of terrorism.Among others who were present included veteran BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla, Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal and Joint Police Commissioner D Sudarvizhi. Besides other police officials of the city police, members of the martyrs’ families also participated in the programme and laid wreaths at the memorial.Earlier, ACP Gurinderbir Singh Sidhu read out the names of martyrs. Later, saplings were planted to mark the occasion. The Police Commissioner also heard the grievances of the family members of the martyred soldiers.Meanwhile, IG Border Range Manish Chawla and SSP Amritsar Rural Police Rakesh Kaushal along with other officials paid tributes to martyrs at the Dabuji Police Lines memorial.The cops and family members of the martyrs observed a two-minute silence to mark the occasion. Chawla said the Punjab Police have been facing many challenges. They made many sacrifices during the peak of militancy in Punjab and successfully eliminated terrorism. He said being a border state, the police were working diligently to face challenges such as cross-border terrorism, drug smuggling, drug abuse and gangsters. While pointing out that law and order cannot be maintained without the help of common people, he urged residents to help the Police Department.Two-minute silence observed in Tarn TaranPolicemen who sacrificed their lives while on duty were paid rich tributes at a parade organised at the police lines on Thursday on the commemoration day.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh, SSP Harwinder Singh Virk, District and Sessions judge Priya Sood, SP Jagjit Singh Walia were among others who were present on the occasion.Brave policemen who laid down their lives during the times of terrorism while performing their duties were remembered for their supreme sacrifice.A two-minute silence was also observed.The SSP redressed the grievances of the families of the martyred policemen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-commemoration-day-tributes-paid-to-martyrs-327993
22-10-2021||---||...MC starts cleanliness drive at Golden Temple||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 21Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu initiated a special cleanliness drive on Thursday by cleaning the Golden Temple premises on the eve of Parkash Purb of Amritsar’s founder Guru Ramdas.In his address, Rintu said: “I am very fortunate to serve the holy city. New machines worth Rs7 crore have been procured for cleaning the inner city and the area around Darbar Sahib, which will be launched on the birth anniversary of Guru Ram Das.”The Mayor said the work of cleaning the streets of Darbar Sahib in three shifts was going well daily and regular staff was on job. Mayor Rintu said I am always indebted for the privilege of serving the land of these gurus and saints and the entire staff of the Municipal Corporation is working day and night for the cleanliness of this city.Members of Sant Baba Sulukhan Singh Ji Kar Seva Bhuri honoured Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on the occasion. Dr Yogesh, Health Officer; Sahil Malhotra, Kuldeep Singh Pandori, Manpreet Singh Jassi and several MC officials were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-starts-cleanliness-drive-at-golden-temple-327996
22-10-2021||---||Gang duping residents by offering lift strikes Amritsar again||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 21In yet another incident, a gang involving two women and a man has duped a posh Basant Avenue locality resident of her two gold bangles by making her sit in their car. They later pushed her out of the car near D-mart shopping complex on Lawrence Road.The victim has been identified as Savita Sood. She was returning from a religious congregation from Lawrence Road and waiting for an auto-rickshaw to go back home.Savita said she came to a satsang bhavan for a programme. She said while returning, she was waiting for an auto-rickshaw, when a Swift car, in which two women along with a driver were sitting, stopped by. She said the accused pretended to be her relative and made her sit in the car on the pretext of offering her a lift. She said they pushed her out of the car near D-mart and fled. She said she later found her two gold bangles, weighing 15gm each, missing.The police have registered a case under Sections 379, 420 and 34 of the IPC against unidentified gang members.This is second such incident in the last one week. Earlier, Sukhdevi of Ram Nagar Colony was robbed by the gang in a similar fashion. She had gone to pay obeisance at Mata Lal Devi Temple in the Rani Ka Bagh area with her husband. She said the accused told her that they have come to seek a marriage proposal in their area and requested them to sit in their car for a few minutes to get more information. After half an hour, one of them said she was not feeling well and asked the couple to go out of the car. She said she and her husband came out and they fled. Later, she found her two gold bangles missing.A couple of months ago, an anganwari worker was robbed of her gold bangles with the same modus operandi from near the same temple. The police authorities said investigations were underway, while there has been no breakthrough so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-duping-residents-by-offering-lift-strikes-amritsar-again-327997
22-10-2021||---||One tests +ve for Covid in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 21With one Covid-19 positive case reported on Thursday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,346. The health authorities reported recovery of three patients with which the recovery count has increased to 45,744. At present, the district has a total of six active cases. Meanwhile, 7,188 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Thursday.Tarn Taran reports four new casesFour persons tested positive for Covid in the district on Thursday. There are six active cases in the district and three of them have been kept under home isolation. The toll stands at 380 since October 8. Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta said the Health Department teams collected 1,409 samples to be tested for Covid infection from different places on Thursday. He said 4,545 persons were administered the jab at different camps on Thursday. So far, 5,84,037 persons have been administered 7,54,540 doses in the district, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-tests-ve-for-covid-in-amritsar-district-327998
22-10-2021||---||57-year-old ASI’s golden sprint||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 21Assistant Sub-Inspector Surinderpal Singh Laddi (57) has made the city proud by winning a gold medal in 800m in the the Masters’ Athletics Championship, which recently concluded in Chandigarh.I was the youngest athlete from Tarn Taran district to represent India at the international level. I’ve never touched non-veg. All one needs is a healthy diet. I avoid eating out, but I don’t have a special diet. I eat what everyone else is eating. —  Surinderpal Singh Laddi, ASILaddi was the youngest athlete from the state to finish 1,500m in less than four minutes in the 1980 Indo-Ceylon Games held in Sri Lanka. Laddi had joined the Punjab Police after winning a broze medal in these games.His records set up in the Police Academy for 5,000m and 10,000m in 1988 still remain intact.“I was the youngest athlete from Tarn Taran district to represent India at the international level,” he said. When sportspersons depend on supplements and other diets, Laddi claimed that he has never touched non-veg.“All one needs is a healthy diet. I avoid eating outside, but I do not have a special diet. I eat what everyone else is eating,” he said and added that he hopes to continue participating in athletics for the years to come.A recipient of ‘Pride of Punjab Police Lifetime Achievement’ award, Laddi said youngsters should shun drugs and social media and focus entirely on sports.“Sports activities make one mentally and physically fit,” the ASI said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/57-year-old-asis-golden-sprint-327999
22-10-2021||---||Prices of essentials head north, residents worried||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 21The skyrocketing prices of essential items such as onions, tomatoes, LPG and petrol are burning a hole in the pocket of common people, as they are finding it difficult to manage their daily affairs within the limited income.While the onions in the local market are priced above Rs50 per kg, tomatoes cost over Rs50. The prices of diesel has nearly touched Rs98, petrol costs over Rs106 per litre. While the prices are increasing with each passing day, residents complained that managing the kitchen has become an uphill task.Sunil Kumar, who works at a private firm for Rs12,000 per month, said: “For the last four years, I am working at the same salary and the cost of petrol has nearly doubled.” He said he needs his bike to travel to his work and then wherever his employer sends him. “The cost of LPG, too, has gone beyond the reach of people like me,” he said.A large number of people in the private sector, especially in service industry, work at a monthly salary of less than Rs15,000. Mustard oil price, too, has almost doubled and residents want that the rising cost of essential items must be checked.“Even non-branded mustard oil is costing at least Rs140 per litre when the prices were around Rs60 per litre last year,” said another private employee, Tarsem Lal. He said the prices of almost every grocery item have increased and with the same salary their purchasing power has gone down.Residents said the poor depend on private employment, where salaries are much less and they are bearing the brunt of inflation. With the prices of petrol and even onion expected to increase further in the coming weeks, residents are anticipating hard days ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prices-of-essentials-head-north-residents-worried-328000
22-10-2021||---||GNDU Zonal Youth Fest concludes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 21Swami Swatantranand Memorial College, Dina Nagar, emerged as the winner of the Zonal Youth Festival of Guru Nanak Dev University in ‘A’ segment on the concluding day on Thursday.In the ‘B’ segment, Guru Arjan Dev Khalsa College, Chhola Sahib, was declared the winner. As many as 400 students from the affiliated colleges of Tarn Taran, Pathankot and Gurdaspur districts participated in 36 items of music, theatre, dance, literature and fine arts.In the ‘A’ segment, the first runner-up position was occupied by Shanti Devi Arya Mahila College, Dina Nagar, followed by Pt Mohan Lal SD College for Women, Gurdaspur, which was at the third placeSimilarly, in the ‘B’ segment, SL Bawa DAV College, Batala and Sikh National College, Qadian, bagged the second and third places, respectively.Prof Hardeep Singh, Dean Academic Affairs, presided over the prize distribution function. Prof Anish Dua, Dean Students’ Welfare and in-charge of Youth Welfare Department welcomed the chief guest.Advisor Baljit Singh Sekhon gave the details of the achievements of Youth Welfare Department.Prof Hardeep Singh said these youth festivals not only revive our rich cultural heritage but gives us spirit of team work and good health. He also congratulated Youth Welfare Department for successfully organising the youth festival. The guests gave away trophies to the winners and Prof Dua honoured the chief guest and others with memento.On Thursday, students competed in general dance, gidha, western vocal solo and western group song were organised simultaneously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-zonal-youth-fest-concludes-328001
22-10-2021||---||Woman raped: Two Tarn Taran village men booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 21The Chatiwind police have booked a youth for raping a woman on the pretext of marriage. The police have also booked his uncle in the case.Those booked have been identified as Akashdeep Singh and his uncle Dilbagh Singh, both residents of Panjwara Khurd village in Tarn Taran. The victim lodged a complaint on September 3, while a case was registered under Section 376 of the IPC only on Wednesday after a preliminary probe.The 22-year-old victim said she met the accused in 2018 and they had an affair since then. She said later she got married to someone else, but due to his insistence, she divorced her husband at the village panchayat. She alleged that the accused took her to different places and established physical relations with her. She said his uncle kept supporting them saying he will help them in getting married. She said the duo kept dilly dallying and had now switched off their mobile phones.A probe was conducted by DSP Attari and SHO Chatiwind police following which a case was registered. The police authorities said raids were on to nab the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-raped-two-tarn-taran-village-men-booked-328002
22-10-2021||Amritsar||Man fails to pay OLX seller Rs 95K, booked||A citizen of Karnataka was booked by the city police for allegedly duping a local resident, who had posted an advertisement about a branded wrist watch for sale on OLX.The accused procured the watch and promised to transfer the cash after receiving the watch by courier. However, he did not transfer the cash to the tune of Rs 95,000 to the seller’s account.The accused has been identified as Al Fayaz H Firdose of Bangalore. A case under Section 420 of the IPC has been registered against him, while further investigation is on.Surinder Sharma of Model Town, Chheharta, told the police that he had posted an advertisement on OLX. He said a person named as Afrin Al Gul messaged him for buying the watch, stating that he wanted to gift it to his uncle Al Fayaz on his birthday. The deal was settled for Rs 95,000. He said he was living in Washington, USA, and would make the payment through his bank account.Sharma said he had couriered the watch on September 2. However, he got suspicious later, and went to the courier company to stop the delivery. However, the watch had been delivered on September 9. He said he had not received the payment till now, and a case had been registered in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-fails-to-pay-olx-seller-rs-95k-booked-328003
22-10-2021||Amritsar||12-year-old kidnapped girl rescued in Amritsar||A 12-year-old girl, who was allegedly kidnapped by unidentified persons, was rescued on Thursday. The victim was a student of Class VII at Jawahar Navodya School, Awan village.Her mother told the police that she and her daughter, went to a religious congregation at a relative’s house at Sadolehal village on Wednesday. From there, she went missing. Her mother lodged a complaint. The girl was traced on Thursday and handed over to the family. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-year-old-kidnapped-girl-rescued-in-amritsar-328004
22-10-2021||Amritsar||Guest faculty up in arms||The guest faculty at Sarup Rani Government College for Women protested against the state on Thursday. Dr Ravinder Singh from the Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association alleged the state had advertised fresh posts to eliminate the guest faculty from colleges. With this, 962 guest faculty assistant professors would get unemployed.“There are 1,873 posts in 48 government colleges and on these vacant posts, 962 guest faculty assistant professors are working. There are 400 posts vacant in old colleges and 160 in newly opened colleges. The state should advertise only for the vacant post,” Ravinder said. “The colleges were collecting PTA fund to pay the guest faculty. We are demanding Rs56,100 per month salary,” said Paramjit Singh, a protester. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guest-faculty-up-in-arms-328005
22-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Firing in Tarn Taran: Two hurt||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firing-in-tarn-taran-two-hurt-328006
22-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Principals, teachers felicitated||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/principals-teachers-felicitated-328007
22-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Khand de khidaone hit Amritsar city markets||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 20With the festival upon us, the sugar toy makers in Mishri Bazaar have stated preparing the traditional toys such as “khand de khidaone”. However, a large number of sugar toy makers have adopted some other professions, but a few are still making such toys. These toys are made in the shape of birds and animals by using edible colours and sugar.“Earlier, we used to make and sell sugar toys all seasons but due to poor demand now prepare these khand de khidaone only in the festival season. The demand is not much, but there are still some customers, who buy only traditional food items,” said Vikas, a shopkeeper in the Mishri market.Once a popular market in narrow streets near the Golden Temple, it has lost its sheen since the day multinational brands started manufacturing and selling a range of sweets and candies in the market.However, the mishri, patasa, phullian (sugar-coated rice) are still in demand as these are still being used during several religious and cultural ceremonies. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) gives patasa to devotees as “parshad”, when they offer money at its cash counters. Culturally, patasa is also distributed among community people to celebrate the birth of a baby boy and marriage in the region.People used to gift sweet toys to children when they visited their married daughters on some special occasion, especially in the festival season. This tradition has changed. Moreover, sweet toys have long been replaced by chocolates and candies.“Most of the sweet toy makers have shifted to other trades due to poor income. A few are still engaged in this trade. The young generation has several options in packed sweet candies. People are now more health-conscious and they avoid taking sugar and sweet products. But these colourful toys do not have a bad effect on health. We use branded edible colours,” said Rakesh, another shopkeeper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khand-de-khidaone-hit-amritsar-city-markets-327491
