23-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar doctor gets extortion call||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 22A prominent doctor who owns a private hospital reportedly got an extortion call from the accomplice of notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who is currently lodged in Tihar Jail in Delhi.Not the first timeIt is total failure of the state machinery as all notorious gangsters are protected by their political bosses. Extortion rackets, involving notorious gangsters and their foreign-based accomplices, are thriving with impunity and it is apparently not in the priority list of the state government and central agencies. The Punjab Police bust 'terror module' every now and then, while it has failed to nail gangsters. Thanks to the political shelter being provided to them. —  Sarabjit Singh Verka, activist, Punjab Human Rights Organisation & a prominent lawyerThe police were tight-lipped over this. The Civil Lines police, too, denied having any complaint in this regard. Nevertheless, a senior police official, while confirming the development, said investigations were underway.Highly placed sources said the doctor got four calls from anonymous numbers. The person demanded Rs1 crore from him. The gangster allegedly threatened him of dire consequences and even harm to his family if the doctor failed to give the extortion amount. The doctor and his family are in extreme shock following this.Earlier, they preferred not to file a complaint, but later after the relatives insisted, he filed a formal complaint with the police.Sarabjit Singh Verka, an activist of Punjab Human Rights Organisation and a prominent lawyer, said it was total failure of the state machinery as all notorious gangsters were protected by their political bosses.“Extortion rackets, involving notorious gangsters and their foreign-based accomplices, are thriving with impunity and it is apparently not in the priority list of the state government and central agencies,” said Verka, adding that the Punjab Police bust ‘terror module’ every now and then, while it has failed to nail gangsters. Thanks to the political shelter being provided to them. Such cases are likely to increase in the near future as the term of the Punjab Government was coming to an end and Assembly elections were just round the corner, he said.Evidently, doctors and traders are soft targets of extortionists as they prefer not to lodge complaints. If any case is registered, complainants do not fight in court and culprits go scot-free.This also came to light when the State Special Operation Cell had arrested a prominent UP leader while looking for a notorious gangster in 2017. A number of doctors had then recorded their statements before the investigating team about extortion calls from gangsters. However, during re-investigation, they either did not appear before the SIT or denied giving any statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-doctor-gets-extortion-call-328535
23-10-2021||---||Man set on fire in Amritsar, wife among nine booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 22A man was allegedly set on fire by his wife and her relatives in Mohkampura area here five days ago. However, a case was registered only yesterday after he recorded his statement with the police.The victim, identified as Manpreet Singh (27), a resident of Sultanwind village, was currently recuperating at private hospital here.Besides his wife Saira, the police also booked her relatives identified as Love, Happy, Manpreet, Rabia, Darshan Singh, Sagar Mahajan, Sheetal Mahajan and Gurwinder Singh.Manpreet told the police that on October 17, he along with his wife and children had gone to take medicine. Later, his wife took him to his sister Sheetal Mahajan’s house in Mohkampura area. He said all accused were present there.Following some argument, the accused put oil on him and later set him on fire.He said he ran out of the house and people doused the flames by throwing water on him. Later, he was admitted to a private hospital for treatment.Investigating Officer ASI Ranjit Singh said there was some dispute between the couple that led to the incident. A case under Sections 307 and 326-A, Indian Penal Code, was registered against nine persons. No arrest has been made so far, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-set-on-fire-in-amritsar-wife-among-nine-booked-328536
23-10-2021||---||Amritsar woman who moved to Canada booked for defrauding husband||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 22The police have booked a woman, along with her parents, for allegedly defrauding her husband after she moved to Canada. All expenses for sending her abroad were borne by her in-laws.Following a probe and after taking the opinion of the district attorney, the police have booked the woman, identified as Randeep Kaur, and her parents Parminder Kaur and Rajinder Singh, both residents of Vallah. Nobody has been arrested so far.Narinderpal Singh, a resident of Balsaran village, filed a complaint on March 31. He told the police that his son Harmanpreet Singh married Randeep Kaur in October, 2018. She had already cleared IELTS exams. After marriage, she asked her husband to send her to Canada saying she would invite him as well on spouse visa. He said he spent Rs 19 lakh on clearing Randeep’s paperwork for settling in Canada.He alleged that after shifting to Canada, Randeep’s attitude changed and she started using foul language with them. She refused to take Harmanpreet Singh to Canada on spouse visa. He said her parents also supported her.ASI Balkar Singh, Investigating Officer, said a case was registered following a probe conducted by Sub-Inspector Avtar Singh. He said a case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC had been registered against Randeep and her parents, and efforts were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-woman-who-moved-to-canada-booked-for-defrauding-husband-328537
23-10-2021||Amritsar||Seizure of 22 pistols in Khemkaran: Indian peddler identified||The counter-intelligence wing of the Punjab Police has launched a hunt for a drug peddler who was behind the sneaking of huge quantity of weapons from International Border in Khemkaran sector in Tarn Taran two days ago.The Punjab Police in a joint operation with the Border Security Force had recovered 22 pistols (.30 bore), 44 magazines and 100 rounds of ammunition, besides a packet of heroin (934 gram) which were packed in a black bag.According to sources, the consignment was concealed by Pakistan-based elements. Though they were tight-lipped over identifying their Indian accomplices who had got it smuggled from across the fence. The police have also summoned owner of the land from where the seizure was made. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seizure-of-22-pistols-in-khemkaran-indian-peddler-identified-328538
23-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Bhandari ROB delay causing inconvenience to commuters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 22The Bhandari Railway Overbridge (ROB) extension work has taken too long a time, causing inconvenience to commuters.Commuters have been facing inconvenience due to traffic bottlenecks around the ROB for the last nearly two years. Civil work involving construction material and steel occupies much of the ramps of the crucial ROB, which is considered the lifeline of the city. The railway lines leading to the Amritsar railway station, divide the city into two halves. In one half is situated the walled city, which houses the world famous Golden Temple, traditional markets and residences and the other half accommodates the Civil Lines area.Naresh Johar, a senior citizen, says: “Bhandari ROB serves as the city’s lifeline and any prolonged repair work or creation of traffic bottleneck over it adversely hits the flow of traffic in the entire city. Instead of completing the work on a priority, it has been dragging on for too long.”After linking the BRTS loop with the Bhandari ROB, traffic on the bridge increased manifold, resulting in traffic chaos. Even then, no halt to the BRTS buses was given on the bridge, much to the inconvenience of commuters, due to lack of adequate space. For this, the Amritsar Improvement Trust gave the responsibility of constructing two additional lanes of 31-ft each at a cost of Rs14 crore to a private concern.Officials at the construction site said the construction of the ROB was progressing and was in its last phase. They said due to the Covid-19 restrictions, several machines required for the project could not reach on time, thereby causing the delay.Repeated attempts to contact the Improvement Trust Superintendent Engineer Pardeep Jaswal through calls and messages proved futile.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bhandari-rob-delay-causing-inconvenience-to-commuters-328539
23-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Relief on water tariff: Decision evokes mixed response from Amritsar residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 22After the notification of the state government, the Municipal Corporation (MC) reduced the water bills to Rs 50 per month for houses that are more than 125 sq yard.It is a poll stunt of the government. A large number of water sewer connections are illegal in the city. The governments have been making promises to provide clean potable water for decades. They should collect bills and replace the old water pipes to strengthen the infrastructure. — Jaswant Singh, a resident of Darshan AvenuerAround 45,000 households would benefit from the initiative of the government in the city. Earlier, in 2006, the government had exempted water bills to houses less than 125 sq yard. Residents, who own houses from 125 sq yard to 250 sq yard were paying Rs105 per month and the households with more than 250 sq yard Rs140.Now, the government has removed the slab of plot size and set a uniform rate for all houses more than 125 sq yard. In addition, the government has also waived off arrears of water supply and sewerage user charges for domestic connections, including principal amount, interest and penalty. The MC had more than Rs14 crore arrears of water supply and sewerage user charges.However, the MC has to pay Rs85 crore pending bill of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). The MC has got a relief as the electricity bill for water supply schemes of urban areas will be paid to the PSPCL by the state government directly.The decision of the government evoked mixed response from residents. While the Congress activists presented it as a welfare act of the incumbent government, a section of society criticised the freebies being offered by the government to lure residents. Kuljit Singh, a resident, said: “Instead of reducing the bills, the government should assure clean potable water in every corner of the city. This act will weaken the existing infrastructure.”Dharamveer Singh Mahia, president, Vimukat Jatian (unlisted castes) hailed the decision of the government. “The Congress government feels the pain of the general public as it has reduced the water bills,” he said.Jaswant Singh, a resident of Darshan Avenue, said: "It is a poll stunt of the Congress government. A large number of water sewer connections are illegal in the city. The governments have been making promises to provide clean potable water for decades. They should collect bills and replace the old water pipes to strengthen the infrastructure."Randhir Sharma, another resident of Bypass Road, said: "Who asked the government to reduce the water bill? One, who owns a medium size house in the city is paying Rs900 for an unsubsidised LPG cylinder and Rs104 for per litre petrol and Rs9 per unit of power and hence will pay Rs100 for water too. The government should reduce petrol, LPG and power tariff if they are really concerned about the common man."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/relief-on-water-tariff-decision-evokes-mixed-response-from-amritsar-residents-328540
23-10-2021||---||Amritsar: No more plying of sand, gravel trailers on GT Road||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar October 22The Deputy Commissioner has directed various departments to remove sand and gravel trailers as these cause traffic jam on GT Road on the way to Darbar Sahib.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, who visited the site once or twice before, had also appealed to the owner of building material stores to relocate the trailers. The DC told officials that the Jalandhar-Amritsar GT Road must be cleared of all obstacles.Khaira told the officials of the Traffic Police, Amritsar, Municipal Corporation, Mining Department and Amritsar Improvement Trust to take action on illegal encroachments by sand and gravel trailers. Since most of the places where trailers were being used were the property of the Amritsar Improvement Trust, he asked the officials to take these places under their control.Apart from this, the traffic police should take necessary action against all kinds of obstructions and the Mining Department should check whether the sand and gravel being sold in the city is in accordance with the government rules or not, he said. Instructing the MC to emphasise on the beauty and cleanliness of the entire route from the Golden Gate to Darbar Sahib, he said it was the main gateway for people coming from Jalandhar and its beauty should not be compromised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-no-more-plying-of-sand-gravel-trailers-on-gt-road-328541
23-10-2021||---||‘Start small with smart idea’||Amritsar, October 22An ‘Entrepreneurs Cafe’ was organised by Amritsar Founders, a group of city-based startups, to share their success stories and motivate others.Dilbir Foundation chief Gunbir Singh inspired young entrepreneurs to start small with a smart idea and build scale along the way. He also stressed on the need to remain nimble, accept change and do not fear failure. He opined that ideas of today may not generate profits, but may get valuations to the venture way above expectations.Mandeep Kaur, who runs an IT firm from Tangra village, employs 100 youngsters. She is an influencer with over a million followers on social media. She said her family had a flour mill in the village, but her father inspired her to go for the best.Dr Shyna, who is a pathologist, comes from a humble background and is a prolific speaker and entrepreneur. Payal Sharma informed about corporate cultures and the spirit of entrepreneurship.Gunbir said farmland was no longer connecting youths and their aspirations were being belied by the lack of employment opportunities in various sectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/start-small-with-smart-idea-328542
23-10-2021||---||CM Channi’s freebies to stay on paper: Bikram Singh Majithia||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 22Senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia claimed that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has promised freebies worth Rs 15,000 crore in the last one month, but in reality no money has been allocated to fulfil the commitments.Majithia said, “Promises made by CM Channi will remain on paper and the SAD-BSP alliance after forming the government will fulfil them.”He said as much as Rs 8,000 crore is due to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited alone.The SAD leader said waiving pending water bills would cost Rs 1,868 crore and Rs 440 crore burden would be per connection.“As much as Rs 1,505 crore is needed to waive bills having load less than two-kilo watt, besides a few thousand crores for other promises, including increasing the subsidy for the SC and BC power consumers.”He said the incumbent government needs Rs 2,400 crore to clear the SC Scholarship scheme backlog and Rs 550 crore for landless labourers.“Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal has already admitted that the state’s debt has crossed Rs 2.75-lakh crore mark. This means the government does not have any money to fulfil the announcements made by the CM,” he said.He asked the Congress government to first tell the status of promises made by former CM Capt Amarinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cm-channis-freebies-to-stay-on-paper-bikram-singh-majithia-328543
23-10-2021||Amritsar||IIM Amritsar hosts FDP for edu leaders||IIM Amritsar held a five-day faculty development programme (FDP) titled “Leading in the Changing Times” under the banner of AICTE Training and Learning (ATAL) Academy.It had 200 registered participants from higher educational institutions, schools, government and EdTech industry and focused on issues that Principals, Deans, faculty and teachers grapple within the day-to-day functioning. By establishing and interpreting the nature and scope of educational change, this programme aims to make a significant contribution in meeting different challenges faced by them.It is facilitated by exceptionally skilled professors from varied prestigious institutions from all over the country including NIEPA, New Delhi, NITTR, Chandigarh, IIT Kharagpur, IIM Vizag and IIM Amritsar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-amritsar-hosts-fdp-for-edu-leaders-328544
23-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Seminar held on environment||A seminar on environment and bio-diversity was organized at Nishan-E-Sikhi Institute, Khadoor Sahib. Environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh said trees not just produce oxygen, but play a big role in our daily life. Dr Gursharn Singh Randhwa informed about various types of pollution and suggested that humanity should shoulder the responsibility to resolve its mistakes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seminar-held-on-environment-328545
23-10-2021||Early this week||Gurdaspur Diary: Whirlwind tour of CM & Bhoa’s maverick MLA||Leaders cut across party lines to pay homagePoliticians cutting across the party lines attend bhog ceremony of former Cabinet minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan (71) at his native village last week. He was considered to be a doyen among Akali leaders. That was until three years ago when he decided to part ways with his parent party. His father, Ujagar Singh Sekhwan, remained chief of the SAD during Emergency when Parkash Singh Badal was jailed. Sewa Singh had held the important portfolios of PR, Education, Revenue and Rehabilitation in the Punjab Cabinet. A few days before his death, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had visited him and had enquired about his health. It was at that time that Sekhwan had asked Kejriwal to take care, politically speaking, of his younger son Jagrup Singh Sekhwan. The AAP leader agreed to Sekhwan’s request and two days later announced the candidature of Jagrup from the Qadian Assembly segment.Pathankot MLA demands elevated railway trackEarlier this week, MLAs from Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency met Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Pathankot legislator Amit Vij was the most vocal of them all. He wanted the CM to take up the issue of the elevated railway track with the Railway Ministry. This is a vexed issue being faced by Pathankot residents. There are nine railway crossings on the 3.6km long stretch of narrow gauge track that passes through the town. The city remains divided into two parts for long periods of time every day. The Indian Railways say the only solution is to elevate the track like it has been done in Rohtak. However, nothing concrete has been done till yet. Now, Vij wants the CM to take up the issue with the Railways on priority. “This will ease the traffic congestion. The city will get a new look once the track is elevated,” said the MLA. The last word, however, is yet to be heard on this topic.(Contributed By Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-diary-whirlwind-tour-of-cm-bhoas-maverick-mla-328546
23-10-2021||Amritsar||Guru Ramdas Gurpurb celebrated at Khalsa College, Amritsar||Cambridge International SchoolA special assembly was held by Principal Praveen Sharma along with shabad recited by the teachers and students of Cambridge International school, Patti, on the occasion of Parkash Purb of Guru Ramdas. Teachers performed shabad in the group. Students performed kirtan and delivered speech related to the life history of Sri Guru Ramdas ji. At last recitation of Anand Sahib and Ardas took place.Cooking without fire competitionDIPS School, Rayya organised cooking without fire competition on International Chef Day that falls on October 22. Students dressed up as chefs prepared various dishes without fire like salad, sweets, fruit cake, fruit chaat, juice, sandwiches and also explained the procedural recipe. Teachers remarked about the importance of observing International Chef Day and to give respect to this career. Principal Jagbir Singh enlightened the students about this day and urged them not to waste food. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-ramdas-gurpurb-celebrated-at-khalsa-college-amritsar-328547
23-10-2021||---||Nagar kirtan marks Parkash Purb celebrations in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 21On the eve of the 487th Parkash Purb of Guru Ramdas, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), carried out a nagar kirtan from Akal Takht on Thursday.The nagar kirtan began with ardas amid the resonance of nagaras, jaikaras and narsinghas (a traditional trumpet). The holy saroop of Guru Granth Sahib was enshrined in palki sahib (palanquin).Also read: Exotic flowers embellish Golden Temple complex to mark Guru Ram Das Parkash Purb...MC starts cleanliness drive at Golden TempleA large number of devotees took part in the nagar kirtan, which passed through various parts of the walled city.A guard of honour was presented by the Punjab Police outside the Golden Temple complex. Flowers were also showered by an aircraft.The devotees paid homage to Guru Ramdas by serving langar at various spots on the road connecting the old gates of Amritsar city.SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur greeted the devotees and said, “The life of Guru Ramdas is a guide for humanity and his contribution to Sikhism is incomparable.”She said the Golden Temple has become a centre of attraction for the entire world. The SGPC chief called for taking inspirations from the teachings of the fourth Guru and inculcate the sense of humility, service and remembering ‘karta purakh’ in life.Giani Jagtar Singh, additional head granthi Golden Temple, SGPC general secretary advocate Bhagwant Singh Sialka, former Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Gurbachan Singh, Giani Jaswant Singh, head granthi Bhai Malkit Singh, SGPC members Bhai Rajinder Singh Mehta, Bawa Singh Gumanpura, Harjap Singh Sultanwind and Mangwinder Singh Khaparkheri, among others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nagar-kirtan-marks-parkash-purb-celebrations-in-amritsar-327995
