24-10-2021||Amritsar||Covid-19: Amritsar district reports 2 positive cases||Chheharta man duped of Rs 9 lakhAmritsar: Officials of the Majitha road police station have booked a woman for allegedly duping a local resident on the pretext of sending him abroad. The victim, Aman Kumar, a resident of Chheharta, alleged that the accused took Rs9 lakh from him for sending him to Canada. The accused has been identified as Bharti Chopra, alias Bharti Arora, a resident of the Basant Nagar area. The complainant lodged a complaint in January this year. However, a case was registered yesterday following a probe. The accused was running a travel agency in the name of European Educational Services at Basant Nagar. She did not have any license for running the travel agency. The ACP (North), Sarabjit Singh, said a case under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 13 of the Punjab Travel Professional Regulation Act was registered against the accused. Raids were on to nab the accused, the ACP added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-amritsar-district-reports-2-positive-cases-328850
24-10-2021||Amritsar||Writers against keeping Punjabi as minor subject||The decision of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to keep Punjabi as a minor subject was condemned by the Punjabi writers of Central Punjabi Writers’ Association and other literary societies.The writers led by the Central Assembly Secretary and writer Deep Devinder Singh, termed the decision as against the right of today’s young generation to read and write Punjabi. He said the mother tongue was taught as a medium and main subject in many developing countries. “While reading and writing of Indian languages is always neglected in India, this is only because of the reason why decisions on language and education are made by political parties rather than by linguists,” he said.Punjabi poets, including Malwinder, Harjit Sandhu, Manmohan Singh Dhillon, Salinderjit Rajan, Harpal Nagra, Jagtar Gill, Sarabjit Singh Sandhu and lyricist Makhan Bhainiwala also demanded that education should be made based entirely on mother tongues in the spirit of the Indian Constitution. “Only then can Indian languages, education and development be brought on track,” said Sarbjit Singh Sandhu.Education Minister Pargat Singh too had called out the CBSE for the decision. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/writers-against-keeping-punjabi-as-minor-subject-328809
24-10-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Rain, hailstorm damage standing paddy crop||Tarn Taran, October 23Heavy rain and hailstorm damaged the standing paddy crop,which was ready to be harvested, in the district on Saturday.The standing paddy crop went flat after the rain and hailstorm in several parts of Tarn Taran and Kot Dharam Chand Kalan areas. Karaj Singh, a farmer while watching his flat crop in Noordi village, said: “The hailstorm was so strong that even the ‘Dhrek’ trees became leafless. Just imagine what it did to the paddy crop. According to an estimate, 40 per cent standing paddy crop has been damaged completely.”The same was the position in Chabal, Sarai Amanat Khan, Gandiwind, Patti, Chhola Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Fatehbad, Bhikhiwind, Khemkaran, Algon Kothi and other places.The PR-1121, PR-1509, PR-121, PR1718 paddy varieties have been damaged totally.The crop that arrived in the grain markets in Tarn Taran, Patti, Khadoor Sahib, Chhola Sahib and Khemkaran, too, got damaged on a large scale owing to poor arrangements. DC Kulwant Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-hailstorm-damage-standing-paddy-crop-328808
24-10-2021||---||Protest over changing original character of Jallianwala Bagh||Amritsar, October 23Members of farmers’ organisations, pensioners and employees of Power Corporation led by the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee staged a protest at Jallianwala Bagh here on Saturday. They were criticizing the recent changes made to the Jallianwala Bagh memorial.Also read: The Jallianwala Bagh makeoverJallianwala Bagh: History massacred or restored?Jallianwala Bagh: Facelift has erased massacre memories, say historiansThe protest supported by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha witnessed a large participation by people. The protesters gathered at Bhandari bridge from where they marched towards Jallianwala Bagh.The two-hour protest was addressed by Dr Parminder, Prithipal Singh Marimegha, Amolak Singh, Gurmeet Singh, Mangat Ram Pasla, Hardev Arshi, Pargat Singh Jamarai and others. While speaking on the occasion, Dr Parminder said the mischief with which the original character of the monument had been changed was condemnable.The Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee and representatives of farmers’ unions had earlier this month met the Deputy Commissioner and apprised him of their concerns. Later, a delegation met Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and apprised him of the issue.“It was after a failed response from the Chief Minister that the protest was planned,” said Balwinder Singh Dudala, a prominent farmer leader. The Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Committee had earlier written to the Prime Minister, the President, the Jallianwala Bagh Trust and the district administration demanding that the original character of the memorial be restored.The protesters raised objections to the statues of people in a dance pose installed in the narrow passage leading to the bagh, the renovation of the historical well and an informatory movie shown to the visitors in which Sardar Patel has been highlighted. The leaders stated that leaders such as Shaheed Udham Singh, Baba Sohan Singh Bakhna and others had been ignored. The protesters also raised objection to the posture of Udham Singh’s statue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-over-changing-original-character-of-jallianwala-bagh-328807
24-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Jaggu Bhagwanpuria’s aide held for extortion in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 23The police have cracked the case in which notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria’s associate allegedly demanded extortion from a doctor owning a hospital in the city.The police have arrested his accomplice Inderpreet Singh, alias Captain, of Fateh Singh Colony here. He was nabbed when he came to take the extortion amount from the doctor. The police said he was identified with the help of CCTV cameras installed near the doctor’s residence.During probe, the accused confessed that he was an associate of Bhagwanpuria and had come to take the money on his (Bhagwanpuria’s) directions. The police have recovered the mobile phone used in the crime and the scooter in which he was travelling.Interestingly, Bhagwanpuria is currently lodged in Tihar Jail in New Delhi and investigations revealed that he was running his network from the jail complex using a phone.Jugraj Singh, ADCP (Investigations), said: “We are also sharing the information with the authorities at Tihar Jail. Bhagwanpuria has also been nominated in the case and efforts will be made to bring him on production warrant for further interrogation.”Inderpreet was produced in court and brought on police remand for further probe. Two NDPS cases were registered against him in 2018. He had come out on bail in 2019. The ADCP said as per the preliminary probe, there were some more members of the gang, who were involved in the crime and efforts were on to nab them. He appealed to people to inform the police if they get any extortion calls from miscreants, assuring them that the police will take appropriate measures to nail the perpetrators.The big question||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jaggu-bhagwanpurias-aide-held-for-extortion-in-amritsar-328806
