25-10-2021||Amritsar||Farmers’ protest in Amritsar tomorrow to demand justice for Lakhimpur Kheri victims||Four held with 545-gm heroinTarn Taran: The police on Saturday arrested four persons from different places and recovered 545-gram from them. A police party from Patti Sadar led by Sub-Inspector Gurtej Singh arrested Charan Singh Chandi of Patti town, from Bhaggu village and recovered 275-gram heroin from him. A local CIA staff team led by SI Sukhdev Singh arrested Rajwinder Singh Raju and Gurjant Singh Jantu, both residents of Bainka village, with 120 grams of heroin. In another case, Shamsher Singh of Goindwal Sahib village was arrested with 150 grams of heroin from Fatehbad village. The accused have been booked under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. OCDist reports 4 positive casesAmritsar: With four positive cases, the district tally of Covid cases increased to 47,355 on Sunday. The Health Department also reported recovery of two patients, with which the total recovery count increased to 45,748. The district at present has 11 active cases. Meanwhile, 6,161 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Sunday. Of these, 4,019 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 2,142 received the second dose. TNSBeautician’s purse snatchedAmritsar: Two unidentified motorcycle-borne persons snatched the purse of a beautician when she was returning home after closing down her salon in Basant Nagar late on Friday. Victim Rashmi Sharma, a resident of the same area, said she runs a beauty parlour opposite Sehaj Enclave. She said around 9.25pm, she closed her shop and was returning home on foot. She said around 9.40pm, she reached near Roop boutique, when two bike-borne persons came from behind and snatched her purse. She said she had Rs40,000 cash, a mobile phone besides other important things in the purse. The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC and further investigations were on. The police said they were scrutinising the CCTV cameras in the area to find clues about the suspects. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-in-amritsar-tomorrow-to-demand-justice-for-lakhimpur-kheri-victims-329353
25-10-2021||Amritsar||Arshdeep Kaur Ist in MSc Physics||Rotary Interact Club installationStepping towards its services to society, DAV International School held a ceremony for the official installation of the Rotary Interact Club of the school by honourable members of Rotary Club, Civil Lines, Amritsar, on Saturday. Principal Dr Anjana Gupta acquainted the guests with the brief history and some special achievements of the school. She expressed her gratitude to the Rotarians for starting this initiative in the school. The student president Rotary Interact Club of the school Harnoor Kaur accorded a formal welcome to the dignitaries and assured of wholehearted contribution in the activities of the club. President Rtn. PS Hundal told them about the various successful social initiatives undertaken by the club. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arshdeep-kaur-ist-in-msc-physics-329352
25-10-2021||---||Mini-marathon organised in memory of police martyrs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 24In order to mark the Police Commemoration Day and pay tributes to the police martyrs, a mini-marathon was organised by the police in which police officials, NCC cadets, sportsmen and residents took part.The marathon was flagged of by Assistant Commissioner of Police Gurinderpal Singh Sidhu. The marathon passed through Custom Chowk, Novelty Chowk, Lawrence Road and ended at the Police Lines. Before the marathon, NCC cadets and police brass band and pipe band performed on patriotic songs. The participants said they were feeling proud to pay homage to the martyrs who laid down their lives in the line of duty.ACP Sidhu said from September 2020 to August 2021, as many as 377 cops and jawans and officials of the paramilitary forces had laid down their lives in the line of duty, including two cops of the Punjab Police.He said Police Commemoration Day is celebrated all over the country to pay tributes to those who laid down their lives in line of duty in state police and paramilitary forces. The day was celebrated following the martyrdom of 10 CRPF jawans on October 21, 1959 in Ladakh while patrolling at India-China border. He said the Amritsar police also made supreme sacrifices during the days of terrorism in the state.Besides ACP, members of SWAT teams, traffic police, Saanjh Kendra and line officer and students of Government Senior Secondary School, Chheharta, also participated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mini-marathon-organised-in-memory-of-police-martyrs-329351
25-10-2021||---||A poetic tribute to Guru Ramdas at Gurdwara Manji Sahib, Diwan Hall, Darbar Sahib, Amritsar||Amritsar, October 24The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee organised a Kavi Darbar at Gurdwara Manji Sahib, Diwan Hall, Darbar Sahib, on Saturday on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Guru Ramdas.Also read: In photos: Parkash Purb of Guru Ramdas celebrated with religious fervourExotic flowers embellish Golden Temple complex to mark Guru Ram Das Parkash PurbPoets from all over India, including Balbir Singh Bal, Dr Hari Singh Jachak, Karamjit Singh Noor, Avtar Singh Tari, Advocate Shukarguzar Singh, Gurdial Singh Nimar, Gurcharan Singh Chann, Zamir Ali Zamir, Harbhajan Singh Deol, Chain Singh Chakrawarti, Balbir Singh Kamal, Gurcharan Singh Charan and others recited poems and received the blessings of the sangat.Famous poet Sardar Balbir Singh Bal Morinda’s performance was applauded. Dr Hari Singh Jachak also recited a poem about Guru Ramdas. Prominent personalities including Gurmeet Singh, founder president Guru Gobind Singh Study Circle and honorary secretary, Sri Akal Takht Sahib Secretariat and Gurinder Singh Mathrewal, Manager, Sri Darbar Sahib Amritsar Sahib honoured the poets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-poetic-tribute-to-guru-ramdas-at-gurdwara-manji-sahib-diwan-hall-darbar-sahib-amritsar-329349
25-10-2021||Switch to eco-friendly firecrackers||Open House:  Do you think it is the sole responsibility of the administration to curb pollution?||Our past experience shows that it is tough to honour the pledge to celebrate a cracker-free Diwali. The rising threat to our environment, though, cries for a total ban on crackers on every occasion whatsoever. But, this is idealism sans reality. Ours is a land of festivals and rituals and crackers have always been an integral part of the celebrations. Diwali is considered, especially by youngsters, a synonym of fireworks. When Diwali is just a few days away, the district administration, as always, can do nothing better than making efforts to ration the fireworks and ban an open sale of crackers. But, as always, the crackers of all sorts will somehow reach the hands of youngsters making this Diwali also a big environmental pollutant. Ban on crackers a few months before the festival has become a routine that costs the traders and manufacturers dearly. The only solution lies in making the manufacturers of smoky fireworks and crackers switch over to the manufacture of eco-friendly ones. For this, all financial and know-how assistance must be provided by the state at a priority. Till this shift over happens, a big awareness drive against crackers must continue non-stop.HL SharmaQUESTIONWrong parking of vehicles, temporary encroachments, illegal cuts on roads and wrong-side driving are common problems ailing the city traffic. What steps should be taken to solve traffic congestion on city roads, especially during the current festive season?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 28)Roll out long-term policy to end practiceAny ceremony or festival connected to any region or religion is directly related to one or another type of business activities. In support of my plea, Diwali festival attracts business relating to printing of cards or gift boxes, sweets, dresses, jewellery and utensils, paints, whitewashing materials, earthenware, fruits and dry fruits, lights, candles etc. and of course, crackers. So to alter the above arrangements is not possible for the local administration. Therefore, the Central Government should form a policy to encourage eco-friendly crackers. The Central Government should apply the same pattern as they did to phase out diesel/petrol vehicles to bring in e-vehicles. In this way the pollution-causing crackers should be replaced with the eco-friendly ones by giving incentives and subsidies to the cracker manufacturing units. The local administration can take temporary measures such as restricted time period for bursting of crackers etc., which is in no way solution to the problem. Moreover, people should also come forward and show their maturity, instead of putting the money in wasteful expenditure to more useful and purposeful cause.Naresh JoharActive, aware citizenry can play an effective roleWith the arrival of festive season, entire North India is about to get engulfed with the winter spell. Pollution is likely to stay more intense during such period. Therefore, raising mass awareness at the grassroots against the bad effects of air pollution on health as well as on environment must be prioritised.Hospitals, schools, colleges and crowd-centric places of the city should install more Air Quality Index kiosks with social messages to celebrate safe Diwali.Ward members, councillors and respectable members of the area could also try to convince and ask residents to provide their valuable inputs to curb pollution caused by crackers before the commencement of festival through social gatherings. More so, social media and WhatsApp groups of every locality can promote celebrating the festival with earthen lamps. The administration alone cannot curb the menace of noxious crackers. Active and aware citizenry can play effective role to tackle this issue.Nishant SumanCurb other sources of pollution tooTo achieve any target, the biggest driving force is the purpose of the endeavour. Here our goal is to curb air and noise pollution that is why we are asking for acracker-free Diwali. Technically, we may be right while demanding the same but crackers are not only cause of such pollution. Pollution due to firecrackers is caused for a day or two whereas due to poor planning of the government we are facing daily power cuts thus compelling the industrial units to run on generators thereby causing pollution. This is due to poor planning and monitoring by the state and central governments. Similarly, the government could not find a solution to the problem of stubble burning which causes a lot of pollution in the region. It is for the government to provide safe and secure environment to the public free from any sort of pollution caused by crackers or generators or stubble burning or from any other source.Harsh JoharTake pledge to enjoy cracker-free DiwaliOf late, the administration and the people have got awakened to the perennial problem of environmental pollution particularly air pollution that has assumed alarming proportions and is threatening the very life, existence and safety of people in general. Keeping this in mind, we pledge to celebrate cracker-free Diwali every year but throw caution to the wind when the D-Day arrives. Over the years Diwali celebrations have gone extravagant and taken a toll not only on the environment but also hit the business of many shoppers. Diwali is originally an eco-friendly festival. It is celebrated in the honour of Lord Rama, hence people should celebrate it with lights and diyas and return to our traditional ways of celebrating the auspicious day of Diwali. Though the government, NGOs, and social media have motivated citizens to come forward in supporting eco-friendly ways to celebrate Diwali, many people don’t care two hoots about it. Therefore, the district administration should ban the bursting of crackers. Air pollution caused by the bursting of crackers should be declared a major health issue. Offenders must be brought to book. It should increase awareness about the health hazards caused by the smoke of firecrackers. Cycle rallies and street plays should be organised to create awareness among the city residents. The administration should regularly issue firecracker advisory on TV and FM radio. If people can’t help bursting crackers, they should resort to eco-friendly crackers made with recycled paper. People should celebrate Diwali with friends and relatives by sharing gifts and sweets sans crackers. Money to be spent on crackers should be used for a noble cause. Residents should divide areas and take initiatives of cleaning their neighbourhood. Unless we ourselves understand and take the mantle to protect the environment from the Diwali pollution, no administration can save us from its perilous consequences.Tarsem S BumrahRaise awareness about its ill-effectsBelieve it or not, all fairs and festivals, directly or indirectly, add to every type of pollution but Diwali, as also Dasehra, are notorious for their harmful noise levels and air pollution caused by crackers besides adding to issues regarding sanitation. Last year, Covid proved to be a telling factor which compelled the state government to ban the sale of crackers and citizens enjoyed a quiet but humbling Diwali. This year, the administration seems to be already aware of the problem and must not allow the sale of crackers and rockets except at the authorised place. Ideally, such items should be disallowed totally. In fact, the Centre should take up the issue at the production level and control transport of hazardous chemicals such as potassium chlorate, sulphur and silver and mercury compounds. Meanwhile, residents should be made aware of the risks involved and the futility of a momentary euphoria. Only unscrupulous businessmen, with the motive of making quick bucks on Diwali evening, put up cracker counters at street corners. Even if some of them become paupers overnight if their stall catches fire, air pollution is guaranteed even then. In other countries, no one is allowed to play with gun powder. Abroad, celebrations are aimed at collective enjoyment. A few years ago, Delhi students decided to stop buying or bursting crackers all together and earned headlines for their initiative. I think city students should take out early morning processions against these explosives and preach for a calm and quiet bright Diwali. After all it is a festival to share sweets, exchange gifts and rejoice at the arrival of a more acceptable season. It is a Festival of Lights and light, only light, should dominate our celebrations.Mohan SinghBan on firecrackers need of the hourFirecracker-free Diwali can be possible only by the whole-hearted cooperation of the people. Any crackdown on firecrackers is welcome, but a blanket ban on the manufacture and sale will give the desired results in controlling the pollution caused by these. Since there is a lack of political will by the government to impose blanket ban on firecrackers, only an order from the Supreme Court can yield the desired results. Last year, the Apex Court had given 2-hour window for firecrackers which was grossly ignored. There is also a possibility of a strong back-lash of some individuals who view the ban through the prism of religion. Such ban should be blanket one and had to be announced much earlier, so that the firecracker dealers do not stock heavily for the festival season. With such bans, the SC may appear to have deviated from a bit traditional celebrating the most important festival, but there is no other choice, as it concerns the health of millions. By the blanket ban, livelihood of many is bound to be effected, but for a larger cause, some tougher decisions have to be taken, for which the SC would earn the gratitude of the people.LJ SinghTake strict action against violatorsIt is no revelation that Diwali adds to the already devasting pollution. Fireworks seem fascinating to the human eye but we neglect how much damage they do to the Nature. It’s indeed thought-provoking how every year we promise for a cracker-free Diwali yet go on to fill the sky with smoke with every firecracker in sight that too all night long. We all know how damaging these fireworks are yet we use them. Some might feel the guilt of their empty, hollow and vain promises for a moment or two but that guilt vanishes in the air just like the polluted gases let off on Diwali night, the only difference is these polluted gases mix and stick around in the atmosphere, being a trouble for not only humans but the other flora & fauna that we seem to be so inconsiderate about. The responsibility never lies on a certain individual or group, it lies on everyone. The administration can make rules on rules and policies on policies but if they aren’t strict enough or if the people aren’t going to take it solemnly there’s no point really. If anything, policies without a change in consciousness of the people will only give a rise to the firecrackers black market. I believe that the administration should firstly educate people with videos and images on social media representing how the dark side of firecrackers and how it affects humans and animals both, and then make sure to enforcepolicies sternly.Gurjas SinghMobile police should be deployedIn order to make eco-friendly Diwali a success, the district administration should ban crackers and make violation of ban punishable with heavy fines. Round the clock mobile police should be deployed in all areas to prevent misuse of crackers. Awareness about harmful effects of crackers should be made in local news channels. Moreover, it is not only the sole responsibility of the administration to curb pollution. Every year despite bans the residents crackers amounting to pollution as they know that the police are not going to take any action against them. The residents should come forward to prevent themselves from bursting crackers as it’s in the interest and welfare of all that native places don’t get engulfed in smog of crackers which causes health problems to all.Sanjay Chawla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-do-you-think-it-is-the-sole-responsibility-of-the-administration-to-curb-pollution-329348
25-10-2021||---||BJP aspirant’s hoardings blackened in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 24Some farmers allegedly blackened the hoardings installed by Kanwarbir Singh Manjil, a BJP ticket aspirant from Amritsar South constituency, here.He had installed the hoardings of congratulatory messages for Diwali, Bandi Chhor Diwas and Vishavakarma festival in Kot Mit Singh area besides many other parts of the constituency. Besides his face, the miscreants blackened his name and the BJP party symbol.A video has also become viral on social media, in which several persons carrying flags of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and black flags were found protesting and blackening the face of BJP leader in the hoardings.Manjil, while condemning the incident, said the act was committed by some ‘fake’ farmers. He said real farmers do not indulge in such cheap tactics.Farmers have been protesting for over a year against the three controversial farm laws. They were on an indefinite dharna outside the house of Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik and BJP national secretary Tarun Chugh for the last one year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-aspirants-hoardings-blackened-in-amritsar-329324
25-10-2021||---||Cleanliness on Amritsar MC’s mind||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 24The Municipal Corporation launched machines for city’s inner streets to regularise cleanliness.The Municipal Corporation officials have brought 49 four-wheelers, 54 tricycles, 34 twin bin hoppers, nine hopper bin lifters, eight compactors and 35 large bins.Apart from this, two dustbins would be provided in each household, in which people can dispose of wet and dry waste to segregate it at the source.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the Municipal Corporation on its own is making efforts to keep the city clean and crores of rupees on world-class machinery has been spent for the convenience of people.The city residents should keep the surroundings clean. Overall cleanliness is possible only if the citizens support and keep the city clean and green.Deputy Chief Minister Om Prakash Soni, who was the chief guest at Saturday's function, lauded the Municipal Corporation for regulating the sanitation arrangements of the city. He also praised the development work being carried out by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu for paying special attention to the service of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cleanliness-on-amritsar-mcs-mind-329323
25-10-2021||---||Cancel deputation of staff nurses, Jallianwala Bagh hospital employees write to Health Minister||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 24The health employees’ association at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs’ Memorial Civil Hospital has asked the Health Minister to cancel the deputation of staff nurses posted at the place in view of the shortage of staff.In a letter written to the Health Minister by Employees’ Welfare Association Civil Hospital, it has been stated that nine staff nurses appointed at the Civil Hospital have been posted at other places on deputation. The association alleged that while the hospital was facing huge shortage of trained manpower due to dengue, the employees on deputation, though counted as Civil Hospital employees, were actually working at other places.Association chairman Rakesh Sharma said: “Earlier, too, we had written a letter to the Health Minister, but it failed to yield any result. We have now written a letter again.” He said due to dengue, the Civil Hospital staff was overburdened as more patients than it actual capacity have been admitted. “We have also requested the Health Minister to appoint more staff nurses at the hospital, so that best possible medical care can be provided to patients,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cancel-deputation-of-staff-nurses-jallianwala-bagh-hospital-employees-write-to-health-minister-329322
25-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Jaggu Bhagwanpuria’s extortion racket: Cops identify more victims||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 24A day after the arrest of an aide of notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, his interrogation has revealed a couple of more names, including another doctor from whom he had extorted huge sum of money.Inderpreet Singh, alias Captain, was currently in police remand. He was arrested by the police following investigations after Bhagwanpuria demanded Rs 1 crore extortion from a prominent doctor, who runs a hospital in the city.If the police sources are to be believed, Bhagwanpuria had threatened a number of persons, including doctors, industrialists and prominent traders, demanding extortion from them. Ironically, the victims never file a police complaint due to the fear of serious consequences. It is learnt that many of them had given huge sums of money to the gangster.“Inderpreet’s investigations revealed that Bhagwanpuria had earlier demanded money from a famous sweets maker and a doctor,” said sources, adding that it was yet to be ascertained.According to the police, during interrogation, the accused confessed that he was an associate of Bhagwanpuria and had come to take the extortion amount on his (Bhagwanpuria’s) directions. The police recovered the mobile phone used in the crime and a scooter, in which he was travelling.The police have nominated Bhagwanpuria in the case and it has renewed its efforts to bring him on production warrant from Tihar Jail in Delhi, where he is lodged currently.Inderpreet had two NDPS cases registered against him in 2018. He had come out on bail in 2019. The police were also trying to identify his associates, who are suspected of being involved in the crime and efforts were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jaggu-bhagwanpurias-extortion-racket-cops-identify-more-victims-329321
25-10-2021||---||Fuel price hike leaves Amritsar traders in a tizzy||Amritsar, October 24Traders, industrialists and their representative organisations have claimed that the input cost of raw material has gone up after the prices of fossil fuel, coal increased.They reasoned that the high cost of raw materials had affected their business.Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) president Piara Lal Seth and General Secretary Sameer Jain said the sudden increase in the price of raw material ahead of the festive season is likely to bring losses and they would have to infuse more working capital to sustain their businesses. Due to the steep increase in the prices of petrol and diesel, the transport fares have also increased and the cost of transportation of goods has increased. Today, the price of petrol has increased to over Rs 109 per litre and that of diesel to over Rs 92 per litre due to which all raw and finished goods have become more expensive.Sunil Mehra, another industrialist, said, “The Union Government should reduce the excise duty and the rates of VAT on petrol and diesel to give relief to common man from inflation. The rates of raw materials such as steel, plastic granules, thread, dyes and chemicals have increased between 15 to 20 percent due to which the traders are facing difficulties in paying the orders for domestic and export.”SK Wadhwa, a textile manufacturer, said, “The production of most of the raw materials in the country is in corporate hands such as Reliance, who immediately increase prices at new rates when the price of raw material increases. The government should formulate an effective policy for sustainable supply of raw materials which are not registered in the commodity exchange and take effective steps to check the control of companies on raw materials in the country.”A local industrialist Ranjan Agarwal said in order to increase the competition in raw materials in the country, new manufacturers will have to be encouraged so that the arbitrariness of the companies supplying existing raw materials can be checked. The government should give relief to industry and trade by reducing import duty and anti-dumping duty on low-competition raw materials until the options for supply of raw materials increase.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fuel-price-hike-leaves-amritsar-traders-in-a-tizzy-329319
25-10-2021||---||Farmers to get compensation for loss caused by heavy rain||Amritsar, October 24Deputy Chief Minister Om Parkash Soni assured farmers of compensation for the loss caused to their standing paddy crop in the fields by the untimely rain and hailstorm on Saturday evening.While the paddy crop is fully ripe and ready to be harvested, the rain, especially hailstorm, damaged paddy in certain pockets of the district. As a result of the heavy showers, the harvesting of crop has also slowed down as heavy combine harvesters were unable to operate in wet fields.Even the procurement process in the grain markets was affected, as the crop lying there was drenched and moisture in the grains increased.Soni said preliminary reports have suggested that damage to crops was caused in Tarn Taran, Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Amritsar districts. He said in some pockets, the crop has flattened and farmers have reported grain loss due to hailstorm. Apart from paddy, the untimely showers have also caused damage to basmati crop, which is yet to ripe.Soni said the Revenue Department officials have been instructed to get an assessment of the loss caused to the crops, so that compensation could be granted. He was addressing a gathering at Moolechak village. He also presented a grant of Rs10 lakh to the panchayat for development works in village.22 villages affected from Saturday’s hailstorm, claims Agri dept officialsTarn Taran: As many as 22 villages were severely affected from the Saturday’s heavy rain and hailstorm in the district, the district Agriculture Department claimed on Sunday. There was heavy rain and hailstorm in far-off areas of the district, which heavily damaged paddy crop and the vegetables, too, were affected badly. Dr Jagwinder Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO), on Sunday said the team of the Agriculture Department visited a number of affected village and observed that paddy was (basmati) damaged in Rureassal, Chutala, Piddi, Raspulpur, Takhuchakk, Bullar, Bath, Khabbe Dogran, Rataul, Walipur, Bugha, Jahangir, Aladinpur and Bagrian among other villages. He said in five villages including Jahangir, Dinewal, Bagrian Deo and Pakhoke, potato and pea crops got inundated. He said in other villages the loss was mere 5 to 10 per cent. There are as many as 550 villages in the district and a number of farmers’ organisations, too, visited to assess the loss. The farmers’ organisations challenged the claims of the administration by saying that the loss caused to the crops was touching more than 80 per cent in the district in all villages. OCTarn Taran Dana Mandi turns into a ‘swimming pool’Tarn Taran: Knee-deep water collected at the local grain market (Dana Mandi) after Saturday’s rainfall, damaging thousands of gunny bags of paddy procured by the government agencies. It will take some time to drain out the water but it is creating problems for the arhtiyas (commission agents) and the labourers to work in a smooth fashion. For farmers, too, it is not easy to bring their produce to the mandi as the lifting process, too, was going on at a snail’s pace. There is hardly any space to de-load the produce at the mandi. The situation arises every time it rains as the drainage system of the mandi is so faulty that the rainwater cannot drain out immediately. Yashpal Sharma, a commission agent (arhtiya) at the mandi who is working here since the last 32 years, said he had been witnessing this for years now. He said the diameter of the underground pipes meant to drain out water was so less that these often close due to dust in the working season. He said it will take days together to clear the water. He said thousands of paddy bags had been damaged as the rainwater could not drain out immediately. RK Bhatia, secretary of the local market committee, however, assured that the motors to drain out rainwater were functional and the water would be drained out by Sunday evening. — Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-to-get-compensation-for-loss-caused-by-heavy-rain-329315
