26-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Mehndi, nail-art competitions at Majha College For Women in Tarn Taran||Freshers’ party at Global GroupAmritsar: Freshers’ Festival Agaaz-2021 was organised at the Global Group of Institutes to welcome the newcomers to the campus. The seniors having missed the moment last year because of the Covid situation made the most of the occasion and enjoyed to their heart’s content during the fun and frolic during the function. Extending a warm and hearty welcome to the newcomers, the seniors went all the way to make them feel at ease with the holding of the extravaganza. The participating students enlivened the occasion with their splendid and lively performances and the enthusiasm of those enjoying the performance brought to the campus a festive feel that was missing last year. The festival was marked by a fashion show and rendition of soulful music, songs and dance by the students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mehndi-nail-art-competitions-at-majha-college-for-women-in-tarn-taran-329762
26-10-2021||Amritsar||Online session on drug prices||A webinar on the topic “Affordability and availability of essential drugs” was held here on Monday.Organised by the Punjab State Pharmaceutical Price Monitoring and Resource Unit (PMRU) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the event was a part of the “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” held under the direction of the NPPA, New Delhi.Basic information regarding the benefit and cost saving health care expenses by the trade margin rationalisation and price capping of knee implants, anti-cancer drugs, coronary stents and recent reduction in the prices of oxygen concentrators and five medical devices like pulse oximeters, BP monitors, nebulisers, digital thermometer and glucometers was given.The webinar was aimed at creating awareness regarding the prices of drugs and medical devices besides updating them about the Pharma Sahi Daam App for checking the prices of medicines as well as the helpline of Punjab PMRU 1800-180-2414 for any queries, information and complaints. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-session-on-drug-prices-329761
26-10-2021||Amritsar||Fliers face trouble as Air India stops ticket bookings for flights on Amritsar-Rome, Amritsar-Nanded routes||After Air India stopped ticket bookings for flights on Amritsar-Rome and Amritsar-Nanded routes from October 31, fliers and aviation experts anticipate that these flights would be eventually be withdrawn.The thrice a week Nanded-Amritsar direct flight connects two important Sikh temporal seats — Sri Akal Takht Sahib and Takht Sri Hazur Abchal Nagar Sahib in Nanded. It has been flying on the route for the last nearly three years.Similarly, the booking for once a week Delhi-Amritsar-Rome flight is not available and has been removed from the schedule released on the Air India’s website. The winter schedule starts from October 29 and lasts till March 26, 2022.These flights are unavailable for bookings in the winter schedule indicating that Air India has either suspended these routes or was pulling out the flights altogether.The FlyAmritsar Initiative has asked Air India to continue its direct flights from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport to Nanded in Maharashtra and Rome in Italy even after October. Its global convener Sameep Singh Gumtala has written letters to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur to draw their attention over the matter. He urged them to approach Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia over this issue.Yogesh Kamra, a member of the airport advisory committee, said he was surprised by the Air India’s move as the flights to Nanded and Rome were running with a good flight load of over 70 per cent average occupancy.Air India’s tweet, however, belies these claims. On October 23 it tweeted: “Fly non-stop from Amritsar to Nanded. For detailed schedule and to book tickets log in to airindia.in.”“After this tweet, many others including me informed the airlines that the booking from October 31 onwards was not available on its website, but Air India has not responded to it,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fliers-face-trouble-as-air-india-stops-ticket-bookings-for-flights-on-amritsar-rome-amritsar-nanded-routes-329758
26-10-2021||---||Slew of activities mark Day 1 of Zonal Youth Festival at Guru Nanak Dev University||Amritsar, October 25Mohnish Chawla, IG Border Range, Amritsar, inaugurated the Zonal Youth Festival of Education Colleges in the Dasmesh Auditorium of Guru Nanak Dev University. He was here to participate in the inaugural ceremony of Zonal Youth Festival as chief guest. Chawla said that such competitions develop talent and creativity skills amongst the students and with this student achieved well growth environment with positivity.While welcoming the chief guest and others, prof Anish Dua, Dean Student’s Welfare and in-charge, Youth Welfare Department, said the university is committed for the overall development and growth its students. On the inaugural day, the competitions started with group shabad/bhajan followed by group song indian, geet gazal, folk song. In the second half of the day, the Architecture Department organised painting on the spot, cartooning, poster making, collage, sketching, clay modeling, slogan writing, painting (still life) competitions. in the conference hall quiz (preliminary) was organised. On October 26, the competitions of costume parade, skit, mimicry, gidha, poetical symposium, elocution and debate will be held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/slew-of-activities-mark-day-1-of-zonal-youth-festival-at-guru-nanak-dev-university-329757
26-10-2021||Amritsar||Migrants heading home ahead of Diwali demand more trains||Migrants returning to their native places ahead of Diwali complained of not being able to find seats in trains. They demanded more trains to UP and Bihar.According to Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad Punjab, there are about 4.50 lakh labourers, including 1.70 lakh migrants, engaged in a variety of jobs in the district.Ram Bhawan Goswami, general secretary of the Parishad, said the Railways did not start special trains for migrants as used to be the case before the arrival of Covid-19 pandemic. He recalled that before Diwali, the Railways used to press in at least six trains to accommodate extra rush of passengers. He pointed out that even three completely general trains such as Jan Sewa, Jan Sadharan and Jan Nayak were not operationalised.Ahead of Diwali festival, the Railways introduced three special trains this time. These trains are Amritsar-Bandra (Maharashtra), Amritsar-Ajmer and Amritsar-Saharsa. Majority of the migrants engaged in local industry and agriculture come from UP and Bihar. So, only one train to Bihar’s Saharsa will serve their purpose.As migrants outnumber the trains, they moved to private buses for their journey back home. However, they complain of private transporters charging them higher tariff. Similarly, no ticket is available in a single flight between Amritsar and Patna. Normally a seat in this flight is available at around Rs 3,000. Now, the same is not available at even Rs 5,000. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/migrants-heading-home-ahead-of-diwali-demand-more-trains-329756
26-10-2021||Neha Saini||Literary meets are back after long hiatus||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October, 25The inaugural session of a two-day Young Writers’ Meet was held at the Bhai Vir Singh Niwas Asthan. It is an attempt to revive the literary events which were put to halt by the pandemic. The event is being held in collaboration with Sahitya Akademi and Bhai Vir Singh Sahitya Sadan, hosted eminent writers and thinkers including Madhav Kaushik, who is also the vice president of Sahitya Akademi, Madhu Acharya Ashawadi, Chitranjan Mishra, Vanita and several other noted writers from region.As a young writer, we should celebrate things that happen around us, new or normal, but the freshness in literary context, lies in the perspective we bring to bear in what’s happening. One must need to think, before we celebrate something as a writer. Rana Nayyer, writer and educatorWith the emphasis on giving platform to the younger generation of writers, the event will host several literary names in writing from eight different languages, including Punjabi, Hindi, Dogri, Kashmiri, Rajasthani, Sanskrit, English and Urdu. Madhav Kaushik. He asked the new generation writers to be empathetic, connect with the people to find the passion to write about. “Young generation of the writers in India is remarkably real and impressive in their work and I say this as I am a member of jury for several literature society and clubs in some of the premium institutions. My advice for them is to balance romanticism and rebellion through their writings, as they as two faces of a coin,” he said.Rana Nayyer, writer and educator, who was the keynote speaker for the session, called for young writers to take a pause whenever necessary to understand the contemporary realities. “As young, we should celebrate things that happen around us, new or normal, but the freshness in literary context, lies in the perspective we bring to bear in what’s happening. So, as much as contemporary realities will feed your imagination, one must need to think, before we celebrate something as a writer,” he said.The speakers also hailed Bhai Vir Singh as among the most relevant and powerful voices of the contemporary Punjabi literature. “His literary legacy is not just an inspiration but also a reminder for the fraternity to understand the sanctity of the written word,” said Nayyer.As for the literary discourse that followed, the day saw poetry reading sessions and short story discussion by participating writers in Punjabi, Hindi, Urdu and other languages. A total of 16 writers from across the country are participating in this event over the two days.“Hosting this event in the lap of literature and history at the Bhai Vir Singh Niwas Asthan is an encouragement for a quality literary discourse. We are hosting this event under the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav initiative by the GOI and this would open doors for more such offline events,” said Dr Sukhbir Kaur Mahal, director, Bhai Vir Singh Niwas Asthan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/literary-meets-are-back-after-long-hiatus-329754
26-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Rs 46-cr road recarpeting project in limbo||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 25With the delay in e-tendering process, several roads in the city, which were to be recarpeted under Rs 46 crore project would get delayed for another six months.The Amritsar Municipal Corporation had initiated the e- tendering process in April. The technical bid of the tender was opened on August 24 and the tendering committee forwarded it to the Local Bodies Department for vetting, however, the latter has not responded to the technical bid to date.“If there are some objections, the Local Bodies Department, should contact civic body and ask to resend it to avoid delay. If they cancel the tendering process or take some more time, the MC will not be able to recarpet the roads for next six months. Recarpeting stops during winter and it will resume after March,” said an official.The residents were expecting that roads would be recarpeted before the 2022 Assembly elections as the incumbent government would get its credit.If there are some objections, the Local Bodies Department, should contact the MC and ask to resend it to avoid delay. If they cancel the tendering process or take some more time, the MC will not be able to recarpet the roads for next six months. Recarpeting stops during winter and it will resume after March. An officialThe roads, including New Kot Mit Singh Road, Temple Colony Road , Dairy Complex Road, Gobindgarh Fort Road, Civil Hospital Road, Guru Harkishan School Road, Janata Colony Road, Khazana Gate to Hakima, Bhagtawala to Gilwali, Gilwali to Chattiwind, Sultanwind to Hansli, Hansli to Ghee Mandi, Gilwali to Chattiwind, Bari Gate to Lahori Gate, Court Road , Kachari Chowk to Hartej Hospital, Gumtala Bypass, Race Course Road, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Guru Gobind Singh Chowk to Power Colony Majitha Road, SSSS Chowk to Hussain Pura, Maqbool Road, Rani Ka Bagh, Sadar Police Station, Bhandari Bridge to Kachari Chowk, Queens Road, Cooper Road, Joshi Colony Main Road, Jamun Wali Road, Basant Avenue Main Road, Madan Mohan Malviya Road, Lawrence Road, 88-feet Road, Bhagat Kabir Marg, Dasondha Singh Road, Old Jail Road, Albert Road, Taylor Road, Ranjit Avenue Main Road, Joda Phatak to GT Road, New Golden Avenue Road, Islam Ganj Road, Abadi Shivala Road, Main Shivala Road, Main Krishna Square, 100-feet Road and Guru Ravidas Marg, need urgent repair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-46-cr-road-recarpeting-project-in-limbo-329541
26-10-2021||Amritsar||Two fresh Covid cases in Amritsar district||Woman ends life, husband bookedAmritsar: Rupinder Kaur alias Rimpi, a resident of quarters in a dera in Beas, ended her life by hanging herself from a fan here on Saturday. Following the complaint by her father, the police have booked her husband Pardeep Singh. Gurmit Singh, a resident of Vallah, told the police that Rimpi was married to Pardeep in December 2019 as per Sikh customs and rituals. He said he had given dowry as per his capacity. The couple used to live in the quarters of the dera. He alleged that his daughter was perturbed over the harassment by the accused for bringing insufficient dowry and was demanding more dowry. He said on Saturday night, he got a call that Rupinder had committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan. The police have registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC against Pardeep who was yet to be arrested. TNSGirl gang-raped, two arrestedTarn Taran: A minor girl was allegedly raped by four persons in Khemkaran township. Two of the accused had been arrested. The father of the girl in his complaint alleged that the accused took away his daughter on October 23 midnight and sexually abused her. Sub-Inspector Kanwaljit Rai, SHO Khemkaran, said the accused had been identified as Raju Singh, Gurjit Singh, Ranu Singh and Gora Singh. Raju Singh and Ranu Singh had been arrested, said SHO Kanmaljit Rai. Cases under Sections 376-D, 511 of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act had been registered, said the SHO. OCFiring: Man escapes unhurtAmritsar: Two bike-borne persons fired at Buti Ram, the husband of councillor Nirmal Kaur in Ward No.3, Ajnala, on Monday. He had a narrow escape and the suspects managed to flee. DSP Ajnala Vipin Sharma said the area was sealed and two suspects were arrested after three hours. He said their probe was underway. Buti Ram said his wife Nirmal Kaur was the Congress councillor from Ward No. 3. He said he runs a grocery store in the area. He said when he was standing near his shop and talking to customers, he heard gun shots and a bullet hit a utensil at his shop. He said he saw two youth fleeing after firing. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-fresh-covid-cases-in-amritsar-district-329542
26-10-2021||Neha Saini||Punjabi films set to bring life back to theatres||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 25After reeling under the distress created due to the pandemic, the Punjabi film industry is finally abuzz with multiple theatrical releases headlined by top stars. Upcoming film ‘Paani Vich Madhaani’, is the latest in line, bringing a collaboration of top-billed stars — Gippy Grewal and Neeru Bajwa — together after 12 years. The hit jodi of Punjabi cinema that created magic with ‘Jihne Mera Dil Luteya’, is hoping to bring back the audience back to theatres with ‘Paani Vich Madhaani’.For a Bollywood film, getting digital release is equal to box-office release, as they cover its budget expenses through satellite or digital rights. But the same kind of money is not offered to Punjabi films. Gippy Grewal, actorGippy Grewal and Gurpreet Ghuggi, who are among the ensemble star cast of the film, were in Amritsar on Monday for its promotion. The movie looks essentially a retro-drama set in the ’80s.“The film will definitely bring us back on track with its fresh appeal,” said Ghuggi, sounding confident of the content they have created.“The film is set in the transitional era of late ’80s and early ’90s that for our generation is considered an important time period. Right from the subject to presentation to its characterisation, the film will offer something that has never been seen in Punjabi cinema,” he said.Gippy, who is elated to share screen with Neeru Bajwa, said the film has been made with a lot of heart.“We have been working all throughout the pandemic, if not shooting outdoors, then working out the production details. Every detail in the film has been created with efforts, using best quality production. It feels good to bring such a movie to audience after so long,” he said.As for the new normal — OTT platforms — both actors were of the view that cinematic experience is better off in theatres.“Watching a film in theatres has always been a celebration of sorts for Punjabi film audience. You just do not go to watch a movie, you go there for a shared experience of emotions, have a great time with family or friends and make memories. OTT platforms have been great for expanding the creative genres, but theatres will always have their audience,” said Ghuggi. He insisted that the government should lift curbs on theatres to allow business to return to normal.Gippy, on the other hand, said OTT platforms and cinema have entirely different audience. He said business wise, OTT platforms are not good for the Punjabi film industry, at least for now.“For a Bollywood film, getting digital release is equal to box office release, as they cover its budget expenses through satellite or digital rights. But the same kind of money is not offered to Punjabi films yet. Punjabi films have the ability to cover their cost of production in a single ticket,” he said. As a producer, Gippy has been making good content for digital as well as cinema. “As far as creative content is concerned, OTT platforms give us an opportunity to try something new. I have produced web series ‘Zila Sangroor’ for Punjabi OTT channel that has garnered great response and even ‘Warning’, which will now be made into a film and will release in November.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabi-films-set-to-bring-life-back-to-theatres-329543
26-10-2021||---||Granthi booked for blackmailing, raping girl||Amritsar, October 25Mattewal police have booked a gurdwara priest (granthi) for allegedly blackmailing and raping a 23-year-old girl, though no arrest has been made in the case so far. The accused has been identified as Jugraj Singh, a resident of Jabbowal village here. He worked as a granthi at a gurdwara in Kalerbala village.The victim told the police that last year when she had gone to answer the call of nature in the bathroom of her house, the accused entered it and captured her pictures. She said the accused then started blackmailing her for making physical relations with him and threatened to post the same on social media if she refused.She said fearing social stigma, she did not tell anyone about this. She said the accused started meeting her on one pretext or other, but she always tried to avoid him. She said in April this year, she had gone to pay obeisance at the gurdwara when the accused again threatened to post her pictures on social media and later raped her. She said her family came to know about this and she narrated her tale of woes to them.Following this, a complaint was lodged with the police and a case under Sections 376, 295 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 67 and 67-A of the Information and Technology Act against Jugraj.Bhupinder Kaur, investigating officer in the case, said the medical examination of the victim was conducted and raids were on to nab the suspect. Further investigation was under progress, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/granthi-booked-for-blackmailing-raping-girl-329544
26-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Commission agent kills man, hurts son in Patti village; booked||Tarn Taran, October 25A man was killed and his son seriously injured when they were attacked by a commission agent in the grain market of Sabhra village in Patti subdivision here on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Balwinder Singh (50), and his son Ranjit Singh of the same village. Ranjit was under treatment in a private hospital of Amritsar.The victim, a truck driver, worked with the commission agent, Jagtar Singh, for lifting and taking paddy to the godown.As soon as the victim gave him the slip of his previous round regarding the weight of the paddy, the accused suspected that Balwinder Singh had stolen some bags of paddy from the truck on the way. Both indulged in a verbal duel and the accused in a fit of anger attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon. When his son came to his rescue, the accused also attacked him.Both were brought to the Civil Hospital, Patti, but Balwinder Singh succumbed to the injuries on the way.The Patti Sadar police have registered a case under Sections 302, 307, 323 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The accused absconded after leaving them injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/commission-agent-kills-man-hurts-son-in-patti-village-booked-329545
26-10-2021||---||Quarrel at birthday party takes ugly turn in Amritsar village||Amritsar, October 25A quarrel at a birthday party turned ugly when a group of persons indulged in firing outside the residence of a youth, Jaganpreet Singh, at Joeke village falling under the Lopoke police station here on Saturday evening.The youth and the members of the family saved themselves by closing the doors of their rooms. The incident led to panic in the area. Lopoke police have booked over 20 persons on the charge of attempt to murder and under relevant sections of the Arms Act. No arrest has been made till now, said the police.Nirmal Singh told the police that his son Jaganpreet Singh (22) along with his friend Jobanpreet Singh of Lopoke had gone to attend a birthday party at a friend’s. He said Jobanpreet’s friend, identified as Pawan, had an altercation with Sukhraj Singh there. He said his son returned home in the afternoon. He said in the evening Sukhraj along with Jugraj Singh, Manjot Singh and Sukhbir Singh, who were carrying firearms, and Gurdev Singh and Gurpreet Singh along with unidentified persons who were also having arms came in six cars and bikes outside his house.He said the accused started shouting and challenging them. They started firing indiscriminately at their house. He said frightened over this, they locked themselves in a room to save themselves. He said they also fired in the air. He said when the people started gathering, the accused went away while shouting to see us. He said in the late evening the accused again came and started firing.He said on Sunday morning, they took Amarjit Singh, sarpanch of the village, and informed the police about this following which a case of murder bid and under the Arms Act was registered against the accused.Among those booked included Sukhraj Singh, Jugraj Singh, Manjot Singh, Sukhbir Singh, Saurav, his father Gurdev Singh, Gurpreet Singh, nambardar of Kohali village, and around 15 unidentified persons. The police said raids were on to arrest the suspects while further investigation was under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/quarrel-at-birthday-party-takes-ugly-turn-in-amritsar-village-329546
26-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Drug Seizure: Another chemist arrested, 16,000 intoxicants seized in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 25Continuing with its investigations, the Amritsar rural police along with the Drug Department official on Monday carried out a raid at a shop in Katra Sher Singh, which is a famous medicine market here.The police have arrested Vivek Mahajan, who has been evading arrest for the last over one week and confiscated over 16,000 sedative pills from his shop. This is the ninth arrest in the case. Of those arrested, three are medical store owners.Rakesh Kaushal, SSP Amritsar rural, confirmed the development and said the Punjab Police have adopted zero tolerance against those involved in the illegal sale of medicinal drugs.The police had already sealed the shop of Vivek Mahajan.The raid was a part of the investigations being carried out by the Kathunangal police regarding the illegal sale of intoxicants. The police had earlier seized 1.96 lakh sedative pills and arrested eight persons in the case.A police official said the name of two shops came up while probing the eight suspects nabbed by the police earlier regarding the seizure of 1.96 lakhs intoxicants. Those arrested include Naveen Gupta, Manish Kumar, Mannu Mahajan, Ankush Mahajan, Rohit Kumar, Kirpal Singh and Karamjit Singh. They allegedly used to procure the sedative pills from Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh.It has been learnt that several persons had approached senior police officials of the rural police to influence the probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-seizure-another-chemist-arrested-16-000-intoxicants-seized-in-amritsar-329547
26-10-2021||---||Farmers burn Centre’s effigy in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 25Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee staged a protest on the Amritsar-Ganganagar Highway, near Chabba village, on Monday demanding action against those guilty of Lakhimpur Kheri incident and against rising prices of petrol and diesel.The committee has also announced to initiate protests outside the district headquarters in the state. While burning the effigy of the Central government, farmer leaders also held the state government responsible for the shortage of DAP fertiliser and demanded compensation for the loss of produce due to heavy rains.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the committee, said farmers were being harassed in grain markets for procurement of paddy. He said proper arrangements for procurement of paddy should be made and farmers should not be troubled on the pretext of moisture.Pandher said they had earlier ended the protest against the state government after it had assured to solve the issues which were in its domain. The farmer leaders said as the state government had failed to resolve the issues concerning the farming sector, the committee has decided to stage protests at the district headquarters across the state on October 26.The Kisan Sangharsh Committee is not a part of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, however, it has been supporting most of the protests of the SKM. At the same time, it has also protested separately on different issues.‘Aam Aadmi’ activists visit Bhagtanwala Grain MarketThe leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party visited Bhagtanwala Grain market and alleged that unjustified cuts from Rs100 to Rs400 per quintal were being applied in MSP for paddy on the pretext of more moisture. Leaders including Jiwanjot Kaur, Harwant Singh Umranangal, Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal and others alleged that the Centre and state governments were harassing farmers on one pretext or the other and farmers have to wait for long before their produce is procured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-burn-centres-effigy-in-amritsar-329548
26-10-2021||---||Deadly sting: No let-up in dengue cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 25After 292 new dengue cases were reported in the last nine days, the total count of patients from the disease reached 1,321 on Monday.This is the highest number of dengue cases reported from the district ever. However, the district Health Department has not reported any death due to the disease so far.A healthy and nutritious food is a good thing, but if someone feels that goat milk alone can cure dengue, it is just a myth. A patient must take complete bed rest, vitamin C in any form and increase intake of fluids A physicianEven as the weather has changed and temperature fallen substantially, health experts believe that dengue season would continue for at least 8 to 10 days. The recent showers have further added to the worries, as it could help in the breeding of mosquitoes.The officials said a slight drop in dengue cases has been witnessed recently, but the situation is still alarming and residents must take ample precautions.While the Health Department, as per government policy, considers only MacElisa test reports for confirming dengue patients, the number of patients, with similar symptoms as drop in platelet count and high temperature who have not gone for MacElisa test, is much higher.Even at present, the government and private hospitals are overburdened with dengue cases. The employees at the Civil Hospital here have also demanded cancellation of deputation in view of huge rush of dengue patients.It seems the administration is just waiting for the temperature to fall further so that the dengue virus becomes ineffective on its own, as the efforts, if any were made, have proven insufficient to contain the spread of the disease.In the absence of any treatment for the disease, as it is treated symptomatically and there is no particular medicine for it, the public is also mostly relying on myths as drinking goat milk, coconut water or other such items, which do not have any scientific role in treating dengue.“A healthy and nutritious food is a good thing, but if someone feels that goat milk alone can cure dengue, it is just a myth,” said a physician, adding that a patient must take complete bed rest, vitamin C in any form and increase intake of fluids.SymptomsPeople infected by the dengue virus may suffer from high fever, severe headache, severe pain behind the eyes, joint pain, muscle and bone pain, rash and mild bleedingDosDon’ts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deadly-sting-no-let-up-in-dengue-cases-in-amritsar-329549
