27-10-2021||Amritsar||Table Tennis League — Season 2021||Seminar on Punjabi LiteratureDr Haribhajan Singh Bhatia of Guru Nanak Dev University addressed a seminar held by DAV College on the future of Punjabi literature. The seminar was organised by the Punjabi Department of the college and discussed the future of Punjabi language and literature in the 21st century. Dr Bhatia completely rejected the point of ending the existence of Punjabi language and said a language with rich heritage and culture can never end. He gave information on the discrimination happening with the Punjabi language and said that Punjabi is also being ignored at many places. The Punjabi dialect, also known as “Shah Mukhi”, has not received the respect it deserved. Dr Rajesh Kumar, Principal of DAV College, briefed about achievements of Dr Bhatia as a beacon of Punjabi language.Zonal Youth Festival concludesKhalsa College of Education, Ranjit Avenue, Amritsar, emerged as the winner of the Zonal Youth Festival of Guru Nanak Dev University in the category of Zonal Youth Festival of Education Colleges on the concluding day on Tuesday. As many as 400 students from the 13 affiliated education colleges of the university participated in 23 items of music, theatre, dance, literature and fine arts. Khalsa College of Education, GT Road, Amritsar, got the second position and MGN College of Education, Jalandhar, remained third. Prof Anish Dua, Dean Student’s Welfare presided over the prize distribution function. In his address, Prof Dua urged the students to engage in any work they should do with full dedication. The deeds that are done with a half-hearted mind never come to an end. He also talked about the alumni of the university who performed on the stage of Dasmesh Auditorium and now they are well known in the film and television industry. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/table-tennis-league-%E2%80%94-season-2021-330246
27-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Girl abducted in Tarn Taran||A teenage girl was abducted from Valtoha village on the pretext of marriage on October 22. The accused has been identified as Ajay Singh of the same village.A case under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC has been registered against the accused. The family of the victim expressed dissatisfaction over not booking the accused under the POCSO Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-abducted-in-tarn-taran-330040
27-10-2021||Amritsar||One held in carjacking case||The Amritsar (rural) police have nabbed one of the suspects involved in carjacking of a Chandigarh-based couple on October 14.The accused has been identified as Jagroop Singh, a resident of Algo Khurd village.His interrogation revealed that three of his accomplices were nabbed by Gurdaspur police, which had recovered the car and laptop from them.Vikrant Sharma, SHO, Chatiwind police station, confirmed the development and said the accused was produced before the court, which sent him to two-day police remand. He said his three accomplices would also be brought on production warrant from Gurdaspur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-in-carjacking-case-330041
27-10-2021||Amritsar||Seizure of intoxicants: Three-day police remand for chemist||While a local court today sent medical store owner, Vivek Mahajan, on three-day police remand, the Amritsar rural police have summoned around 10 chemists, including one from Ludhiana to join probe. They have been asked to bring their records with them after their names figured during the interrogation of Mahajan, who was arrested on Monday. He was produced before the court on Tuesday.After raids at Katra Sher Singh Market, there has been panic among pharmaceutical dealers. Several shops remained closed following the yesterday’s raid and seizure of 16,600 intoxicant tablets from Mahajan’s shop.SSP Rakesh Kaushal said the investigations were still on and many more heads may roll in near future. He said the state government has adopted zero tolerance against the drug abuse and anybody found involved in this trade would be taken to task. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seizure-of-intoxicants-three-day-police-remand-for-chemist-330042
27-10-2021||---||Martyrs of Gurdwara Reform Movement remembered at gurmat samagam in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 26Dedicated to the centenary of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and in the memory of the martyrs of the Gurdwara Reform Movement, a grand gurmat samagam (religious congregation) of Sikh Missionary colleges was held at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall on Tuesday.The event was attended by a large number of pracharaks (preachers), raagis, tabla players, representatives of 56 Sikh missionary colleges and institutions.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur lauded the contribution of missionary colleges in flourishing the Sikh faith, the Sikh Rehat Maryada (code of conduct) approved by the Akal Takht. The organisations have given many eminent personalities to the community.Bibi Jagir Kaur thanked the Sikh Missionary Colleges for their support in the SGPC’s ‘Ghar Ghar Andar Dharamsaal’ (sacred shrine within every home) campaign and announced an annual assistance of Rs 1 lakh to each Sikh Missionary College.As many as 19 Sikh Missionary Colleges are being run by the SGPC itself and many other institutes are also making significant contributions to the SGPC’s campaign.Bibi Jagir Kaur announced that the SGPC would soon open a Sikh Missionary College for the girls in the name of Mata Sahib Kaur at Tarn Taran so that Sikh women could also learn in the field of preaching the Sikh faith.Students of Sikh Missionary Colleges performed Gurmat Kirtan and various scholars also shared their views.Surinder Singh, principal, Sikh Missionary College, Sri Anandpur Sahib, presented his views on the life and mission of a Sikh preacher. Similarly, Gurbachan Singh Panwan, principal, Gurmat Gyan College, Ludhiana, spoke on the history of the SGPC and its strengthening.Harjit Singh, chairman of Sikh Missionary College, Ludhiana, shared sentimental views on the importance of Sikh Rehat Maryada and Prof Maninderpal Singh of Sahibzada Jujhar Singh Missionary College, Chaunta shared his views about the Sri Guru Granth Sahib.During the function, the stage was managed by Dr Amrik Singh Latifpur and head pracharak Bhai Jaswinder Singh Shahur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/martyrs-of-gurdwara-reform-movement-remembered-at-gurmat-samagam-in-amritsar-330043
27-10-2021||---||Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal submits memo of demands to CM Charanjit Singh Channi||Amritsar, October 26Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has assured a delegation of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) of taking take positive action on the demands raised by the body.Piara Lal Seth, president, PPBM, who returned from Chandigarh on Tuesday, said his delegation met the CM, Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni, Industries Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh on Monday.The PPBM submitted a memorandum to the CM which demanded a provision for Rs 5,000 crore in the budget for the development of industry in state, wholesale and retail trade, which has already been granted MSME status by the Ministry of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises on July 7, 2021, should be extended industry-like electricity rate. Notably, in Punjab, electricity is given to MSMEs at the rate of Rs 6.40 per unit, but the wholesale and retail trades are charged tariff at the rate of Rs 10.14 per unit. It sought that electricity tariff in Punjab at Rs five per unit inclusive of all taxes.It demanded the abolition of development tax (professional tax) from the traders, fixed electricity charges from March to April 2020 lockdown period should be waived, establishment of world class trade and exhibition center in Amritsar, allotment of a plot for the merchant building, 10 per cent exemption on property tax to be extended till November 30, representatives of the PPBM should be given place in the Punjab Trade Board, release of capital subsidy of Industrial Policy of 2002-2007, relief to industry in transportation of raw materials by authoriding freight subsidy scheme in Invest Punjab, institutional and infrastructure tax on 2013-14 should be terminated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-pradesh-beopar-mandal-submits-memo-of-demands-to-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-330044
27-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran: Ministerial staff protest in front of  DAC||Tarn Taran, October 26The routine work in all government offices came to a halt due to the strike by the ministerial staff. On Tuesday, the strike entered its 19th day and the employees organised protest at the District Administration Complex (DAC) and condemned the indifferent attitude of the state government for not accepting the demands of the employees.Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu, district president of the Punjab State Ministerial Services Union, Karwinder Singh Cheema and others leaders while addressing the protesting employees alleged that the state government was not sincere towards the inconvenience being caused to the public due to the strike of the employees.The leaders said the organisation had been demanding the removal of the discrepancies of the sixth pay commission report. The leaders said the other demands of the organisation included revival of the old pension scheme, releasing of blocked dearness installments and other issues.The ministerial staff of the Education, Health, Revenue, Irrigation, Agriculture departments, along with the employees of the DC, SDM, DDPO, BDPO’s offices, were participating in the strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-ministerial-staff-protest-in-front-of-dac-330045
27-10-2021||---||Dengue: Amritsar Health Department back to awareness drive||Amritsar, October 26The Health Department has initiated a drive to create awareness about causes, symptoms, prevention and treatment of dengue. The district has reported over 1,350 dengue cases in the current season.The health officials said dengue can be easily prevented and residents should be aware about the reason behind its spread.Officials said as dengue larvae can be found in fresh water, it must be ensured that no item or junk material, which can hold water is left out in the open during rain.Residents have also been warned for mosquito breeding in coolers, pots, fridge’s water box and other such places. The infected person is also required to stay in isolation.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said hoardings, posters and pamphlets, were being used to spread awareness about the disease. He said the Health Department has been conducting fogging in various areas of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dengue-amritsar-health-department-back-to-awareness-drive-330046
27-10-2021||---||‘Digital media has opened new avenues for budding writers’||Amritsar, October 26The second and concluding day of Young Writers’ Meet, organised by Sahitya Akademi and Bhai Vir Singh Sahitya Sadan, on Tuesday was all about balancing passion and profession in the field of literature. The day began with a session chaired by Ravail Singh, former professor and head of Department of Punjabi, Delhi University, who spoke about writing as a passion or profession. “If writers are really passionate about their craft, it inevitably becomes their profession. You don’t have to go after fame or money, if in your work, these are the bi-products that follow your craft,” he said. The participants in the session included young and upcoming writers Ankit Narwal, Amarinder Singh, Ashish Purohit and Waseem Majazi.Sanjukta Dasgupta, convenor, Northern Regional Board of Languages (English), chaired a session on poetry recitation. A poet herself, she recited her English poems, “Laxmi Unbound and Dhoti Dance to encourage young writers to drop restraints while writing about their passion. The last session titled Poetry on Digital Platform chaired by Prof SS Behl, director, School of Architecture and Planning, GNDU, was about the new platforms on social media that writers and young poets can use to reach their audience. Prof SS Behl, a prolific poet himself, said digital media has given a new space to the poets where they can express themselves without worrying about formats and conventional publication requirements. He said that the farmer movement has really encouraged many aspiring poets to use this digital platform for creative expression.The event concluded with Sukhbir Kaur, director, Bhai Vir Singh Sahitya Sadan presenting her vote of thanks. Dr Sukhbir said that with a vision to preserve the literary and historical significance of Bhai Vir Singh Niwas Asthan, she hopes that the place becomes an epicenter of thriving literary and cultural exchange not just in city but also in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/digital-media-has-opened-new-avenues-for-budding-writers-330047
27-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Two nabbed with 15 kg of opium||32-yr-old ends life in sarovarTarn Taran: A person ended his life by jumping in sarovar of Darbar Sahib on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Varinder Singh Sonu (32), a resident of Bhikhiwind. Dharwinder Singh, manager, Darbar Sahib, said after the incident was reported, their staff immediately rushed to the spot and started rescue operation, but Varinder could not be saved. The police personnel also rushed to the spot and took body in their possession. Daljit Singh, father of the deceased, said Varinder was undergoing treatment for depression at Guru Ram Das Hospital, Amritsar. OCThree fresh cases reportedAmritsar: With three Covid cases reported on Tuesday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,260. The Health Department also reported the recovery of two patients, taking the recovery count to 45,751. The district at present has a total of 13 active cases. Meanwhile, 9,523 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Tuesday. Of these 5,608 received the first dose of the vaccine while 3,915 received the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-with-15-kg-of-opium-330048
27-10-2021||---||Vallah RoB to see the light of day soon||Amritsar, October 26The Ministry of Defence has finally granted a no-objection certificate (NOC) to the Railway Over Bridge (RoB) at Vallah.The construction of the RoB at Vallah was stopped midway after its pier caps were constructed on both the sides. The Army had objected to its construction on the premise that some of its portion falls in the 1000-metre no-construction zone around the Army’s Vallah Ammunition dump. So, its construction was stopped in January 2020.Abandoned, the bridge has now witnessed a growth of vegetation on its causeway. Dubbed as the maiden bowstring shape ROB in the entire city, once completed, it will pave way for a shorter alternate route from the GT road stretch near the ISBT to the four lane road on the bypass. Farmers, traders and consumers visiting the Vallah Mandi will also benefit from it.A delegation of traders had met Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt, requesting him to reduce the zone of 1,000 metre around the Army’s Vallah Ammunition depot to 350 metre and exempting the ROB from this norm in September.However, the cost escalation of the Vallah railway over bridge (ROB) is being feared as its construction has been stalled for the past nearly 21 months.Another major cause for concern for commuters, especially motorists, is that unpaved roads on either side of the under-construction bridge offers a bumpy ride, besides causing wear and tear to their vehicles. Wholesale vegetable and fruit sellers at Vallah Mandi say they are the worst victims as they have to commute on this road every day. A monsoon shower is enough to submerge the road. They pointed out that even a service lane, which is mandatory in case of such construction, is missing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vallah-rob-to-see-the-light-of-day-soon-330050
27-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Bitter reality: Prices of sweets see 20 per cent rise this festive season||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 26Ahead of Diwali, prices of sweetmeats have increased up to 20 per cent in comparison to the last year, during the festive season. Items prepared with ‘desi ghee’, including patisa (now Rs560, last Diwali Rs500), pinni (now Rs580, last year Rs520) and kaju katli (now Rs840, last Diwali Rs800) have witnessed considerable rise.Sushil Bansal, owner of a leading sweet shop, said, “Escalation in prices of traditional sweets is happening as rates of most of the ingredients are on the higher side.”Most ingredients, including cereals, pulses, ghee and dry fruits, have registered increase in their prices.“Customers are back in the market. Despite increase in prices of sweets, they are still less expensive in comparison to dry fruits and fresh fruits. Any good variety of fruit is available above Rs150 and one gives at least four to five kg during Diwali. One kg of dry fruits costs more than Rs800,” he said. Harish Kumar, owner of another sweetmeat shop, said customers understand the reason behind hike in prices of sweets.He said prices of only those items in which cereals, pulses and dry fruits, are extensively used have been increased while there’s negligible increase in the rates of khoya-based products.Anil Mahajan, who prepares traditional delicacies, said he was selling majority of the items between Rs180 and Rs220 per kg. He said orders were yet to pick up in the walled city area and added that sales begin a day or two before Diwali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bitter-reality-prices-of-sweets-see-20-per-cent-rise-this-festive-season-330051
27-10-2021||Amritsar||Tax defaulters: Civic body plan to recover dues on||The property tax wing of Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) sealed 22 more commercial properties in the city here on Tuesday. Out of these 16 property owners paid tax on the spot and MC staff opened their seals. However, six property owners are yet to pay the pending tax.Today, MCA staff collected Rs 20 lakh from these properties and the total collection figure crossed Rs 20.1 crore with this. Yesterday, the MC had sealed 20 commercial buildings, including a bar, fitness gym and prominent café at Ranjit Avenue. Today mobile towers and tyre shops in the Jahajgarh area are sealed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tax-defaulters-civic-body-plan-to-recover-dues-on-330052
27-10-2021||---||People can burst crackers from 6-9 pm this Diwali||Amritsar, October 26Setting the timeframe for bursting firecrackers on Diwali night, the police have said the residents can burn crackers from 6pm to 9pm only and anyone who is found violating the norm would be taken to task.In the meanwhile, the district administration has selected 10 traders out of over 1,006 applicants for putting up stalls at the New Amritsar ground for selling firecrackers.The stalls would be put up just three days ahead of Diwali festival (November 1). A draw of lots was held to select the traders. Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Roohi Dug took out a slip one by one and announced the names of traders on Monday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Parminder Singh Bhandal was also present.The ADC said as per the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, only 10 licences would be issued to sell crackers. She said licences would be issued by the DCP (Law and Order) and traders were asked to put up stalls from Monday. She said the traders would also ensure proper safety measures at their stalls and follow the government guidelines.Bhandal said only the licence holders would be allowed to sell the crackers while those found involved in selling in illegal manner would be taken to task.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/people-can-burst-crackers-from-6-9-pm-this-diwali-330053
27-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran: Sanyukt Kisan Morcha seeks removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra||Tarn Taran, October 26Farm organisations affiliated with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha submitted a memorandum (addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind) to Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner and demanded removal of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra for his connivance in Lakhimpur Kheri incident.Four farmers and a journalist were mowed down by convoy of Ajay’s son Ashish Mishra.In a separate move, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, staged a dharna outside the District Administrative complex today. They submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner and demanded compensation for the crop loss they suffered due to hailstorm and heavy rain a couple of days ago. They sought arrest of the Union Minister of State in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. They also demanded compensation of Rs 50,000 for the loss of paddy crop and Rs 60,000 for damage to cotton crop.Amritpal Singh Jaura, Daljit Singh Dialpura and Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, among others addressed the protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-sanyukt-kisan-morcha-seeks-removal-of-union-minister-ajay-mishra-330054
27-10-2021||---||Remove Ajay Mishra from Cabinet, demand Amritsar farmers||Amritsar, October 26Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Tuesday. They were demanding the removal of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra from the Union Cabinet.Further, members of farmers’ unions, united under the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), submitted memorandums addressed to the President regarding the sacking of the Union minister who, they alleged, was responsible for hatching a conspiracy to mow down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district of UP.While the SKM leaders announced to submit memorandums with focus on the Lakhimpuri Kheri incident, the KMSC had planned to stage protests at the district headquarters to demand the resolution of other issues such as compensation for crop loss due to hailstorm, removal of bottlenecks in the sale of paddy, shortage of DAP and implementation of demands earlier accepted by the state government.KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said protests were held at headquarters of nine districts in the state. Notably, KMSC is not part of the SKM, but they are protesting the three controversial agriculture laws. Pandher accused the Central Government of punishing Punjab farmers by not sending sufficient amount of DAP. He said the state government had failed to check black marketing of the fertiliser.He said the skyrocketing prices of fuel, which is mostly consumed for harvesting and wheat sowing, had hit the farmers hard. He said with Ajay Mishra still in the Cabinet, he could influence the investigation and intimidate eye-witnesses. The BJP government was trying to save a criminal who had allegedly planned to kill innocent farmers in broad daylight.Meanwhile, SKM leader Lakhbir Singh Nizampura said the memorandums addressed to the President were submitted to the SDMs of Amritsar city, Ajnala, Majitha, Baba Bakala, Attari and Chogawan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/remove-ajay-mishra-from-cabinet-demand-amritsar-farmers-330049
27-10-2021||PK Jaiswar||Cyber cheats outsmart tech-savvy Amritsar residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 26While there has been a massive surge in digital payments, especially during the Covid induced lockdown, the rate of online fraud has also increased manifold.As per information, the cyber wing of the Amritsar police received more than 550 complaints of online frauds. Out of these, the police registered just around 150 FIRs, while remaining incidents were still under investigation.Fraudsters often use different methods to dupe gullible persons who come to know about getting deceived only after receiving messages on their mobile phones.In the latest incident, Gupreet Singh, a resident of Chheharta, was defrauded to the tune of Rs 4.86 lakh. In his complaint to the police, Gupreet said a swindler called him on his mobile phone by posing as an employee of a prominent finance company (the complainant is a customer of the same firm).He said the accused convinced him to download ‘AnyDesk’ mobile app for better services. He said as he downloaded the app, the accused sought nine-digit code from him. He said as he shared the same, Rs 4.86 lakh was withdrawn from his bank account.During preliminary probe, it came out that the money was transferred to the bank account of Aarti Sisodia, a resident of Sanawad, in Madhya Pradesh.Rachit Arora, a resident of Celebration Enclave on Fatehgarh Churian Road, said he has an account in a private bank situated on Mall Road. He said six days ago, he made a transaction through his mobile phone and added that he called the customer care helpline number, but to no avail.Later, I received a call and the person on the other end introduced himself as an employee of the bank, he said. Arora said the person on the call asked me to fill a form and soon Rs 2.46 lakh were deducted from my bank account. Another complainant, Gurjit Singh of Sultanwind Road, told the police that an unknown person hacked his bank account and debited Rs 75,774.Similarly, Kamal Kishore, lost Rs 69,998 through Paytm. Following initial probe, the police had booked Alsan Khan, a resident of Pilibhit, in Uttar Pradesh.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said there has been increased dependence on digital platforms during the past one-and-a-half years due to the restrictions imposed in the wake of the pandemic.“We are investigating the cases, but people should be more alert while using internet banking applications. One should not share bank details, OTPs or any codes, with unknown persons,” said Gill.RBI flagged ‘AnyDesk’ appAround two years ago, the Reserve Bank of India had warned against downloading ‘AnyDesk’ application. The RBI pointed out that after downloading this app, one can lose money within minutes.Police start awareness driveThe police organised an awareness seminar on cyber crime, women safety and saanjh kendra services, at SR Government College for Women today. Dr Manpreet Kaur Shimar, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Cyber Crime and Forensic, said one should not share one-time password (OTP) and click on unknown links.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cyber-cheats-outsmart-tech-savvy-amritsar-residents-330037
