28-10-2021||Amritsar||5 Travel agents booked for duping man on pretext of sending him abroad||Suvidha camps from todayAmritsar: District-level suvidha camps will be organised on October 28 and 29. DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the authorities have been directed to set up suvidha camps at the district and tehsil level. The camp would offer services, including clearance of electricity arrears, welfare schemes of the state government and the Centre, clearances under LPG connection, Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme Cards, Shagun Scheme, scholarships for children, job offers and loan facilities for unemployed, bus pass and MGNREGA job cards. The camps would be organised on October 28 at Government Polytechnic College, Chheharta Road, GSSS, Attari, Government College Ajnala, Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur College, Satiala, and Jandiala Guru. Similarly, on October 29, camps would be set up at Ramdas, Mardi Kalan and Satiala village. Benefits of the schemes would be disbursed on the spot. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-travel-agents-booked-for-duping-man-on-pretext-of-sending-him-abroad-330842
28-10-2021||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is trying to regain the lost glory of the Congress government by releasing grants and other facilities to the downtrodden while the bureaucracy is on its way to ruin all efforts of the state government. Tarn Taran Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Kuljit Singh Saini whose superannuation is due on November 30 has been replaced by Jagwinder Singh||Tarn Taran Diary: Not caring two hoots for transfer norms||Doctor comes forward to assist destitutesDr Arashdeep Kaur of Tarn Taran has shown interest to help destitutes. She did MBBS from Adesh Medical College, Bathinda, and MD (Public Health) from the Government Medical College, Amritsar. At present, she is working as an epidemiologist in the Health Department. Her article based on the study on living conditions and progressive thinking of underprivileged people of slum areas was published in journal ‘Guftgu’ (January –April 2012). Dr Arashdeep is desirous to establish home for destitute. She said children are dying during infancy and maternal deaths are occurring due to social causes. She said to tackle this issue health education is necessary.Easy prey for vehicle liftersDon’t be surprised if you come across vehicles plying on the roads without number plates in Tarn Taran district. Official of the District Transport Office said it’s a crime to drive the vehicle without number plate (registration certificate). A person whose motorcycle was recently stolen from the District Administrative Complex said vehicle lifters often come on foot and after stealing the vehicle remove its number plate.Beautification work going on a war footingThe beautification work on a stretch leading to Darbar Sahib, Tarn Taran, is happening at rapid pace. Earlier, the same stretch was being used as an illegal dump yard. Garbage could be seen scattered all over the place. Devotees visiting Darbar Sahib had been raising their voice for the renovation of the stretch. Baba Jagtar Singh, head, Kar Sewa Sect, met Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh, who assured cooperation, for renovation of the stretch. The 700-ft stretch would be recarpeted. Baba Mohinder Singh, spokesman, Kar Sewa Sect, said the work is going on a war footing and will be completed soon.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-not-caring-two-hoots-for-transfer-norms-330841
28-10-2021||---||Goindwal Sahib: Rangoli contest organised at GAD Adarsh Institute||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, October 27An inter-house rangoli competition dedicated to Diwali festival was organised on Wednesday at GAD Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib.The theme of the competition was “Celebration of safe and green Diwali”. Students put their best foot forward and took part in the competition with creation. Mercury House and Venus House bagged the first position while Jupiter House bagged the second position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/goindwal-sahib-rangoli-contest-organised-at-gad-adarsh-institute-330840
28-10-2021||Amritsar||3 booked for abetting suicide||Three members of a family have been booked for abetment of suicide after a woman died under mysterious circumstances at Indira Colony in Verka. The accused identified as Shamsher Singh (husband), Butta Singh (father-in-law) Shinder Kaur (mother-in-law) are residents of Indira Colony, Verka. Sukho, mother of the victim, said her daughter Amandeep Kaur got married to Shamsher six months ago. After marriage, the accused demanded more dowry and started harassing her.Her daughter used to call and tell her that her in-laws thrash her. On Tuesday, about 10 am, Sukho got information that was no more. They visited their house and took her body along. Gurinder Singh, SHO, Verka said a case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-booked-for-abetting-suicide-330839
28-10-2021||---||‘Organic market in India growing rapidly’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 27India’s organic market is growing rapidly, says Sonia Prashar, an MD of a company.In a press release issued here on Wednesday, she stated that the country’s organic market was growing rapidly. It is projected to grow from the US dollar 177.14 million in the financial year 2020 to US dollar 553.87 million in the fiscal 2026. The Indian government has been promoting organic farming through subsidies and more areas are being brought under cultivation using ecological production methods.In addition, she said online sales of organic food, an increasing health consciousness and changing consumer preferences towards organic products were among the most important factors contributing towards the growth of the organic sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/organic-market-in-india-growing-rapidly-330838
28-10-2021||---||Punjabi writer Rajwinder Singh passes away||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran , October 27Rajwinder Singh (37), a resident of Bhattal Bhai Ke, a well-known Punjabi writer and expert in translating articles from Urdu to Punjabi, succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday at a local private hospital.Rajwinder Singh was a teacher by profession and appointed as the Centre Head Teacher at Government Elementary School, Jamarai.Rajwinder was injured on October 25, when he was hit by a speeding truck on the National Highway No. 54 near Naushehra Pannuan T-point.He was admitted to a local private hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday. The deceased translated a number of Urdu articles written by well-established Urdu writers and these were published in Punjabi newspapers being published from the state of Punjab.The post-mortem of the body was conducted at the local Civil Hospital on Wednesday and was cremated soon after. The cremation was attended by a large number of teachers, nearby residents and relatives.Paramjit Singh, Deputy District Education Officer (Elementary; Jaswinder Singh, Block Elementary Education Officer, Naushehra Pannuan, were among those who attended the cremation on behalf of the Education Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabi-writer-rajwinder-singh-passes-away-330837
28-10-2021||Amritsar||BSF’s enhanced jurisdiction: Akalis to organise bike rally on Oct 29||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will stage a protest against the decision of the Central Government to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force from five km to 50 km from the International Border.SAD spokesperson Virsa Singh Valtoha said a motorcycle rally will be taken out from Attari to Golden Gate on October 29. “The rally will be held under the leadership of party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia.”He also asked other political parties to rise above differences and join the protest against the Centre. He said the decision was an attack on the federal structure of the country. “We are fighting for rights of the states and this decision is an interference. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is opposing the Centre, but his wife is justifying the move,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsfs-enhanced-jurisdiction-akalis-to-organise-bike-rally-on-oct-29-330836
28-10-2021||---||‘Donate eyes, help someone see the world’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 27Dr Shakeen Singh, a noted eye surgeon, from the city, who had recently conducted seven keratoplasty in a single day, a sort of record, has urged the NGOs and the public to pledge their eyes for donation.Dr Singh had performed the surgeries during the fortnight observed from August 25 to September 8 to promote eye donation and mission eradication for bilateral blindness.While making an appeal to the NGOs and the public for the cause, he said, “Our hospital would bear the expenses of examination, operation fees and medical while the NGOs should come forward to bearing the cost of the tissue.”He said in the last few months, eye donation and eye transplantation has reduced to 50 per cent due to the pandemic. In India, approximately 50-60 lakh people are blind from one eye and about 10 lakh people are bilaterally blind because of corneal diseases, he said, adding that in Punjab around 30,000 people need corneal transplantation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/donate-eyes-help-someone-see-the-world-330835
28-10-2021||---||Amritsar-based advocates irked over slow speed of internet||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 27Slow-speed internet at the District Courts has become a headache for lawyers as it has become impossible for them to access official website. Lawyers said the issue was there earlier too, but has increased manifold during the last fortnight.They said installation of mobile tower was a long pending demand for which a request was sent to the Building Committee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Lawyers said the BSNL had a mobile tower in a nearby locality, which developed some snag.Advocate Kuljeet Singh Malawali said, “We also approached the BSNL, but officials are not keen to address our demand.”He said lack of interest among the BSNL officials has forced them to port their mobile numbers to other service providers.Advocate Hardeep Singh said, “Internet is essential. We have to wait for hours to upload or download court-related documents.”He said court hearings were being held virtually due to the pandemic and it posed a serious problem for lawyers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-advocates-irked-over-slow-speed-of-internet-330834
28-10-2021||---||Teachers seek rollback of Rs100-certificate fee by Punjab School Education Board||Amritsar, October 27Raising voice against the Punjab School Education Board’s move to levy Rs100 certificate fee on students of Class V and VIII, the Democratic Teachers’ Front said this was against the promise of providing free education under the Right to Education Act, 2009.The certificate fee would be levied on students while applying online for a request to issue a hard copy of the certificate. DTF spokesperson and secretary Ashwani Awasthi said the fee was already being imposed on students of Class IX onwards, but to impose it on students of Classes V and VIII is against the entitlement under the Right to Education Act.“In the last two years, students have been deprived of board exams. Collection of fee, regardless, has been done by the PSEB, although no examinations have been conducted. In the past, the board had to rollback registration fee for Class V and VIII board exams after protests. But the board has now imposed a new fee burden on parents and students in the name of giving a hard copy of the certificate for Class X to XII and now, Classes V and VIII.”He said this was in violation of the government’s free education law. He said for the last several years, the board has discontinued the honorarium for the supervisory staff in the examinations, all data entry work is done by teachers and even a small mistake is fined heavily. The DTF demanded rollback of the move by the PSEB.Meanwhile, the spokesperson from District Education Department said the board was responsible for any decision in regard to the fee.“If it’s on their agenda, then the Education Department has to wait for any directions in this regard,” said the spokesperson.However, Deputy DEO Rekha Mahajan, said the District Welfare Department bears the burden of fee being charged by students under scholarship or merit scheme, in case of the needy students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-seek-rollback-of-rs100-certificate-fee-by-punjab-school-education-board-330833
28-10-2021||---||Nagar kirtan leaves for Amritsar from Gwalior||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, October 27The Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, on Wednesday took out a colourful nagar kirtan procession dedicated to the 400th anniversary of Bandi Chhor Divas from Gurdwara Data Bandi Chhor, Gwalior Fort (Madhya Pradesh) to the city of Gwalior.The nagar kirtan will reach Akal Takht in Amritsar on November 3, a day ahead of Bandi Chhor Divas (Diwali).Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranAmritsar Bungas: On the brink of extinction Baba Sewa Singh, patron of the sect, on mobile informed that the nagar kirtan procession was organised under the patronship of Sri Guru Granth Sahib and the Panj Piaras led the procession. A large number of sangat of nearby areas participated in the procession.Before starting the procession, the bhog ceremony of Sri Akhand Path was performed in Gwalior Fort. The nagar kirtan got an overwhelming response in Gwalior city. People rushed out to give a warm welcome to the procession.It was worth noting here that the 6th Sikh Master, Guru Hargobind Sahib, reached Amritsar after being released from Gwalior Fort along with 52 Hindu political prisoners. They all were arrested by Mughal emperor Jahangir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nagar-kirtan-leaves-for-amritsar-from-gwalior-330832
28-10-2021||---||Fire engulfs toy shop in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 27A fire broke out at a toy shop in IDH market on Wednesday morning. After getting information, firefighters from the Municipal Corporation and the Sewa Society reached the spot.Divisional Fire Officer Lovepreet Singh said they received information about the incident at 6am and they immediately reached the spot to douse flames. He said short circuit caused fire in the basement and narrow entry acted as a major hurdle. With the help of six fire engines, the firefighters managed to douse flames after one-and-a-half hours. No human loss was reported in the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fire-engulfs-toy-shop-in-amritsar-330830
28-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||SDE aspirants question PPSC’s move, say grace marks too high||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 27Candidates who appeared in the Punjab Public Service Commission’s (PPSC) test conducted for the post of Sub Divisional Engineer (SDE) complained that 21 answer keys were incorrect out of 120 questions asked in the test.On the perusal of the answer keys uploaded by the PPSC on its website, these candidates found anomalies. They claimed that the commission covered up this anomaly by giving 40 grace marks, which was earlier unheard of.The PPSC had conducted the test for the posts of SDE, to be placed in departments such as Improvement Trust, PWD, Water Resources, Panchayati Raj, MCs, PUDA and others on June 15. The candidates from civil engineering background had to appear in the test.There were 120 questions in the test of which 100 questions were from the technical field. The candidates said 21 answer keys were wrong and all of these belonged to the technical subject. They said the PPSC saved its face by giving 40 marks in grace to all students. However, they claimed that these marks were too high to have been given in any competitive examination. They said this move may defeat the very purpose of judging the right candidate for a job.Karamjit Singh, Secretary Examinations of the PPSC, said: “Whatever may be the anomaly in the test conducted for the SDE, due procedure has been followed as per the PPSC norms.” He refused to elaborate the reasons for anomalies and granting of extremely high grace marks, citing his busy schedule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sde-aspirants-question-ppscs-move-say-grace-marks-too-high-330829
28-10-2021||---||Vidhan Sabha committee reviews ongoing projects for stray animals in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 27The Vidhan Sabha (Legislative Assembly) committee constituted by the Punjab Government reviewed the arrangements being made by the Municipal Corporation (MC) under the pilot project for stray animals here on Wednesday.The meeting was held at the MC headquarters in Ranjit Avenue, in which Mayor Karamjit Singh, committee chairman MLA Inderbir Singh Bularia, MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala, MLA Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra, MC Commissioner Malvinder Singh Jaggi, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, officers of Punjab Health Department and Punjab Animal Husbandry Department, besides the city police officers participated.The meeting was formally inaugurated by the Mayor after which various pilot projects being run by the MC for the prevention of stray dog population and for the care of stray animals were discussed in detail.MC Commissioner Jaggi told the committee members about the programmes being implemented by the Municipal Corporation for the welfare of animals and birth control on which the Vidhan Sabha Committee members expressed satisfaction.Mayor Karamjit Singh, in his address, welcomed the visiting members of the Vidhan Sabha committee and said appropriate measures were being taken to solve the problem of stray and helpless animals. He said during the tenure of the present house, the MC has set up a modern dog sterilisation centre at Narayangarh, Gumanpura Road, at a cost of Rs34 lakh to solve these problems. The centre has a capacity to house around 60 stray dogs at a time and sterilisation of dogs is going on at the centre. Apart from this, efforts were being made to provide dog catching vehicles so that they could be brought for sterilisation.The Mayor said the government had imposed cow cess for the care of stray cows in the state, which is being collected by various departments under various heads but it was not being provided to the MCs. He suggested to the Vidhan Sabha committee that the government should issue instructions to the departments collecting cow cess to provide all cow cess to the MCs, so that adequate infrastructure could be developed to take care of sick and helpless cows.Later, the members of the Vidhan Sabha committee also visited the gaushala built by the Municipal Corporation at Gumanpura and the Animal Birth Control Centre being run by the Municipal Corporation in collaboration with Animal Welfare Charitable Trust in Fatehgarh Shukrchak.Dr Yogesh Arora, Municipal Health Officer, Chief Sanitary Inspectors and Sanitation Inspectors were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vidhan-sabha-committee-reviews-ongoing-projects-for-stray-animals-in-amritsar-330828
28-10-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 2 Covid deaths||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 27The district Health Department reported two deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, with which the toll increased to 1,598. The deceased have been identified as Seema, a 42-year-old female from Ekta Nagar and Sanjay Verma, a 53-year-old resident of Friends Colony. Both were admitted to the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here.The district also reported four positive cases on Wednesday, with which the tally increased to 47,364. The district at present has a total of 15 active cases. A spurt in the number of cases has been witnessed in the last few days.Meanwhile, 4,133 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Wednesday. Of these, 2,093 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 2,040 received the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-2-covid-deaths-330827
28-10-2021||---||1,300 firms get PF Dept’s notice||Amritsar, October 27The Provident Fund Department has issued notices to 1,300 firms for not sharing the correct credentials of their firms with the department.A rough estimate suggests that these firms may be employing 30,000 to 40,000 persons. Sources in the PF Department said conjectures were being made that these firms may not be contributing to the provident fund share in the account of their employees.As per the provisions of the PF, employers and employees contribute the same amount in the accounts of the latter.During the Covid-19 induced period, the PF Department received several complaints from employees, claiming that dubious practices were being pursued by their employers. Many of them claimed that companies, citing financial crunch due to the pandemic, deducted the contributory PF amount from their salaries. Several other group of employees alleged that their jobs were terminated but no detail of their PF account was being given.Sanjay Kumar Rai, regional PF commissioner, said there were about 5,000 working establishments registered with the local regional office. Around 4lakh members, including, 90,000 contributory members, were associated with the regional PF office having jurisdiction across Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran besides Amritsar. He said it was found that these 1,300 firms had not provided the correct credentials as they took help of third parties such as chartered accountants, lawyers and others, who submitted their contact details. He said this was a violation of the PF norms, as these companies were bound to give their correct information under the provision of 5A ownership detail. So, these companies have been given a 13-day period to provide the entire detail or modify the already submitted information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-300-firms-get-pf-depts-notice-330811
