29-10-2021||---||Accused of rape, Mattewal granthi commits suicide||Amritsar, October 28Jugraj Singh, a granthi who was booked by the Mattewal police for blackmailing and raping a girl, allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance.The police, however, said the exact cause of death was yet to be ascertained. A police official said they were awaiting for the autopsy report for further action. For now, inquest proceedings under the Criminal Procedure Code was initiated, he said.Jugraj was booked by the Mattewal police on Sunday following a complaint by a 23-year-old girl of Kalerbala village, where he used to work at a gurdwara as a granthi (priest).The victim had accused him of blackmailing her after capturing her objectionable video while bathing last year. She alleged that the accused forced her to make physical relations with him and threatened to post the same on social media if she refused. She said the accused started meeting her on one pretext or the other but she always tried avoiding him.She said in April this year, she had gone to pay obeisance at the gurdwara, when the accused threatened her again saying he would post her pictures on social media and later forcibly raped her. Following her complaint, the police registered a case against Jugraj under Sections 376, 295 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 67 and 67-A of the IT Act.The police said it was yet to be ascertained whether Jugraj died of poisoning or heart attack. His body was taken into possession and sent for autopsy. “Appropriate action will be taken after getting the post-mortem report,” the official said.The caseJugraj was booked by the Mattewal police on Sunday following a complaint by a 23-year-old girl of Kalerbala village, where he used to work at a gurdwara as a granthi (priest). The victim had accused him of blackmailing her after capturing her objectionable video while bathing last year. She alleged that the accused forced her to make physical relations with him and threatened to post the same on social media if she refused. She said the accused started meeting her on one pretext or the other but she always tried avoiding him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/accused-of-rape-mattewal-granthi-commits-suicide-331177
29-10-2021||---||Minor girl raped in Amritsar, brother-in-law booked||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 28The Amritsar (rural) police have booked a youth for allegedly raping a minor girl.The accused has been identified as Joban Singh, a resident of Babowal village, which falls under the jurisdiction of Kathunangal police station. The victim was his sister-in-law.The police have registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act against him following the statement of victim’s mother while no arrest has been made till now.The complainant, a resident of Delhi, told the police that her elder daughter got married with accused against the wishes of her family around a year ago. She said around two weeks ago, she had come to Amritsar along with her younger daughter to attend a marriage ceremony. She said she left her daughter with her maternal uncle Nirmal Singh at Babe Di Khui village and returned to Delhi.The complainant said four days ago, Joban took the victim from Nirmal’s residence. She said next day he was to leave her back to his (Nirmal’s) house. She said while returning the accused took her to some secluded place and raped her. He threatened to kill ker if she told anyone about this. She alleged the victim told the entire incident to her over the phone.The police said medical examination of the victim has been conducted and raids were on to nab the accused who was still at large.In a nutshellThe complainant said her elder daughter got married with accused against the wishes of her family a year ago. She said around two weeks ago, she had come to Amritsar along with her younger daughter to attend a marriage ceremony. She said she left her daughter with her maternal uncle Nirmal Singh at Babe Di Khui village and returned to Delhi. The complainant said four days ago, Joban took the victim from Nirmal's residence. She said next day he was to leave her back to his (Nirmal's) house. She said while returning the accused took her to some secluded place and raped her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-girl-raped-in-amritsar-brother-in-law-booked-331179
29-10-2021||---||Paddy procurement picks up pace in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 28As the harvesting of paddy has picked up pace in the district, different grain markets here have witnessed an arrival of 3,76,938 metric tonne of agricultural produce. The district Mandi Board officials stated that of the total arrival, 3,76,188 MT of paddy has already been procured by the government procurement agencies.Rishi Raj Mehra, district Food and Civil Supplies Controller (DFSC) said Rs 495.47 crore has already been disbursed to farmers in lieu of the procured paddy. He added that as reported in a section of media, the district grain markets have no shortage of gunny bags and the procurement has been going on smoothly.The DFSC added that Pungrain had procured a total of 1,29,090 MT of crop, while Markfed had procured 94,238 MT. Punsup has purchased 81,116 MT while Punjab Warehousing Corporation has procured 50103 MT. The Central Government agency Food Corporation of India has procured only 8,792 MT of paddy.The DFSC further stated that Pungrain had disbursed Rs 107.07 crore, Markfed Rs 134.33 crore, Punsup Rs 107.35, Punjab Warehouse corporation Rs 77.39 crore and Food Corporation has disbursed Rs 0.44 crore. He said payments have been made directly into the bank accounts of the farmers.He added that around 80 per cent of the procured crop had been lifted from the grain markets and shifted to godowns. He added that procurement agencies have been asked to further expedite the lifting process. Meanwhile, the grain markets in the district have also seen arrival of 1.65 lakh MT of basmati. The basmati varieties are purchased by private players only as these are not covered under the MSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paddy-procurement-picks-up-pace-in-amritsar-district-331184
29-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran: 8,300-tonne DAP distributed among farmers||Tarn Taran, October 28Farmers heaved a sigh of relief after DAP was distributed to them on Thursday. Agriculture Officer Ramandeep Singh said they received 8,300-tonne DAP on Wednesday and it was distributed among farmers on Thursday.He said 50 per cent of the quota will be distributed to farmers through the Cooperative Societies and the remaining part will be sold in the open market at a fixed price.Major Singh, secretary, Dhotian Cooperative Society, said 300 bags of DAP have been distributed to farmers of Dhotian, Warana and Dugri. Ravinder Singh Gill, chairman, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Samaj Bhalai, said DAP is required at the time of sowing wheat crop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-8-300-tonne-dap-distributed-among-farmers-331189
29-10-2021||---||Dengue at its peak, Amritsar civic body still grapples with basic sanitation issues||Amritsar, October 28Despite MC’s repeated claims of making the city streets clean through new mechanical cleaners and attempt to unclog the waste disposal system by revamping sewerage lines in several areas, residential colonies in Amritsar West, including Preet Vihar, Bhalla Colony and several other near Polytechnic college are witnessing dilapidated sanitation and garbage disposal conditions. Over the past few days have seen peak in dengue cases in city, almost to the brink of an outbreak, but the MC seems to be struggling for providing a quick and long-lasting solution to the problems.Receding monsoon had resulted in clogging of sewerage, flooding of streets by the sewage water and piles of garbage could be seen be seen stuck inside potholes at several residential colonies. Even after days and change in weather, the collapsed sewerage system and garbage disposal system seems to bother residents of these colonies, who are already concerned due to dengue.“The sewerage system in some of the these areas have been laid decades ago, with only superficial repairs and unclogging attempts being made by MC on several occasions. Stagnant water and choked sewerage is not just a monsoon-problem, but a year-round issue. At times, we have complained to authorities about sewerage water mixing with water supply,” said Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Bhalla Colony.Even the residential colonies near the IIM campus and Polytechnic College often complain about water logging and garbage dumped on roadsides. “The street along the Polytechnic road was laid a few years back to create a clean, sidewalk for the locals. But the sidewalk has now become a dumping ground for garbage and even the green stretch along the IIM campus and CIPET campus is a dumping ground. With dengue cases on such a rise in city, such lapses can prove to be hazardous for residents’ health,” said Deepak Sharma, a resident of Dashmesh Avenue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dengue-at-its-peak-amritsar-civic-body-still-grapples-with-basic-sanitation-issues-331191
29-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Just like flowers entice bees, so does this apiculturist’s one speech||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 28A matric pass farmer, who learnt through his own life experiences, encourages several farmers in the region to adopt apiculture in his own unique ways. Sadhu Singh, a marginal farmer from Roopowali village in Majitha Block, is well-known far and wide for giving motivational speeches, helping farmers to diversify into honey farming.While sharing his story, Sadhu Singh said he owns 3.5 acres of ancestral land. Like other farmers, his family used to grow wheat and paddy. In 1980, one of the persons at his village got a job at the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). He shared some ideas with Sadhu Singh and asked him to visit the university.“I visited PAU and saw exhibitions of progressive farming techniques. I have subscribed to ‘Changi Kheti’, a farm journal of PAU at Rs50 paisa per month. I did a correspondence course on apiculture and decided to start honey farming.I met District Training Officer Balwant Singh Gill at Khalsa College Amritsar, and on his advice, I did a short training at Gurdaspur. I started honey farming with two boxes in February 1985,” said Singh.After getting honey from bees, he went to a fair at Janam Asthan Baba Budha Kathunagal. “I set up a stall there and spent the day. We used to sell honey at Rs20 per kg. Meanwhile, a balloon seller standing next to me earned five-times higher than me. My friends mocked and said it was better to sell balloons than agro products. But it didn’t discourage me,” he said.In the late ’80s, someone asked Sadhu Singh what was the benefit of consuming honey? Singh responded that it was good for health. But the person didn’t get convinced. Sadhu searched for literature on honey, but couldn’t find much.During his visit to Delhi to sell honey, he visited the third book fair at Pragati Maidan. He collected some Urdu, English and Hindi books. Then, he made a note of 42 points. He also got help from an old handwritten Hikmat book from hakeems to know the benefits of honey. He printed a pamphlet, which he gives along with each packing.“I have been selling honey at Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, Delhi, for more than 10 years now. We used to go there every weekend by train. Good packaging and branding was a requirement in Delhi, so I adopted it. I started setting up stalls in local fairs with the help of then DC Kahan Singh Pannu. In the first fair at Kathunangal, I was unable to earn Rs 80 for a day, but now, I earn Rs25,000 per day at fairs,” he said.Talking about ‘Roopowali’ his brand name, Sadhu said: “Once I had set up a stall at a local college. Some girls came and I asked them to buy honey. One of them said we get it from Roopowali village, as it is the best honey ever. It was then that I realised that I am already famous. So, I gave the name of my village to my honey. Dr Ramandeep Singh Sharry, an agri business expert at PAU, gave insights to promote the brand. I got Agmark logo around 16 years ago,” Singh said.Now, he has around 550 boxes, his own processing plant, storage and packaging unit. He travels 900 km from his village in search of flowers for good honey.Sharing his memorable experience, Sadhu Singh said: “Once a French tourist bought honey from me in Delhi. After six months, I received his letter. He wrote ‘Your Honey is delicious, we enjoyed it. I will visit your village and meet you whenever I visit India’.” Sadhu has several awards and certificates during this journey. Now, colleges and educational institutes often invite him as a motivational speaker and he is seen cracking jokes and doing “shero shayari” during the interaction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/just-like-flowers-entice-bees-so-does-this-apiculturists-one-speech-331193
29-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||e-auction of properties of Amritsar Improvement Trust postponed for 3rd time, applicants smell a rat||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 28After postponing the auction of commercial and residential properties of Amritsar Improvement Trust twice, the authorities again suspended the process at the last minute here on Thursday.The AIT had issued an e-auction notice of 113 commercial and residential properties on 24 different locations on September 1. The online bid was scheduled to be held on October 5. Meanwhile, AIT chairman Dinesh Bassi was removed on September 23, after the reshuffling of power within the Congress party. The bid was postponed for October 18.Damandeep Singh, the newly appointed AIT chairman, claimed that residents were not aware of the e-auction and we wanted to break the nexus of real-estate agents, who pool properties. “So, we postponed the auction and it was scheduled on October 28 so that more residents get registered and AIT gets more revenue,” Singh said.Today, the e-auction did not start at 9 am, which was the scheduled time. When applicants found that there was no auction on the website, they called AIT officials and got information that it had been suspended.Applicants said something was wrong as the auction was being postponed every time.“I have been waiting for the auction of a property in Ranjit Avenue for the last one year. AIT advertised it in September, but has failed to conduct an auction till date. The nexus of politicians and property dealers has turned ugly. They don’t want to buy these properties in open competition but through some backchannel,” said an applicant, requesting anonymity.AIT Chairman Damandeep Singh said: “There is some nexus of property dealers, who regularly make efforts to cancel this auction. They want to buy properties at a low price and it is only possible with low participation of residents in the bidding. After my appointment, I have extended the date of auction now so that more applicants come forward. The nexus of self-styled politicians, activists and property dealers are now complaining to the higher authorities to cancel the auction. I am committed to conducting a fair auction and I will.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/e-auction-of-properties-of-amritsar-improvement-trust-postponed-for-3rd-time-applicants-smell-a-rat-331194
29-10-2021||Amritsar||Actor Bhumi Pednekar's war against climate change||Bhumi was in Amritsar on Thursday to speak at an event ‘We are all climate warriors’ by FICCI FLO city chapter. Apart from sharing her bits about the change that we desire and can bring about for saving the further deterioration of the planet, Bhumi acknowledged the efforts of local climate warriors. “It’s a subject very close to my heart and about a few years ago, I consciously decided to adopt a cleaner, greener lifestyle by bringing about small changes in my own habits and daily routine. Like carrying my own water bottle or cutlery to avoid using single-use plastic or being mindful of my surroundings and animal habitat. The efforts towards sustainable lifestyle can be small yet significant, as every bit counts,” she said. She also spoke about extreme weather conditions that the world has witnessed over the year. “These reports and studies being conducted by environment researchers must raise our concerns. We need stricter laws and treat every aspect of our planet literally as a living being. People must fear the consequences of their actions that involve the abuse of any of our natural resources,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/actor-bhumi-pednekars-war-against-climate-change-331195
29-10-2021||---||SAD seeks relief for rain-hit basmati growers in Majha||Amritsar, October 28Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia today demanded immediate compensation at the rate of Rs 50,000 per acre for ‘basmati’ growers in the Majha region as the crop has been damaged across thousands of acres by hailstorm a few days back.The ‘basmati’ crop had been destroyed when it was ripe and was on the verge of being harvested. Due to this, grains have been dislodged by the hail storm and there was nothing left to harvest.Majithia said it was shocking that despite the fact that the ‘basmati’ crop in more than a dozen villages had been completely destroyed, the Congress government had not even got into the act of conducting a survey of the damage.“This is primarily because Congressmen from the Majha belt are busy in internal feuds even as the farmers suffer despite having six ministers, including two deputy chief ministers, representing the region.”Calling for an immediate grant of compensation to farmers, he said farmers were already stressed due to costly lease and high rates of inputs, including diesel. This had been compounded this year due to unchecked black marketing of DAP fertilizer.He said it should be ensured that both the land owners as well as those who had taken the same on lease were awarded compensation.Meanwhile, farmers whose crop was damaged earlier have not received compensation even after holding of ‘girdwari’. Even the farmer whom CM Charanjit Channi consoled personally after his cotton crop was destroyed by pink bollworm attack, has not received any compensation.Stating that peoples’ issues had taken a back seat during Congress regime, the SAD leader asked the chief minister to emulate the example set by former CM Parkash Singh Badal. “When cotton crop was damaged due to incidence of pests, the then SAD led government had given compensation to farmers as well as farm labourers. This is needed now also as the farm labour has also lost their livelihood due to destruction of the cotton crop”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-seeks-relief-for-rain-hit-basmati-growers-in-majha-331199
29-10-2021||---||BJP trying to disturb peaceful farm protests: KMSC leader Sarwan Singh Pandher||Amritsar, October 28The farmers’ association here termed the protest by the Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti yesterday, in support of Lakhbir Singh, who was killed by Nihangs for his alleged involvement in sacrilege at Singhu, a ploy by the BJP leaders to defame the ongoing protest.The farmers’ leader stated that the gathering was conducted by Chander Mohan, who is a BJP leader and had earlier too supported the three farm laws while the majority of farmers were protesting against them.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said Chander Mohan was trying to forcibly reach Singhu with his 200 supporters to create a mischief. He said, earlier on December 20, 2020, Mohan along with others, had met the union agriculture minister and supported the controversial laws.Pandher said Chander Mohan and his samiti were associated with the BJP and RSS. “We are not against compensation to Lakhbir Singh but there are a few things which suggest that the BJP was trying to use the incident to end farmers’ protest and gain political mileage,” he said.Pandher alleged that motive of the BJP was to create diversion and save Lakhimpur Kheri culprit Ajay Mishra. He said any ploy by the BJP to disturb peace at the protest sites would not be tolerated. He added that persons who had conspired for desecration of the holy books at the Singhu Border must be identified so that the conspiracy is revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-trying-to-disturb-peaceful-farm-protests-kmsc-leader-sarwan-singh-pandher-331202
29-10-2021||Neha Saini||A push towards science-based learning||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, October 28Pushing for building a scientific temperament and encouraging innovation-based practical knowledge, the district Education Department, in line with state-wide reforms in education, has now planned to step up their science-based programmes for students.The district Education Department has set up National Green Corps in all its 418 upper primary schools in the district that encourage students to work towards finding sustainable lifestyle solutions through scientific knowledge. The Education Department has also been successfully undertaking scientific projects under the Children Science Congress that the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology has been conducting as a nodal agency, winning the first prize in the state for two years in a row.Rising to the occasion, science teachers from schools in the district have been also mentoring students to come up and develop innovations under Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (INSPIRE) awards, is an innovative programme sponsored and managed by the Department of Science and Technology, GOI.Narinder Singh, district academic coordinator, who has been heading science projects being developed by students, said they will soon be providing workshops and trainings to all students under various science programmes being offered by the Centre and state governments.“We have been introducing various research and science-based learning programmes in government schools to incline students towards the subject. We have also, for the first time, distributed maths and science kits in some schools running successful projects in the science.”Singh, who is this year’s state award winner for his contribution towards establishing science-based learning programmes, said their project on creating organic manure form kitchen waste won in the state under Children Science Congress as this year’s theme was on environment sustainability.“The project was being helmed by Anmol, a student of Class VIII, from Government Senior Secondary School, Kot Khalsa, and mentored by her science teacher Balwinder Kaur and myself. The project is published on similar pattern as research journals are published, in an annual science gazette by the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology (PSCST). For our student, who comes from a BPL family, to have her work published at such young age is a great encouragement to pursue a career in research and science,” he says.Apart from several individual projects that Narinder has been mentoring, students from several government schools in the district have recently won accolades in scientific innovations. Earlier this year, Arshdeep Singh, 16, a student of Government Middle School, Bhoewali, was selected for the Inspire Award, which is given by the Department of Science and Technology, GOI, to encourage and develop innovations in the field of science. He had developed a prototype of a low-cost air-purifying system with the help of his mentor Pankaj Sharma, who is also a science teacher at his school.Arshdeep comes from a poor family and aspires to become an engineer. Similarly, science clubs under the mentorship of respective science teachers at government schools in rural areas including Patalpuri, Jabbowal, Meerankot and Abdal are helping students in understanding the basics of science through practical application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-push-towards-science-based-learning-331204
29-10-2021||Amritsar||Six snatchers targeting hotel employees held||The Mohkampura police have arrested six snatchers and recovered sharp weapons from them. They used to target hotel and restaurant employees who used to return home late.Those arrested are Bittu, Sukhdip Singh, Manpreet Singh, Nishan Singh, Salman and Rohit. ACP Gurinderbir Singh Sidhu said Bittu was earlier arrested in a vehicle-lifting case and he returned from Gurdaspur jail on bail on June 29.He said the police got a tip-off that the accused were hiding at a school’s playground and were armed with sharp weapons and planning some dacoity. He said a police team raided the spot and nabbed them. Area residents were upset as the accused were targeting hotel and restaurant employees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-snatchers-targeting-hotel-employees-held-331206
29-10-2021||Amritsar||Two vehicle lifters arrested||Nine held for gamblingAmritsar: The police busted a gambling racket and arrested nine persons and recovered Rs54, 330 from them. They were identified as Vijay Kumar, Ramandeep Singh, Varinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Mandeep Singh, Amritpal Singh, Ravinder Singh, Varun Puri and Akash. A case was registered against them but they were later released on bail. TNSMan files plaint against wifeTarn Taran: A man has filed a complaint against his wife for committing a fraud of Rs22 lakh and settling abroad after snapping ties with him. The victim, Sandeep Singh, a resident of Booh Havelian, said he got married to Arshdeep Kaur, three years ago. He said he spent Rs22 lakh to send his wife to England two years ago. He said after reaching England, Arshdeep snapped ties with him. The police have registered a case under Sections 420, 406 and 34 of the IPC against Arshdeep and her father Beera Singh. OCAccident at Tikri: grief expressedAmritsar: SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur expressed grief over the death of three women participating in the farmers’ protest and injuries to others after they were crushed by a speeding tipper at Delhi’s Tikri border. She said farmers have been sitting on the Delhi borders for a long time for their legitimate demands, but the Centre was not resolving their issues. She said so far hundreds of farmers have lost their lives, which cannot be compensated by any means. “The PM should understand why people are sitting on streets leaving their homes. It was the duty of the Union Government to address their issues,” she said. TNS4 test positive, no death in distAmritsar: With four positive cases reported on Thursday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,368. The health authorities reported recovery of four patients with which the recovery count has reached 45,753. At present, the district has a total of 15 active cases. Meanwhile, 8,567 residents were inoculated today. of these, 4,670 received their first dose, while 3,897 received their second jab. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-vehicle-lifters-arrested-331207
