30-10-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar: Crackers set to burn a hole in your pocket||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 29Residents have to pay 20 per cent more for purchasing firecrackers this Diwali as compared to the last year.Traders selling firecrackers attribute the price rise to escalation in fuel prices, which has lead to massive increase in transportation cost.Around 90 per cent firecrackers come from Tamil Nadu’s Sivakasi and the transportation cost of a truck stands at Rs 1.30 lakh, which used to be Rs one lakh, a year ago.Similarly, the cost of all kinds of raw material, including chemicals, wire, cardboard and printing, has also gone up.In addition, rumours are rife that temporary stalls have been allotted for Rs two lakh.Harish Dhawan, a trader, said the administration recently allotted 10 retail stalls ahead of Diwali. He pointed out that an open draw of lots was held in which people from varied fields had taken part. He said only the government approved cracker stockists and traders should have been allowed to take part in the draw of lots.Dhawan said only approved stockists know about all kinds of precautions need to be taken while selling fissile material at public places.A stockist gets a licence after obtaining no-objection certificate (NOCs) from 11 departments, including, Firebrigade, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), SDM, Police, District Town Planner, Department of Industries and Commerce, District Revenue Officer, DDPO, Agriculture Department and Forest Office. The final NOC is issued by the Deputy Commissioner.Office of the Commissioner of Police gives licence for stocking crackers up to 500 kg and the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation issues licence for stocking crackers up to 1,500 kg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-crackers-set-to-burn-a-hole-in-your-pocket-331775
30-10-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar: Nehru Shopping Complex’s rooftop turns into a dump yard||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 29Contrary to the claims of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation, rooftop of Nehru Shopping Complex on Lawrence Road, has turned into a dump yard.Even defecation is a common practice on the rooftop. Due to the absence of washrooms in the multi-storey building, watchmen and workers who perform night duty, answer the nature’s call on the rooftop. It’s worth mentioning that the city had achieved open-defecation free status three years ago.The Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) had promised to install a lift and provide other facilities in the building, but it never happened.Moreover, shop owners of the top floor also dump debris and garbage on the rooftop. Traders alleged that rooftop of the building has become a safe haven for anti-social elements. Some shopkeepers claimed that their water tanks were stolen in the past.Damandeep Singh, Chairman, AIT, said, “I am not aware of the situation. We will check and address all the issues being faced by shopkeepers at Nehru Shopping Complex.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-nehru-shopping-complexs-rooftop-turns-into-a-dump-yard-331777
30-10-2021||---||Dhadis seek better remuneration, protest in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 29A row between Dhadis (balladeers) and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) over remuneration and hours of performance at Akal Takht refuses to die down.Dhadis protested in support of their demands and offered a bowl of blood on Friday. The march passed through Heritage Street, Jallianwala Bagh and culminated at new jora ghar. The protesters didn’t raise slogans, but recited ‘satnam waheguru’.The agitators announced that from November 1 they would sit on a chain hunger strike after paying obeisance at Akal Takht. Dhadis stage traditional ‘diwan’ and sing ballads at Akal Takht.Baldev Singh MA, a member of Sri Guru Hargobind Dhadi Group, said the ‘diwan’ was suspended due to the pandemic last year. He alleged that the SGPC, instead of supporting them, has withdrawn renumeration of Rs 7,500 to each jatha that was earlier being paid on every occasion of ‘sangrandh’ and ‘masya’.Similarly, performance timing has been cut by three hours, he said and added that in case any member of the jatha remains absent due to domestic or medical reasons, the entire jatha cannot perform.Earlier, Akal Takht had constituted a three-member panel of the Dharam Parchar Committee to resolve the issue, but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dhadis-seek-better-remuneration-protest-in-amritsar-331779
30-10-2021||---||Interstate drug nexus busted, four held with 17 kg of opium||Amritsar, October 29A team of the Counter Intelligence wing of Amritsar police on Friday claimed to have busted an interstate drug nexus with the arrest of four drug smugglers and recovery of 17 kg of opium along with one pistol (32 bore) and Rs 1.10 lakh Indian currency.Those arrested have been identified as Jobandeep Singh, a resident of Wadala, Sukhjinder Singh, a resident of Chainpur, Ranjit Singh and Jaspal Singh of Bhittewad village in Amritsar district.Acting on a tip-off, the team set up a naka on Ram Tirath Road, Amritsar. The accused were travelling in Hyundai Verna and Honda Amaze cars. The search of the vehicles resulted in the recovery of the opium along with one pistol and cash.During preliminary investigation, it came to light that Jobandeep Singh was earlier involved in a case pertaining to the recovery of 7-kg opium registered at the PS Beas in 2021. It was revealed that the accused came in touch with Jharkhand-based suppliers through their contact, who are at present lodged in Kapurthala jail. It is learnt that the Jharkhand-based party is a leading supplier of opium in different parts of Punjab.Further investigation is being carried out to unearth the whole network of drug suppliers, dealers and their buyers. Efforts are being made to identify the complete procurement and supply chain across different states. The accused will be produced before the court.A case under Sections 18, 25 and 29 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/interstate-drug-nexus-busted-four-held-with-17-kg-of-opium-331780
30-10-2021||---||Five Amritsar players on cloud nine after Arjuna Award nomination||Amritsar, October 29Five sportspersons, including four hockey players, hailing from the district, are on cloud nine after being selected for the prestigious Arjuna Awards.All members of the men’s hockey team that won a historic bronze in the Olympics have already been picked for the Arjuna Award this year. Four among them hail from the holy city. These players are Shamsher Singh of Attari village, Dilpreet Singh of Butala, Gurjant Singh of Khaliara village and Harmanpreet Singh of Timmowal village. The fifth player, Arpinder Singh, a track and field athlete, is a triple jumper.Arpinder (athlete), who hails from Amritsar’s Harsha Chhina village, says the nomination for the prestigious award is an acknowledgement of his prolonged efforts. It was his father Jagbir Singh, a kabaddi player in the Army, who motivated him to join sports, but he had a predilection for track and field events as he dabbled into triple jump.Arpinder’s first noticeable performance was his clinching of the bronze medal in the Asian Games way back in 2013 in Pune. A year later, he had repeated his feat by bagging a bronze in the Commonwealth Games held in Glasgow. He had clinched the gold medal in the Asian Indoor Games held in Turkmenistan in 2017. Dilpreet Singh of Butala village welcomed the announcement of the award as it will elevate the standard of hockey. He fulfilled his father Balwinder Singh’s dream of playing in the Olympics. Harmanpreet Singh says he is immensely happy at being awarded the Arjuna Award.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-amritsar-players-on-cloud-nine-after-arjuna-award-nomination-331783
30-10-2021||Amritsar||Avail benefit of welfare schemes: Punjab Dy CM OP Soni||After inaugurating a suvidha camp at Government Polytechnic College today under ‘Sarkar Tuhade Duar’ programme, Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni, said their main objective is to facilitate common people to avail benefit of welfare schemes run by the government without facing any inconvenience.Soni said the state government has already given property rights to people living within ‘Lal dora’. “Further, we are also providing assistance of Rs 1.5 lakh to city dwellers who do not have their own houses so that they can build one,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira directed officials to ensure visitors do not face any inconvenience and take only necessary documents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/avail-benefit-of-welfare-schemes-punjab-dy-cm-op-soni-331784
30-10-2021||---||‘Early diagnosis key to combating stroke’||Amritsar, October 29Stroke (brain attack) is a major global public health problem and still remains the second leading cause of death worldwide. The estimated incidence of stroke has increased more than 100 per cent in low- and middle-income countries including India over the last four to five decades.The Global Burden of Diseases (GBD) study indicated a 26 per cent increase in global stroke death during the past two decades, a very alarming figure. There is limited data regarding stroke prevalence in India. Every year approximate 15 lakh Indians suffer from stroke.About the day“Recently, the World Stroke Organisation warned that “One in Four” people in the world will suffer a stroke in their lifetime, a red corner notice. We are facing major challenges in preventing and treating stroke, largely because of recent demographic changes, limited public awareness, sedentary lifestyle, smoking, obesity and hypertension. We need a comprehensive stroke care programme,” said Dr Manik Mahajan, DM Neurology, Fortis Escort Hospital.“Stroke is a medical and surgical emergency. Time is very crucial in stroke management. Every crossing minute we lost millions of neurons if the obstructed clot is not dissolved or removed. Recently, medical science has taken great leaps in the advancement of stroke therapies and recovery efforts with much-improved outcomes. Once the stroke is identified, the patient should be immediately rushed to the nearest hospital with facilities pertaining to treatment of stroke including CT scan. For treating acute ischemic stroke patient, a drug known as a thrombolytic agent is injected which dissolves the clot and helps resume blood supply to the brain, but within 4.5 hours only. Now, the clot can also be removed safely,” added Mahajan.“Brain attack has a deleterious consequence for individuals, families and society. It impacts all domains, including normal body functions. So, being fit and healthy is the first step with regular exercise and checking blood pressure, weight and cholesterol regularly with the moderation of alcohol and smoking. Early identification of stroke symptoms and urgent reporting to a comprehensive stroke centre is a crucial step for better tomorrow. So let’s call everyone, individuals, families, communities, health professionals and governments to join the fight against stroke,” said Dr Ashok Uppal, a neurologist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/early-diagnosis-key-to-combating-stroke-331785
30-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Bandi Chhor Diwas: Nagar kirtan reaches Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tilla in New Delhi||The nagar kirtan, dedicated to the 400th anniversary of the ‘Bandi Chhor Divas’ reached Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tilla, New Delhi, on Friday.It started from Gurdwara Data Bandi Chhor, Gwalior (MP), on Wednesday, and stayed overnight at Gurdwara Singh Sabha, Sector 15, Faridabad. It moved ahead today.The procession has been organised with the efforts of Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib. ‘Panj Piaras’ are leading the procession under the patronship of Guru Granth Sahib. As many as 52 motorcycle riders and sangat in some other vehicles have been accompanying the nagar kirtan.It would stay at Gurdwara Majnu Ka Tilla tonight and would depart for Dera Baba Bachan Singh, Baba Sukha Singh, Karnal (Haryana). It is to reach Akal Takht on November 3 after staying overnight at some other places. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bandi-chhor-diwas-nagar-kirtan-reaches-gurdwara-majnu-ka-tilla-in-new-delhi-331786
30-10-2021||Ladies of the Inner Wheel Club||Breast Cancer Control: A ride to support a cause||Seminar invokes Kamla Bhasin — an activistBarring Union Christian College, Batala, organised a series of lectures on the topic ‘Discourse on Feminist Epistemologies.’ For the uninitiated Epistemology is the branch of philosophy dealing with knowledge. Epistemologists study the nature, origin and scope of knowledge. It is considered to be a major subfield of philosophy. The lecture was organized jointly by the Department of Sociology and Research Committee on Gender Studies, Indian Sociological Society, New Delhi. Dr Rajni Bala, Associate Professor, Department of Sociology, acted as the coordinator cum convener of the lecture series. She informed the audience that the series was dedicated to female activist and social scientist Kamla Bhasin. The lectures were well appreciated by experts working in the field on gender studies. Because the lectures generated a good response the organisers have decided to hold more such ventures. The Principal of the College Prof Edward Masih was also present.Tale of a trapped leopardThe other day, residents of Pathankot and its adjoining towns were in the grip of a fear psychosis. Reason: An eight-feet long fully grown leopard was spotted by villagers in Dorang Koti village located in the sub-mountainous Dhar block. Officials of two forest divisions-Pathankot and Phillaur- had to be called in. After a 10-hour long operation, they managed to capture the cat before reviving and subsequently releasing the animal in its natural habitat. The leopard had got trapped in that very wire meshing which had been put up by farmers of Dorang Koti village of Dhar block to keep animals away. Officials say the threat of the sturdy cat moving towards heavily inhabited areas, including Pathankot, which is 22 km away, was indeed real. Pathankot Divisional Wildlife Officer (DFO) Rajesh Mahajan led the operation. He had to requisition a special team from the DFO, Phillaur, which came with cages, a tranquilizing gun, darts, laser rangefinder, nets, cameras and searchlights. Two veterinary doctors, too, were a part of the team. The laser range finder, which uses a light beam to determine the exact distance to an object, was used extensively to trace the exact whereabouts. “It was after several hours trying that we got the better of the animal. Four tranquiliser darts were fired out of which three hit the target. We then brought it to a shed of the Badhani civil hospital where we revived it using injections. Later at night, after taking permission from Dr R.K Mishra, Chief Wildlife Warden, Punjab, the wildcat was released in a dense forest area. — Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/breast-cancer-control-a-ride-to-support-a-cause-331787
30-10-2021||---||An engineer-turned  foodpreneur redefining hospitality industry||Amritsar, October 29An engineer who turned his passion for food into a rising business opportunity—Ankush Arora, the young foodpreneur from Chandigarh — is a success story in making.The young gun, who was studying to pursue a career in engineering, got introduced to the idea of American street food on his brief stint in the US and he came back to his hometown to open a chain of Quick Service Restaurant (QSR) Uncle Jack’s. Six years on, he has an outlet in every major city of Punjab, the most recent one being opened in Amritsar.Despite the challenges that food and service industry is going through post pandemic, Ankush seems to be positive. “It’s been a tough year, but we have had a good run as we managed to capitalise on our strengths, ie, serving quality food. I never really planned to pursue a career in the food industry, but I always had a liking towards knowing different style of cuisines. I am always open to learning new things and that introduced me to street style food of America that is now globally familiar. I saw a good business opportunity as QSR is not really a sector where a lot of experimentation happens,” he says.His motto and vision for his young brand of food business is – stick to the basics. “We offer specific menu, service and experience to our guests. I think doing what you are best at and not really thinking about competition is the key to grow business,” he says.With that, Ankush has now opened his outlet in Delhi, the food capital, as well. Throughout the pandemic, he has had managed to diversify his resources. “That was the only way to survive through pandemic financially. I believe that we are not a cafe but restaurant that offers cuisine specific menu and quick service.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-engineer-turned-foodpreneur-redefining-hospitality-industry-331788
30-10-2021||Amritsar||Cultural activities to mark Guru Nanak Dev University's youth festival||Dr Pankaj Mittal, secretary general of the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) inaugurated the third Zonal Youth festival of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) at the Dashmesh Auditorium of the university. Student-artistes from 20 government, constituent colleges and associate institutes of the university, teachers/in charges and other guests were present on the occasion. About 550 student-artistes will participate in 35 items of music, theatre, dance, literary and fine arts.Dr Pankaj Mittal said the AIU organised youth programmes, which provide the youth opportunity for a healthy interaction, thereby instilling in them an awareness of our historical and cultural heritage along with personality development, building youth leadership, national character, human and cultural values. She said this was the first time that AIU would organise Asian Universities’ Festival along with International Youth Festival in the near future. She said this festival would promote active collaboration and mutual understanding among the Asian countries in educational, social and cultural fields. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cultural-activities-to-mark-guru-nanak-dev-universitys-youth-festival-331789
30-10-2021||A two-day ‘Global Football League-2021 Season-2’ was inaugurated by Dr Akashdeep Singh Chandi||Football League kick starts||New Boys’ Hostel InauguratedAmritsar: An ultra-modern new building of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Boys’ Hostel was inaugurated by Khalsa College Governing Council honourary secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina at Khalsa College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (KCVAS) on Friday. The modern building with more than 100 rooms is equipped with latest amenities, including 24 hours water supply, recreation centre, reading rooms and guest rooms. A gymnasium was also inaugurated at the girls hostel in the college where Chhina announced a number of other amenities, including playground for girls.Green Diwali campaign launchedA green Diwali campaign was launched by NCC Air Wing of DAV College, Amritsar. Cadets and teachers took the pledge of not burning crackers this Diwali and contributing their bit towards reducing pollution. A poster-making competition was organised on the theme “Say no to crackers”. Students participated in the event with gusto and made several motivating posters. A rally was also taken out by the cadets, wherein students interacted with local residents, commuters and requested them to celebrate a green Diwali, gifting saplings and plants.Punjabi week from November 1School of Punjabi Studies Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, will be hosting a “Punjabi Week” dedicated to “Punjab Day” from Nov 1 to 3, 2021. Head of the Department and Associate Prof Dr Manjinder Singh informed about the series of literary events organised under Punjabi week. He said on the first day of this function an academic talk will be organised on Nov 1 at 11:00 am in the conference hall, Guru Nanak Bhawan. The keynote speaker of this academic talk will be Dr. Joginder Singh Kairon (Retired Prof, School of Punjabi Studies). He will present his views on “Punjabi Culture and Folklore Study Model”. On the second day of the function, on Nov 2 at 11:00 am a poets’ court will be organised in the conference hall, Guru Nanak Bhawan. Sarabjot Singh will officiate.Vigyan Mahotsava concludesDAV College, Amritsar, organised “Vigyan Mahotsava” from October 18 to October 25 under Star College Scheme of the Department of Bio-Technology, Govt. of India. The main aim of this event was to inculcate the spirit of scientific temperament among young minds. More than 60 experiments were conducted by the faculty members in the subjects of biology, biotechnology, chemistry, computers, maths and physics to make students realise that science can be learnt in a better way through experimental demonstrations. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/football-league-kick-starts-331790
30-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Eight loot Rs 6.46L at gunpoint from office of Bharti Finance Limited||Traders hail govt’s decisionAmritsar: The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) expressed gratitude to the government for accepting their various demands. PPBM chief Piara Lal Seth and general secretary Sameer Jain today thanked Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni for accepting their demands which included cancellation of 40,000 VAT cases (financial year 2014-15;2015-16 and 2016-17). The remaining eight thousand cases will be settled by taking 30 per cent tax. Of this 20 per cent will have to be deposited and 80 per cent by the next financial year. Moreover, land for Patti- Makhu railway track will be acquired and handed over to the Indian Railways immediately. The duo hailed the decision to provide fixed electricity charges to industrialist, nod to exhibition centre to be set up in the holy city, approval to strengthen infrastructure at focal points for industries at a cost of 150 crores and abolition of institutional tax. TNS‘Follow teachings of gurus, saints’Amritsar: Bharatiya Janata Party state chief Ashwani Sharma today paid obeisance at Valmiki Tirth. He said, “Following chaos, unrest and deteriorating law and order situation in Punjab, I prayed for peace and harmony of the state.” Sharma said Punjab is the land of gurus and saints. He said all of them have shown us the path of love, brotherhood and peace. Lord Valmiki taught everyone to live in harmony, religion and dignity, he said. He appealed to the people to follow the path shown by Lord Valmiki and create a strong and non-discriminatory society. He said for the upliftment of the country and society, we have to come together by rising above caste, religion and race. TNSFour more test +ve in districtAmritsar: With four Covid-19 positive cases reported on Friday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,372. The health authorities reported recovery of only one patient with which the recovery count has increased to 45,754. At present, the district has a total of 18 active cases. Meanwhile, 6,430 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive today. The total count of people inoculated in the district has increased to 17,04,373. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-eight-loot-rs-6-46l-at-gunpoint-from-office-of-bharti-finance-limited-331791
