31-10-2021||Amritsar||Covid-19: Amritsar district reports 4 positive cases||Two cell phone thieves arrestedAmritsar: The city police on Saturday arrested two thieves, who used to steal mobile phones from innocent people in the city. The accused have been identified as Harpreet Singh, alias Harman, a resident of Bhai Manjh Road and Simranpreet Singh, alias Simma, a resident of Sultanwind Road. ASI Jaspal Singh, in-charge Darshan Avenue police post, said they received a tip-off about the accused, who steal mobile phones from people in crowded areas. As there was a political rally at the Golden Gate, they came to know that the accused would be present there and steal mobile phones of people. The police kept a tab and nabbed Harpreet and Simranpreet, who were going to sell the mobile phones towards Daburji side on a bike. The accused were nabbed by the police and recovered one I-phone and two Samsung phones. A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered in this regard. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-amritsar-district-reports-4-positive-cases-332097
31-10-2021||Amritsar||Fraud: 2 booked in Amritsar||The police have booked two residents of Green Avenue for duping a person of Rs 70.46 lakh.The accused have been identified as Gurcharan Singh Khaira and Manvinder Singh Khaira, both of Green Avenue. Complainant, Harinder pal Singh, said the accused took Rs70.46 lakh from him on the pretext of doubling the money. The accused later refused to return it.Singh said the accused are presently residing in Phase-4, Mohali. No arrest has been made so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fraud-2-booked-in-amritsar-332098
31-10-2021||---||Honest dialogue pivotal for peace: Nirupama Rao||Amritsar, October 30Former diplomats of India and Pakistan participated in the final session ‘Crossing Borders: A Conversation’ of the month long ‘Sanjha Punjab’ festival at Majha House. They were in conversation with Sunjoy Hazarika, Director, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative.In order to achieve something, we must initiate conversation backed by reason and imagination. We must talk. Students must question politicians, literate must talk to illiterate, scientists must talk to artists. It is important to have reason and logic ingrained in all our conversations which should be honest and well-intentioned. -- Nirupama Rao, former Indian Foreign SecretaryAbdul Basit, former High Commissioner of Pakistan to India, and Nirupama Rao, a former Indian Foreign Secretary, have penned books about hostility across borders and the hope for peace.Hazarika began the discussion with climate change to which Basit replied that Pakistan has planted nearly a billion trees in the recent years. He said India and Pakistan have not had much engagement on this issue. “This is a very serious issue and all the developing nations must come together to work towards a solution,” he said.Even before a discussion gets over, everyone knows what has taken place. In order to march towards peace, we must first rise up from the morass of common issues that plague us. Earlier, diplomacy was a dignified private exercise, but now it's a public debate with just about everyone in the world. Going all out in the public domain is not very beneficial for bilateral relations. Open and honest conversation is what we really need. Abdul Basit, former High Commissioner of Pakistan to IndiaRao said, “We must initiate dialogue and for that we need to rephrase and rebuilt our traditional notions of security. We need to work out solutions that are healthy for both countries.” Talking about politics and harmony, Basit said release of fishermen, who enter into each other’s territorial waters, acts as a gesture towards peace. “Nothing between India and Pakistan is apolitical, but we must put politics aside and focus on the humanitarian issue. Over the years, Pakistan has released thousands of fishermen,” he said.Rao said lives of such fishermen were same across borders. “Whether the fishermen come from Sindh or Gujarat, lives of these fishermen are shattered once they are arrested. We must work towards a solution where such fishermen are simply pushed back into their own waters instead of arresting them and putting them in prison,” she said.Rao asserted the significance of initiating conversation between the two countries. “In order to achieve something, we must initiate conversation backed by reason and imagination. We must talk. Students must question politicians, literate must talk to illiterate, scientists must talk to artists. It is important to have reason and logic ingrained in all our conversations which should be honest and well-intentioned,” she said.Basit said, “Even before a discussion gets over, everyone knows what has taken place. In order to march towards peace, we must first rise up from the morass of common issues that plague us. Earlier, diplomacy was a dignified private exercise, but now it’s a public debate with just about everyone in the world. Going all out in the public domain is not very beneficial for bilateral relations. Open and honest conversation is what we really need,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/honest-dialogue-pivotal-for-peace-nirupama-rao-332099
31-10-2021||---||Inspection at border outposts||Amritsar, october 30In the view of festive season, the Border Security Force (BSF) and Punjab Police officials conducted checking alongside the Indo-Pak border here on Friday.Manish Chawla, IG Border Range, and Rakesh Kaushal SSP, Amritsar Rural, along with BSF officers Kulwant Kumar Commandant (10 Battalion), KS Rana, Assistant Commandant (10 Battalion), Ram Inder Mall Deputy Commandant (73 Battalion), Vipan Kumar DSP Ajnala, SI Karampal Singh, Station House Officer Ramdas Police Station checked the BSF outposts Dharamprakash, Singhuke, Panjgraia, Shahpur and other sensitive points along the border of Ramdas police station and Ajnala police station.The IG Border Range and SSP Amritsar Rural listened to the grievances of employees on duty at the outposts and also inspected their amenities. The IG Border Range also held a meeting with BSF officials deployed on theses posts. The meeting also discussed ways to curb cross-border infiltration in view of the upcoming festivals. Apart from this, the issue of drone activity across the border, difficulties in patrolling during fog were also discussed during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/inspection-at-border-outposts-332100
31-10-2021||---||No reprieve from contaminated water||Amritsar, October 30The problem related to supply of contaminated water in Bagh Ramanand near the Golden Temple has irked residents who allege that the Amritsar Municipal Corporation has failed to address the issue despite numerous complaints.The MC has failed to address the issue since 2017. After every complaint, civic body officials claim to rectify the issue, but the problem reoccurs after sometime. There are over 30 families in the locality, who are badly affected. Residents are forced to drink contaminated water. We want a permanent solution. Jagdish Singh, an RTI activistA local said, “Bagh Ramanand has been receiving contaminated water since 2017. The authorities replaced old water pipes in other areas, but ignored a few lanes. People residing in street number five are the worst sufferers.”Jagdish Singh, an RTI activist, said, “The MC has failed to address the issue since 2017. After every complaint, civic body officials claim to rectify the issue, but the problem reoccurs after sometime.”“There are over 30 families in the locality, who are badly affected. Residents are forced to drink contaminated water. We want a permanent solution,” he added.Jagdish said, “I have filed a complaint with officials concerned, but have not received any reply so far.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-reprieve-from-contaminated-water-332101
31-10-2021||---||No let-up in dengue cases as Amritsar district count reaches 1,440||Amritsar, October 30The district reported 119 dengue cases in the last six days with which the tally of infections in the district increased to 1,440 on Saturday.While the health authorities were banking on the change in weather conditions for dengue virus to weaken, despite being a substantial drop in the temperature, the spread of the viral fever is not decreasing. The minimum temperature in the area hovers around 13 degrees Celsius these days.Despite the whopping number of dengue cases — highest ever in the district — the district has, however, not reported any death due to the disease so far. Apart from patients reported by the district Health Department, a large numbers of residents are also falling sick with dengue-like symptoms.The district health officials said a majority of the cases, around 80 per cent, have been reported from the city where population density is more. The Sultanwind road and Tarn Taran road areas have been the most affected in the city.“Drop in platelet count and high fever can occur in other viral diseases apart from dengue. People need to be vigilant and get themselves tested if symptoms appear,” a health official said.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said instead of adopting for home remedies, people should immediately consult a physician. He said though the disease is treated symptomatically, the expertise of a physician can help in faster recovery. He said awareness about the causes and symptoms of dengue is the best weapon against the virus. “People are advised to use mosquito repellents at their homes and workplaces. The efforts to make homes and workplaces mosquito-free should be made every week,” he said.SymptomsPeople infected by the dengue virus may suffer from high fever, severe headache, severe pain behind the eyes, joint pain, muscle and bone pain, rash and mild bleedingDosDon’ts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-let-up-in-dengue-cases-as-amritsar-district-count-reaches-1-440-332102
31-10-2021||---||Hope springs eternal for home-grown business||Amritsar, October 30Festive exhibitions are back, hoping to bring some Diwali cheer back for shoppers as well as local brands alike.Last year, damp Diwali due to the pandemic and economical distress caused due to the lockdown has already hit small businesses. But with festivities returning this year, home-grown businesses, especially offering niche services and products can hope for revival.Exhibitions offer safer shopping experience for those who want to spend on Diwali keeping away from over-crowded markets. Also, since most exhibitions feature local businesses, it is also a good platform to give a push to the local economy. Krishna Khanna, a local apparel designerExhibitions that were regular during the festive season are now pulling back shoppers with one-stop shopping experience after a long hiatus. Multiple festive exhibitions featuring garments, jewellery, home décor and gift items are attracting a lot of customers. “Exhibitions offer safer shopping experience for those who want to spend on Diwali keeping away from over-crowded markets. Also, since most exhibitions feature small, niche local businesses, it is also a good platform to give a push to local economy,” said Krishna Khanna, a local apparel designer.“We had organised an online exhibition last year, but the response was not so good. On-ground events generate more sales than online ones ahead of the festive season,” she said. She is currently exhibiting her line of festive wear at a Diwali exhibition.Keeping in mind the post-pandemic cautious shopper, even local businesses are game for small-scale, exclusive exhibits. “Private exhibits organised at smaller scales are doing good business wise as it allows customers health safety. With rise in fresh, hand-crafted, customised festive goodies, a two-day or single day exhibit provides for an oppurtunity for 100 per cent sale. Also, it saves the organiser the overhead expenses,” shares Arundeep Singh, a city-based baker and owner of Cakelicious, who has put up two-day festive sale of Diwali goodies at his residence.He said it’s a win-win situation for shoppers who want quick, safe shopping experience as well as exhibitors who save on rent and elaborate preparations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hope-springs-eternal-for-home-grown-business-332318
31-10-2021||---||Dharminder Sharma: Blending different art elements in paintings his forte||Amritsar, October 30Noted artist Dharminder Sharma on Saturday opened an exhibition of his art work comprising of miniatures and paintings at the art gallery. The artist who has been working to promote abstract modern art through various media has attempted to amalgamate abstract with miniature style of paintings.I have tried to bring abstract elements to miniature paintings by using single subject like a helicopter or a balloon and using colourful compositions. This particular style of art is stuck in regional boundaries but I want to revive it among the city art fraternity. Dharminder Sharma, noted artistOver 40 works have been displayed out of which 25 are miniatures. Sharma says the miniatures are usually traditionally made with royal themes and motifs, using conventional subjects. “I have tried to bring in abstract elements to miniature paintings by using single subject like a helicopter or a balloon and using colourful compositions. This particular style of art is stuck in regional boundaries but I want to revive it among the city art fraternity,” he said.Apart from miniatures, other paintings by Sharma are done in acrylic, his forte and have varied themes. Sharma has been been on experimenting with medium and has also worked with spray paints and street art genres. He said contemporary context of art needs to be looked in a different way, with more room for experimentation.“With the popularity of the street art form across the globe and introduction of contemporary techniques, using tools that don’t require traditional canvases themes will bring in more curiosity from art patrons as well as students of art,” he said. Meanwhile, those exhibition will continue till November 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dharminder-sharma-blending-different-art-elements-in-paintings-his-forte-332320
31-10-2021||---||Conference on health education concludes||Amritsar, October 30The National Conference on Health Professions Education (NCHPE) concluded at Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences here on Saturday. The event was organised under the aegis of the Academy of Health Professions Educators, India.The theme of the conference was “Looking back to leap forward: Curriculum innovation”. It was conducted in a hybrid mode with both online and offline facilities. Chief patron of the conference Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, vice chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, said renowned physicians as Dr John Dent and Dr Janet Grant from UK, Dr Beth Ann Cummings, Canada and Dr Namrata Chhabra from Mauritius participated in the conference.With over 500 participants attending the conference through online mode and over 150 participants attended physically present, a total of 104 e-posters in the conference and were judged by experts of the field.The conference witnessed panel discussions regarding the new competency based curriculum developed and implemented by the National Medical Commission. Dr AP Singh said 12 workshops were held during the conference. He said a few of these workshops focus on trending discussions; students doctor method of training, integration in practice, workplace based assessment, clinical skills lab made easy and others.Prominent among those present included Dr Bhupinder Singh Walia, Member, PMC, Dr Vivek Arvind Saoji, vice chancellor, KLE Academy of Higher Education and Research, Belagavi, Dr Daljit Singh, vice chancellor, SGRD University of Health Sciences, Dr Manjit Singh Uppal, Director principal and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/conference-on-health-education-concludes-332321
31-10-2021||---||Culinary event ends at GNDU||Amritsar, October 30Guru Nanak Dev University’s Department of Hotel Management and Tourism celebrated International Chefs Day where students of bachelor of hotel management and catering technology (BHMCT) and bachelor of tourism and travel management (BTTM) participated along with 11 chefs. The department hosted two-day culinary event on October 29 and 30.On the first day, bakery show was organised where 40 different french desserts and savouries were exhibited.Professor Mandeep Kaur, head of the department, welcomed chief guest Professor Shweta Shenoy.Chef Harpreet Singh emphasised on sustainability and the environment to ensure a healthy planet for future generations. He focused to pass on knowledge and culinary skills to the next generation of chefs with a sense of pride and commitment.Prof Shenoy asked the students to utilise this opportunity to learn about healthy eating by being creative with food.The second day featured lunch on the theme of pop-up menu to exhibit French cuisine. Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, and Prof Shenoy inaugurated the restaurant of the department.Dr Pankaj Mittal, general secretary, AIU, was the guest of honour. The eight course meal was offered to the guests.The aim of the event was to pair these opportunities with expertise and passion to introduce a pop-up concept. Students of the department participated and decorated the department using French theme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/culinary-event-ends-at-gndu-332322
31-10-2021||Amritsar||Lucky appointed chairman of Amritsar district planning board||Senior Congress leader Raj Kanwal Preetpal Singh Lucky was appointed as Chairman District Planning Board on Saturday.Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni congratulated him for his new responsibility. Soni said the Punjab Government has waived the arrears of electricity bill, resolved the issues of traders, announced permanent government jobs, jobs to the families of farmers who lost their lives in the struggle. He said Congress congratulated Lucky for being appointed as chairman of planning board. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lucky-appointed-chairman-of-amritsar-district-planning-board-332324
31-10-2021||Amritsar||Celebrating freedom||A 19-member team of cyclists came back at Air Force Station, Amritsar, after covering a distance of 540-km in six days as a part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations.The team led by Squadron Leader Balraj Sharma covered Batala, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Lakhanpur, Samba and Jammu.The cycling expedition was aimed at spreading awareness among youth on available career prospects in the Indian Air Force and showcasing the spirit of adventurism. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/celebrating-freedom-332325
31-10-2021||Tarn Taran||Vigilance Awareness Week organised||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vigilance-awareness-week-organised-332326
