03-11-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 86 new cases, one more death in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Tuesday reported one more COVID-19-related fatality, which took the death toll to 228, while 86 new cases pushed the infection count to 14,608 in the Union Territory, as per a medical bulletin.A 56-year-old city-based man, who had tested positive for the coronavirus, died at a private hospital at Derabassi in Mohali, it said.He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, the bulletin said.There are 629 active cases as of now, it said.  The bulletin said that a total of 43 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 13,751.It said that a total of 1,10,083 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 94,814 tested negative while reports of 119 samples are awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-86-new-cases-one-more-death-in-chandigarh-165468
03-11-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 55 fresh COVID-19 cases||Mohali reports 55 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district's total to 12,522.No death was recorded in the last 24 hours. About 31 patients have recovered from the deadly disease.Of the 55 cases, 42 infections were from Mohali (urban), three each from Dera Bassi and Dhakoli, one from Kharar, and six from Gharuan.At present, of the 12,522 cases, 11,735 patients have been cured, and discharged from the hospital.The city reports 550 active cases with 237 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-55-fresh-covid-19-cases-165434
03-11-2020||---||Multiplexes to open with 50 pc capacity in Mohali||Mohali, November 2The Mohali Administration has allowed opening of cinemas/theatres/multiplexes with up to 50 per cent capacity.Entertainment parks and similar places in areas outside the containment zones have also been allowed to reopen.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan has allowed more activities in areas outside the containment zones from November 1 to November 30. The orders have been issued in continuation with the directions of the Department of Home, Punjab, as per the SOPs issued by the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.Similarly, entertainment parks and similar places in areas outside the containment zones can also open as per the SOPs issued by the ministry.Girish Dayalan said any violation of these guidelines and lockdown measures shall be punishable under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He said all concerned would ensure compliance of the advisories on different subjects issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department, Punjab.Any violations will invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860, he added.‘It will take a week to make multiplexes functional’Rishab Malhotra, Centre Head, VR Punjab Mall, said it would take about a week for the multiplexes to become functional. He said they would have to follow the guidelines of the government. According to the SOPs, adequate physical distancing is mandatory which means alternate seats will have to be kept vacant and clearly marked. Moreover, cinemas will also have to provide sanitiser and handwashing facilities to visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/multiplexes-to-open-with-50-pc-capacity-in-mohali-165133
03-11-2020||---||Social distancing on mind, Chandigarh ups cracker sites to 14||Chandigarh, November 2In order to maintain social distancing, the UT Administration has decided to increase the number of designated sites for selling firecrackers to 14 in the city this year. Last year, firecrackers were allowed to sell only at nine designated sites.The UT Administration will give temporary licences only to 96 persons to sell firecrackers. The draw for allotment of the licences will be held tomorrow. No one would be allowed to sell crackers in the shops due to safety issues.An official said nearly 1,600 persons had applied for licence this year due to fear of poor sale amid Covid-19. As many as 1,900 applications were received last year.The official said shopkeepers would not be allowed to put up firecracker stalls in markets. They would be allowed to do business nearly 200m to 300m away from the markets.He said the licences would be given as per the directions of the High Court and the Administration would give licences to sell firecrackers only on November 12, 13 and 14 in the city.Drop in number of applicantsAn official of the Administration said nearly 1,600 persons applied for licence this year due to fear of poor sale amid Covid-19. As many as 1,900 applications were received last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-distancing-on-mind-chandigarh-ups-cracker-sites-to-14-165135
03-11-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court puts Panjab University on notice||Chandigarh, November 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court has put Panjab University on notice on a petition seeking the quashing of a circular on “illegally” scrapping entrance examination for admission to LLM course on the ground of Covid outbreak.The notice by the Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I. Mehta came on a petition filed by Uday Partap Singh against the university and other respondents. Appearing in person through videoconferencing, Uday Partap Singh contended that Covid 19 had been taken as a ground in the circular for scraping the entrance examination for LLM and other postgraduate courses. But other universities and institutes under the same situation were conducting entrance examination with the help of the National Testing Agency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-puts-panjab-university-on-notice-165136
03-11-2020||---||Amid thin attendance, two schoolteachers test positive||Patiala, November 2Amid thin attendance fearing Covid-19, two government schools in the district were closed on Monday for two days after their staff members tested positive for the virus. One teacher at Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Todarpur, and one at GSSS, Laut, tested positive for the virus on Sunday. Following detection of positive cases, the Health Department sanitised schools today.Dharminder Kaur, principal, Government Senior Secondary School Todarpur, said health officials conducted Covid test of the entire staff on Friday. Of the 19 staff members, one teacher tested positive for the disease, she added.“The school has been closed for two days after positive cases surfaced. We will reopen school only after orders from higher-ups,” she said.Notably, a clerk and school principal, last month, had tested positive at the GSSS, Todarpur.Devinderjit Kaur, Senior Medical Officer, Kallon Majra, said they tested staff of the GSSS, Laut. Only one teacher tested Covid positive, she added. The teacher was a resident of Patiala city, she said. The SMO concerned had been informed for contact tracing, she added.Meanwhile, Harinder Kaur, District Education Officer (DEO), said so far, around 12 staff members had tested positive for the virus after schools reopened.“Around 12 staff members in 10 schools have already tested positive for the disease. However, majority of the infected staff have already recovered and re-joined their duty,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-thin-attendance-two-schoolteachers-test-positive-165138
03-11-2020||---||Phase II: Over 3K attend classes in city govt schools||Chandigarh, November 2 In the second phase of reopening of government schools, more than double the strength of students from that of last month attended the school for regular teaching from Classes IX to XII here today. As many as 3,288 students came to government schools to attend classes today. Of this, 1,525 students were from Class X, 922 from Class IX, 540 from Class XII and 340 students from XI. The strength recorded on November 2 is much higher as compared to that of September 22, when only 950 pupils showed up in the partial reopening phase. More than 40,000 students study in Classes IX to XII in city government schools. A majority of the students are still opting for online classes to avoid the risk of Covid transmission. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director School Education, UT, said: “We are hopeful that the attendance will increase further in the coming days as the response on the first day was encouraging.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/phase-ii-over-3k-attend-classes-in-city-govt-schools-165181
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Justice Kishore lays stress on ethical practices in I-T Department||During the Vigilance Awareness Week, observed between October 27 and November 2 under ‘Satark Bharat, Samriddh Bharat’, Justice (retd) Nawal Kishore Agarwal, Lokayukta, Haryana, addressed officials of the Income Tax (I-T) Department on the topic “Ethics and integrity in public life”. He stressed on the implementation of corruption-free moral and ethical practices in the department and an individual’s life. “Honest officers should be protected against mala fide and vested interests,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/justice-kishore-lays-stress-on-ethical-practices-in-i-t-department-165182
03-11-2020||---||Nazuk Kumar appointed ADC||Chandigarh, November 2In a minor reshuffle, the UT Administration has appointed Nazuk Kumar, SDM (Central), as Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC). The post fell vacant after the transfer of ADC Sachin Rana from the UT Administration.Kumar has also been assigned the charge of Additional Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Secretary, Red Cross Society, Director-cum-Special Secretary, Technical Education, and Director, Information Technology.Harjeet Singh Sandhu, Director, Industries, has been appointed SDM (Central), and Land Acquisition Officer, relieving Nazuk Kumar of the said charge.Jagjit Singh, Controller, Printing and Stationery, has been given the additional charge of Director, Industries, General Manager, District Industries Centre, relieving Harjeet Singh Sandhu of these charge.Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, has been given the additional charge of Secretary, Transport Authority.Ruchi Singh Bedi, Secretary, Chandigarh Housing Board, has been given the additional charge of Principal-cum-Head of the Department, Government College of Art, Sector 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nazuk-kumar-appointed-adc-165183
03-11-2020||---||Naib tehsildar, kanungo, patwari, 8 others held for wrong mutation||Zirakpur, November 2The Vigilance Bureau, Mohali, has arrested a naib tehsildar, kanungo, patwari and eight others on the charge of carrying out the wrong mutation of about 800 acres of land at Majri, Kharar.Naib Tehsildar of Zirakpur Varinder Pal Singh Dhoot, Kanungo Raghubir Singh and Patwari Iqbal Singh were arrested today.The others arrested by the bureau were Gurnam Singh, Nabardar; Shamlal, a property dealer; Balbir Singh, a resident of Chandigarh; Tarsem Lal, a resident of Gudamajri in Kharar; Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Paindpur village; Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Mastgarh village; Manbir Singh and Kabal Singh, both residents of Muktsar.Sources said they had been arrested under Section 7 of PC Act 1988 and Section 7 (a) of the PC Act 2018, and also under Sections 409, 420, 465, 466, 467, 471, 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in a case registered against them at the state vigilance headquarters, Mohali.The decision on the partition of the land was taken by Dhoot on December 20, 2017. A day later, the Halka Patwari registered the ‘intkaal’ No. 4895 for the land under question. There were 100 pages of this mutation and the ‘intkaal’ was done in one day. The inspection about this mutation was carried out by the Halka Kanugo on December 25, 2017, despite it being a Christmas holiday. The then Majri Naib Tehsildar, Varinder Pal Singh Dhoot, accepted the mutation on December 27, 2017.Inspection carried out on a holidayThe decision on the partition of the land was taken by Naib Tehsildar Varinder Pal Singh Dhoot on December 20, 2017. A day later, the Halka Patwari registered the ‘intkaal’ No. 4895 for the land under question. There were 100 pages of this mutation and the ‘intkaal’ was done in one day. The inspection about this mutation was carried out by the Halka Kanugo on December 25, 2017, despite it being a Christmas holiday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/naib-tehsildar-kanungo-patwari-8-others-held-for-wrong-mutation-165184
03-11-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Conduct resurvey within 3 days, NGT asks MC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 2The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Municipal Corporation to conduct a resurvey of the locations where sewage is being discharged into Sukhna Choe and N-choe within three days. Both seasonal rivulets of the city flow into the Ghaggar near Zirakpur.The directions came from a committee of the Green Tribunal during the review of the status of waste water generation and treatment in Chandigarh in the matter of the Ghaggar in a meeting with officials of different departments of the UT.In its report, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) submitted that sewage is being discharged into Sukhna Choe and N-choe at six places in the city.During an inspection conducted recently, the CPCC found that sewage was flowing into Sukhna Choe at Kishangarh outlet, outlet of Shastri Nagar, Daria village and pump house operated by the MC behind Central Poultry Farm, Industrial Area, Phase 1, and sewage was flowing into N-choe at Garden of Spring where the sewage was coming from Mohali and Sector 36 near the CFSL from the ISKCON Temple side.Meanwhile, MC officials informed the committee that as per the directions of the NGT, work to repair the damaged sewer line at Daria village had been completed.Debendra Dalai, Member Secretary, CPCC, stated that it was decided that the Mohali Municipal Corporation would take necessary steps immediately to stop the discharge of sewage into N-choe at the Garden of Spring outlet.The NGT also directed the Engineering Department, UT, to complete the phytoremediation work around Sukhna Choe and N-choe within a month in order to prevent the flow of polluted water into the Ghaggar.In August last year, the NGT had directed the Engineering Department to undertake in-situ bio-remediation in the two drains carrying untreated sewage into the Ghaggar. However, the department has so far planted nearly 3,500-4,000 plants along N-choe and Sukhna Choe and on slopes.“Thinking that the work should have been completed by now, the Tribunal directed the Engineering Department to complete the work of phytoremediation within in a month,” said Debendra Dalai.He said a team would also visit Patiala for further amendment in the procedure so that works get properly done.Under phytoremediation, different varieties of plants that remove, stabilise and destroy contaminants in the soil and groundwater are planted.On inspection, performance of effluent treatment plants (ETPs) and action against the violating industries, the NGT was informed that the CPCC was regularly inspecting the performance of ETPs in industries and taking action against the units violating norms.Dalai said out of the eight units inspected in September and October, five units were found violating the norms and action was being taken against the units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/conduct-resurvey-within-3-days-ngt-asks-mc-165186
03-11-2020||Amit Bathla||3 abducted minor girls recovered||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 2The woman, who abducted three minor girls, aged two, four and six, from a park in Sector 6 here, was arrested from Gurdwara Nada Sahib today.The woman has been identified as Preeti, a resident of Delhi. She has two children, aged two and eight, who are living with their father in the National Capital.The 40-year-old woman is a postgraduate in English and reportedly estranged from her husband. She also worked in call centres in the past. All these facts were revealed during initial investigations by the police.She had been living away from her family for the past six months. The woman took shelter in gurdwaras and other religious institutions during this period, the police said. Her intention to commit the crime is still not clear.“During investigations, the woman told the police that she picked up the girls to help them as she thought they have no one to take care of,” said ACP Noopur Bishnoi. In the past one week, she took the children to various gurdwaras in Mohali and Patiala before returning to Panchkula.Asked about the ambiguity on her mental state, ACP Bishnoi said they had no medical certificate or proof to support the fact that the woman was not mentally stable.The woman was produced before a court, which sent her to 14-day judicial custody in the Ambala jail today.Toughest time for familyMigrant labourer Deepak Goswami’s world came crashing down when his three daughters were abducted from a park in broad daylight in Sector 6 here, not too far from the office of the Haryana Deputy General of Police.Hours before return from the work, Deepak, a native of Bihar, was taken aback by the news of his daughters’ disappearance.For the next seven days, he faced the most difficult time of his life he had never thought in their wildest dreams. It was even more tragic for him than the Covid-induced lockdown, which brought him to his knees.The family waited for hours before filing a police complaint at the Sector 7 police post.Desperation to find his daughters took Deepak to most corners of the city and beyond, carrying their photographs with a hope to get any clue.“I was in a dilemma whether to go to work to earn a living, a meagre amount of Rs300-400 daily, or keep searching for my daughters. Food was equally important to keep us alive," he said.After a period of despair, Monday morning finally brought good news for Deepak when he got a call from the police about the recovery of his daughters.The parents finally got reunited with their daughters at the Sector 5 police station. The family now hopes to get its life back on track.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-abducted-minor-girls-recovered-165188
03-11-2020||Amarjot Kaur||We are on the verge of self-immolation: Porters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 2The month-long halt on passenger trains in view of farmers’ "rail roko" protest has pushed coolies at the Chandigarh railway station to the brink of "self-immolation".The phased revival of passenger trains under Unlock 1.0 had brought only momentary respite to city porters who stood a chance at recovering from lockdown-triggered financial lows during March, April and May. However, with the announcement of "Punjab Bandh" late in September, Ambala Division terminated the route of two pairs of trains that were plying over the city station from June 1 onwards. Since then, the coolies have been weighed down by the burden of debt and are battling a crippling economic meltdown.Porters -- the "men in red" who ferry the luggage of weary travellers -- assume the lowest rank in the structural hierarchy of the Indian Railways and have never been part of its salaried staff.On October 27, Vijay Singh Meena, Chandigarh president of the All India Lal Vardi Coolie Union, handed a representation to Divisional Railway Manager GM Singh, detailing the plight of 39 coolies who worked there. “We are on the verge of self-immolation,” read the representation. Requesting monetary relief in the representation, they listed accounts of city porters selling their wives’ jewellery to make ends meet.Meena says, “As it is passenger train services were stopped in March. I have not earned a rupee since then. I have pending house rent of Rs30,000 for nine months and I haven’t been able to pay the school fee of my children. Every month the school warns me, their name will be struck off if I don’t pay up. I don’t have any money and it’s been a month since a train plied over this station.” He said a porter made between Rs17,000 and Rs20,000 a month before the pandemic.The two trains that resumed service at the station, Una-Delhi Shatabdi and Paschim Express, too, didn’t ferry many passengers, say porters. “Those trains would carry just about 20-odd passengers. Most of them were travelling out of necessity as no one travels for leisure during a pandemic. Obviously, they didn’t carry much luggage, so the work was slow,” informs Rajender Kumar.Another porter, Veeru Kumar, adds, “I didn’t even have any savings. I’ve had to ask my friends for loan. Now, I am in debt. Since I haven’t paid back the money for months now, I will be charged 5 per cent interest.”With no train in sight and little hope to hold on to, Rakesh Kumar says, “NGOs came and gave ration to us during the lockdown, but that could only keep my family of five fed for a month. Throughout Covid, even when the trains plied over the station, we weren’t given any masks or sanitisers by the authorities.”DRM GM Singh said the division had distributed ration to the porters. “We can only do this much. The Railways doesn’t have financial resources. As it is, to cut down on our costs, the contractual staff of the division have also been laid off,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/we-are-on-the-verge-of-self-immolation-porters-165191
03-11-2020||---||700 turn up at PGI as OPDs resume||Chandigarh, November 2The OPDs resumed today after six months in which around 700 patients reported at the PGI and 1,200 patients consulted doctors through the telephone.Dr Naveen Pandey, Deputy Medical Superintendent at the PGI, said, “In the coming week, if Covid cases do not rise, we may start seeing more patients beyond the cap of 50 in each OPD. However, if the second surge hits, we may have to curtail the services.”Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said restoring the OPDs to full capacity would take time, but the number of patients being seen physically would be gradually increased in the coming days if the Covid situation remained under control. He took a round of the OPDs today to see the arrangements.“No overcrowding was observed on the first day. The waiting area can accommodate at least 500 patients at a time. Some patients had come without appointment, but those with serious complications were attended to by doctors,” said Prof Jagat Ram.On March 19, the OPD services were shut at the PGI due to fear of infection spread among patients and due to diverting health workers to Covid-19 duties. Before the pandemic, the OPDs saw a footfall of over 10,000 patients a day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/700-turn-up-at-pgi-as-opds-resume-165194
03-11-2020||Victim’s father suspects murder; probe on||Missing man’s body found in bushes||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 2The Sohana police recovered the body of a 28-year-old man from Sambhalki village here yesterday. The police have registered a case of culpable homicide against an unknown person in this regard.The deceased has been identified as Jaskaran Singh. He hailed from Chhehrata village in Amritsar and was putting up in a rented accommodation in Chandigarh.According to the police, Jaskaran went missing on October 29. His body was recovered from the bushes near the Sambhalki village road T-point here.Jaskaran’s father Balwinder Singh alleged that his son was living in a rented accommodation in Chandigarh since 2012. He had a dispute with his wife for the past several months, following which they got separated. I doubt that one of the members of his in-laws’ family had killed my son.Balwinder demanded proper probe in the case so that the real culprits could be put behind bars.Investigating officer Sub-Inspector Harjinder Singh said: “Investigation is on to nab the suspect. A case has been registered.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/missing-mans-body-found-in-bushes-165195
03-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Lobbying begins for post of Chandigarh Mayor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 2With the mayoral poll just two months away, the race for becoming the First Citizen has intensified among ruling BJP councillors. Incumbent Mayor Raj Bala Malik’s one-year term will end on December 31.This time, the Mayor’s post is open to the general category, and thus, there are a number of probables for the seat. BJP councillors Ravi Kant Sharma, who is the Senior Deputy Mayor, and Shakti Prakash Devshali are said to be leading the race so far. There are other probables as well, who have started lobbying for the post. There are little chances of the BJP relying on experienced leaders like Arun Sood or Asha Jaswal this time. Sood has been the Mayor twice and Jaswal once. However, it will all depend on political calculations in the days to come.The year 2021 will be crucial for the ruling party as it will be the fifth and last Mayor of the current MC House. December 2021 will see the MC poll after five years.Party sources said since it would be the election year, they were looking for a Mayor who could strongly pitch its stand with officers. They said most of their previous mayors appeared to be toeing the Commissioner’s line. City party chief Arun Sood said, “The party’s local leadership, in consultation with the high command, will decide on the mayoral poll candidates.”Though the saffron party enjoys a stout majority with 20 BJP councillors in the 27-member MC House, chances of cross-voting due to infighting may spoil its game. The party was divided in two groups — one led by former city unit president Sanjay Tandon and the other by MP Kirron Kher. However, under Sood, there seems to be some “caution”. Along with the seat of the Mayor, poll for the posts of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor will be held in early January.BJP has a history of infighting2017: Asha Jaswal chosen nominee; within days of getting elected Mayor, Jaswal and Sood were blamed by Heera Negi for her defeat in the F&CC elections2018: Davesh Moudgil chosen candidate; Asha Jaswal, along with Arun Sood and other councillors, filed separate nomination in protest, but withdrew after the intervention of the high command2019: Rajesh Kalia chosen nominee; Satish Kainth filed nomination in protest; lost poll; later joined Congress2020: Raj Bala Malik nominated; Heera Negi criticised the move openly; showed public annoyance towards MP Kirron Kher||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lobbying-begins-for-post-of-chandigarh-mayor-165202
03-11-2020||---||Badnore cautions against second surge||Chandigarh, November 2UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has appealed to residents to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines. “Chandigarh must avoid a second surge at all cost,” he said while presiding over a review meeting on the pandemic.Though the UT has witnessed a sharp decline in coronavirus cases in recent weeks, experts fear a second wave ahead of the winter season.Badnore said doctors had opined that toxic air arising out of crackers was likely to affect the lungs and, hence, Chandigarh residents should avoid or minimise bursting of crackers during the festival season. “There is a need to keep Chandigarh pollution-free so that there is no resurgence of lung diseases or Covid cases,” he said.The Administrator directed the police and the district authorities to be more strict in issuing challans against persons not following the Covid protocol. He said special care must be taken since the risk of infection would be greater due to festival gathering.The acting director of the GMCH, Dr Jasbinder Kaur, stated that Sood Dharamshala had now been closed and only the Dhanwantry hospital was being operated with the facilities of medical college and hospital.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said 14,962 houses had been checked for malaria/dengue cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-cautions-against-second-surge-165207
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||Trader alleges extortion call||Youth booked for raping girlMohali: The police have booked a youth for allegedly repeatedly raping a 27-year-old girl on the pretext of marriage. The suspect has been identified as Kamalpreet Singh of Mullan village. According to the police, the suspect was raping the girl for the past couple of months on the pretext of marrying her. Later, he stopped talking to the woman. Daljit Singh, SHO, Sohana, said: “We have registered a case. The suspect will be arrested soon”. TNSOne held with banned tabletsMohali: The police have booked two persons for possessing 1,000 intoxicant tablets at Raipur Kalan village. The suspects have been identified as Mandeep Singh, a resident of Badali village, and Jaswant Singh, a resident of Chuni Majra village. A truck carrying tractors was signalled to stop at a naka near Raipur Kalan village on Sunday evening. Jaswant, sitting next to Mandeep Singh, the driver, fled the spot. The police recovered a polythene contained 1,000 banned tablets. TNSTraders' body chief honouredChandigarh: Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector-17, was on Monday honoured with Mother Teresa Award (Social Work) by Father Kejus R, Cathedral Church, for his outstanding contribution, meritorious service and support during the lockdown. Panchhi said he would continue to serve humanity and the nation in the field of social service. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trader-alleges-extortion-call-165209
03-11-2020||---||Most-wanted criminal in Panchkula Crime Branch net||Panchkula, November 2The Sector 26 Crime Branch of the Panchkula police claimed to have arrested a most-wanted criminal, who was allegedly involved in the firing incident at a showroom in the Sector 20 market here in January last year. A person was killed while another suffered injuries in the incident.The accused has been identified as Mohit, a resident of Islampur village in Gurugram. He was produced before a local court today, which sent him to two-day police remand.According to the FIR, around 10 unidentified persons had entered the office of Property and Finance Company on the first floor of the showroom in Sector 20 here and opened fire on officials on January 30 last year.The suspects looted the cash and mobile phones before fleeing from the spot on a motorcycle. A person, identified as Deepak, died in the incident, while another person, Sunny, suffered injuries after he jumped from the first floor of the building to save his life.There were heated exchanges between the two groups over the distribution of money and one of the groups had fired on the other group. Deepak, who suffered serious injuries, fell unconscious.Sunny had jumped from the first floor after breaking the glass of the window. He fractured his legs and arms and suffered head injuries as he fell on the debris lying in front of the showroom,” the FIR read.A case under Section 25 of the Arms Act and Sections 394, 395 and 397 of the IPC was registered against unidentified persons at the Sector 20 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/most-wanted-criminal-in-panchkula-crime-branch-net-165210
03-11-2020||---||Mohali sees 27 cases, no death||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 2The district reported 27 new Covid cases during the past 24 hours, taking the case tally to 12,467.No death due to the virus was reported, while 57 patients recovered from the disease.Among the fresh cases, 20 were reported from Mohali (urban), four from Dera Bassi, two from Gharuan and one from Kurali.The district has seen 12,467 cases so far, while 11,704 patients have been cured. There are now 526 active cases. A total of 237 persons have succumbed to the virus in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-27-cases-no-death-165211
03-11-2020||Chandigarh||87-yr-old man dies, Chandigarh logs 55 cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/87-yr-old-man-dies-chandigarh-logs-55-cases-165212
03-11-2020||---||2 deaths, 14 new cases in Panchkula||Panchkula, November 2The district today reported two deaths and 14 coronavirus cases, taking the case count to 7,187 and the toll to 116.A 62-year-old man from Sector 12-A, who was suffering from chronic kidney disease, hypertension and diabetes, and a 70-year-old man from Kalka, a case of chronic kidney disease and hypertension, succumbed to the disease.Among the fresh cases, four were reported from Pinjore, two from Sector 6 and one each from Kalka, Morni, Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 12-A, Sector 17, Sector 19 and Sector 4.While 6,862 patients have been cured so far, 209 cases are still active.The recovery rate of the district stands at 95.47 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-deaths-14-new-cases-in-panchkula-165214
