05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested with revolver||UT call on sale of crackers todayChandigarh: The UT Administration will take a decision on imposing a ban on the sale of firecrackers in the city on Thursday. The Administration is mulling over the ban as experts have warned of a second surge of Covid ahead of winter and that poor air quality can increase fatalities due to the virus. UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the final decision would be taken by the Administrator on Thursday. Ajay Jagga, a member of the Rogi Kalyan Samiti, requested the UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to prohibit the bursting of firecrackers to avoid trouble to Covid patients. TNSKids told not to burst crackersChandigarh: Members of the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, on Wednesday appealed to children not to burst firecrackers this Diwali. A meeting was held under the presidentship of Kamaljit Singh Panchhi to discuss the disadvantages of crackers. Members of the association pledged not to burst crackers and appealed to the parents not to waste money on crackers and instead donate it to the poor. TNSYouth held with 15-gm smackChandigarh: The UT police on Wednesday arrested a 26-year-old youth with 15 gm of smack. A team of the Sector 17 police station nabbed Dinkar Bhardwaj, alias Ginni, a resident of Sector 22. He was arrested at a naka near a government school in Sector 22. The police said the suspect used to purchase the drug from Punjab for Rs1,200 per gm and sell it for Rs4,500 per gm. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act at the Sector 17 police station. The suspect will be produced in the court on Thursday. TNSSurvey on LED lights beginsPanchkula: A survey to replace sodium and CFL street lights with LEDs in the city began on Wednesday, said Municipal Commissioner RK Singh. The Urban Local Bodies Department has issued work orders to Rajasthan Electronic and Industry Limited (Jaipur). "The tender process will be completed after the assessment of the detailed project report and work on the project is expected to start in the first of January next year," he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-revolver-166274
05-11-2020||Dera Bassi||Man killed in  hit-and-run||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-killed-in-hit-and-run-166273
05-11-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula fire: Factory owner arrested||The Panchkula police on Tuesday arrested the owner of a chemical plant where a fire broke out on the night of August 11.The owner of Colour Udyog, identified as Ashwani Jindal, a resident of Sector 15, was booked under sections 285, 336 and 427, IPC, on a complaint of the manager of the adjoining factory, VN Luxury House LLP.In his complaint, Tarundeep Singh said their factory, which is owned by Vinay Kumar, had suffered losses in the fire caused due to the negligence on the part of Colour Udyog owner Ashwani Jindal. He alleged that the owner of the chemical factory had stocked chemical in the factory.However, Jindal had refuted the allegations, saying that fire was caused by short-circuit. No loss of life or injury was reported in the incident.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-fire-factory-owner-arrested-166272
05-11-2020||---||Crime branch nails three in Sec 25 firing case||Chandigarh, November 4Three suspects, who had allegedly opened fire at a shopkeeper in Sector 25 last month, have been arrested by the crime branch and a team of the Sector 11 police station.Victim Sandeep was sitting at his cloth shop in Sector 25 on October 19 when he was shot at allegedly by the suspects, identified as Vijay, Shubham, alias Billu, and another person, who waited outside the shop. Four bullets were fired, one of which hit the victim on the shoulder, while another brushed past his head.Vijay (27), a resident of Sector 25, was arrested by the crime branch from near the Dhanas turn with a country-made pistol and 18 cartridges. Rahul, alias Natta (25), who did a recce of Sandeep and gave information to Vijay before the shooting, was also arrested.The other suspect in the case, Billu was arrested by the Punjab Police two days ago.Another team of the Sector 11 police station nabbed another suspect, Amandeep, alias Aman, alias Hakla (20), a resident of Jagatpura village in Mohali district. He was arrested from the road separating Sector 15 and 24 with a country-made pistol and two cartridges.Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO of the Sector 11 police station, said Amandeep was standing a few metres away from the victim’s shop. As the victim ran from the spot, Amandeep tried to fire at him.The police said after the crime, Vijay joined Patiala-based gangster Harvinder Joy. While staying at Patiala, Vijay and his accomplice, along with Harvinder Joy, opened fire at the Joy group during a political rally in Patiala on October 25.Vijay has a tainted past. He was earlier arrested in 15 cases of snatching, robbery and attempt to murder.Victim’s brother held tooVictim Sandeep’s brother Johny (22) has also been arrested by the crime branch with a country-made pistol and four cartridges. The police claimed that Johny was planning to take revenge of the attack on his brother.P’kula resident arrested with pistol, cartridgesThe crime branch sleuths nabbed Jagdeep, alias Jaggi (25), a resident of Panchkula, from the NAC, Mani Majra. The police recovered a pistol and two cartridges from his possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crime-branch-nails-three-in-sec-25-firing-case-166271
05-11-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Corporation employee falls within definition of ‘consumer’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 4Overruling the objection by Punjab Small Industries and Corporation Ltd (PSICL) that its employee does not fall under the definition of ‘consumer’ and the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has no jurisdiction to entertain his petition, the Commission has directed the corporation to release an amount of Rs 30,720 illegally deducted from the retirement benefits of an employee.The Commission has also directed the Senior Deputy General Manager (Personnel) of the corporation to compensate the complainant by paying a compensation of Rs 3,000 for harassing him for so long.A former employee of the corporation, GS Oberoi, approached the commission after he found that the corporation wrongly deducted Rs 30,720 from his retirement benefits.This is the first of its kind case when an employee of the corporation moved the commission for justice.Oberoi retired from the service on March 31, 2010. He said he had written numerous letters to the opposite party (Corporation) for releasing the balance amount of Rs 30,720 but it did not pay any heed.On the other hand, Punjab Small Industries and Corporation Ltd filed the reply stating that the complainant is an ex-employee of the PSIEC and as suchdoes not fall under the definition of ‘consumer’ as per The Consumer Protection Act and therefore, the complaint is not maintainable. It is stated that no amount, as alleged in the complaint, is due against the OP and the OP had cleared the entire amount. Pleading no deficiency in service and denying all other allegations, the OP prayed for dismissal of the complaint.After hearing of the argument, the Commission noted that the objection of the OP that the employee does not fall within the definition is not tenable in view of Section 3 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (erstwhile) as well as under newly enacted Act i.e. Section 100 of The Consumer Protection Act, 2019) which provides that “The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of the provisions of any other law for the time being in force”. After taking into account the available facts the Commission directed the corporation to release the amount of Rs 30,720 illegally deducted from the retirement benefits to the complainant. The OP is also directed to compensate the complainant by paying a compensation of Rs 3,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/corporation-employee-falls-within-definition-of-consumer-166262
05-11-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration tells Panjab University to conduct typing test for clerks, stenos||Chandigarh, November 4The UT Administration has directed the Panjab University (PU) authorities to conduct a computer typing test for the recruitment of clerks and stenos at the earliest.In a letter, the Department of Personnel, UT, directed the Chief Coordinator, University Institute of Applied Management Science, PU, to hold typing test or examination regarding recruitment for clerks and stenos following due Covid-19 protocol.The UT Administration had invited online applications to fill over 400 posts of clerks and steno/typists in the UT Administration on a regular basis.The written examination was conducted on December 22 last year and the results were announced in February this year. However, after the results were declared, the typing test was to be conducted on March 21, 22 and 23. But, the test could not take place due to spread of coronavirus.The UT Administration had outsourced the conduct of the typing test to PU and the process was halted due to Covid-19 pandemic. Now, the process would start after more than eight months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-tells-panjab-university-to-conduct-typing-test-for-clerks-stenos-166258
05-11-2020||---||3 booked for preparing fake degrees, certificates||Mohali, November 4The police have registered a case of fraud against three persons for preparing fake degrees and certificates to send people abroad.Sanjay Sharma, a resident of Dasmesh Nagar, Kharar, Abhishek Din, a resident of Phase 1, Mohali, and Sameer Sharma, a resident of Phase 6, Mohali, have been booked under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase-I police station.The Phase-I police station Station House Officer (SHO), Manphool Singh, said the suspects had been running an institute —Edutech and Management Technology — at the Phase-I market, and duping people on the pretext of sending them abroad by preparing fake degrees and certificates to complete their educational qualification.The police raided their office and seized fake degrees, certificates and some other important documents, the SHO added.Homes and other locations of the suspects were also being searched, the SHO said.During investigation, the police also found fake stamps of many international educational institutions, the SHO added.Suspect Sanjay Sharma had already been booked for opening an office without the government’s approval, the SHO said while adding that he had offices in Chandigarh and Kharar too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-booked-for-preparing-fake-degrees-certificates-166257
05-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Cop sets example of honesty, returns purse||Fatehgarh Sahib, November 4An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Manjinder Singh has set an example of honesty and earned appreciation and honour for the district police. He found a purse lying on the roadside in Sirhind, which contained cash and documents. His seniors and the district police on the instructions of the SSP traced the owner of the purse from documents found in it, the ASI added.The purse owner was identified as, Arshad Mohamad, a resident of Malerkotla. He was called to the SSP’s office today and his purse was handed over to him in the presence of the ASI and other officials. While appreciating efforts of the ASI the SSP said the district police were doing their duty with dedication and honesty.Mohamad said this incident would help in changing people’s attitude towards the police. The purse contained valuable documents and he was thankful to the Fatehgarh Sahib police, Mohamad added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-sets-example-of-honesty-returns-purse-166256
05-11-2020||---||MC receives 41 objections to delimitation of wards in Mohali||Mohali, November 4As many as 41 objections have been received by the Municipal Corporation (MC) over redrawn boundaries of wards in the city.The MC will forward objections to the Local Bodies Department for issuing final notification of wards. The objections were invited by the board set up for the delimitation of wards. Sunday was the last date for filing objections.The Local Bodies Department released a map of redrawn boundaries of wards under the MC’s jurisdiction on October 27, which was displayed at the civic body office for the public to invite objections.Former Deputy Mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said they had filed objections as teams allegedly did not conduct proper survey in the city. “A case has been filed in the court in this regard, which will come up for hearing on Monday. We are eagerly awaiting the court’s order,” he added.“Boundaries of all wards represented by SAD and BJP councillors have been tampered with,” he alleged.Former Congress councilor Kuljit Singh Bedi said they were satisfied with the mapping of wards. It would be forwarded to the Local Bodies Department by the MC, he added.The Ward No. 23 councillor, SS Dhanoa, said, “There is inconsistency in the ward mapping as seats have been reserved for women in two to three adjoining wards. Similarly, seats for male candidates have been reserved in five to six adjoining wards.”“Objections have been raised in this regard by various candidates interested in contesting elections,” he added.Some SAD councillors said they were now waiting for the decision of the Punjab and High Court, which had issued notification to the state government to file its reply by January 6 on the petition filed by them.Without revealing the number of objections Municipal Corporation Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “Objections received will be compiled by the MC on Monday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-receives-41-objections-to-delimitation-of-wards-in-mohali-166255
05-11-2020||---||Punjab farmers' agitation: Northern Railway has suffered loss of Rs 1,200 crore, says GM||Chandigarh, November 4“Due to continuous agitation of farmers in Punjab, Northern Railway has suffered a massive loss in revenue earnings,” said Ashutosh Gangal, General Manager, Nothern Railway.“The Northern Railway has suffered a loss of Rs 1,200 crore on account of revenue and loading till November 3. On average, 70 rakes per day of inward and outward traffic have been affected. In all, 1,373 trains have been diverted or short terminated. The total number of affected freight trains are 2,225,” he added.“As many as 230 rakes of coal, fertiliser, cement, POL, container, steel and other commodity are held up outside Punjab while 33 rakes are stuck within the state,” he said.“Thirty three locomotives are also stuck at different locations in Punjab. The farmers’ agitation is severely affecting supply of coal to power plants and foodgrain to rest of the country as well as fertiliser, POL and containers,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-farmers-agitation-northern-railway-has-suffered-loss-of-rs-1-200-crore-says-gm-166254
05-11-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Suspension of trains: Migrants pay four times more for ride home||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 4The suspension of rail services has come as a financial jolt to the city’s migrant labourers who are now spending about four times the usual fare to travel back home this festive season. While some are heading to Ambala Railway Station, the others have dropped the idea of visiting their villages because of the pandemic and lack of funds. A few labourers have taken to roadways even as the threat of pandemic looms large.Sarnam, 40, who hails from Sitapur in Lucknow, had to spend Rs 1,000 on a bus ticket to visit his family. A daily wager, he only makes some Rs 8,000 a month. “I had to settle some bills at home as my only nephew is getting married. For a one-way journey, I spent Rs 1,000. I wanted to book a train because it’s cheaper, but it has been cancelled for a month now. I had no other option,” he said. A second-class ticket for a train from Chandigarh to Lucknow, UP, costs Rs 250 and Rs 350 to Patna in Bihar.When contacted, the owner of a city-based private bus service, said: “We are already suffering losses because our school buses aren’t running. The business has suffered since the lockdown was clamped and this is our only chance to recover from the losses.”Interestingly, the number of passengers travelling from Ambala Railway Station increased drastically in October. According to the data acquired from the Ambala Division, around 1.4 lakh passengers boarded trains to various places from Ambala. A month later, the figure shot up to about 20 lakh passengers. In October, a total of 12 pairs of trains plied from the station of which five leave for Bihar and UP. A source from the division shared: “The division was to run 23 pairs of special trains in the festive season, but all of them were postponed till November 4.”Malti, also a daily wager, who left for UP via train to attend to her ailing mother, said: “I had to spend extra on the bus fare from Chandigarh to Ambala and then to go to the station. It must have cost me Rs100. I’ll also have to spend on the bus to my village from Lucknow. I am scared to travel via too many vehicles because of the pandemic. To save money, I chose to travel alone. Usually, at this time of the year, my entire family visits the village, but things are different this year.”The second-class train ticket from Ambala to Patna and Lucknow costs Rs 345 and Rs 230 respectively. Last year, Ambala Railway Station ferried about 58 lakh passengers in October, as informed by the office of the DCM, Ambala Division.Approx 44 pairs of trains would have been fully running in this division in October, but of them, 24 pairs of trains are fully cancelled and the rest of 20 pairs are short-terminated/originated at Ambala Cantt and Saharanpur. DCM Hari Mohan said: “This has caused tremendous inconvenience to travellers in festive times as Diwali, Chhat Puja and Gurpurb are to be celebrated in the coming one month. East-bound passengers are badly stuck in Punjab as no passenger train is operating in the state due to farmers’ agitation at stations/tracks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspension-of-trains-migrants-pay-four-times-more-for-ride-home-166253
05-11-2020||Naina Mishra||Diwali, winter can lead to second Covid surge in region||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 4A majority of population here still remains susceptible to Covid-19 exposure, and the Diwali festival and winter could push up transmission, leading to a second surge in the region.According to experts, the two reasons that will contribute to the second surge of Covid cases in winter will be gatherings of people in the lower-income group and the tendency of a virus to survive for a longer period in a colder climate.Besides, the Diwali festival can work in favour of the second surge, as air pollution caused by crackers will help aerosols of the virus produced by an infected person to remain afloat in the air for longer than 10-20 minutes, resulting in increased transmission of Covid-19.“The burning of firecrackers releases gaseous pollutants SO2, NO2 and huge amounts of ambient particulate into the atmosphere that generate dense clouds of smoke. These air pollutants stimulate the ACE-2 receptors on respiratory nasal cells, thus increasing permeability of the SARS-COV-2 virus to easily enter these cells and establish infection in the nose, throat and lungs,” said the UT Director of Health Services, Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang.‘25 per cent residents may have been infected’Dr Rajesh Kumar, former Head of School of Public Health and Community Medicine, PGI, says around 2.5 lakh to 3.5 lakh people in Chandigarh may have been infected, which comprises 25-35 per cent population. The estimation is based on the hypothesis that for every Covid positive case, there will be 20-30 undetected cases.“Since this virus is novel, not many people have antibodies against it and still, a vast majority of the population is susceptible to the exposure. The virus does not have a free run when at least 60 per cent of the population has been infected, which, in turn, acts as a barrier for transmission. At the onset of winter, people belonging to the lower-income group tend to stay indoors in public spaces with less ventilation. A virus once introduced may remain for a longer period of time and circulate among a large number of people. There is no definite trend for the Covid-19 virus but most flu viruses tend to survive longer in cooler climate,” said Dr Kumar.Need to overcome mobility, mask fatigueDr Rajesh Kumar, former Head of School of Public Health and Community Medicine, PGI, said: “If barriers of transmission such as the use of mask are adopted by people without any fatigue, the second surge may not be of a greater degree than the first one. The more people will mix with each other, the more will the virus spread.”UT’s appeal to residentsDr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director of Health Services, UT, says: “People should stay indoors and desist from bursting firecrackers this Diwali so that we can protect elderly persons and patients with co-morbidities. If we add smoke to the air by bursting firecrackers, then it could turn out to be a recipe for disaster. Even those who have recovered from the Covid-19 virus will become vulnerable if we do not restrain ourselves during Diwali.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diwali-winter-can-lead-to-second-covid-surge-in-region-166252
05-11-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula traders protest move to allot space for Diwali stalls||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 4Local residents and shopkeepers are up in arms against the Municipal Corporation’s decision to allot festive stalls in various markets of the city during the festive season.They have alleged that the civic body’s move will promote encroachments in market areas that already lack parking spaces. The traders fear this would also affect their business, which is still on the recovery path.Chemists threaten closure of storesIf the local authorities don’t pay heed to our demands, we will be compelled to take decisions like closure of drug stores across the city. — Sanjeev Goyal, Panchkula Chemists’ AssociationNovember 7 last date to apply for spaceVendors can apply for the sites till November 7 and they will be charged for the first three days after which they can stay at the site on a per day basis.The civic body has demarcated festival stall spaces by white lines in the markets of Sector 15, Sector 8 and Sector 6.Naresh Narang, who owns a shop in Sector 19, said the move would promote encroachments in market areas, eventually leading to an increase in corruption as vendors would bribe officials to retain the allocated spots.He said they were yet to recover from Covid-induced financial losses, but the decision would furthermore affect their business.Narang added that the MC had so far failed to rehabilitate street vendors for which they had developed a dedicated vending zone in Sector 19. The project failed miserably.“A huge amount of money was spent on the vending zone, but not even a single vendor took possession citing less space and poor location of the zone,” he said.Even the Panchkula Chemists’ Association is opposing this decision on behalf of the pharmacy store owners in the Sector 6 market, which houses a number of medical stores due to its close proximity to Civil Hospital.Sanjeev Goyal of the association said: “If the local authorities don’t pay heed to our demands, we will be compelled to take decisions like closure of drug stores across the city.”“On the one hand the administration asks people to maintain social distancing by avoiding crowding and large gatherings to fight Covid-19, but on the other they themselves take contrasting decisions,” he added.The MC has decided to provide vendors ‘temporary sites’ in every sector and rural areas on the instructions of Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-traders-protest-move-to-allot-space-for-diwali-stalls-166251
05-11-2020||---||9 sent to judicial custody, 5-day police remand for 4||Panchkula, November 4The 13 suspects, who were arrested for allegedly attacking a team of the local police during a protest against licensed mining at Rattewali village in Barwala yesterday, were produced in a local court today.The incidentA team of the police and the Home Guards was attacked at Rattewali village where it had gone to urge residents to lift their road blockade against mining in the village.While nine suspects, identified as Mahendra Singh, Subhash Chandra, Karnail Singh, Sanjeev, Jai Singh, Sarvan Singh, Balak Ram, Sunita and Kamlesh, were sent to judicial custody in Ambala jail, four suspects, including Rampal, Vinod Kumar, Sher Singh and Krishan Kumar, were sent to five-day police remand.The police said other persons, involved in the violence, would be nabbed soon on the basis of video clips of the incident and grilling of already arrested suspects.Two separate FIRs were lodged at the Chandimandir police station in connection with the incident. The first case was lodged under Sections 114, 147, 148, 149, 186, 188, 283, 307, 332, 341, 353, 379- B, 384, 427, 270, 271 and 120-B, IPC, and Sections 25, 54 and 59, Arms Act, and Sections 3, 4 and 5, PDP Act, against 13 persons on the basis of complaint filed by Duty Magistrate Sunil Jakhar.The other FIR was registered against 34 persons under Sections 120-B, 148, 149, 308, 395, 435, 436 and 506, IPC, on the complaint of mining contractor Pradeep Goyal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-sent-to-judicial-custody-5-day-police-remand-for-4-166247
05-11-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula records 33 new cases||The district today reported 33 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 7,264.For the second consecutive day, no Covid-19 death was reported from the district.While 6,896 patients have defeated the virus, 252 cases are still active. The recovery rate, which had once reached over 96 per cent, has come down to 94.9 per cent ahead of the festive season. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-records-33-new-cases-166246
05-11-2020||Mohali||4 die in Mohali, 76 test positive||Four persons died of Covid and 76 contracted the infection in the district today.Among the new cases, 56 were from Mohali (urban), seven from Kharar, five from Dera Bassi, three from Dhakoli, two each from Gharuan and Kurali, and one from Banur.The district also recorded 49 recoveries today. There are 573 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-die-in-mohali-76-test-positive-166245
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||One death, 94 new cases in Chandigarh||A 34-year-old Covid patient from Mani Majra died at the Government Medical College and Hospital while 94 persons tested positive for the disease in the city today.The UT Covid toll rose to 229 and the infection tally reached 14,702.With 51 patients being discharged, the number of recoveries shot up to 13,802. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-94-new-cases-in-chandigarh-166244
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||In death, two give fresh lease of life to 8 at PGI||The kidneys and corneas of two persons, who lost their lives in road accidents, gave a fresh lease of life to eight patients at the PGI here.The family of 45-year-old Gurinder Singh from Kurukshetra donated his kidneys and corneas. On October 28, Gurinder’s bike collided with a car coming from the opposite direction and he sustained injuries. He was brought to the PGI in a critical condition. His condition kept deteriorating. He was declared brain dead on October 30.His wife Swarn Kaur expressed the desire to donate his organs for therapeutic purpose to save the lives of terminally ill patients. The gesture led to giving a fresh lease of life to two and restoring the sight of another two after the transplantation of harvested kidneys and corneas of the donor.A family from a village in Dera Bassi also donated the organs of a 50-year-old man, who had sustained severe head injuries in a road mishap on October 14 and was declared brain dead on October 21. He was taken to the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, after the mishap. He was then referred to the GMCH, Sector 32, and finally to the PGI. The family took the brave decision of organ donation. The retrieved kidneys and corneas of the donor gave a new lease of life to two and sight to two others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-death-two-give-fresh-lease-of-life-to-8-at-pgi-166243
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||CHB demolition drive in Sector 56 on Saturday||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will carry out a demolition drive in Sector 56 on Saturday.An official of the CHB said it had been decided to demolish nearly 200 vacant pre-fab shelters in Sector 56 and the drive would start at 9 am on November 7.The official said the Deputy Commissioner and the Senior Superintendent of Police had been requested to make arrangements for maintaining law and order and to provide requisite security during the drive.The UT Administration had decided to relocate the residents of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 to EWS flats constructed by the CHB in Maloya-I under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC) scheme of the Centre.The Administration had appointed the CHB as the nodal agency for the implementation of the scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-demolition-drive-in-sector-56-on-saturday-166242
05-11-2020||---||They call it a road, but is it one?||Zirakpur, November 4Pabhat Road is just the name of an area; there is no road here, not even a semblance of a road. Residents here chuckle at any mention of the road.One of the busiest stretches, catering to thousands of residents of the area, is in such a dilapidated condition that it is difficult to find even a minor patch of metalled road here.Dust, potholes, gravel and litter are strewn all along this 2-km stretch. The grapevine has it that the construction work of the “road” has been inaugurated six to seven times, twice in the past couple of months, by local politicians. However, the work comes to a standstill after a day or two.“The Municipal Council elections are round the corner; hence, the inaugurations. Once the elections are over, it will be back to square one,” said Kishori Lal, a shopkeeper.In most places, the inter-locking tiles have come off, creating huge craters, which pose a grave danger to two-wheeler riders. A resident said it took 10 to 15 minutes to cover a stretch of 2 km on this track.“Think of the elderly and patients, who have to use the road in an emergency situation,” said BK Sharma, a retired defence personnel and local resident. Localites said the “lackadaisical attitude” of the MC and “excessive interference” of local politicians was the main reason behind the stalled project.MC officials have a common refrain that the tendering process has been completed and the work will begin soon.‘One of the busiest stretches’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/they-call-it-a-road-but-is-it-one-166241
05-11-2020||Chandigarh||Pandemic can be ground for avoiding physical entrance test: HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic can be a ground for avoiding a physical entrance test. The assertion came as the High Court dismissed petitions for setting aside Panjab University’s October 1 decision upholding the scrapping of all entrance tests for admission to professional courses, including undergraduate law entrance examination and from carrying out the admissions on the basis of marks obtained in the Class XII examination.The Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma asserted that this being an exceptional, unexpected and peculiar circumstance, the opinion formed by a committee constituted by the respondent university was fully justified.The committee had held that the congregation of a large number of people at the only centre the university had for holding the examination could cause the spread of coronavirus. As such, it was neither suitable nor feasible to hold the entrance test in accordance with the UGC guidelines, directives/standard operating procedures issued by the Ministry of Human Resource Development and the Ministry of Home Affairs.The Bench added that the conclusion was not unfounded that even residents and other students on the university campus would be put to risk, apart from the staff invigilators, candidates and those accompanying them.“The scrapping of the entrance examination, as it could lead to the spread of the virus, appears to be in public interest, which cannot be faulted in the light of the above facts and circumstances and, thus, do not call for interference by this court, especially when the respondent university has specifically stated that this decision is only for this year because of the peculiar and unexpected situation arising out of the pandemic,” the Bench added.In his detailed order, the Bench observed the spread of the highly infectious Covid-19 virus, with no treatment available till date, had resulted in lakhs of reported deaths around the world. The only way to curb the same was to take precautions by following the well-tested and laid down guidelines by the World Health Organisation, following which norms had been conveyed by the UGC, the Ministry of Human Resource Development as well as the Ministry of Home.All were bound to comply and adhere to them in public interest. “If a person expects to lead a healthy infection-free life, a duty is also cast upon him/her to ensure that he/she does not on his/her part resort to anything which would endanger the health of other fellow beings. The court is also required to follow the same and ensure that it is not violated,” the Bench asserted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pandemic-can-be-ground-for-avoiding-physical-entrance-test-hc-166231
05-11-2020||Naina Mishra||UT challans 48, puts 4,810 on notice in fight against dengue||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 4In the midst of the Covid pandemic, the UT Health Department is facing a tough time in carrying out a house-to-house campaign to check breeding of mosquitoes. The staff are facing resistance from city residents who are not letting them enter their homes.The department has issued 4,810 notices and 48 challans for non-compliance of the dengue prevention norms.Door-to-door check hit due to Covid fearThe problem we are facing this year is that people aren’t allowing health teams to enter their homes to check dengue larvae due to the pandemic fear. — Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UTIn just four days of this month, the city has witnessed 31 cases of dengue. As many as 89 cases came to the fore last month. A total of 151 cases have been registered this year. According to experts, maximum cases of the vector-borne disease are reported in October and November.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “We have started witnessing a sudden rise in dengue cases in the past four days. People aren’t allowing health teams to enter their homes to check dengue larvae due to the pandemic fear. We are requesting residents to inspect their homes and inform the IDSP Cell immediately if they require fogging or spraying in their area.”How to eliminate breeding of mosquitoes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-challans-48-puts-4-810-on-notice-in-fight-against-dengue-166211
05-11-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh's air quality turns  poor as chill sets in||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 4The air quality has worsened in the city as the Air Quality Index (AQI) slipped to ‘poor’ level for the first time this season today.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the AQI shot up to 203 for PM2.5 pollutants at 4 pm at the Sector 25 Air Quality Monitoring Station.Debendra Dalai, Member Secretary, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, said the AQI was calculated on the basis of average concentration of pollutants measured over 24 hours. The average AQI of Wednesday would be out tomorrow, he said.He said the air quality deteriorated due to a drop in the temperature and blowing of winds, which carry pollutants from one place to another. Human-induced factors such as vehicular pollution also increased the pollution levels, he added.He said the AQI was recorded at 155 on November 3, 128 on November 2 and 131 on November 1. The average AQI in October remained ‘moderate’, he said.September witnessed major changes in the AQI from ‘good’ in the first week to ‘satisfactory’ in the second and third weeks. In August, the AQI remained ‘good’, despite gradual opening of commercial activities in the city.An AQI between 0 and 50 is classified as ‘good’, 51 and 100 as ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 as ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’ and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Dalai stated that there had been effective improvement in the ambient air quality of the city during the lockdown period when rigorous travel restrictions had been imposed. The AQI was largely under the ‘satisfactory’ category in the week before the start of the lockdown period when compared to the progressive days where the AQI shifted to the ‘good’ category.“This change can be attributed to restricted industrial and commercial activities, minimal vehicular congestion and zero construction activities,” he said.A similar decline could be seen in May, but due to partial opening of lockdown, the air quality could be generally seen as ‘satisfactory’, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-air-quality-turns-poor-as-chill-sets-in-166210
