08-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s COVID-19 case count rises to 15,134 with 109 fresh infections||Chandigarh’s COVID-19 tally rose to 15,134 on Sunday as 109 fresh cases were reported, while the death toll reached 234 with two more fatalities, according to a medical bulletin.There are 876 active COVID-19 cases in the city, the bulletin said.Forty-six patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of recoveries to 14,024, it said.A total of 1,15,589 samples have been taken for testing so far. Of these, 99,769 samples have tested negative, while reports of 106 are awaited, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-covid-19-case-count-rises-to-15-134-with-109-fresh-infections-167963
08-11-2020||---||Mohali reports 75 fresh COVID-19 cases, 1 death||Mohali, November 8Mohali on Sunday reported 75 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the tally in the district to 12,897.Meanwhile, one more fatality was witnessed during the past 24 hours. With one more death, the death tally in Mohali has risen to 246.The district also reported 61 more patients being cured of the virus and discharged from the hospital.Out of the 75 positive cases, 53 were reported from Mohali urban, eight from Lalru, seven from Dera Bassi, four from Dhakoli, two from Kurali and one from Kharar.As of now, 11,955 patients have been cured.There are 696 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-75-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death-167955
08-11-2020||Panchkula||Chandigarh’s Akshay clinches PGTI title||Chandigarh golfer Akshay Sharma registered a five-stroke victory with a final round of a 5-under 67 at the PGTI Players Championship here on Saturday. Akshay (30) captured his second title a total of a 24-under 264, which equalled the record for the lowest winning total on the PGTI jointly held by Anirban Lahiri and Rashid Khan. Another Chandigarh golfer, Karandeep Kochhar, carded 67 to maintain his overnight second position, ending up with a 19-under 269 in the tournament. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-akshay-clinches-pgti-title-167689
08-11-2020||Mohali||PO lands in police net||12-year-old boy writes novelChandigarh: A 12-year-old student of St John’s School, Sector 26, Jaiveer Singh Katial, has achieved a milestone by writing a 238-page novel. It took him three years to complete the novel, which was released by school Principal Kavita Das in association with Chandigarh Literary Society and St John’s Old Boys’ Association (SJOBA). The novel titled “Double Force and The Fallen Kingdom” illustrated by Supreet Kaur is a story about twin brothers John and Jeremy, who are always looking for an adventure, but just can’t find one. “I started to write the story as innumerable ideas kept on coming in my mind all the time,” said Jaiveer. TNSGMHS-25 gets online platformChandigarh: RootWorkz Learning has implemented its online learning platform at Government Model High School (GMHS), Sector 25. Utkarsh Khandelwal and Shubham Narula, founders of RootWorkz Learning, under the guidance of Prof Naveen Aggarwal, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Design Innovation Centre, University Institute of Engendering and Technology (UIET), developed the online learning management system to help teachers impart education and students continue learning in the difficult times of pandemic. TNSDoc gets int'l recognitionChandigarh: Dr Swaranjit Singh has been listed for his work in CSIR-NEIST, Jorhat, and CSIR-IMTECH in the top two per cent scientists of the world, ranked by a Stanford University’s study. Earlier, he was in the list of top 70 Citation Index and H index compiled by the DG, CSIR. He received the first prize for an essay: “CSIR in the labs and fields“ from the DG, CSIR, in IITR, Lucknow. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/po-lands-in-police-net-167767
08-11-2020||Mohali||92 more test +ve in Mohali||The district reported 92 new cases of Covid during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 12,822. Mohali also saw 18 patients beating the virus. No fresh fatality was reported today.While 53 cases were reported from Mohali (urban), 13 surfaced in Gharuan, 11 in Dhakoli, 10 in Kharar and one in Kurali. So far, 11,894 patients have been cured. The district has 683 active cases. The toll stands at 245. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/92-more-test-ve-in-mohali-167611
08-11-2020||Panchkula||60 fresh cases surface in Panchkula||The district today reported 60 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to 7,443. For the second consecutive day, there was no fatality due to the disease. The toll remains at 117.Among the fresh cases, seven were from Sector 17, five each from Pinjore and Sector 7, four from Sector 2, three each from Kalka, Sector 11 and Sector 21, two each from Sector 12-A, Sector 15, Sector 8 and Sector 9 and one each from Hangola, Marranwala, Morni, Nanakpur, Sector 10, Sector 16, Sector 18, Sector 19, Sector 26, Sector 4 and Tagra. While 7,015 patients have defeated the virus so far, 311 cases are still active. The district recovery rate stands at 94.2 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-fresh-cases-surface-in-panchkula-167612
08-11-2020||---||Man charred to death in car on Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway was UHBVN peon||Panchkula, November 7A man, who was charred to death in a moving car near Rihod village on the Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway on Thursday night, has been identified as Labh Singh of Rampur Seuri.The 50-year-old, who worked as a peon in the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) office in Sector 6, was on his way back from Yamunanagar when the car he had borrowed from his friend Vijay caught fire while in motion, leaving no chance for him to get out of it.However, the registered owner of the car is Vijay’s friend Ketan Rana of Chandigarh.The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Fire engines were called to the spot to douse the flames. It took firefighters 30 minutes to put out the blaze.According to a police official, the flames erupted suddenly while the Maruti Swift DZire was in motion, apparently disabling the central locking system of the car, trapping the victim inside.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-charred-to-death-in-car-on-panchkula-yamunanagar-highway-was-uhbvn-peon-167613
08-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||‘Neki Ki Deewar’: 5 more to come up||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7If you wish to donate clothes, shoes, books or stationary items, you will soon find a place in your neighbourhood. The local MC will create “Neki ki Deewars” at five community centres in Sectors 11, 22, 38, 48 and Mani Majra.While needy people will be able to use the items donated at these walls, the MC will design separate compartments for keeping the goods.“We are going to open Neki Ki Deewars at five community centres as per separate zones. We are studying the details and making arrangements in this regard,” said MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora.“There are old clothes or shoes people feel they no longer want to wear. Rather than throwing these away, they may keep those items here for the needy,” he added.The Joint Commissioner said he had undertaken a similar project in Amritsar when he was posted there. It got a good response from residents, thus it is being implemented here as well. At present, there are a few Neki ki Deewars run by the people, but none by the Municipal Corporation. It will be the MC’s first such attempt. Most Neki ki Deewars run by the people are not well organised and are in a pitiable condition.These Neki ki Deewars will be set up on the outer walls of the community centres. “We will be floating a tender for building compartments at the centres. These will be nicely built and organised,” said an official of the civic body.“We have got some material during our “Swachh Sawari” campaign. That will also be kept at these places for the needy,” the official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/neki-ki-deewar-5-more-to-come-up-167614
08-11-2020||---||Team inspects onion stocks at Sec 26 market||Chandigarh, November 7A team of the Food and Supplies and Consumer Affairs and Legal Metrology Department, UT, conducted an inspection on the premises of onion wholesalers and retailers at the Sector 26 vegetable marked in the wee hours of Saturday.The inspection was carried out in the light of an order passed by the UT Administration fixing the stock-holding limit on onions.The team comprising inspectors Neeraj Ghai, Khushdev Singla and Tarun Narula, under the supervision of Manoj Kumar, Assistant Food and Supply Officer, checked the stock registers of onion wholesalers, commission agents and traders.Stock position, including opening balance, sale and closing balance of various onion traders, was also checked. Traders were directed to maintain records of sale and purchase of onion on a daily basis. They were also instructed to maintain the stock limit of 25 metric tonnes (MT) for wholesalers and 2 MT for retailers as per the notification issued by the Administration on November 5. As per the notification, the stock limits on onion will remain in force till December 31.The wholesale prices of onion in the Sector 26 vegetable market vary from Rs40 to Rs45 per kg. However, the retail prices were around Rs60 to Rs65 per kg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/team-inspects-onion-stocks-at-sec-26-market-167615
08-11-2020||---||2 youths held for robbing financier||Chandigarh, November 7A week after a financier was attacked and robbed in Sector 44 here, the police have arrested two Mohali youths for the crime.The suspects have been identified as Mohit Thakur (26) and Vijay Singh Rawat (28), both residents of Phase XI, Mohali. They were arrested from Sector 38 (West) here yesterday and a gold chain was recovered from their possession. The suspects were produced before a court, which sent them to police remand. A case under Sections 452, 397 and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Sector 34 police station. Two youths had walked into the office of the financier, Ravindra Bindra of Sector 51, around 8:45 pm on October 31 and attacked him with a knife with an intention of robbery. The duo also snatched his gold chain and escaped from the spot.The victim sustained injuries on the hand and back. He was admitted to the GMCH-32. A blood-stained knife and a dummy pistol were recovered from the spot.Baldev Kumar, SHO, Sector 34 police station, said: “The suspects had planned to rob the financier. They had carried out a recce of jewellers on October 30 in their car.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-youths-held-for-robbing-financier-167616
08-11-2020||---||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to crack down on illegal Diwali stalls||Chandigarh, November 7From this Sunday, teams of the Municipal Corporation will visit streets to keep a check on unauthorised stalls ahead of Diwali. Those found putting up stalls without paying charges will have to shell out double the amount as per the area. The last date for getting the prepaid coupons for setting up temporary stalls is November 10.However, stalls have been allowed to be put up from November 8 till Diwali. The teams comprising officers and other staff will keep an eye on illegal stalls from tomorrow. A total of 13 teams will spread out in parts of Chandigarh to crack down on violators in order to prevent encroachments.Pay double the fee for stalls in Sec 17, 22The permission is given either for three or seven days. Charges range from Rs347 to Rs9,959 (for minimum area up to 20 sq ft and maximum up to 1,000 sq ft) for three days. Charges for setting up stalls in Sector 17 and 22 are double the amount. The permission is given for setting up stalls in open spaces and area in front of shops, not in corridor.“We hope due to a ban on firecrackers in the city, there will not be much of problem. We anticipate fewer unauthorised stalls this time,” said an MC official.Not only enforcement staff but those posted in other wings have also been deputed on the job. The corporation is offering permission coupons from November 1 to 10 at the community centres of Sector 16, 19, 46 and Mani Majra.The permission is given either for three or seven days. Charges range from Rs 347 to Rs 9,959 (for minimum area up to 20 sqft and maximum up to 1,000 sqft) for three days. Charges for setting up stalls in Sector 17 and 22 are double the amount. The permission is given for setting up stalls in open spaces and area in front of shops, not in corridor.An official said they get about Rs 13-14 lakh of revenue through permission coupons during Diwali. “We will not be lenient as we have strict orders to not allow any unauthorised stall in the city,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-to-crack-down-on-illegal-diwali-stalls-167617
08-11-2020||Panchkula||Repaired in August, road near Agro Mall develops potholes||The road that connects grain and apple markets in Sector 20 with the Zirakpur-Kalka highway is in bad shape.The portion of the road near Agro Mall depicts the non-serious attitude of the authorities towards upkeep of road infrastructure.Ultimately, motorists passing through the stretch have to bear the brunt. According to information, the authorities had conducted patchwork on the potholed portion in August, but it again got damaged in incessant rain.Brij Mohan, president of Arhtiya Association, said road repairs should have been conducted before the rains. He urged the authorities to find a long-term solution to the problem.As commercial trucks and tractor-trailers (during harvesting season) ply on this road throughout the day, the stretch requires “special” attention.However, the authorities have apparently turned a blind eye to the problem.KK Jindal, president of Sector 20 RWA, said they had given a representation to the authorities on roads in Sector 20, including the stretch near Agro Mall, but it seemed they were not interested to address their grievances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/repaired-in-august-road-near-agro-mall-develops-potholes-167618
08-11-2020||Snjay Bumbroo||10 industrial, commercial units face sealing||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 7As many as 10 industrial units will be sealed in Mohali for not paying property tax to the tune of Rs26 lakh to the Municipal Corporation (MC). The civic body has already sealed six industrial units for defaulting on the property tax payment.Giving details, MC Inspector Avtar Singh Kalsi said they had decided to seal industrial and commercial units not clearing their property tax dues. He said they had already sealed six buildings — three industrial units and three showrooms. He said the units owed Rs5 lakh to Rs6 lakh as property tax to the MC. The owners had failed to pay the dues even as they were sent various notices.Other major defaultersKalsi said MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg had issued orders for sealing such establishments. He said an old industrial unit, JCT, was among the main defaulters with Rs12 lakh property tax dues. He said they would soon seal the unit. He said some showroom owners had sought time till Monday to pay their dues. If they failed to pay up, their showrooms would be sealed.The civic body had generated Rs28 crore as property tax in the financial year 2019-20, which is likely to go down in the current fiscal due to the Covid outbreak.GMADA, the office of the Deputy Commissioner and the Police Department are the major property tax defaulters as these owe Rs90 lakh, Rs12 lakh and Rs1 crore, respectively, to the civic body.The MC records show Mohali has 52,678 properties. Of these, 41,082 are residential, 4,929 commercial, 1,683 industrial and 4,984 vacant plots. Of these, 24,406 are taxable. There are as many as 7,826 defaulters with Rs 6.5 crore dues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-industrial-commercial-units-face-sealing-167619
08-11-2020||---||Covid count crosses 15,000 mark in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 7The city Covid tally surpassed the 15,000 mark. With 98 fresh cases surfacing, the total number of infections rose to 15,025. Besides, two persons fell prey to the virus.A 79-year-old man from Sector 40, who was suffering from diabetes mellitus, hypertension and hypothyroidism, died at Mayo Hospital in Mohali. A 60-year-old man from Sector 38, whose comorbidities are still unknown, breathed his last at Max Hospital, Mohali.A total of 53 patients defeated the virus in the past 24 hours, taking the number of recoveries to 13,978.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-count-crosses-15-000-mark-in-chandigarh-167620
08-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Senate poll: Student wings arrive on scene||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7The row over dissolving Panjab University Senate has taken a new turn as students’ wings of various political parties have now entered the tussle.The move has come as a surprise from many as all these parties were never on the scene earlier when the authorities postponed the Senate elections twice.Notably, the former syndics have already approached the UT Administrator, UT Adviser, Punjab Chief Minister and others to raise the issue amid speculations of formation of a Board of Governors (BoG) by the Chancellor’s office, but to no avail.While the NSUI team organised a protest against the alleged autocratic rule of Vice-Chancellor (VC) in front of his residence and the Joint Students Action Committee, comprising members of the ASA, AISA, AISF, SOI, PUSU, NSUI, PSU (L), SFS, PUSF, Y4S and SATH, has also come out in support of conducting elections. The ABVP has decided to go otherwise and support the BoG’s formation.“The protest was organised to stop direct assault on the fundamental structure of Panjab University. This structure has remained intact since the university was founded in 1882,” said Manoj Lubana, national social media chairman of the NSUI.“The clear demand is to conduct the Senate elections as soon as possible. The dictatorial rule of the Vice-Chancellor has crossed all limits. He is now attacking the highest governing body of the PU,” he added.Meanwhile, the Joint Students Action Committee has decided to issue an open letter to students, employees, farmers and trade unions of Punjab, who have nothing to do with Senate elections, in order to seek their support on the issue.The panel also claims to be making efforts to bring together members of the Senate, PUTA and organisations working in other sections of the university on a common platform to widen the struggle.“The BoG will be formed after dissolving Senate. Decisions will be imposed directly from Delhi. Students’ ability to fight and resist against such decisions will be reduced,” said panel.Contrary to this, Vikrant Khandelwal, AVBP’s zonal organisation secretary, North Zone, issued a statement in favour of the new BoG.“All these students’ factions of political parties don’t oppose the Punjab Government, which doesn’t even allow students elections in the state. The National Education Policy (NEP) is all set to be implemented and the BoG is one of its main clauses. The government has asked for objections against NEP, but no students’ party or syndic has submitted anything against it,” stated Khandelwal.“The authorities are already struggling to balance interests of students’ organisations in the Covid-19 pandemic. The survival of the university seems to be difficult in the coming times if politics remains active at such level,” said a professor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senate-poll-student-wings-arrive-on-scene-167621
08-11-2020||---||PGTI players meet: Akshay logs five-shot victory, Karandeep emerges second||Panchkula, November 7  Chandigarh’s Akshay Sharma registered a resounding five-shot victory after coasting home with a final round of 5-under-67 at the Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship in Panchkula Golf Club. The 30-year-old captured his second title in style by taking his tournament tally to 24-under-264, which also equalled the record for the lowest winning total on the PGTI, previously held by Anirban Lahiri and Rashid Khan jointly. Another Chandigarh lad Karandeep Kochhar put together an error-free 67 to maintain his overnight second position. He scored 19-under-269 for the week. Pune-based Udayan Mane shot the day’s joint best round of 66 to claim tied third place at 14-under-274 along with Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa (69). Udayan thus extended his lead in the PGTI Order of Merit and is set to move up in the world rankings from his current 290th position. Yuvraj Singh Sandhu, another Chandigarh golfer, finished fifth at 11-under-277 after he carded a last round of 67. Sharma (64-66-67-67), the overnight leader by a massive five shots, who looked extremely relaxed and confident at the start of the final round, never seemed in trouble during the round as his lead was not under threat at any stage with the rest of the field struggling to catch up. Sharma, leading by five at the turn, was unrelenting on the back-nine too as he picked up three more birdies till the 16th, including one on the par-411th where he drove the green. He finally bogeyed the last hole and missed out on setting a new record for the lowest winning total on the PGTI.  Sharma took home the winner’s cheque worth Rs 4,84,950 on Saturday and as a result climbed from 29th to fourth place in the PGTI Order of Merit. “I was quite relaxed from the very outset today. I knew that I just had to make regulations to stay ahead. Importantly, I had worked on my weakness, my temperament, during the three months lockdown period when courses were closed. That seemed to have paid off because today I played with a cool mind and didn’t feel much pressure,” said Sharma.  Kochhar (68-65-69-67), who trailed the leader by five at the start of the day, produced five birdies on the last day, but was unable to catch up with the lead.  Kochhar won in the PGTI in 2016 as a 17-year-old while still an amateur. He moved up from 23rd to seventh place on the PGTI Order of Merit after his runner-up finish in Panchkula. Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat fired the day’s joint best 66 to secure tied sixth place at 10-under-278 along with Kolkata’s Viraj Madappa (71). Chandigarh’s Amrit Lal (68) was eighth at 9-under-279 while Patna’s Aman Raj (67) further shot back to ninth. Delhi’s Rashid Khan (74) finished tied at 25th place at 1-under-287.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgti-players-meet-akshay-logs-five-shot-victory-karandeep-emerges-second-167622
08-11-2020||---||Patiala vulnerable to 2nd wave||Patiala, November 7Following a surge in the number of cases over the past few weeks, Patiala has apparently set out for the second wave of the Covid. The district reported 55 positive cases today and 61 on Friday — highest in the past 30 days.The positivity rate has also has also doubled — from 2 per cent to around 4 per cent. The total number of Covid cases has already crossed 13,000 in the district. Health officials say the festive season, rise in pollution and drop in temperature are the reasons behind the surge in cases. One of the health experts said: “People are out for festive shopping, but most of them don’t wear masks or don’t wear them properly.”The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra, said though it would be too early to say anything, yet if residents continued to be careless, a second wave would soon hit us. “People should start following Covid norms. The recent increase in coronavirus cases is an outcome of multiple factors.” Dr Malhotra said weather conditions, including drop in temperature, were conducive for the spread of Covid. “Researchers have predicted that coronavirus is likely to have seasonal effects. Therefore, residents should take extra precautions in the coming days,” Dr Malhotra added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-vulnerable-to-2nd-wave-167623
08-11-2020||Patiala||‘Literature important for cops’||Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal and Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) Chairman Prof Yograj discussed the importance of literature during the release of a travelogue, ‘Dekhi teri Walaitt’, written by  Punjabi writer Ninder Ghugianvi, at the Police Lines here today.  Yograj and orthopedist Dr Hardeep Maan were the special guests on the occasion. Ninder Ghugianvi said he had earlier written a book, ‘Chhote rang walait de’, which was translated to Telugu and released in Telangana with the support of Duggal. Dr Yograj said Ghugianvi was a writer, poet and journalist. Dr Hardeep Singh congratulated Ghugianvi on the release of the book. Duggal said literature was important for the police personnel as it could help an officer connect with people. Ghugianvi said his book would be translated to other languages and published in the near future. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/literature-important-for-cops-167624
08-11-2020||---||Campaign for civic body elections begins||Mohali, November 7Even as political parties are yet to release the list of their candidates for the forthcoming elections to the Municipal Corporation (MC), former councillors have started campaigning in the city.Members of the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have started campaigning in their respective wards. The delimitation of wards has been done by the Municipal Corporation and forwarded to the Local Bodies Department for issuing a final notification.Sitting councillor from Ward No. 23 and senior Akali leader SS Dhanoa said, “Sitting councilors will be contesting elections on the party ticket.” Screening of candidates from the city was going on and the same would be finalised in 10 days, he added. They were sure that people would vote for their party candidates in the MC elections likely to be held in January, he said.Meanwhile, sitting Congress councillors and interested candidates have also started their election campaign. Confirming the same, senior Congress leader Kuljit Singh Bedi said a list of candidates had already been prepared and was being finalised by Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.Bedi said the party would be fielding candidates with clean image under Sidhu’s supervision. He claimed that the party would sweep the elections this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/campaign-for-civic-body-elections-begins-167625
08-11-2020||---||Tablets provided to 14 schools in Mohali||Mohali, November 7  In order to give exposure to digital platform to students Health and Family Welfare Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu today distributed 101 tablets at 14 schools in the district.  Addressing the gathering at a function at the District Administrative Complex Sidhu said, “Education and health are the areas of primary focus of the state government. Multifarious initiatives are being taken to raise the level of education in the state.”  As many as 101 tablets were provided to 14 primary schools with an average of seven to eight tablets per school to begin with. These include Government Primary Schools at Gigemajra, Abhipur, Saidpur, Jauakhurd, Majat, Lukhnor, Kurli, Sekhan Majra , Sukhgarh, Dandrala, Pagindi, Milkh, Raipur and Durali.  patiala: Punjab Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said the Punjab Government had considerably improved the quality of school education in the state. He was speaking during an online function to mark the launch of Mission Shat Pratishat. He handed over tablets to teachers of the Centre School, Gurditpura village, for imparting digital education to pre-primary students. A smany as 177 tablets were distributed among 25 primary centre schools, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tablets-provided-to-14-schools-in-mohali-167626
08-11-2020||  ---||‘Beej pataka’ — An idea for eco-friendly Diwali||Chandigarh, November 7 Director, Environment, and Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, Debendra Dalai, in collaboration with the Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, has supported innovative ideas for an eco-friendly Diwali. “We are saying no to crackers. We are encouraging planting different seeds instead, which are useful, healthy and beautiful,” said Dalai. He appreciated and extended support to young environmentalist and entrepreneur Tanika Bansal, who has come out with innovative ideas of ‘beej pataka’ and ‘diyas’.  Tanikais is promoting different types of seeds in the shape of chakri, anaar, potli bomb, sutli bomb, ladi, pop pop, phooljhadi and rocket, which can be planted in pots or gardens. These will bloom into different types of flowers  and vegetables like broccoli, asparagus, red/yellow capsicum, beetroot and zucchini.   Dalai also encouraged use of hand crafted ‘diyas’ made from ghee and bees wax, which are good for the environment, as they purify the air humans breathe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beej-pataka-%E2%80%94-an-idea-for-eco-friendly-diwali-167627
08-11-2020|| ---||Ansal builders lands in soup||Chandigarh, November 7  Ansal builders landed in the soup due non-compliance with an order passed by the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission. The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed the Mohali Deputy Commissioner to auction properties of the builders and recover the decretal amount and deposit the same with the commission and submit a report on or before January 22, 2021, for further proceedings. Advocate Narender Yadav, who filed the case on the behalf of Girish Kumar Aggarwal, an NRI, said the commission further directed the firm to make the entire payment of the court decree amount, along with interest, by way of a demand draft to the decree holder, failing which a coercive process shall follow.  Advocate Yadav said: “Girish Kumar had booked a flat in a project developed by Ansal Lotus Pvt Ltd on the Kharar-Landran road in 2014.” The builder had agreed to hand over the possession of the flat in 2018, but it was delayed and the builder abandoned the tower at the base level. On June 13, 2019, a complainant was filed in this regard and the commission had directed the firm  to refund the complete amount, along with 12 per cent interest, in 30 days. However, the firm failed to do the needful.  The complainant filed an execution petition and claimed Rs21-lakh compensation. The state commission, on January 24, directed the firm to make the payment in 10 days. Accordingly, the Mohali Deputy Commissioner was directed to attach the project concerned of the judgment debtors and appoint a receiver. The Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner was also directed to attach the registered office of the judgment debtors situated at M/s Ansal Lotus Melange Projects Pvt Ltd, Sector 9-C, Chandigarh, and appoint a receiver to prepare an inventory of all articles lying in the said office and take them into possession and submit their approximate value. On March 20, after the firm failed to pay the compensation, the Kharar Tehsildar attached the project and submit a report to state commission. On October 26, the state commission directed the Mohali Deputy Commissioner to auction the attached property and recover the decretal amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ansal-builders-lands-in-soup-167628
08-11-2020||Chandigarh||PGI’s Radiology Dept to get advanced cath lab||The Department of Radiodiagnosis, PGI, will soon get a state-of-the-art Biplane Digital Subtraction Neuroangiography (DSA) suite for providing improved services for a variety of neurovascular disorders.Prof MS Sandhu, Head, Department of Radiodiagnosis and Imaging, said it would be the first-of-its-kind advanced catheter laboratory in this part of the country.At present, the neurointervention section of the department caters to a large number of patients suffering from neurological disorders such as cerebral aneurysms, carotid artery disease, arteriovenous malformations, acute ischemic stroke and a variety of vascular disorders related to brain, spine and head and neck.“This addition will enhance the diagnosis and treatment of all types of stroke and provide faster and more accurate vascular care, besides helping in other disorders too,” said Dr Sandhu.“Neurointervention or endovascular neurosurgery involves minimally invasive treatment of complex disorders of the brain. These procedures do not involve opening of the skull and are possible with small incisions in the groin or wrist without the need of putting any sutures. The brain is then accessed by the use of small flexible tubes called catheters and wires taken through the incision across vessels of the abdomen or arm right until the brain to perform complex brain surgeries,” he said.“A distinct advantage of this ‘biplane’ system (over the single-plane system) is its ability to visualise the brain in two planes, which improves the accuracy of treatment with markedly less complication rates as well as quicker procedure time. There is an increased safety of both patients and the operating physician from the harmful X-rays that the DSA uses through its low-dose imaging capabilities,” said Dr Sandhu.The unit will be equipped with two advanced machines, which are available at few centres in the country. An artificial intelligence software that has been acquired with the DSA cath lab is the “RAPID-AI” software system, which helps in quick and accurate determination of brain injury occurring secondary to sudden cessation of blood flow to the brain in cases of brain attack. “RAPID-AI” automatically analyses the CT or MRI scan data and detects the area of the brain that is potentially salvageable.A recently developed injector to map blood vessels with carbon dioxide as a contrast agent has been acquired, which will be a boon for all patients of kidney disease, diabetes and contrast allergies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgis-radiology-dept-to-get-advanced-cath-lab-167629
08-11-2020||Mohali||162 evacuees from Sharjah land at Chandigarh airport||An evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 162 passengers from Sharjah landed at the Chandigarh International Airport here today. The Indigo-operated Air Bubble flight carrying 162 stranded passengers from Sharjah landed at the airport at 7.40 am. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of respective state government representatives where they will be home quarantined as per the government guidelines. A Health Department spokesperson said no passenger was found suffering from fever, cough and cold and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/162-evacuees-from-sharjah-land-at-chandigarh-airport-167630
08-11-2020||---||Ban on crackers: Fearing heavy losses, dealers to move High Court||Chandigarh, November 7Fearing heavy losses, the Chandigarh Cracker Dealers’ Association has decided to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the decision of the UT Administration to impose a ban on the sale or use of firecrackers in the city.Chirag Aggarwal, general secretary of the association, said they would suffer losses to the tune of Rs 5 crore if the ban was not lifted.If the Administration was to impose the ban on firecrackers, then the decision should have been taken in advance, he said, adding that they would file a petition in the High Court against the ban on Monday.Meanwhile, Prem Garg, president, AAP, demanded that full refund should be given to 1,635 cracker dealers of the city."Applications were invited for issuing licences for sale of crackers. As many as 1,635 applications were received by the administration. Each applicant was made to pay Rs 100 as the cost of application form and Rs 500 as fee. Of these 1,635 applicants, 96 were selected by lot. Now, as the administration has belatedly revoked its plan to allow the sale of crackers, why the amount deposited by these poor vendors be not refunded in full?" asked Garg.Secondly, it’s stated by the dealers that they have already invested heavily in purchase of cracker stocks on the promise of getting 96 licences and as the process of draw of lots is over, the law of Estoppel applies on the administration. The vendors have already acted on the assurance of the administration, he added.Endorsing the decision of the Administration to ban the use and sale of crackers in view of a surge in Covid cases in the city, Arvind Jain, president of Vyapar Sadan, Chandigarh, said the decision was late by 15 days. It would definitely cause losses to traders dealing in crackers. “To help traders who are already facing business crisis since March 20, the Administration should purchase all crackers from those who have made purchases,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ban-on-crackers-fearing-heavy-losses-dealers-to-move-high-court-167633
