11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 2 more COVID-19 deaths, 98 fresh cases||Two more COVID-19 related fatalities were reported in Chandigarh on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 243, while 98 fresh cases pushed the tally to 15,434.There are 958 active cases as of now, as per a bulletin.  A total of 57 patients were discharged after recovery, taking the number of those recovered to 14,233, it said.A total of 1,19,635 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,03,499 tested negative while reports of 139 samples were awaited, as per the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-2-more-covid-19-deaths-98-fresh-cases-169352
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Military Literature Festival to be a virtual affair this year||The fourth edition of Military Literature Festival (MLF) will be held virtually this year due to the restrictions placed amid the ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic.The festival is scheduled for December 18, 19 and 20.Most of the events, including the inaugural session and panel discussions, will be conducted online.Few public events, which were held in the previous years, are being done away with this time.However, a War Memorial function is scheduled for December 7.The current stand-off in Ladakh, and the violent clash between the two armies at Galwan Vally, along with the threat from China, is expected to be the major topic of discussion among the geo-strategic issues.A wide array of contemporary, historic, literary, and technical issues related to national security, and the armed forces will feature in the MLF, with experts in the domain, as well as, serving, and retired defence officers propounding their views.With the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Indo-Pak war falling next year, it is also expected to be one of the hot topics of discussion.Higher defence management, military industry unconventional and sub-conventional warfare, foreign relations, military diplomacy and the strategic fallout of events like the impact the ongoing pandemic are other topics of interest."Live streaming, as well as, recording of events like the panel discussions, weapon display, book launches, war memorial service, films, virtual exhibitions, and other interactive sessions would be done over social media, and other cyber platforms", said Brig JS Arora (Retd.).A professional agency has been engaged for the conduct of this three-day event.MLF is an annual affair. It is conducted by the Punjab Government, and the Western Command to honour, and commemorate the legendary, brave, and sacrifices of the Indian soldiers. It is also to bring a common platform for experts to deliberate on the contemporary military, security, and geopolitical issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-military-literature-festival-to-be-a-virtual-affair-this-year-169324
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Man booked for outraging woman’s modesty in Chandigarh||Train waiting list gets longerChandigarh: As people of the city are opting to travel from Ambala, the division has recorded a waiting list of 448 on an average for 11 trains plying at Ambala from September till November 10. The DRM, GM Singh, said: "We had plans to run more trains, but are waiting for a nod from the Punjab Government." TNSBSNL installs serversChandigarh: In view of mission ‘Behtar Service Naya Lakshya’, cache servers of Facebook and Netflix were installed at the National Internet Backbone Switch Room, BSNL building, in Sector 17. These were inaugurated by Sandeep Diwan, Chief General Manager, Telecom. Officials said the need for more such services had risen drastically. — TNSShopkeeper sells crackers, bookedChandigarh: The police on Tuesday booked a shopkeeper for selling crackers. It is the first case after the UT Administration banned the sale of crackers. Sub-Inspector Gurwinder Singh was patrolling the Mani Majra area when he found crackers being illegally sold at a shop in Govindpura, Mani Majra. A case under Sections 188 of the IPC and Section 51-B of the Disaster Management Act was registered against Shankar Singh (39), the shopkeeper. TNSRopar Youth held with pistolChandigarh: A 21-year-old Punjab resident has been arrested with a pistol. The police said Gurdeep Singh, alias Deepu, of Raipur village in Ropar district was nabbed near the Verka plant, Industrial Area, Phase I. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-outraging-womans-modesty-in-chandigarh-168885
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Allotment of flats in Chandigarh: Draw streamed on YouTube||To ensure that social distancing is maintained, the CHB live-telecast the draw for the allotment of flats in Maloya.The UT Administration has decided to relocate the residents of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 to EWS flats at Maloya-I under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB, said the first draw for 352 flats was held today on the CHB premises. Out of the 352 applicants, 11 had submitted disability certificates and were allotted flats on the ground floors.To ensure compliance with Covid-19 protocol, special arrangements were made, he said. The live telecast of the draw was streamed on YouTube and the draw was also streamed live at the site of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 through a display van.“For the first time, the draw was streamed live at the site of beneficiaries and on their mobile phones or computers through YouTube,” the CEO.Garg said physical possession of the flats in Maloya-I would be handed over from November 17 in a staggered manner to avoid rush and to ensure compliance with the social distancing norms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allotment-of-flats-in-chandigarh-draw-streamed-on-youtube-168886
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-student leaders of Panjab University protest delay in Senate elections||Former student leaders of Panjab University, who have led student organisations and also represented Panjab University Campus Students’ Council, along with members of the present student council, protested the delay in holding Senate elections, which were to be held in September.The protest was attended by MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, Dalvir Singh Goldy, Malwinder Kang, Santokhwinder Singh Nabha, Brinder Dhillon (president of Punjab Youth Congress), Harpreet Multani, Simran Dhillon, Amit Bhatia, Manoj Lubana (chairman of NSUI Social Media), Kanupriya, Chetan Chaudhary (PUCSC president 2019-20) and Rahul Kumar (PUCSC vice-president 2019-20).These student leaders belonging to different political groups opposed the autocracy by the PU authorities in the name of Covid.“The Vice-Chancellor is changing his excuses for the delay in conducting the Senate elections and at the same time trying to implement the Board of Governance that would comprise only members nominated by the Central Government, and hence dismantle the Senate,” said Lubana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-student-leaders-of-panjab-university-protest-delay-in-senate-elections-168887
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||District Bar Association, Chandigarh team lists priorities||Newly elected president of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, Bhaag Singh Suhag has announced that he would create a welfare fund for the needy advocates of the District Courts soon.A day after the election results were declared, the new office-bearers of the Bar today listed out their priorities.Suhag said he would ensure that a special welfare fund was created soon to meet situations such as Covid in future and to help the needy lawyers. Gagan Aggarwal, secretary, said the new executive would focus on launching a medical insurance scheme for advocates.Ankit Gupta, vice-president, stressed the need to start a multi-level parking soon.Suhag said software required to find latest judgments in the library would be updated. He said the Wi-Fi facility would be provided at the lawyers’ chambers.Gagan Aggrawal has defeated Karamjeet Singh for the post of secretary. While Gagan got 738 votes, Karamjeet polled 715 votes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/district-bar-association-chandigarh-team-lists-priorities-168888
11-11-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||After National Green Tribunal rap, Chandigarh Municipal Corporation plugs 6 outlets discharging sewage into choes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10Pulled up by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the Municipal Corporation (MC) has plugged all six outlets releasing sewage into Sukhna Choe and N-Choe.On the directions of the Green Tribunal, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) had conducted a surprise inspection of all outlets discharging sewage into Sukhna Choe and N-Choe on September 18.In its report, the CPCC stated that sewage was flowing into Sukhna Choe at four places — Kishangarh, Shastri Nagar, Daria village and the MC Pump House behind Central Poultry Development Organisations, Industrial Area, Phase I, and into N-Choe at two places — Garden of Springs where sewage comes from Mohali and Sector 36 area near the CFSL.On a report of the CPCC, on November 2, the NGT directed the MC to conduct a resurvey of the locations where sewage was being discharged into Sukhna Choe and N-Choe within three days. Both seasonal rivulets of the city flow into the Ghaggar river near Zirakpur.In compliance of the directions of the NGT, all six points where sewage was being discharged into both seasonal rivulets had been fixed, said a senior official of the MC.The directions came from the Green Tribunal during a review of the status of waste water generation and treatment in Chandigarh with regard to the Ghaggar river.In its report, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) has submitted that sewage is being discharged into Sukhna Choe and N-choe at six places in the city.Debendra Dalai, Member Secretary, CPCC, stated that it had been decided that the Mohali Municipal Corporation would take necessary steps to stop the discharge of sewage into N-choe from the Garden of Spring outlet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-national-green-tribunal-rap-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-plugs-6-outlets-discharging-sewage-into-choes-168871
11-11-2020||Naina Mishra||Amid Covid, demand for flu shots shoots up 30% in tricity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10While the wait for a Covid-19 vaccine continues, the demand for seasonal flu shots has risen among tricity residents to protect themselves from other respiratory illnesses. There has been a 30 per cent spurt in the demand for flu shots, according to private medical practitioners in the tricity.The Centre for Disease Control and Prevention recently stated, “Getting a flu vaccine is more important than ever during 2020-2021 to protect yourself and the people around you from flu, and to help reduce the strain on healthcare systems responding to the Covid-19 pandemic.”Dr RS Bedi from Bedi Hospital, Sector 33, said, “People used to get flu shots for younger children (aged 3-4) in Chandigarh. Now, a high percentage of older children up to 10-15 years is getting flu shots. There were hardly any older people who used to get themselves vaccinated. Now, we have been getting requests from people in their 50s as well for the flu shot. The demand for flu shots has risen by over 20 per cent.”Dr Rahul Katiyal, pulmonologist at Ace Heart Institute, Shivalik Hospital, Mohali, said, “We have received requests for flu vaccine from persons suffering from bronchial asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and diabetes. According to recent studies, the severity of the disease is less after getting flu shots. The demand for flu shots has increased by 30 per cent as people want to minimise the risk of Covid infection in the winter season.”What is a flu shot?An influenza (flu) shot is a flu vaccine given with a needle, usually in the arm. Seasonal flu shots protect against three or four influenza viruses that, research suggests, may be most common during the upcoming season.How effective is the seasonal flu shot?Influenza (flu) vaccine effectiveness can vary. The protection provided by a flu vaccine varies from seasonto season and depends in part on the age and health status of the person getting the vaccine and the similarity or “match” between the viruses in the vaccine and those in circulation.During years when the flu vaccine match is good, the benefits of flu vaccination will vary, depending on factors such as characteristics of the person being vaccinated (for example, their health and age).Who should get vaccinated?Everyone six months and older should get a flu vaccine every season with rare exceptions. Vaccination is important for people at a high risk of serious complications from influenza. Flu vaccination has important benefits. It can reduce flu illnesses, doctor visits as well as prevent flu-related hospitalisations and deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-covid-demand-for-flu-shots-shoots-up-30-in-tricity-168865
11-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Smart parking lots in Chandigarh? You must be kidding||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10While most “smart” parking lots are witnessing a huge rush these days, there is no one to manage vehicles at a majority of such facilities in the city. People are left to fend for themselves after they have paid the parking fee.During a random check, it was observed that two-wheelers were parked at spaces meant for cars and vice versa. There is no one to guide those not finding a space to park their vehicle. Thus, they are forced to park haphazardly at non-designated places. At times, people leave their cars with the handbrake pulled up on the way behind the four-wheelers parked at designated places. This troubles the one who had parked his vehicle at a designated place. All this happens due to the absence of attendants and space crunch.“It is not a parking fee, but an entry fee. There is no facility where attendants help people in parking. They need to manage the parking lot as well,” lamented Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sector Welfare Association Chandigarh.At the Sector 22 mobile phone market in front of the Sector 17 ISBT, there was no attendant inside and vehicles were parked haphazardly. The situation was similar at a parking lot near Aroma Hotel and on most facilities on Madhya Marg. At a parking lot in front of the MC’s MOH office in Sector 17, people face tough time finding a parking space. There is no attendant to guide them. Some even leave without parking despite having paid the fee.“The situation is the same at the Bank Square parking. Instead of allowing entry to vehicles when the lot is full, attendants should guide drivers to the multi-level parking lot where there is enough space,” said Samir Kumar, a private company employee.There are other violations at paid parking lots like staff not wearing a uniform and absence of electronic slips.MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora, who heads the parking wing, has already served notices on parking firms for not complying with the norms.The MC has now given a November 30 deadline to the agencies to fulfil all “smart parking” conditions, before allowing charging of fee on an hourly basis from December 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/smart-parking-lots-in-chandigarh-you-must-be-kidding-168868
11-11-2020||---||Covid-19: Virus kills four more in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 10The city today witnessed 90 cases of Covid-19 and four deaths, taking the tally to 15,339 and the virus toll to 241.A 76-year-old man from Sector 48, a case of pneumonia, died at the GMCH, Sector 32. A 45-year-old woman from Makhan Majra, a case of liver abscess, also died at the GMCH. A 56-year-old man from Sector 25, a case of chronic liver disease and diabetes, died at the GMSH, Sector 16, while a 58-year-old man from Sector 7, a case of diabetes and hypertension, died at the PGI.The city also witnessed 66 recoveries, pushing the count of cured patients to 14,176. There are now 922 active cases in the city. As many as 1,440 samples were collected in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-virus-kills-four-more-in-chandigarh-168869
11-11-2020||Chandigarh||Handing over probe to CBI: What High Court says||Handing over the probe to the CBI, the High Court has ruled that the entire dispute pertaining to the Sector 5 house has its roots in various events, which took place during a long span of time.The Bench observed that to reach the genesis of the entire dispute, it would be in the interest of justice and in the fitness of things that all events and actions leading to the row were inquired into by one agency only “so that the chaff is separated from the grains”.The Bench added that the findings of the different authorities regarding different aspects of the entire controversy will not make any headway in bringing the actual facts to the fore and would rather turn the controversy more intricate and complex.The Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta added that it was of the considered opinion that the ends of justice would best be served if the entire matter regarding the transfer of 50 per cent share of the house by Padamjit Singh and all matters incidental thereto, including missing record of the house from the UT Estate Office, was referred to the CBI for inquiry/investigation therein. “We order accordingly. It is further clarified that the CBI shall look into all angles of the said dispute.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/handing-over-probe-to-cbi-what-high-court-says-168889
11-11-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||6-year-old attacked by Pitbull, Kharar police dilly-dallying||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 10The father of a six-year-old is running from pillar to post since October 29, but the police are not taking any action against a dog owner, whose pet attacked his son at Comfort Green Homes Society in Kharar. The Class I student was attacked by a Pitbull while he was coming back home along with his sister after attending a “kanjak pujan” function on October 24.Sunny Sharma, Victim’s father ‘Pet has attacked others too’The pet dog is of a ferocious breed, but the owner never puts a leash on it. The dog has not only attacked my son but also many others in the society in the past. I have been doing the rounds of the Kharar City police station, but to no avail.“The pet dog is of a ferocious breed, but the owner never puts a leash on it. The dog has not only attacked my son but also many others in the society in the past. I have been doing the rounds of the Kharar City police station, but the police are not taking any action. A few days ago, an ASI came to enquire, but returned saying it does not amount to an offence,” said Sunny Sharma.The child has been undergoing ARV treatment since then. Sunny alleged that the dog owner first did not provide the pet’s vaccination details, as required by doctors, and later, handed over a forged slip of a veterinary polyclinic, Balongi.“The clinic slip handed to me by the owner, Tarlochan Singh shows the date, May 3, 2020, but when I enquired at the clinic, the doctor said the clinic was closed during the lockdown and the date mentioned is that of Sunday. The dog was brought to the clinic for a skin disease last year on May 3,” he alleged. Sunny alleged that the police had not even verified the slip.Kharar City SHO Bhagwant Singh said, “An ASI has enquired about the matter. The victim’s father has not given a statement and medical report. We will take appropriate action.”Tarlochan Singh denied having a pet.On October 9, a Mohali woman was booked after her pet dog, a Boxer, bit off a nine-year-old girl’s ear lobe at the Phase 9 market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-year-old-attacked-by-pitbull-kharar-police-dilly-dallying-168890
11-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||CBI to look into ‘house with many tales’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 10Nestled close to Sukhna Lake against the backdrop of the lower Himalayas is posh Sector 5 with just about 80 sprawling bungalows on palatial plots. But one house in the lush green neighbourhood has more than a few tales and contradictions that the Central Bureau of Investigation will now look into following an order by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.For people who have been in the city since long, the house belonged to the father of Bollywood star of the bygone era Vera Sunder Singh, aka Priya Rajvansh, of the “Heer Raanjha” fame.Stated to be born and brought up in Shimla, Priya Rajvansh eventually landed in Bombay for pairing opposite stars like Raaj Kumar, Dev Anand and Rajesh Khanna. She is believed to have spent little time in the six-kanal house, now estimated to be worth Rs30 crore.The fact that the house was owned by her father Sunder Singh is one of the few actualities that is not in dispute. Another fact the parties to the dispute do not contradict is that Sunder Singh died in January 1986.One of the several versions placed before the judicial courts is that Sunder Singh executed a will in September 1984, according to which Vera Sunder Singh and her brother Kanwal Sunder Singh were to get 50 per cent share each. Her other brother Padamjit Singh was excluded. However, Vera died in March 2000 after executing a will for dividing her share equally among her brothers.One of the other versions is that Padamjit Singh became the owner of 50 per cent share through natural succession after the death of Sunder Singh and Vera, who bequeathed her share in favour of her brothers.The present dispute that eventually led to the CBI probe has its genesis in a petition, “Padamjit Singh versus Chandigarh Administration and others”. The matter came under judicial spotlight after Padamjit Singh claimed that the petition was filed without “his consent or without having any power of attorney from him”.In the petition, directions were sought to the respondents to maintain status quo regarding transfer/mutation of his 50 per cent share in the house. His contention is that the petition was filed by impersonating him after forging and fabricating his signatures to “halt mutation in favour of Pritam Kaur to the extent of 50 per cent share”.The dispute as of now is between Padamjit Singh, Kanwal Sunder Singh’s wife Mary Singh and Chandigarh resident Pritam Kaur, whom Padamjit Singh allegedly sold his share of the plot.In an affidavit, UK resident Mary Singh has stated that she had been in touch with Padamjit Singh in February and next month they discussed filing objections before the Estate Office against “misuse of his personal documents for obtaining transfer of his share by Peshaura Singh Thind (Pritam Kaur’s husband) and others. Mary also stated that she had a telephonic discussion with Padamjit Singh. During discussions with her lawyer, he confided he had not received the actual money/sale consideration for his share till date in the USA.Mary has alleged that “Padamjit Singh has either resolved his financial issues with the Thind family and is just trying to wriggle out of the situation denying the filing of the writ petition or he is under apparent pressure from these persons to contradict his own stand at this stage”. The CBI will now submit its report in a sealed cover by February 26 next.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-to-look-into-house-with-many-tales-168891
11-11-2020||---||Covid-19: Two more die in Mohali, toll 250||Mohali, November 10Two more fatalities due to Covid-19 were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths in the district to 250.The district also reported 75 fresh cases. The number of infections has increased to 13,060. Meanwhile, 45 patients have been cured.Among the new cases, 69 surfaced in Mohali (urban), two each in Dhakoli and Lalru and one in Gharuan. The number of recoveries in Mohali has jumped to 12,035. There are 775 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-two-more-die-in-mohali-toll-250-168892
11-11-2020||Panchkula||Covid-19: 70 more test positive in Panchkula||Seventy more cases of Covid surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 7,644. No new fatality was reported from the district till Tuesday evening.Civil Surgeon Jasjit Kaur said eight cases were reported from the MDC-5, seven each from Sectors 8 and 10, six each from Sectors 6 and 20, five from Sector 7, three each from Sectors 4, 11, 12 and 12-A, two each from Amravati Enclave, Majra Mehtab, Sector 26 and 29 and one each from Barwala, Pinjore, Raipur Rani, the MDC-6, Sectors 9, 15, 17, 19, 21, 24 and 25.The district has seen 7,085 patients being cured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-70-more-test-positive-in-panchkula-168893
