12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cracker ban to remain in Chandigarh||Listed as a non-attainment city, the Chandigarh administration on Thursday decided to continue the ban on crackers.Rejecting the review petition to lift the cracker ban by traders, Advisor Manoj Parida passed the order to ban the crackers under the Disaster Management Act of 2005. The Central Pollution Control Board has notified this city as one of the non-attainment cities, or those whose air quality is worse than the prescribed standards.Also, on review of the Covid-19 situation, it was noted that the number of positive cases were rising in the Union Territory, reads the order. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cracker-ban-to-remain-in-chandigarh-169695
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar extends lead||Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar raised hopes of a second title — his first since turning professional — when he shot a bogey-free 5-under 67 to extend his lead to four strokes after Round 3 of the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship at the Chandigarh Golf Club. Kochhar moved to 15-under, extending his overnight lead by two shots. “I wasn’t too comfortable with my hitting today but my chipping and putting saved the day for me,” said Kochhar.Chandigarh’s Akshay Sharma, last week’s winner, shot a 68 to share second position with Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat (68) and Mysuru’s Yashas Chandra (69) at 11-under. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-karandeep-kochhar-extends-lead-169607
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||HCQ holds promise of Covid prevention, finds PGI study||A group of doctors from the PGI has found a significant risk reduction in the incidence of Covid-19 among participants who received post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) with hydroxychloroquine (HCQ).Post-exposure prophylaxis, also known as post-exposure prevention, is any preventive medical treatment started after exposure to a pathogen in order to prevent the infection from occurring.WHO findingsHCQ has been the point of discussion ever since the start of the pandemic. The interim analysis of the “Solidarity” clinical trial done by the WHO has recommended not to use HCQ for Covid-19 therapy as it doesn’t have any mortality benefit.The study was aimed at evaluating the efficacy of post-exposure prophylaxis with HCQ for the prevention of Covid-19 in asymptomatic non-healthcare workers (non-HCWs) who were at the risk of the SARS-CoV-2 infection. The trial found that post-exposure prophylaxis with HCQ has the potential of prevention of Covid-19 in asymptomatic individuals at risk of the SARS-CoV-2 infection as there was a significant risk reduction in the incidence of Covid-19 in participants who received HCQ.Don’t disregard potential of HCQ: StudyThe PGI study says, “With this open-level clinical trial, we absolutely don’t claim or recommend PEP with HCQ for the prevention of Covid-19 in asymptomatic direct contacts. Nevertheless based upon one or two studies, we should not completely disregard or reject the potential of HCQ as PEP in asymptomatic high risk contacts for the prevention of Covid-19. Based upon the safety profile of HCQ and as a definitive therapy is still awaited, even a some percentage of risk reduction for Covid-19 will have a huge impact against this global pandemic of the worst nature.”“Till a definitive therapy is available, continuing PEP with HCQ may be considered suitable for at-risk individuals for the prevention of Covid-19, as endorsed by many national/international health authorities,” the study concluded.About the studyAt-risk asymptomatic individuals, who had undertaken international travel in the past two weeks or had direct contact with confirmed Covid-19 cases, were given the option of taking HCQ for the prevention of the SARS-CoV2 infection. Participants who did not give consent for HCQ prophylaxis were directly included in the control groups. The high risk direct contacts were family members, relatives, friends or colleagues who were living with or spent hours/days with the Covid-19 patients without taking any personal protective precautions.The study was conducted by Dr Deba Prasad Dhibar, Dr Navneet Arora, Dr Arpit Kakkar, Dr Neeraj Singla, Dr Ritin Mohindra, Dr Vikas Suri, Dr Ashish Bhalla and Dr Navneet Sharma from the Department of Internal Medicine, Dr Mini Singh from the Department of Virology, Dr Ajay Prakash and Dr Bikash Medhi from the Department of Pharmacology and Dr Lakshmi PVM from the Community Medicine and School of Public Health.ResultsA total of 50 of the 317 participants (15.8 per cent) had new onset Covid-19. The incidence of Covid-19 was significantly lower in those who took HCQ (10.6 per cent) as compared to the control group (19.4 per cent).Total absolute risk reduction in the incidence of Covid-19 was 8.8 per cent (points).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hcq-holds-promise-of-covid-prevention-finds-pgi-study-169472
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Record stalls choke market corridors, parking lots in Chandigarh||With the Municipal Corporation allotting the highest number of stalls ahead of Diwali, it has spelled chaos in markets and parking lots, causing inconvenience to visitors.Though stalls are supposed to be put up in vacant space between corridors and parking lots, shopkeepers and vendors have encroached upon almost every area they found free.Revenue soarsDuring a random check in the city, stalls were found put up in the sector 19, 22, 32 and 23 markets. These stalls left little space for parking. Some visitors were forced to park on roads outside or parking lot passage. This led to haphazard parking and inconvenience to people.The situation inside markets is no different. “I had gone to the markets in Sector 27 and 19. Stall owners had encroached upon all corridors and pathways. There must be some fixed number of stalls and space should be allotted for the purpose,” said Amit Kaushik, a banker.“In the space of one permitted stall, six vendors are doing business,” said RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association.MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora said, “We are getting major encroachments cleared from undesignated areas as we come to know about them.”MC officials said next year, they would work on rationalising the number of stalls. In Sector 19 alone, 460 stall were permitted. All stalls are given permission for three or seven days on a per day rent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/record-stalls-choke-market-corridors-parking-lots-in-chandigarh-169473
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Decide plea against cracker ban, High Court tells Chandigarh||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the UT Administration to decide a representation filed by the Chandigarh Cracker Dealers Association against the complete ban on the sale or use of crackers of any kind throughout the UT. For the purpose, the High Court gave the UT two days time.The High Court Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli also granted the petitioner association the liberty to raise a claim of compensation by way of a civil suit. The association was seeking quashing of the order dated November 6 passed by the respondent Adviser to the Administrator by exercising powers mentioned under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, to impose the ban. The petitioner claimed “wholly erroneous considerations”.Directions were also sought to pay compensation in lieu of the loss suffered by members of the petitioner association due to the sudden ban. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decide-plea-against-cracker-ban-high-court-tells-chandigarh-169475
12-11-2020||Mohali||Noise-free campaign in Mohali||The local police have launched a noise-free campaign against those who use modified silencers on bikes to create nuisance in pubic places. Several bikes have been impounded and riders fined for creating noise above the permissible level in market and residential areas.The traffic police today formed teams to carry out checks in various markets of the city to raise awareness about the menace.As many as 60 bikes have been impounded in November and riders issued traffic slips for scaring the elderly, women and children.SP (Traffic) Gurjot Singh said, “The offenders are putting the lives of pedestrians and commuters at risk by scaring them, which can cause road accidents. Parents of youngsters are also being counselled to check their wards from indulging in such activities.”Kharar traffic incharge Ranjodh Singh said, “A total 28 of challans were issued today. Ten bikes are of one particular make, of which six have been impounded. Soon we will call a meeting of mechanics to raise awareness among them that modifying silencers is illegal.”Officials said they would put up giant posters at important locations in and around the city to raise awareness about this menace among the people. A list of traffic offenders will be compiled at the end of the month-long campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/noise-free-campaign-in-mohali-169476
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 95 new cases in Chandigarh||The city today recorded 95 cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 15,434. Two patients succumbed to the virus. The number of fatalities has risen to 243.A 73-year-old man from Sector 18, who was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, diabetes and hypertension, died at Fortis Hospital in Mohali. A 52-year-old woman from Dhanas, a case of diabetes, breathed her last at the GMCH, Sector 32.As many as 57 patients have recovered. The percentage of cured patients stands at 92. There are 958 active cases in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-95-new-cases-in-chandigarh-169477
12-11-2020||Mohali||1 dies, 119 test +ve in Mohali||One person died of Covid while 119 new cases were reported from the district today.As many as 71 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 114 were reported from Mohali (urban), four from Kharar and one from Dera Bassi. The total number of Covid patients has touched 13,179. With one more death today, the toll has reached 251.Meanwhile, several persons voluntarily took the Covid test at a new facility set up outside the SDM office, Kharar. As many as 72 samples were taken today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-dies-119-test-ve-in-mohali-169478
12-11-2020||Panchkula||67 new cases, no death in Panchkula||The district today reported 67 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 7,711. No Covid death was reported.Among the fresh cases, six each were reported from Sector 15 and Sector 7, and five each from Sector 20, Sector 21, Sector 25 and Sector 12.While 7,126 patients have defeated the coronavirus so far, 468 cases are still active.The recovery rate of the district stands at 92.41 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/67-new-cases-no-death-in-panchkula-169480
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Manisha to be Ist woman SSP (Traffic) of Chandigarh||After more than three months, the UT is set to get a Senior Superintendent of Police (Traffic and Security).The Ministry of Home Affairs has approved the appointment of Manisha Chaudhary, a 2011-batch IPS officer, to the post of the SSP (Traffic and Security), Chandigarh, on an inter-cadre deputation from the Haryana cadre to the AGMUT cadre for a period of three years. Presently posted as the SP, Panipat, Manisha will be the first woman SSP (Traffic) of the UT.The post fell vacant after DIG Shashank Anand, a 2006-batch IPS officer of the Haryana cadre, was relieved of the charge on the completion of a three-year term with the Chandigarh Police on July 29. He had joined the UT police in August 2017 as the SSP (Traffic). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manisha-to-be-ist-woman-ssp-traffic-of-chandigarh-169481
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||7 years on, proclaimed offender in Chandigarh police net||The UT police have arrested a proclaimed offender (PO), who was on the run for seven years.The PO, Amit Sareen (43), a resident of Jalandhar, was nabbed by a team of the operations cell. The police said a case under Sections 406 and 498-A of the IPC was registered against Sareen at the Sector 11 police station in May 2012.He was declared a PO by the court in October 2013.Sareen had applied for anticipatory bail four times, which was rejected by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The police got information that Sareen was in Jalandhar following which he was nabbed on November 10. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-years-on-proclaimed-offender-in-chandigarh-police-net-169482
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Items made of cow dung in great demand||Covid times coupled with increased awareness on products made of cow dung have led to a rise in the demand for eco-friendly diyas, pots and idols of Lord Ganesha and Goddess Lakshmi this Diwali. Due to the increasing demand, some gaushalas have even fallen short of supply.Surbhi Kunj, a private gaushala in Kaimbwala, has already supplied 21,000 diyas and 5,000 pots, all made of cow dung. The diyas are priced at Rs2 each while pots in sizes of 3 to 6 inches are sold between Rs10 and Rs20 per piece.“We are sending diyas and pots to different districts of Punjab and various social organisations. We are refusing orders because we will not be able to ensure the supply,” said Ankur Mittal, a gausevak.Subodh Nair, who runs the Kaimbwala gaushala, said cow dung-made items were environment-friendly and its products could be used as manure later. “If a plant is grown in this pot, it will automatically get manure from all sides and will grow better. Plastic pots are not good for environment,” he said.He said pots were made using a machine operated with hands, which involved an investment of about Rs10,000-Rs15,000 only.At Gauri Shankar Seva Dal Gaushala in Sector 45, along with diyas, idols of Lord Ganesha and Goddess Lakshmi were also being made and distributed free of cost for awareness.“Due to Covid, demand for Indian products has increased. We have made about 25,000 diyas, more than what we produced last year, and nearly 600 idols,” said Vinod Kumar, vice-president of the organisation. Sumit Sharma, chairman of the organisation, added, “Since these idols are eco-friendly, one can use these as manure after putting these in water for two days. These idols won’t even pollute rivers if immersed in them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/items-made-of-cow-dung-in-great-demand-169484
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster brought on production warrant||Gangster Sukhpreet Singh Dhaliwal, alias Budda, a key member of the Davinder Bambiha group, was brought on production warrant by the UT police to probe his role in the Surjit Singh murder case. Sukhpreet was produced in a court and sent to one-day police remand.Murder caseSurjit Singh, a resident of Sector 38 (West), was returning home when he was shot dead near his house.Surjit was shot dead by motorcycle-borne assailants earlier this year.Surjit Singh, a resident of Sector 38 (West), was returning home when he was shot dead near his house. Two motorcycle-borne miscreants, who were wearing helmets, opened fire on the victim when he stopped at the red light, hardly a kilometre away from his house.Budda, who faces several criminal cases, was deported from Armenia in November last year and was arrested by the Punjab Police from the IGI Airport, New Delhi. He, along with gangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, had shot at Punjabi singer Parmish Verma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-brought-on-production-warrant-169485
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab varsity extends USOL admission date||Panjab University has extended admission date for the University School of Open Learning (USOL) till November 23 except for the BEd (Semester I) and PG diploma in guidance and counselling.The USOL offers undergraduate courses (Semester system), including BA (Under 10 + 2 + 3 scheme), BCom (Under 10 + 2 + 3 scheme) and BLIS (One year).The USOL also offers postgraduate diploma courses (Semester system) in computer applications; disaster management and security, health, family welfare and population education; human rights and duties; library automation and networking; mass communication; and statistics.Certificate courses offered by the USOL include Vivekananda studies; women studies; and corporate security, safety and fire Protection management.Postgraduate courses offered by the USOL include MCom and MBA (Executive Ist semester) for which admission portal been reopened from November 9 to 17 as few seats are vacant in the latter course.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-varsity-extends-usol-admission-date-169486
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||All’s not well at Panjab University?||Though Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) has claimed that university’s faculty is united on the issue of conducting Senate elections, a verbal spat, which took place on a WhatsApp group yesterday, depicts the situation otherwise.In a statement yesterday, PUTA said the issue of division among faculty members on Senate elections was not only mischievous and misleading, but also misrepresenting the sentiment of the teaching community.However, during a discussion on a WhatsApp group having over 200 faculty members, a former chairperson of a department said, “Those dissatisfied with the PU system are free to leave it for better places. But nobody should mess up with the system.”The argument started when group members were discussing wording on a banner raised in yesterday’s protest on which it was written “VC Traitor”.“I am not part of that group. Being a teacher, we have to examine what should be said on a public platform. Social media is a platform where everyone is free to express anything, but it doesn’t mean that it’s the voice of the association or community,” said Amarjit Singh Naura, secretary, PUTA. When asked if it’s appropriate to tell faculty members to leave the group, Naura added, “No this is not the right way.”“PUTA executive is the only legitimate mouthpiece of varsity teachers and it does not endorse vicious designs of the Vice-Chancellor and his coterie, which only works to please the master. The executive has passed resolutions in its recent meetings for immediate holding of Syndicate meeting and Senate elections,” said PUTA in its statement.As reported in these columns earlier, Panjab University is now a house divided among faculties over the issue of dissolving Senate. While former Senate members took out a protest march on the campus against dissolution of House on Monday, many faculty members supported the PU’s decision to scrap the Senate ahead of the implementation of the New Education Policy (NEP). Despite this fact, PUTA has termed reports misleading and mischievous.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/alls-not-well-at-panjab-university-169488
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Prof Raj Reddy interacts with PEC students||A virtual knowledge fiesta was organised at Punjab Engineering College (PEC) today. Prof Raj Reddy from Carnegie Mellon University was the speaker on the occasion.Dr Divya Bansal, Dean (Alumni), corporate and international relations, and Prof (Computer Science), PEC, introduced the Centenary Lecture Series of the college. She told viewers that the most important activity this year was the PEC Centenary Lecture Series (PEC CLS) wherein famous personalities would share their inspiring stories from across various fields.While introducing Dr Reddy, Dr Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC, told the audience, “Prof Reddy is a university professor of computer science and robotics and Moza Bint Nasser Chair at Carnegie Mellon University. He served as the founding director of the Robotics Institute and Dean, school of computer science, at the university.”Prof Reddy delivered lecture on “Future of education: National Education Policy 2020 post Covid consequences and options”. Talking about online education he discussed logistics, capital, and basic requirements that should be met to provide quality education remotely. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prof-raj-reddy-interacts-with-pec-students-169489
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||15,000 MC  ex-staffers await pension||As many as 15,000 pensioners of the local Municipal Corporation (MC) are staring at dark Diwali as they have not received this month’s pension.It is for the first time in the MC’s history that former employees did not get their pension on the scheduled date. As the MC shifted clerks to its recently opened petrol station, pension-related formalities could not be completed.“We have been visiting the MC office for last few days, but in a vain. It’s for the first time that we will get late pension. Pensioners fear that they will have to celebrate dark Diwali,” rued a pensioner preferring anonymity. An official concerned of the MC said, “We got two clerks on November 6 and released pension today. Hopefully, pensioners will get their dues tomorrow.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-000-mc-ex-staffers-await-pension-169491
12-11-2020||Zirakpur||Zirakpur MC lauds Manav Mangal Smart World School for cleanliness||The Municipal Council has appreciated Manav Mangal Smart World School for its contribution in Clean India campaign. Under the Swachh Bharat Mission, the Muncipal Council had organised various competitions during which the cleanliness standard of Manav Mangal Smart World School was adjudged best among other institutions of the town.In a ceremony held at the MC office today, the Executive Officer, Sandeep Tiwari, presented a certificate of appreciation to a school representative for the standards of cleanliness at the institution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-mc-lauds-manav-mangal-smart-world-school-for-cleanliness-169492
12-11-2020||Panchkula||Positivity rate doubles in Panchkula||The rate of people testing positive for Covid in the district is on the rise ahead of Diwali. The test positivity rate has more than doubled during the past week compared to last month.The positivity rate was recorded at 9.81 per cent between November 5 and 11 while it was 4.84 per cent in October.Sampling goes downAt a time when daily Covid cases are going up, test figures have dropped. On an average, around 650 samples were taken daily during the past one week compared to around 800 samples per day in October.No deaths in five daysIn what could be a relief for the Health Department, the district has witnessed no Covid death in the past five days. However, the district’s mortality rate stands at 1.51 per cent, which is still above the state and national average.As many as 4,554 samples were collected in the past one week, of which 447 came out positive.In October, around 23,879 samples were collected for Covid testing of which 1,158 were found positive.As markets are decked up ahead of the biggest festival of year in India, the health administration is taking special measures, including launching a sampling drive in congested markets and educating people on importance of mask and social distancing to shield themselves from the infection, to combat Covid.The Panchkula Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said to arrest the growth of Covid-19 in the district, they had taken concrete steps such as launching a special sampling drive in congested markets (thronged by citizens for Diwali shopping), deploying volunteers, distributing masks and installing Covid-awareness hoardings across the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/positivity-rate-doubles-in-panchkula-169504
12-11-2020||Lt Gen Harwant Singh (retd)||Chandigarh loses distinguished veteran||Chandigarh is home to a large number of distinguished veterans, who left a mark wherever they served, both during peace and war. One by one, they are leaving the field. One such veteran, Maj Gen KMKS Barach, died on November 2. His bhog ceremony will be held from noon to 1 pm at the Sector 34 gurdwara in Chandigarh on November 12.He was commissioned in Deccan Horse (9H) and on the raising of the first cavalry unit after Independence (62 Cavalry), was selected to join this unit. He served as an instructor at the School of Armoured Warfare and Defence Services Staff College.He commanded a Sherman tank squadron during the 1965 war and was able to hold his own against Pakistan’s Patton tanks. He captured the critical enemy pivotal position of Pogowal in Sialkot sector, which opened the gateway to Phillora. During the 1971 war, he commanded 62 Cavalry with distinction. He will be long remembered by his friends and troops.Following in his footsteps, his sons joined cavalry units and have done equally well. His passing away is a great loss to the veteran fraternity of Chandigarh and his regiment and family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-loses-distinguished-veteran-169505
12-11-2020||Zirakpur||Vigilance Bureau to produce Naib Tehsildar in court today||Naib Tehsildar Varinderpal Singh Dhoot and three other suspects in the alleged wrong mutation of 1,295 acres of shamlat land at Seonk village in Mohali district will be produced in a local court tomorrow.Dhoot, Patwari Iqbal Singh, property dealer Sham Lal Gujjar, Nambardar Gurnam Singh and two others were arrested on November 2. A case was registered under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 7 and 7(a) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, on the basis of a Vigilance Bureau inquiry.Vigilance Bureau officials said on the verification of documents during the probe, it was found that Dhoot, the then naib tehsildar of Majri Block, Kanungo Raghbir Singh and Patwari Iqbal Singh, along with property dealer Sham Lal and Nambardar Gurnam Singh, effected the mutation of the shamlat land in Seonk, which fell in Majri Tehsil.While doing the mutation of 1,295 acres’ division, shares of 24 beneficiaries, namely Baljit Kaur, Naseeb Singh, Banta Singh and Ugajar Singh, in approximately 117 acres were reduced and added to others, including Ram Krishan and Kulwinder Singh, who were not even residents of the village.In a departmental inquiry, it was found that 66 land deeds were registered with Zirakpur Naib Tehsildar Varinderpal Dhoot’s signature on the day (November 2) the Punjab Vigilance Bureau arrested him for his alleged involvement in the wrong mutation of 1,295 acres. The role of the registry clerk and five other employees is being probed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vigilance-bureau-to-produce-naib-tehsildar-in-court-today-169507
12-11-2020||Zirakpur||Zirakpur made new police subdivision||In an administrative rejig, the Mohali police have made Zirakpur a separate subdivision with a new DSP-level officer assuming charge of it.The new set-up will now have three police stations, Airport, Zirakpur and Dhakoli. Amroj Singh, DSP (Detective), will be the new in-charge, taking over from Dera Bassi DSP Gurbakshish Singh. The staff strength will remain the same except for the DSP’s office. The Dera Bassi police subdivision is now left with three police stations, Dera Bassi, Lalru and Handesra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-made-new-police-subdivision-169508
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||MC gets second petrol station||The local Municipal Corporation (MC) got its second modern petrol station today.Governor of Punjab and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore inaugurated the petrol station at Industrial Area, Phase II, virtually.The Administrator emphasised the need to ensure 100% quality and quantity, and best of the service to customers visiting the outlet. He also advised the Mayor to work upon a proper plan for utilisation of the funds/revenue generated from these new outlets for the welfare of the MCC staff.Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav said this fully automated retail outlet had been designed with state-of-the-art facilities wherein customers would receive e-receipts after the purchase of fuel. Provisions have also been made for providing green fuels such as CNG/EV charging which shall be launched in due course of time.Indian Oil’s “Xtrapremium” petrol with super cleansers is also available at both fuel outlets of the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-gets-second-petrol-station-169509
12-11-2020||---||3 arrested for duping delivery persons by replacing goods||Mohali, November 11The Mohali police have arrested three persons for duping several delivery men of an online shopping platform by replacing the original articles with fake ones.The suspects have been identified as Ajay Pokhar, Nishant Narang, both residents of Fatehabad, and Naveen Kumar, a resident of Dariyapur village. The suspects were nabbed near the JCT chowk, Industrial Area, Phase 7, last night, said the police. The police have recovered nine airpods, one dongle, 54 SIM cards, four soap bars, three watches and four sealed parcels from their possession.The suspects were produced before a local court today which sent them to three-day police remand.The suspects used to place orders for mobile phones online by providing fake addresses. On getting a call from the delivery man, they would call him in an open space and change the parcel with their fake articles, placed already in their vehicle.The in charge of police post at Industrial Area, Phase 8-B, ASI Avtar Singh, said: “One of the suspects used to keep the delivery man busy in talk while the others would replace the parcel in the car. They returned the parcel to the delivery man by saying that they did not have enough money to make payment.” The suspects had duped several delivery men in Delhi and Sonepat. They had moved to the tricity around a fortnight ago, said the ASI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-arrested-for-duping-delivery-persons-by-replacing-goods-169510
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana based Advocate uses social media for publicity, loses his licence||The disciplinary committee of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has suspended the licence of an advocate based in Ludhiana after he was found guilty of using social media for his publicity. Lawyer’s excuse for not attending hearingSources said the disciplinary committee issued a notice to the advocate who replied through a mail, promising that he would not use advocate’s gown and band for any video on social media in future. He stated that he had cough and cold, and could not attend the hearing as he had quarantined himself as a precautionary measure.The Bar Council has also issued a warning to its registered advocates against resorting to unethical ways of advertising to solicit work on social media platforms such as Instagram and Facebook.The committee took up the case suo motu after the issue came to the notice of the Bar Council.Sources said the committee recently delivered the order after the advocate failed to appear before it and the reply sent through mail was found unsatisfactory. While suspending the licence, the committee has given another opportunity to the advocate to move an application for recalling of the order at any stage with satisfactory reasons.The matter has been listed for further proceedings on November 18, 2020.“We have considered the application which is contradictory in nature, rather it goes to prove that the respondent advocate has no intention to appear today or in future as well. He was given an opportunity on the last date to appear today, but he failed to avail it. Therefore, the committee has no option except to suspend his licence till further order,” says the order.Chairman of Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana Karanjit Singh said resorting to advertisement through social media was a violation of the rules framed by the Bar Council of India.The mandate of Rule 36 prohibits an advocate from soliciting work or advertising, directly or indirectly by any means of circular, advertise, touts, communications etc, and any such violation would be considered a misconduct under Section 35 of the Advocates Act, 1961. If any instance is complained of or comes to the notice of the Bar Council, suo motu action be taken against the advocate concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ludhiana-based-advocate-uses-social-media-for-publicity-loses-his-licence-169511
12-11-2020||Chandigarh||Theft at bizman’s house in Sector 21||Bag stolen from bus at ISBT-43Chandigarh: A bag containing a laptop and other valuables was stolen from a bus at the ISBT in Sector 43. The complainant, Amandeep Singh of Una, Himachal Pradesh, reported the matter to the police following which a case was registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNSYouth arrested with heroinChandigarh: A 22-year-old Zirakpur resident has been arrested by the local police with 12 gm of heroin. A team of the operations cell nabbed the accused, Arvinder Singh, a resident of Shivalik Vihar, Zirakpur. The police had laid a naka near the Poultry Farm chowk when they nabbed the accused with heroin. A case has been registered against him under the NDPS Act at the Industrial Area police station. TNSFive industrial plots sealedMohali: The MC has sealed five industrial plots in Phase 7 and 9 after their owners failed to pay the property tax. The MC officials said the owners owed about Rs8 lakh as property tax to the civic body. TNSEngineer held with pistolChandigarh: A 28-year-old civil engineer has been arrested for possessing a country-made pistol and two cartridges. The suspect has been identified as Vivek Rana, alias Sunny, a resident of Sector 27. He was arrested near Satsang Bhawan in Sector 27 on Tuesday. TNSFive passenger trains cancelledChandigarh: Five pairs of trains plying at the Chandigarh railway station have been cancelled because of the farmer agitation. A notification states that Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express will not run on Thursday. Puja special train from Chandigarh to Lucknow has also been cancelled for the want of rake, till Thursday. Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Mail Express Special and New Delhi-Una Janshatabdi, too, won't move beyond Ambala. The holiday special tri-weekly train plying at Chandigarh via Jaipur and Daulatpur will also halt at Ambala. TNS2 hotels sealed in ZirakpurZirakpur: The police have sealed two hotels located near the Chandigarh-Zirakpur border for not maintaining guests’ verfication details, and booked their owners. Zirakpur SHO Rajpal Singh Gill said Hotel Royal City and Hotel Himachal Palace being run from the same building were being used for illegal activities. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-at-bizmans-house-in-sector-21-169512
