18-11-2020||Chandigarh||One death, 145 fresh coronavirus cases in Chandigarh||One more person succumbed to coronavirus in Chandigarh on Wednesday as 145 fresh cases took the infection tally in the Union Territory to 16,167.So far, 253 people have died from the infection in the UT. There are 1,081 active cases as of now, read a bulletin.A total of 89 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 14,833, it said.A total of 1,26,852 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them 1,09,943 tested negative while reports of 161 samples are awaited, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-145-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-chandigarh-172230
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Health Department asks residents to avoid travelling to Delhi due to rise in COVID-19 cases||Keeping in view the rising number of COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh and it’s adjoining states, the UT Health Department has asked Chandigarh residents to avoid travelling to high-risk zones such as New Delhi and NCR region unless unavoidable.The department said the probability of getting infected increases substantially when people travel to high-risk zones.The advisory reads, “People coming back from Delhi should maintain six feet distance from their family members and always wear a mask at home and limit contact with others to less than fifteen minutes.”The health department has also requested people travelling back from New Delhi by bus to avail the free Covid testing facility provided at Sector 17 bus stand.   Those coming from Delhi should also follow these norms at their workplace to prevent the spread of infection to their colleagues and acquaintances.The department has made an appeal to the Delhi returnees to get tested immediately if symptomatic and opt for volunteer testing even if they are asymptomatic for the safety of their family and colleagues.The department stated that free voluntary testing facility is available at GMSH-16, Civil Hospital Manimajra, Civil Hospital Sector 22, Civil Hospital Sector 45 and mobile testing units as per schedule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-department-asks-residents-to-avoid-travelling-to-delhi-due-to-rise-in-covid-19-cases-172223
18-11-2020||Mona||As Chandigarh's Tagore Theatre is set to re-open, the artistic community of tricity is geared up to infuse life into the cultural scene||The cultural hub of Chandigarh, Tagore Theatre, which was closed in March due to the pandemic is set to open its doors. The very stage that has brought together scintillating performances and formidable acts has been missed by the culturati. The opening has the theatre goers enthused but everything comes with a safety check first.About time!Mukesh Sharma, director, Samvaad Theatre Group, is glad that finally Tagore Theatre is opening. “We have this addiction of hanging out at Tagore, catching performances. Now that the artiste in me, is raring to go back, feel the ambience with the hope to bring back stage productions.”Through the lockdown, Mukesh turned his focus towards filmmaking. “Because of the lockdown, we didn’t work on any theatre production, but with this new move, we will work on one soon keeping the safety norms in mind.” A technician at Radiology department at the Government Medical College & Hospital-32, Mukesh understands that times are still not normal. “Coronavirus is reviving. So, we need to be careful, yet, we want the audience back. We will ensure all safety norms.”Not ready to endanger people“One major concern at this moment is darshak kya ayega?” asks Sudesh Sharma, founder, Theatre for Theatre (TFT). “Theatre thrives on its audience. Looks like people are still not ready to take any risk for entertainment.” He gives an example of cinema, how despite opening of multiplexes there is little footfall. He thinks theatre too has to wait for the audience to return. “While last few months have been rather tough on theatre folks, what good came out was the virtual platform that brought us all together to learn and train.” While the government’s nod to Tagore is a welcome step considering TFT’s 30-day winter festival is around the corner, Sharma would rather be safe. “Our winter fest is quite a spread from 9 am to 9 pm for 30 days with performances, workshops and ru-ba-rus. We have just started to chalk out the plan. We would adhere to all safety norms and would only go ahead if we think if we could do it without any risks. The aim of theatre is not to earn money but highlight social issues and if by staging a play, we endanger our audience then we are not ready to take that risk.”It’s possible to brave the oddsQuite perplexed at the rising number of Covid cases, Shobha Koser from Pracheen Kala Kendra puts forth, “For us live performances are our life’s elixir, we cannot survive sans it for long.” While the webinars have kept her going, she hopes that along with the rest the cultural scene claims its space back. “We have started live performances for small groups ensuring social distancing; temperature checks and ‘no masks no entry’ policy. If Tagore opens, we would look forward to holding programmes there. Keeping 2/3 chairs empty, and safety norms, we believe live performances can be brought back too, after all people did celebrate Diwali.”We will do it!Atul Sharma, vice-president, Chandigarh Sangeet Natak Akademi, welcomes the move. “Being a part of the Akademi and not being able to do anything was quite irksome. The opening of Tagore Theatre is a good move. We would be looking forward to the shows but with much emphasis on safety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-chandigarhs-tagore-theatre-is-set-to-re-open-the-artistic-community-of-tricity-is-geared-up-to-infuse-life-into-the-cultural-scene-172077
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Student of PU hangs herself||Constable found dead in barracksChandigarh: A CISF constable, Khem Raj (41), allegedly committed suicide at barrack number 6 in Sector 1 here on Monday night. His colleagues found him hanging around 7 pm and rushed him to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. Head Constable Khem Raj was posted as mess commander and had returned from Jammu and Kashmir a fortnight ago. TNSTeachers to shut VC’S officePatiala: The teaching staff of Punjabi University, who have been awaiting deposition of GPF deductions from their salaries in their respective accounts since May, have now decided to close the main entrance to the Vice-Chancellor’s office in protest. TNSDemolition team faces resistancePanchkula: A demolition drive by the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) could not be carried out due to protest from residents of Madrasi Colony in Sector 21 on Tuesday. Estate Officer Anil Doon said the HSVP would soon take the possession of the land. TNSDr Bhushan gets PU CoE chargeChandigarh: PU VC Prof Raj Kumar has given the additional charge of Controller of Examinations(CoE) to Dr Jagat Bhushan, Principal of the dental institute. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/student-of-pu-hangs-herself-171976
18-11-2020||Panchkula||Robberies at knifepoint||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/robberies-at-knifepoint-171974
18-11-2020||---||Encroachers can pay challan on spot soon||Chandigarh, November 17Just like the traffic police, the enforcement wing of the Municipal Corporation will use point of sale (PoS) machines to issue challans to shopkeepers and vendors encroaching upon government property.For the purpose, the MC has tied up with Axis Bank and is procuring 11 machines for its enforcement sub-inspectors posted in different areas.Enforcement officials will click a picture of the violation and issue a slip to the violator then and there. The machine will help the erring shopkeeper or vendor pay the penalty on the spot. Thus, the officials will not have to seize the goods kept on the encroached space.“Our IT team is tying up with Axis Bank for installing the system. Soon, we will get the POS machines. The erring violators will be challaned on the spot. They will be able to pay digitally though all online mediums. We will also have a provision to pay cash as there are vendors also,” said Sorabh Arora, Joint Commissioner, MC.A challan of Rs2,000 is issued to shopkeepers and vendors indulging in encroachment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/encroachers-can-pay-challan-on-spot-soon-171973
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||45-yr-old plumber found murdered in Sector 44||The body of a 45-year-old man was found near Labour Chowk in Sector 44 here today. The victim has been identified as Jagpal, a resident of Jagatpura in Mohali, who worked as a plumber.Daily wagers spotted the body smeared with blood in bushes around 7:45am and informed the police. A blood-stained stone was found near the body. A case of murder has been registered at the Sector 34 police station.The police suspect it to be a case of drunken brawl as the victim, along with two men, had bought liquor from a vend in Burail on Monday night. The police are trying to trace the duo. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/45-yr-old-plumber-found-murdered-in-sector-44-171972
18-11-2020||Panchkula||83 test positive in Panchkula, no fatality||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/83-test-positive-in-panchkula-no-fatality-171971
18-11-2020||Mohali||4 deaths, 84 fresh infections in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-deaths-84-fresh-infections-in-mohali-171970
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||136 new cases in Chandigarh, two more die||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/136-new-cases-in-chandigarh-two-more-die-171969
18-11-2020||Mohali||7-yr-old girl drowns in Kharar pond||A seven-year-old girl lost her life after falling in a pond at Hassanpur village in Kharar subdivision of the district.The victim, Harman Kaur, daughter of Ravinder Singh, a soldier in Indian Army posted near Baramula, was learning to ride a bicycle. In the process, she lost control and fell into the pond. The incident took place around 3.15 pm. A college girl from the village saw her and shouted for help. Responding to the call, villagers rushed to the spot.On getting information around 3.35 pm, cops and officials of the local administration also went to the spot.Swimmers from Morinda and nearby villages were called to the spot. Around 5 pm, swimmers recovered the girl from the pond and rushed her to the Civil Hospital where she was declared dead.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh had announced Rs2 lakh as ex gratia for the victim’s family.Harman’s mother is a homemaker. She has a brother and a sister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-yr-old-girl-drowns-in-kharar-pond-171968
18-11-2020||Naina Mishra||Positivity rate rises to 10% post Diwali||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17Three days after Diwali, the city today recorded 136 Covid cases, the maximum number of cases recorded in November so far. While the positivity rate stands at 10 per cent, the trend is suggestive of the very fact that a second surge of Covid has gripped the city after September.The last week of October recorded 438 cases with an average of daily cases ranging from 60 to 70. At the onset of November, the Covid cases in Chandigarh started witnessing about 50 per cent rise compared to cases reported in the last week of October.The first week of November recorded 658 cases followed by 670 cases in the second week. The positivity rate also increased from 6 per cent in the last week of October to 10 per cent this week.Positivity rateLast week of Oct: 6% (438 cases)Nov first week: 8.5% (658 cases)Nov second week: 10% (670 cases)Experts have attributed the surge to the lackadaisical attitude of city residents in not following Covid protocol during the festival season.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said: “The city was reporting 60 daily cases of Covid-19 before Dussehra. A rise in cases was seen three or four days after the festival. There was a huge crowd in the markets as people neither followed social-distancing norm wore masks. The increased mobility during the festive season is the main factor behind the surge. Besides, the poor air quality seen in the first two weeks of November may have contributed to the transmission of the virus.”Dr Kang added: “The next week will be crucial as Diwali has just passed and a rise in infections may also be witnessed. We have stepped up contact tracing from four per Covid positive person to 10. We are asking infected persons to identify contacts with whom they had spent more than four hours.”Mobile testing at ISBTFearing infection spread from travellers coming from Delhi, the UT Administration has launched a mobile testing facility at the ISBT. Last time when infections started rising in June in Chandigarh, one of the main reasons for the spread was travellers coming from Delhi and the nearby hotspot areas. Dr Kang said: “Our team faced problems in testing travellers from Delhi as they were reluctant to undergo Covid test. It should be the moral responsibility of everyone coming from Covid-hit states to watch their symptoms for four or five days and get them tested.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/positivity-rate-rises-to-10-post-diwali-171967
18-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh employees’ hopes to own house dashed again||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17Even after a decade, there is no respite for 3,930 UT employees who were selected by lot for the UT’s employees’ self-finance housing scheme.Following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the UT Administration held a meeting with a delegation of the employees who are to get flats under the scheme, but it again disappointed the latter for they were offered prices with a very marginal reduction.Housing schemeThe draw of lots for the housing scheme was conducted on November 4, 2010. Under the scheme, 336 three-bedroom flats, 888 two-bedroom, 564 one-bedroom and 320 one-room flats were to be built on land measuring 61.5 acre.When the scheme was announced in 2008, the rate of one-room flat (EWS category) was Rs5.76 lakh, but it was today offered for a whopping Rs48 lakh-Rs54 lakh, that too in an 11-storey building. Three BHK, which was priced at Rs34.70 lakh, was today offered for a staggering Rs1.51crore-Rs1.69 crore.“We have rejected both proposals of the Administration. From where will the common man pay such a huge amount? We want the same rates as mentioned in the 2008 brochure. Now, we will strongly fight our case in the High Court on November 26 as we have no hopes from the authorities,” stated Dr Dharmender, general secretary, UT Government Employees Housing Welfare Society.“It is their mistake that they did not build flats under the 2008 scheme and inordinately delayed the matter without any reason. Thus, we want the same 2008 rates as employees cannot afford the increased cost of the flats. The authorities should treat it as a special case, not as a general housing scheme. They can give flats on throwaway prices eyeing a particular vote bank, but are doing injustice with their own employees,” said a group of employees.Meanwhile, the administration, in a press note, has said: “The employees’ representatives had a detailed meeting with Adviser Manoj Parida, who offered a price range for the flats. If the employees agree to the prices, the Administration will move the MHA for formal approval, after which the housing board will start construction. The houses will range from 6 to 11 floors to reduce the need for larger land area. The employees have been requested to give their consent at the earliest. They demanded free-hold land rights which the Adviser said will be decided by the MHA.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-employees-hopes-to-own-house-dashed-again-171966
18-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Rain gain for Chandigarh's air quality||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16The rain late last evening improved the air quality of the city drastically, bringing it to the “good to satisfactory” level.‘AQI dropped to 55’Due to rain and a ban on crackers, the AQI dropped to 55 in 24 hours. It is the lowest AQI recorded after the lockdown when it had dropped to 25. However, such a low AQI has not been recorded during the festive season since 2011 when we first started evaluating it at the Sector 25 station. - Ravindra Khaiwal, Addl Prof, Environment Health, PGIIn the past 24 hours, the air quality index (AQI) was between 40 and 55 — as recorded at the real-time monitoring station in Sector 25. On Diwali, it was 140, while last year on the festival, it was 341.“Due to rain and a ban on crackers, the AQI dropped to 55 in 24 hours. It is the lowest AQI recorded after the lockdown when it had dropped to 25. However, such a low AQI has not been recorded during the festive season since 2011 when we first started evaluating it at the Sector 25 station,” said Ravindra Khaiwal, Additional Professor of Environment Health, Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGI.The AQI value was 25 in March-end and early-April when the lockdown was imposed across the country. The region did not witness rain for the past two months. So, the AQI was moderate.“The rain has cleared all accumulated pollution. The dust will remain settled for the next few days now. The AQI will be at the satisfactory level and after November 20, it will reach the moderate level,” he added.Meanwhile, the Met Department recorded 15.1 mm of rainfall, the first in the season. The next three days are expected to see a clear sky. The maximum temperature fell from 28°C to 24°C today, four degrees below normal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-gain-for-chandigarhs-air-quality-171477
18-11-2020||Mohali||Hit by car, 2 bikers killed, one injured||Two persons were killed, while one was seriously injured after their motorcycle was hit by a speeding car on Airport Road last night.Hockey player dies as bike skidsA 20-year-old youth was killed in a road mishap after his motorcycle skidded near the Sector 68/78 traffic lights on Airport Road here. The victim has been identified as Prateek Sharma, a resident of Bathinda. The deceased was a hockey player and was residing in a rented accommodation in Sector 86. The incident took place around 11.30 pm on Sunday night when Prateek was going to his house on his bike.The deceased have been identified as Neeraj (21), a resident of Dadu Majra Colony in Sector 38 (West), and his cousin Krishan Kumar (22), a resident of Kaithal. The injured has been identified as Ravinder Pal (23), also a resident of Dadu Majra Colony. Neeraj and Ravinder Pal were working as DJ operators in a Chandigarh-based club, while Krishan Kumar had come here a few days ago.According to the police, the incident occurred around 1.15 am when the trio was returning home after having dinner at a restaurant on Airport Road amid rain. A car hit the motorcycle from the rear side following which the trio fell and sustained injuries.ASI Dilbagh Singh said, “The car driver fled from the spot, leaving his vehicle behind. Neeraj died on the spot, Krishan Kumar succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital, while Ravinder Pal is battling for his life at the GMSH, Sector 16.” A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-car-2-bikers-killed-one-injured-171478
18-11-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula Fire Department lacks firepower||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 16The fire that ravaged around 80 jhuggis in Saketri village has brought to the fore shortcomings in the Panchkula Fire Department, affecting fire operations and emergency response, with fresh allegations of reaching the spot late and limited machinery.Key statsPopulation: 5.61 lakh (2011 census) | Fire engines: 8 | Firefighters: 32 | Hydraulic platforms: 1 | Fire stations: 3Even though the department has denied the charge of responding late, officials admitted that they lacked adequate fire engines and machinery for a population of around six lakh. “On Diwali, we had deployed fire engines at several spots across the city to meet any eventuality in time. Had these been stationed at the Sector 5 station, it would have taken lesser time,” an official of the department said.Officials said the biggest concern for the department was shortage of staff.Against the required strength of 48, the department has a manpower of just 32 — facing a crunch of 16.Ever since the suspension of previous Panchkula Fire Officer Shamsher Singh for ignoring norms in the issuance of fire NOC in August, the department does not have a full-time senior officer.Jagadhri Fire Officer Pankaj Parashar is holding the additional charge. He sits in Panchkula for just four days — from Tuesday to Friday.At present, Panchkula has three fire stations with 32 firefighters. The department has eight fire engines. The department needs new fire stations at four new spots, including the Industrial Area. For this, approval of the state government is awaited.Apart from 2,000 units operating in the Industrial Area, Panchkula has thousands of commercial centres, offices, around 400 schools (private and government) and over 200 group housing societies in Sector 20, Sector 23 to 28 across the Ghaggar and the Mansa Devi complex area, besides high-rise buildings in IT Park.“The department has to depend upon neighbouring Chandigarh and Mohali for assistance in case of major fire incidents. With new equipment and vehicles, our response time will improve,” an official said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-fire-department-lacks-firepower-171481
18-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Diwali stalls fetch MC Rs32 lakh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16Despite Covid, the Municipal Corporation earned the highest revenue of Rs32 lakh from the fee generated for allowing stalls in markets and challans issued against those operating without permission during Diwali.The revenue generated is about 25 per cent more than the last year. The MC generated Rs29 lakh by giving permission to shopkeepers and vendors for three or seven days for putting up stalls ahead of Diwali. The corporation generally earns about Rs23-24 lakh from such permissions each year during the festival. Besides, the MC had started a special drive against those who had not taken any permission for putting up stalls in different parts of the city. The enforcement wing and staff from other wings was deputed on the job. They issued challans to violators to the tune of Rs2.80 lakh. Those who had not taken permission were charged double. Those who had increased the stall area to more than the permitted limit were also fined.Maximum violations were found in Mani Majra and challans worth Rs70,000 were issued. In total, the civic body could fetch Rs32 lakh from fines and permission for stalls.“This time we earned the highest revenue. Since there was a ban on the sale of crackers in the UT, many vendors had shifted to other kind of stalls. The market had just opened after the Covid-induced lockdown. So, traders and vendors wanted to make the most of the time,” said an MC official.On the other hand, the MC was criticised for widespread encroachment in parking lots and corridors. In Sector 19 only, it allotted stalls to 460 persons leaving little space for visitors to even walk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diwali-stalls-fetch-mc-rs32-lakh-171484
18-11-2020||---||40 inmates return to jail after 8 months, test -ve||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16As many as 40 prisoners reported at the Model Jail premises and were tested using the rapid antigen test during the process of readmission of prisoners who had been released on special parole and special interim bail due to the Covid pandemic eight months ago.All prisoners tested negative and have been shifted into the special barracks set up on the jail premises. The next batch of prisoners will return on November 22. Undertrial prisoners will return to the prison from December 12. The prison authorities, the Department of Health and the District Legal Services Authority, UT, had made the necessary arrangements. A health team was present and the rapid antigen test of prisoners returning from special parole was done outside the jail at Gate No. 1.Only those prisoners were readmitted to the jail whose rapid antigen test for Covid-19 came negative. Officials said special barracks had been set up for a 10-day quarantine of prisoners.The total number of prisoners released on special parole was 202 (193 male and nine female) and those on special interim bail was 47 (46 male and one female). The jail authorities said the total number of prisoners was 1,028 (980 male and 48 female). The total sanctioned strength/capacity of Model Jail, Chandigarh, was 1,120 prisoners (1,000 male and 120 female). The total number of prisoners as on November 5 was 779 (741 male and 38 female).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-inmates-return-to-jail-after-8-months-test-ve-171485
18-11-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 53 cases, 2 deaths||As many as 53 fresh Covid cases were reported from the district in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 7,939.With two more deaths, the Covid toll in the district rose to 119. A 27-year-old man from Pinjore and a 69-year-old man from the Industrial Area, both suffering from diabetes, succumbed to the disease. Among the fresh cases, eight were from Amravati Enclave, six from Pinjore, five from Sector 15 and Sector 7, four from the MDC, Sector 5, and Sector 20, three from Sector 16, two each from the MDC, Sector 6, Sector 11, Sector 17, Sector 4 and Sector 8, and one each from Saketri, Sector 10, Sector 12, Sector 12-A, Sector 21, Sector 26 and Sector 27. While 7,388 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 432 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-53-cases-2-deaths-171546
18-11-2020||Mohali||104 new cases, one fatality in Mohali district||One more fatality was witnessed due to Covid in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 255. As many as 104 fresh cases were reported, taking the tally to 13,678, while 57 more patients were cured of the disease. Among the fresh cases, 86 were reported from Mohali (urban), 11 from Dhakoli, six from Gharuan and one from Kharar.The RT PCR test of staff of the district information and public relations office at the District Administrative Complex was conducted at Khel Bhawan. The report of all came out negative. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/104-new-cases-one-fatality-in-mohali-district-171547
18-11-2020||---||Post-Covid clinic to start at GMSH today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16The city is all set to have its first post-Covid clinic at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, for those facing problems even after recovering from Covid.The post-Covid services at the GMSH will start tomorrow during the usual OPD timings — between 9 am and 3 pm. The need for the clinic was felt after doctors started noticing a worrying trend of cured Covid-19 patients being afflicted with lung fibrosis (scarring of lung tissues, breathlessness and muscle ache) after a few weeks. Patients also witness post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and social stigma after they have recovered.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director (Health Services), said: “Every day, physicians have been attending to 10-15 patients with post-Covid complications such as myalgia, brain fogging and breathlessness.” “We decided to have a separate clinic for such patients so that their issues can be addressed properly,” added Dr Kang. Patients with post-Covid complications will be registered separately and referred to Room No. 303 at the GMSH.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/post-covid-clinic-to-start-at-gmsh-today-171548
18-11-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration to reopen Rock Garden on Thursday||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today decided to reopen Rock Garden, State Museum, Tagore Theatre and other places of tourist importance with a strict Covid protocol. The decision was taken at a meeting.While Rock Garden will open on Thursday, the museum will open tomorrow.These remained closed since the lockdown was announced in March. The Administration suffered a huge loss due to their closure.Mandip Brar, Deputy Commissioner, said 26,230 challans had been issued for violation of the Covid protocol. Dr Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, said due to the ban on crackers, the AQI remained at 127 on Diwali. He said it was for the first time that the air quality on the day after Diwali was “good” instead of “poor” or “moderate”.Administrator wants dark spots in the city lit upThe Administrator asked MC Commissioner KK Yadav to ensure that the dark spots were taken care with proper street lighting. He said a drive should be started to ensure that the work was completed in a time-bound manner by the MC. Earlier, Chandigarh Tribune had highlighted that the work of lighting up dark spots would miss another Diwali deadline.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-reopen-rock-garden-on-thursday-171549
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 82 fresh cases, 2 deaths||The city today recorded 82 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 15,886. Two more deaths were reported, taking the toll to 150.A 50-year-old man from Mauli Jagran, a case of chronic kidney disease, haemophilia and chronic hepatitis-C, died at the PGIMER. A 56-year-old woman from Ramdarbar, a case of Type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, died at the GMCH-32. As many as 116 patients were discharged today. The total number of patients cured is 14,584 and the city has 1,052 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-82-fresh-cases-2-deaths-171550
18-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab varsity sports calendar rescheduled||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16The Directorate of Sports, Panjab University, may end up conducting select inter-college championships or even no sports event this session, said officials.Earlier, the department had announced to conduct championships in the first week of November. However, the process was delayed by 15 days due to extension of the admission process. As admission for many courses is still underway, the championship will not be held this month.In December, Panjab University (PU) is planning to conduct online examinations, which will again halt any championship.They would start conducting events, if any, in January, officials said while adding that till March, end of the current session, only a handful of events would be conducted.The PU Dean (University Instructions), RK Singla, who has been given additional charge of Director (Sport), refused to comment on the issue. Deputy Directors Rakesh Malik and Dolly, who are managing the department after the untimely demise of the former Director (Sports), Dr Parminder Singh, said, “The department is waiting for an update from the Associations of Indian Universities (AIU).”“We have to wait for the AIU’s next update for conducting any championship,” said Dolly.“The AIU calendar is important to conduct the championships. We will unlikely to conduct any event this month as admissions are still underway, said Malik. “In December, online examinations are lined-up. We have only January. We may end up conducting select championships or even no sports event. However, the final decision will be taken at the meeting of executives,” added Malik.Executive meetingon November 18Meanwhile, the Panjab University Sports Committee (PUSU) will meet on November 18. Besides discussing conducting championships, the executive will also take up the issue of releasing cash awards for last year’s winners.Disadvantage for playersIn both cases – selected events and no events – players will remain at loss. “Conducting no championship is better than organising select events. There’s no provision on how to select which championship is important. Also, conducting a few championships means selected players will benefit,” said a senior coach.AIU to decide oninter-college c’shipsMeanwhile, if the AIU decides not to conduct inter-university championships, it will be difficult to conduct inter-college event. “Besides giving local players a platform to perform, the inter-college championships is important for selecting teams for various inter-university championships. In case, there’s no inter-university championships, the PU may end up with no tournament,” said another source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-varsity-sports-calendar-rescheduled-171551
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Rs15-lakh CSR fund for BioNEST-PU||BioNEST- Panjab University, a bio-incubator, has received Rs15 lakh under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding from Fresenius Kabi Oncology Limited (FKOL), Gurugram.FKOL is a public company known for its R&D and manufacturing of oncology drugs. The company has been in a cooperative relationship with the incubator since 2017 and has sanctioned a sum of Rs65 lakh till date for the establishment of various facilities at BioNEST-Panjab University (PU) campus.The incubator will get quantitave PCR/ real time-PCR facility from FKOL in its fourth phase. The real time PCR forms a basis of many advanced molecular biotechnology techniques and more recently as an analytical system during the pandemic.Recently, the BioNEST-PU got a 250-litre scale bioreactor at its scale up facility.“Having useful facilities onboard as a part of the incubator will encourage more startups to come and work independently for product development. We hope for more industrial collaborations with the university in near future,” said Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU.“The Quantitative PCR facility will be used by microbiologists, incubates, scientists, faculty and researchers working in the fields of food safety, food spoilage, molecular biology, analytical systems and fermentation and for the microbial risk assessment of water quality and in public health protection,” said Dr Rohit Sharma, project leader, BioNEST-PU. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs15-lakh-csr-fund-for-bionest-pu-171552
18-11-2020||Karam Prakash||Shortage of doctors, staff hits functioning of Rajindra Hospital super-speciality ward||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 16The super-speciality branch of the Government Rajindra Hospital is not fully functional due to a shortage of doctors even after one year of its inauguration.Not even a single operation theatre (OT) is fully functional at the super-speciality ward of the hospital. Reportedly, only three super-specialist doctors had joined the hospital in the past 15 months. Of the three, a neurosurgeon has already left the hospital allegedly due to lack of proper infrastructure.Sources said the Medical Education Department could not find any super-specialist doctor willing to join the ward. Meanwhile, experts blamed the paucity of technical staff and insufficient salary for doctors not joining the department.Currently, there are no super specialists in the departments of neurology, cardiology, neurosurgery, cardiac surgery, gastroenterology, endocrinology, nephrology and oncology. The state government has recruited a cardiologist for the hospital. However, he has not joined yet.A senior doctor of the Government Rajindra Hospital, on the condition of anonymity, said: “There is lack of political will to start the super-speciality ward for providing poor patients with tertiary care.”If the super-speciality ward gets fully operational, it would affect big private hospitals in the region, the sources added.Dr Rajan Singla, principal, GMC, said: “Operation theatres of some of the departments are being sanitised and they will start in the coming days. The remaining departments will start as soon as we get super-specialist doctors.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shortage-of-doctors-staff-hits-functioning-of-rajindra-hospital-super-speciality-ward-171553
18-11-2020||---||Chandigarh Science Congress begins at PU today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16Panjab University in association with the Chandigarh Region Innovation and Knowledge Cluster (CRIKC) will organise the 14th Chandigarh Science Congress 2020 (CHASCON-2020) from November 17 to 19 on the theme “Science and technology innovations: Ushering in the era of Make-in-India” under the patronship of Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU.Prof Desh Deepak Singh, coordinator, CHASCON-2020, said “The registration fee has been waived off as the conference will be organised online. But, participants have to fill the registration form, which they can download from the website https://chascon.puchd.ac.in/.”CHASCON is an annual event since 2007 in PU, which encourages young and innovative minds for interaction with researchers, academicians and industry leaders. It is an exciting platform to deliberate, exchange views on scientific challenges and innovations and showcase contributions from the region and define the future road map for making India an innovation hub.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-science-congress-begins-at-pu-today-171554
18-11-2020||---||Top seeds reach quarterfinals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16Top seed Haryana’s Aditya Chauhan moved into the boys’ U-16 quarterfinals by defeating city’s Naveen Pruthi Sabyasachi 8-1 on the opening day of the HPCL-CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament, at the CLTA Complex, Sector 10.Chandigarh’s Keshav Dangi also confirmed his quarters’ berth by upsetting second seed Lakshya Gupta 8-4.Fourth seed Rishi Dahiya of Punjab defeated Gurpuneet Singh 8-3 and fifth seed Aarush Sharma registered a one-sided 8-3 win over Gurbaaz Singh Dhanoa. Sixth seed local contender Anirudh Sangra easily defeated Darshan Dilabr Singh 8-3 and in the last three second-round matches, Akshat Dhull overpowered Umang Singh Cogi 8-7 (4), Rakshit Dhankar ousted Yash Solanky 8-2 and Arnav Bishnoi defeated Aryan Jolly 8-1.Harleen in next roundIn the girls’ U-16 category, top seed Harleen Kaur Dhanda of Haryana defeated another Haryana player Saanvi Garg 8-2 to book her place in the quarterfinals. Second seed Radhika Vasudeva moved ahead by registering an easy 8-1 win over Agrima Gandhi and third seed Vanya Arora ousted Krittika Katoch 8-1. Sixth seed Riya Kaushik outplayed Milli Pandit 8-6.Haryana’s Shriya Singh recorded an upset 8-5 win over fourth seed Ananya Dogra of Chandigarh and Rubani Kaur Sidhu defeated seventh seed Cahterine Bhangu 8-4.Harnoor Kaur Sidhu of Haryana won a closely contested match against Punjab’s Gurmanat Kaur Sandhu 8-7 (4), while Sidhak Kaur defeated eighth seed Simar Atwal 8-4.The quarterfinals of both the categories will be played on Tuesday.Results (Boys’ U-16)Aditya Chauhan bt Naveen Pruthi Sabyasachi 8-1, Anirudh Sangra bt Darshan Dilabr Singh 8-3, Akshat Dhull bt Umang Singh Cogi 8-7 (4), Rakshit Dhankar bt Yash Solanky 8-2, Aarush Sharma bt Gurbaaz Singh Dhanoa 8-3, Rishi Dahiya bt Gurpuneet Singh 8-3, Arnav Bishnoi bt Aryan Jolly 8-1, and Keshav Dangi bt Lakshya Gupta 8-4.Resuts (Girls’ U-16)Harleen Kaur Dhanda bt Saanvi Garg 8-2, Riya Kaushik bt Milli Pandit 8-6, Vanya Arora bt Krittika Katoch 8-1, Rubani Kaur Sidhu bt Cahterine Bhangu 8-4, Harnoor Kaur Sidhu bt Gurmanat Kaur Sandhu 8-7(4), Shriya Singh bt Ananya Dogra 8-5, Sidhak Kaur bt Simar Atwal 8-4 and Radhika Vasudeva bt Agrima Gandhi 8-1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seeds-reach-quarterfinals-171555
18-11-2020||---||Prem Bhatia lecture series at GGDSD College||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16The Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, GGDSD College, Sector 32, organised the third edition of the Prem Bhatia lecture series to celebrate the National Press Day today.Lt-Governor of Puducherry, Dr Kiran Bedi, was the chief guest on the occasion.Speaking about the media, Kiran said, “Newspapers are an essential part of governance and administration. It’s important to know what the media is doing, but more important to understand what we get from the media.”“Newspapers have great evidentiary value, radio is great for the morning news, and TV debates are beneficial. It is, however, important that we reduce stress in these debates and increase tolerance for differing opinions,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prem-bhatia-lecture-series-at-ggdsd-college-171556
18-11-2020||Naina Mishra||PGI finds abnormal liver profile in Covid-19 patients||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16In what may be a lesser known fact to many, researchers at the PGI have found that more than half of patients admitted to the hospital with SARS-CoV-2 infection had an abnormal liver function.About the studyThe PGI evaluated the liver function test results and inflammatory marker levels along with the medical history obtained from 170 adult patients of both genders with confirmed Covid-19 from March 15 to June 15. All Covid-19 positive patients of 15 years of age and above were included in the study. Patients suffering from chronic liver diseases, alcoholism, hepatitis, pregnant women and children (below 15 years) were excluded from the study.Key findingsThe study was conducted by Dr Ram Krishan Saini, Dr Neha Saini, Dr Sant Ram, Dr Shiv Lal Soni, Dr Vikas Suri, Dr Pankaj Malhotra, Dr Jyotdeep Kaur, Dr Indu Verma, Dr Sadhna Sharma and Dr Deepy Zohmangaihi.Dr Zohmangaihi of the department of bio chemistry, PGI, who is the corresponding author of the study, said: “Through our observation on Covid-19 patients, we have concluded that SARS-CoV-2 may possibly cause liver damage. Not many are aware of this as the primary organ affected by Covid is lungs. Abnormal liver profile was mostly found in Covid patients requiring ICU treatment.”The findings of the study suggested that of 152 Covid-19 positive patients, 89 (58.5 per cent) had abnormal liver tests, of which 43 (48.31 per cent) had liver injury.Severity in terms of ICU requirement was more pronounced in patients with raised liver enzymes and liver injury. In patients with normal liver enzymes, only 21.15 per cent required ICU admission while maximum requirement of 52.48 per cent was observed in patients with liver injury.The study has also found that the elderly and male patients with abnormal liver function were at higher risk of developing severe disease. A noticeable elevated liver enzyme level was found in men (67.4 per cent) compared to women (46.03 per cent). This higher predisposition could be attributed to the higher expression of ACE2 receptors (ACE2 acts as the receptor for the SARS-CoV-2 virus and allows it to infect the cell) in men, as reported in a study at Wuhan.Elderly patients had preponderance towards severe liver injury as patients above 50 years of age had more of mixed type of liver injury compared to those aged below 50 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-finds-abnormal-liver-profile-in-covid-19-patients-171557
18-11-2020||---||Rising Covid cases suggest rebound in tricity: Experts||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 16Medical experts have warned that with the number of cases increasing in the tricity, the second wave is proving to be more severe than the first one and there is a need to take all precautions.Dr Parvinder Chawla, Senior Consultant, Internal Medicine, said: “At our flu clinic in Fortis Hospital, Mohali, the weekly footfall has shown a steady decline over the past few weeks from a maximum of 262 in the second week of September. The footfall, after falling to 47 in the last week of October, has started rising again in November. The proportion of SARS-CoV-2 results reported positive has also shown a concomitant rise.”Dr Chawla said: “80 per cent people contracting this infection have an asymptomatic or mild infection not requiring hospitalization, and 20 per cent people have moderate to severe infection requiring hospitalisation. We have seen elderly persons and those who have high-risk medical conditions are more vulnerable and tend to comprise the 20 per cent group. While the 80 per cent group contributes more to the spread of infection, the 20 per cent group contributes more towards the hospital and ICU occupancy and death.”“Winter, anyways, is known to be harsh and unforgiving for the elderly. This winter is going to be especially risky for those with compromised health. Staying indoors in enclosed spaces is very likely to enhance the virus transmission from one person to another. The only thing that can work in the stage of community transmission is community action, each individual’s action,” said Dr Chawla.Preventing the second peak will therefore need individual and family responsibility with the mantra being “Self-protection, self-isolation and reverse-quarantine”, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rising-covid-cases-suggest-rebound-in-tricity-experts-171558
18-11-2020||Amit Bathla||Fire victims pick up pieces||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 16Left penniless and pushed into homelessness, Ram Rattan (55) doesn’t know how he will continue earning his livelihood after he and 219 others lost their shanties to a massive fire on the day of Diwali.Two days later, the bricklayer, though devastated, started building makeshift structures with poles and yellow tarpaulin sheets they received from social organisations.“We haven’t received a penny yet. I lost my cash and my wife’s jewellery to the fire,” he says while sitting on his plot.Even though yesterday’s spell of rain made the place muddy, slum dwellers are not willing to leave the site.“We have got tarpaulin sheets. We would erect a tent at the same location where we used to live,” says Ram Das as the others nod in an agreement.According to senior officials, a majority of victims had opted to sleep in the open fields near their old homes despite being offered a shelter on the Mansa Devi temple premises and other vacated spots.The slum cluster has been home to migrants that mostly work as construction workers. Most of them belong to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The fire here broke out around 3.15 pm on Diwali.Most slum dwellers claimed that their ID cards, cash and jewellery were destroyed in the fire.SDM Richa Rathee said an official had been stationed at the spot to take care of those affected by the fire.“They are being provided with everything they need — food, clothing, shelter — with the help of NGOs and social workers,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-victims-pick-up-pieces-171559
18-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Allegations of ‘loss to state exchequer’ should not deter Bench from granting bail, says HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the allegations of causing huge loss to the state exchequer should not deter the Bench from enlarging an accused on bail in the absence of serious contention on the state’s part that his release would interfere with the trial or result in tampering with evidence.The assertion by Justice Raj Mohan Singh came on a petition filed against the State of Haryana by Dr Jogender Singh through senior advocate JS Bedi and Sunil Sihag for regular bail in a case alleging cheating, criminal breach of trust, forgery and other offences registered on September 10, 2019, under Sections 406, 420, 466, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC at the state vigilance bureau police station in Panchkula.The Bench was told that the Union Welfare Minister circulated a scholarship scheme, under which post-matric students belonging to the scheduled caste were paid monthly scholarship and non-refundable fees. The allegations were of “fraudulent means to usurp the scholarship amount”.Bedi submitted the petitioner was named in the FIR along with other co-accused, but there was no specific allegation against him. The petitioner had been falsely implicated in the case by virtue of his designation as a varsity chairman at one point of time. He had no role to play in the alleged offence which took place after the petitioner resigned from varsity chairmanship.Granting bail, Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted: “No doubt, the offence alleged against the accused is a serious one in terms of alleged huge loss to the State exchequer. That, by itself, should not deter the Court from enlarging the accused on bail, when there is no serious contention of the State that the accused, if released on bail, would interfere with the trial or tamper with evidence”.Negating the State counsel’s submission for dismissal of bail in view of serious allegations and pending investigation of the case, Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted the petitioner was in judicial custody since September 7 and was not required for any further investigation of the case. The offences, too, were triable by the Magistrate.“At this stage, without adverting to the merits of the case and in view of the situation arising out due to the Covid-19 pandemic, I deem it appropriate to enlarge the petitioner on regular bail,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allegations-of-loss-to-state-exchequer-should-not-deter-bench-from-granting-bail-says-hc-171560
18-11-2020||---||Sanitation staff of GMCH-32 strike work||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16Around 300 sanitation workers went on strike on Monday disrupting sanitation services at the GMCH-32.The workers held a demonstration on the hospital campus and raised slogans against the administration for suspending their Diwali bonus.“Patients may get severely infected due to the uncovered waste lying in corridors,” said a doctor.Om Kailash, chairman of the GMCH-32 Safai Karamchari Union, said the bonus had never been suspended in the past decade. However, it was only three days ago that they were told that the bonus would not be granted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitation-staff-of-gmch-32-strike-work-171561
18-11-2020||Amit Bathla||Illegal hoardings dot Panchkula, MC turns blind eye||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 16The number of illegal hoardings dotting the city’s landscape, mostly belonging to the ruling BJP, has witnessed an increase with political and religious leaders putting up such hoardings in the name of greeting residents during the festival season.Illegal posters, hoardings and banners can be seen at prominent roundabouts, including the Amartex chowk, Sector 11/15 chowk and Charkha chowk, but neither the civic body nor the traffic police have so far taken any action against them.These hoarding hinder motorists’ view. According to traffic rules, there must be a clear visibility of traffic movement from all sides.The Punjab and Haryana High Court has time and again taken a stern view of the issue. It seems, the Panchkula Municipal Corporation has turned a blind eye to this brazen violations.Residents and their welfare associations have demanded strict action against the violators. The Panchkula Vikas Manch, a city-based NGO, said it was a sheer negligence on the part of the civic body.In July, Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta had directed officials to revise the advertisement rates for public places as due to high rates, most of the spots were lying vacant.He had said it was irrational to fix advertisement rates here on the lines of big cities such as Delhi and Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-hoardings-dot-panchkula-mc-turns-blind-eye-171562
18-11-2020||---||2-day police remand for main suspect||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 16The three suspects, including two juveniles, arrested for allegedly murdering an 18-year-old migrant labourer in Nayagaon on Diwali, were produced before the Kharar court today.The court sent the main suspect, Basu, to two-day police remand, while both juveniles were ordered to be sent to a juvenile home in Hoshiarpur.The suspects had allegedly killed Rajveer, a resident of Ganganagar, by attacking him with a wooden log on his head on Diwali in Dashmesh Nagar, Nayagaon, following heated arguments.According to the police, Rajveer had old rivalry with one of the suspects and last evening, when the victim was returning to his house after finishing his work around 7 pm, he met the suspect following which they had heated arguments.Later the suspect, Basu, and the juveniles assaulted the victim. The trio then fled from the spot.Nayagaon SHO Jagjeet Singh said, “We will interrogate Basu for more details. The juveniles will be taken to a juvenile home in Hoshiarpur on Tuesday as their Covid-19 test reports are yet to arrive.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-day-police-remand-for-main-suspect-171563
18-11-2020||---||Patiala MC to build new cattle shed at Asmanpur village||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 16The Municipal Corporation (MC) will now take steps for the safety of commuters during the foggy winter ahead. Civic body officials said a new cattle shed would be constructed at Asmanpur village where stray animals roaming in the city would be accommodated. The plan for shifting stray animals was being prepared, they added.The MC will also affix reflectors on necks of stray cattle in the city. It will help commuters recognise stray cattle from a distance at night.Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said the new cattle shed would be beneficial for the city. All stray cattle would be shifted to the 15.5 acre site taken on lease by the MC, he added.“The cow cess collected by the MC will also be utilised for the management of cattle shed,” he said.The Mayor also held a meeting with officials of the Rural and Panchayat Development Department.Officials said cattle sheds in the city had all provisions, but they apparently lacked space due to which stray animals roamed on city roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-mc-to-build-new-cattle-shed-at-asmanpur-village-171564
18-11-2020||---||Punjabi University starts two refresher courses||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 16Punjabi University has started two refresher courses in mathematics and languages through the online mode. The Vice-Chancellor (VC), Dr BS Ghuman, said, “Teachers need to cope with the standards of teaching changing with time. As such research plays an important role in it.”“Teachers should be aware of various agencies instrumental in providing funds and assistance in research,” the VC added while discussing the quality of work generated in research.Dr Manruchi Kaur, Director, Human Resource Development Centre, said, “Focus should be on activities initiated by the university towards research and other matters.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-starts-two-refresher-courses-171565
18-11-2020||Mohali||Three arrested for gambling in Mohali||Trains cancelled due to agitationChandigarh: Trains plying from and to the Chandigarh railway station have been cancelled till Tuesday because of farmer agitation. The Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi will not operate on Tuesday. Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Mail Express Special and New Delhi-Una Janshatabdi will not go beyond Ambala. The holiday special tri-weekly train plying over Chandigarh via Jaipur and Daulatpur will also halt at Ambala. TNSOnline diwali celebrationsChandigarh: In an online assembly teachers of Gurukul Global School celebrated Diwali and Children’s Day. Teachers presented the thought of the day, word of the day, along with a poem on the significance of Diwali, speeches, ‘shloka’ recitation and a colourful cultural show online. Principal Nina Pandey blessed students. TNSStudents exhibit culinary skillsChandigarh: During inter-school Diwali celebrations at the KBDAV Senior Secondary Public School, Sector 7B, students of Class VIII exhibited their culinary skills in the “Edible diya competition” and Class IX students showcased their creativity in “Al hena competition”. An inter-house “Lakshmi footprint- Rangoli competition” was organised for Class X students. TNSInvestiture held at st joseph’sChandigarh: The investiture ceremony of St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44D, for the 2020-21 academic session was held with simplicity. It commenced with a welcome speech by Principal Monica Chawla, followed by giving badges and sashes to elected leaders. The students’ council took the pledge to hold the school motto in high esteem. TNSActivities mark children’s dayMohali: St Xavier’s High School arranged activities for children on the occasion of Diwali and Children’s Day. These included candle and diya decoration, Nehru cap making, fancy dress competition, poetry recitation and making rangoli. TNSFive booked for assault in BaltanaZirakpur: One person was severely injured and two suffered minor injuries in a roadside fight near Saini Vihar in Baltana on Monday. The police have booked five persons for rioting and assault. The complainant, Pratham Rawat, suffered serious head injuries as he was attacked with iron rods, sticks and bricks. He has been admitted to the GMCH-32. Taahil and others were arrested for the attack and later released on bail, the police said. Rawat said he was going back home on his bike after closing his shop in Baltana when five persons obstructed his way. They had a heated argument with him and assaulted him. His three friends following him were also assaulted. TNS101 units of blood donatedChandigarh: The Society United for Kindling Health (SUKH) Foundation orgainsed a blood donation camp at Sector 22 on Monday. The camp, conducted in collaboration with Blood Bank, PGI, received 101 units of blood. A few persons who recently recovered from Covid signed up to donate plasma at the PGI. The camp was inaugurated by Kuldeep Singh Chahal, SSP, Chandigarh, in the presence of Prof Vipin Koushal, Additional Medical Superintendent, PGI, and Prof Suchet Sachdev. During the lockdown, the foundation conducted three blood donation camps in Chandigarh in collaboration with the PGI blood bank. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-arrested-for-gambling-in-mohali-171566
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Day after rains, temperatures hover below normal in Haryana, Punjab||A day after Haryana and Punjab were lashed by rains, maximum temperatures hovered below normal limits in Haryana and Punjab on Tuesday.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 25.9 degrees Celsius, one notch below normal, according to the Meteorological (MeT) Department here.In Haryana, Ambala recorded a high of 24.8 degrees Celsius, down two notches against normal, while Hisar's maximum settled at 24 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal.Karnal registered a high of 24.5 degrees Celsius, down three notches against normal.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a high of 22.5 degrees Celsius, down four notches while Ludhiana registered a maximum of 23.9 degrees Celsius, down three notches.Patiala's maximum settled at 25.5 degrees Celsius, two below normal limits.According to the MeT Department forecast for Haryana and Punjab valid for the next four days, weather is likely to be dry during the period. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-rains-temperatures-hover-below-normal-in-haryana-punjab-171712
18-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University to continue with online classes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17Panjab University has decided to continue with online classes for students from the campus and affiliated colleges considering the rise in Covid-19 cases among PU officials and due to the unavailability of all hostels on the campus.Prof RK Singla said on the basis of detailed deliberations, it had been decided to continue with online mode of teaching for the time being in all teaching departments/regional centres/affiliated colleges/constituent colleges for the current semester. The final decision concerning calling students to the PU campus/regional centres/affiliated colleges/constituent colleges shall be taken in due course of time depending upon the improvement in Covid-19 situation, said an official commune by the PU.The decision is likely to be extended till December as online examinations are scheduled for entry classes next month.Earlier this month, the University Grants Commission (UGC) had announced new guidelines for reopening of universities and colleges across the country on Thursday. For central universities and other centrally-funded institutions, the decision was left to the Vice-Chancellors and heads. However, for state universities and colleges, the respective state governments were asked to take the call. Colleges and universities in Punjab reopened on Monday to a poor response.“It’s better to continue with online teaching amid rising number of cases for this month. The UT Administration is yet to hand us over the hostels, which have been converted into isolation wards, and in such scenario, if we throw open the campus, it will be difficult to adjust students here,” said an official. He further added, “The university is likely to be open after December. As of now, there’s no question of its opening for this month,” said another source. Recently, PU Registrar and Finance & Development Officer was found Covid-19 positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-continue-with-online-classes-171814
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||CSIO, HAL to develop aviation technology||The Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) and Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), Lucknow, have joined hands for the design and development of futuristic aviation technologies for different aerial platforms. Under a memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed today, HAL, a public sector undertaking under the Ministry of Defence, would avail of the services of the CSIO, a national research and development organisation under the Ministry of Science and Technology, for various avionics in ongoing and future projects. CSIO Director Prof SA Ramakrishna said it was a great achievement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/csio-hal-to-develop-aviation-technology-171815
18-11-2020||---||Tennis tourney: Top seeds set up title clash||Chandigarh, November 17  Top seeds Aditya Chauhan and Harleen Kaur Dhanda reached in the finals of boys’ U-16 and girls’ U-16 category, respectively, in the ongoing HPCL-CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament. In the boys’ U-16 final, Haryana’s Chauhan will face fifth seed Aarush Sharma of Punjab. In the semifinals played today, Chauhan defeated Chandigarh’s Rakshit Dhankar 9-6 and Sharma overpowered seventh seed Arnav Bishnoi 9-2.  Earlier in the quarterfinals, Chauhan defeated sixth seed Anirudh Sangra 9-4 and Dhankar ousted Akshat Dhull 9-5. Meanwhile, top seed Harleen Kaur Dhanda will take on second seed Radhika Vasudeva in the girls’ U-16 title clash. Harleen reached the finalS by defeating third seed Vanya Arora 9-3, while second seed Radhika ousted Haryana’s Harnoor Kaur Sidhu 9-4. In the quarterfinals, Harleen defeated sixth seed Riya Kaushik 9-5, Vanya ousted Rubani Kaur Sidhu 9-5, Harnoor outplayed Shriya Singh 9-1 and Radhika beat Sidhak Kaur 9-5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tennis-tourney-top-seeds-set-up-title-clash-171816
18-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Badminton Association to hold state championships from Dec||The Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) has announced to conduct Chandigarh State Badminton Championships in various age categories, in a phased manner, in December this year and in the beginning of January 2021.  “The dates for the interstate/ National Badminton Championships-2020 have not yet been finalised by the Badminton Association of India. However, the state championships are to be conducted before January 2021 to help players seeking admissions in various institutions,” said Surinder Mahajan, General Secretary, CBA. “Also, the state championships will serve as a criteria for selection of the state teams for participation in the Inter State/ National Badminton Championships, as and when conducted by the Badminton Association of India,” he added. The confirmed dates will be intimated in the second week of December. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-badminton-association-to-hold-state-championships-from-dec-171817
18-11-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Refund entire fee amount to parent: Panel to school||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17No fee amount, including the one paid in advance, can be illegally held back by a school for the period for which no teaching/service is being availed of by a student, stated the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, while directing a private school in Sector 44 to refund the entire fee of a student, who moved to another school of her choice.The commission has also directed the school to pay Rs2,500 as compensation to the complainant for deficiency in service, unfair trade practice and harassment caused to the complainant, along with Rs2,500 as litigation expensesAmit Mittal, a resident of Kharar, moved the commission after the private school refused to return the entire fee amount despite the fact his daughter did not study in the school for even a day. He said he had his daughter, Gitali Mittal, admitted to LKG in the schools and paid Rs58,900. However, his daughter then got admission to another school and Mittal sought refund of the amount paid. The school refunded him Rs48,900 through a cheque and deducted Rs10,000.After hearings the arguments, the commission stated: “We are of an opinion that since the daughter of the complainant did not attend the school even for a day, it was incumbent upon the school management to refund the fee after deducting five per cent fee towards the administrative charges. In view of this, the school is directed to refund the balance fee of Rs7,055 after deducting Rs2,945 from the withheld amount and to pay Rs2,500 as a compensation to the complainant for deficiency in service, unfair trade practice and harassment caused to him.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/refund-entire-fee-amount-to-parent-panel-to-school-171818
18-11-2020||Karam Prakash||Govt depts ask recovered staff to furnish -ve test report in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 17Many government departments are reportedly violating the instructions of the Health Department by not letting those recovered from Covid to join their duties without a test report.However, a Covid test is not required after a patient has been in isolation for 17 days, according to the Health Department.Moreover, there is no need to waste money on a Covid test again once the quarantine period is over, say experts.Several departments are reportedly directing their employees, who have already recovered from the virus, to get a negative test report before joining.An officer of the Excise Department, who had completed 17 days in home isolation, said: “The department did not allow me to join my duty despite having completed the 17-day isolation period and having a fitness certificate. They asked me to get a Covid test report before joining the department.”Another official with the district administration said: “I had to get myself tested again before I could join work.”A medical officer of the Patiala Health Department said: “Everyday, one or two government officials are requesting us to test them again before joining their respective departments.”The health experts said the Health Department had revised the policy only after various studies concluded that patients become non-infectious after 10 or 11 days, therefore, Covid test is not required after completion of 17 days in isolation.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said: “There have been cases where different government departments had asked employees to get a retest done. However, we remind them about the government orders that a test is not required after 17 days in isolation.”When asked about the reason for a retest, Malhotra replied: “It must be the fear of Covid that has been prompting the department to issue such directions to their employees.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/govt-depts-ask-recovered-staff-to-furnish-ve-test-report-in-patiala-171819
18-11-2020||---||55-year-old woman robbed by auto driver||Chandigarh, November 17 A 55-year-old woman was allegedly robbed by an auto-rickshaw driver near the backside of Jiri Mandi. The victim has been identified as Pushpa, a resident of Kharar. The robber took away her earrings, Rs10,000 cash, rings and a gold chain, after assaulting her.  The police said the incident happened last evening when the victim and her mother, Kamla, who runs a shop in Sector 38, boarded an auto-rickshaw near the roundabout of Sector 37, 38, 40 and 41. The mother of the victim alighted from the vehicle near the Sector 40-41light point.  The driver took a turn towards Jiri Mandi instead of Palsora to which the woman asked him to stop the vehicle but he did not relent. Panicked over this, she jumped off the vehicle in order to run away. The driver stopped the vehicle, gagged the victim and started pulling her jewellery. The woman escaped the attacker by biting him.  The victim took the help of a passerby to reach Sector 39, but it was found that the area fell under the jurisdiction of the Maloya police station. The Maloya police have registered a case against an unknown person driving an auto-rickshaw bearing Chandigarh registration number. The police said they are scanning the CCTV footage and investigating the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/55-year-old-woman-robbed-by-auto-driver-171820
18-11-2020||Panchkula||No Chhath Puja in Panchkula||The district administration today denied permission to the registration committee for celebrating the upcoming Chhath Puja on the banks of the Kaushalya and Ghaggar rivers.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the permission was denied due to Covid as 20-25,000 people were expected to visit the river banks. The DC told the Municipal Commissioner to put up hoardings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-chhath-puja-in-panchkula-171821
