21-11-2020||Chandigarh||3 Covid deaths, 119 fresh cases in Chandigarh||Three more people succumbed to coronavirus in Chandigarh on Wednesday as 119 fresh cases took the infection tally in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana to 16,591, according to a bulletin.So far, 258 people have died from the infection in the union territory.There are 1,135 active cases as of now, the bulletin said. A total of 102 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 15,198. So far, 1,31,280 samples have been taken for testing, of which 1,13,928 tested negative while reports of 96 samples are awaited, the bulletin said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-covid-deaths-119-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-173736
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Experts: Too soon to call it a second wave||For the fourth consecutive day, the city recorded over 100 cases and is pacing towards a second wave. However, public health experts say a second wave can be termed only when the city will peak 400 infections in a day, as was observed in September.“The surge seen this time is due to festivities. Every time cases peaked, there was always a festival around the corner,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT.The city was witnessing 40 to 50 cases per day in October and peaked to 80 cases in a single day on October 29, four days after Dasehra. Similarly, 133 cases were recorded on November 6, two days after Karva Chauth.Three days after Diwali, the city again witnessed 136 cases, followed by 145 cases and 155 cases on the next two days, respectively. A UT public health expert from the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) cell said, “At this point of time, we will just call it a bit of a surge in the Covid-19 cases, which can be attributed to festivities wherein social distancing norms were not adhered to. When people were distributing sweets, they obviously took their mask off.A spike was witnessed around Karva Chauth, Dasehra and Diwali due to intermingling of population. In the first surge, the city recorded 450 cases on September 13. The surge now is not even one-third of what was reported previously.”If we continue to witness a peak in the coming days wherein cases jump to 200 and beyond, we may call it a second wave. The incubation period is two to 14 days and Diwali has passed. There is still time to see how the infection will grow,” said the official.What Director, Health Services, UT, says“Healthcare workers, pregnant women and OPD patients represent the community and a high positivity rate among them shows that there is a high prevalence of infection in the community,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT.“Last time in September when cases were spiralling, a lot of pregnant women tested positive in the RT-PCR test. All gynae wards at the GMSH, Sector 16, and other hospitals were full of Covid positive pregnant women. This time also, we are testing pregnant women daily and hardly anyone has tested positive. The prevalence in the community is low. Every day, 200-300 OPD patients are being tested for Covid and soon we are going to test our healthcare workers as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-too-soon-to-call-it-a-second-wave-173366
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t allow customers sans mask, Chandigarh traders told||In the wake of a sudden spike in the coronavirus cases, the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, has appealed to shopkeepers not to allow customers to enter their shops without wearing a mask.Association president Kamaljit Singh Panchi said the shopkeepers had been asked to tell customers to put on a mask while entering the premises. “They should also wear a mask in their shops or offices while interacting with customers and spread awareness,” he said, adding that violators could be penalised. Panchi said shopkeepers and customers must wear masks as doctors had warned that this time the corona wave could be more dangerous.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-allow-customers-sans-mask-chandigarh-traders-told-173367
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||One death, 150 new cases in Chandigarh||The UT today added 150 new cases to its Covid-19 tally, which has now reached 16,472. With one more death of a 40-year-old man from Sector 25, the toll due to infection has reached 255 in the city.With 133 more patients being discharged, the number of recoveries has touched 15,096. The number of active cases is 1,121. Meanwhile, Rakesh Kumar Popli, Director, UT Guest House, has tested positive for the virus. He has isolated himself in his house. He asked people who came in contact with him in the recent days to get tested for Covid-19.A few days ago, Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Housing Board, and Rajiv Singla, Chief Engineer, CHB, had tested positive. Both the officers were home-quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-150-new-cases-in-chandigarh-173368
21-11-2020||Mohali||Mohali SSP tests +ve||Mohali SSP Satinder Singh has tested Covid-19 positive. He was feeling unwell for the past one week. He did not come to the office today, but was present yesterday. He confirmed that he had tested positive. He joined as the Mohali SSP on September 30. Earlier, he was posted as SSP (Rural) in Jalandhar.151 new cases, no deathAs many as 151 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district today. Sixty-one patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. The district has seen 14,183 cases so far and 12,676 patients have been cured. With no death reported today, the toll stands at 263. On Thursday, three Covid deaths and 135 cases were reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-ssp-tests-ve-173369
21-11-2020||Panchkula||72 new cases, no death in Panchkula||The district today reported 72 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 8,208. No Covid death was reported. The toll stands at 121.Among the fresh cases, nine were reported from Sector 11, eight from Badona Kalan, seven from Sector 20, six from Sector 26 and five each from Sector 16 and Sector 21.While 7,612 patients have defeated the virus so far, 475 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/72-new-cases-no-death-in-panchkula-173370
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC panel okays shifting of legacy waste||The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation (MC) today approved the transportation of legacy waste from the garbage processing plant to the dumping ground in Dadu Majra at an estimated cost of Rs48 lakh. F&CC also approvesThe decision was taken during a meeting chaired by Mayor Raj Bala Malik and attended among others by MC Commissioner KK Yadav and councillors.About 16,000 metric tonnes (MT) of legacy waste have been lying inside the garbage processing plant for a long time. The committee approved the awarding of contract to Kher Constructions, which had submitted the lowest bid for the job in the tendering process. The work will be completed in two months from the date of allotment.The committee also approved the terms and conditions for a multi-level parking project at Mani Majra. It will resolve the parking problems in Mani Majra and generate revenue for the MC. The parking will come up on 2 acres near Rana Ki Haveli.It will be used for commercial parking during the day and for parking of vehicles of local residents at night. The project will be developed on public-private partnership (PPP) mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-panel-okays-shifting-of-legacy-waste-173371
21-11-2020||Panchkula||Sector 20 park ill-maintained||A public park located adjacent to group housing society 42-43 in Sector 20 here is in a poor shape due to lack of cleanliness and maintenance. Local residents complain that there is no proper system in place for the upkeep of the park. Hence, the condition of the park has become pitiable.OP Sihag, president of All Parks Development Society, Panchkula, said the MC had recently taken over the maintenance of the park by dissolving the park development society consisting of local residents. “However, the poor condition of the park has corroborated that the civic body is failing to maintain it on its own. Either the MC should reinstate the development society or constitute a new one,” he said.Tribune photo: Ravi KumarSihag, who is also a former executive officer of the Panchkula MC, added, “Parks are one of the most visited recreational places, particularly for elderly people and children. It is sad to see the park in neglect. Rubbish is strewn all over the paths, playground and exercise areas.”Navdeep, a junior engineer of the civic body, said they were yet to receive any such complaint, adding that they would act on it if they got one. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-20-park-ill-maintained-173372
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees season’s coldest day||The city today saw the minimum temperature of 9.7°C, which is the lowest in this month. The maximum temperature was 23.5°C.Met officials said the minimum temperature was expected to be around 9°C for the next two days and the maximum around 21°C. It is likely to be clear sky for two days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-seasons-coldest-day-173373
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Raise sales, pay salaries on your own: CITCO to its hotel DGMs||Hit by the lockdown, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO) has asked the deputy general managers (DGMs) of its hotels and a restaurant to increase sales and generate more revenue to pay wages to the employees.Rs5.5 cr monthly salary billCITCO spends nearly Rs5.5 crore a month on salaries of nearly 1,200 regular, contractual and outsourced employees posted in its various units.The corporation had recently sought a grant of Rs27 crore from the UT Administration to run the day-to-day affairs and pay wages to the staff.In a letter to the DGMs of Hotel Mountview, Hotel Shivalikview and Chef Lakeview, the manager, accounts (Head Office), stated that since their establishments were now fully operational, they should increase sales and arrange to pay the salaries of the employees for the month of November and onwards from their own operational revenues.An official said the corporation had suffered huge losses due to the pandemic as all hotels and restaurants remained closed during the lockdown period.The official said the corporation had to take a loan against fixed deposits to pay its staff. CITCO spends nearly Rs5.5 crore a month on salaries of nearly 1,200 regular, contractual and outsourced employees posted in its various units.The corporation had recently sought a grant of Rs27 crore from the UT Administration to run the day-to-day affairs and pay wages to the staff.Kashmir Chand, chairman, CITCO Progressive Workers’ Union, stated that the UT Administration must help the corporation tide over the financial crisis it had suffered during the lockdown. He said the corporation had also sought reimbursement of more than Rs10 crore from the UT Administration on the account of expenses incurred on running the UT Guest House in New Delhi and the UT Secretariat canteen in Chandigarh.Chand said CITCO was running and managing the UT Secretariat canteen since April 1983 and the UT Guest House in New Delhi since November 1984.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/raise-sales-pay-salaries-on-your-own-citco-to-its-hotel-dgms-173380
21-11-2020||Zirakpur||Scooterist hit by bus, dies in Zirakpur||An elderly man riding a scooter was killed after being hit by a bus near a petrol pump near Nabha Sahib village on the Patiala road here this morning.The victim has been identified as Jasmer Singh, resident of the Naraingarh area. The Zirakpur police have registered a case against the unidentified driver of the bus, who escaped from the spot.In a statement to the police, Harwinder Singh, the victim’s son, said his father was going to his daughter’s house in Lohgarh village around 7 am. “An unidentified driver of a PRTC bus coming from Patiala hit him. The victim fell on the road and suffered a serious head injury,” the complainant stated.Investigating officer Balwinder Singh of the Zirakpur police station said they had impounded the bus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scooterist-hit-by-bus-dies-in-zirakpur-173400
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||On 91st b’day, Milkha promises help to 2 orphaned kids||Flying Sikh Milkha Singh celebrated his 91st birthday with his family and friends at home. He accepted the greetings of his well-wishers and, like every year, hoped that the “country wins an Olympics gold in athletics in his lifetime”.On his 91st birthday, Milkha promised to help Tania and Badal, two Mohali kids, who were orphaned on November 12 when their mother, their breadwinner, died in a hit-and-run case near the Sector 69-70 T-point. ‘’We will definitely help these children through our Milkha Charitable Trust. I will discuss with them how I can be of any help to them. The privileged section of society should come forward to help needy people and make a difference in their lives,’’ he said.Twenty-four-year-old Meenu Chauhan, employed as a peon in a private firm, suffered a fatal head injury while cycling back home after finishing her job when a motorcyclist hit her at the Sector 69-70 intersection and fled the spot.Battling for life, she was taken to Mayo Hospital, then to the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, then to the GMSH, Sector 16, and finally breathed her last on a stretcher outside the PGI. Her last rites were performed by neighbours in Sohana village as no one came forward as her guardian. A case has been registered at the Phase 8 police station in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-91st-bday-milkha-promises-help-to-2-orphaned-kids-173418
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||CAS promotions: Selection panel meetings postponed, PUTA protests||To protest against the sudden postponement of meetings of selection/ screening committees for pending cases of CAS promotions scheduled in November and December, the PUTA executive staged a dharna in front of the Vice-Chancellor’s camp office on Friday.A meeting of the PUTA executive was held to discuss the sudden postponement of meetings of selection/ screening committees for career advancement scheme (CAS) interviews scheduled on November 21 and 22 by the Vice-Chancellor (VC).Office-bearers of the PUTA executive shared when they met the VC yesterday in his office, he had assured to work on holding online meetings instead of physical and communicate with the president of the teachers’ body.However, having received no such communication from the VC office in this regard till 3 pm, members expressed deep anguish and disappointment over the callous and indifferent attitude of the Vice- Chancellor towards teachers, who have been desperately approaching the PUTA executive.PUTA executive said online meetings of the selection committees for CAS promotions were held at Punjabi University, Patiala, recently among other universities across the country. Therefore, there was no justification for not sticking to the schedule, which was finalised by the VC himself after PUTA executive staged a dharna on November 3 and the former held a meeting with the executive the same day, the teachers’ body added.“In view of the anti-teacher attitude of the Vice-Chancellor, it was unanimously resolved that the PUTA executive will start an agitation till the matter is resolved to press for immediate holding of online/blended meetings of selection/screening committees for CAS promotions,” said PUTA executive.Further, it was also decided that the PUTA executive would participate in every protest organised in future against the Vice Chancellor’s decision of not holding Senate elections and Syndicate meeting and creating a crisis in the administration of Panjab University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cas-promotions-selection-panel-meetings-postponed-puta-protests-173433
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Online Remediation Centre inaugurated at Panjab varsity||The Department of Community Education and Disability Studies, Panjab University, organised a webinar on “National Education Policy-2020 and Neuro – developmental disabilities”, which was inaugurated by Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor (VC).The VC motivated the faculty and students of the department to engage in innovative activities.On the occasion, an Online Remediation Centre was also inaugurated by the VC apart from releasing a book titled “Domestic violence against women”, authored by Dr Dazy Zarabi, Chairperson, Department of Community Education and Disability Studies, and Prof Kuldip Kaur, Director, FDR, research-based NGO and former Director General, CRRID. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-remediation-centre-inaugurated-at-panjab-varsity-173434
21-11-2020||Zirakpur||Non-functional street lights in Zirakpur invitation to crime||Street lights are lying defunct in several parts of the town. Residents complain that it is one of reason behind increasing crime in the area. Snatchings and thefts are on the rise as anti-social elements find safe haven in the absence of well-lit areas.The Municipal Council park in Baltana is one such area, which has been dimly lit for the past sometime. Locals say it has become difficult for children, women and elderly to come out after 8 pm on the road as there is a constant threat form miscreants and anti-social elements in the area. The MC park itself is an example with no street light functioning.“This area is known for snatchings, thefts and other crime. There is not a single day when a crime incident is not reported from here. Late night fights, people drinking at public places and the stray cattle menace pose a threat to the lives of residents. The authorities are making no efforts to change the situation,” said Kishan Pathania, a Baltana resident.Two weeks ago, a truck driver was brutally stabbed and injured by three men near the Zirakpur flyover.Nagla residents and several RWAs have been repeatedly complaining about non-functional street lights near Singhpura Chowk.The area around Zirakpur bus stop on the national highway is a potential risk point for passengers waiting to board buses.Somewhat similar is the situation on the Gazipur road where a long stretch near a private school has non-functional lights.“Working women and elderly face a lot of problems when street lights are not working. The road here is uneven and damaged at places, which makes commuting and walking risky for residents. The biggest problem is that the road is narrow and there is no space left for pedestrians,” said Opender Singh, a Gazipur resident.“Incidents of snatching and thefts are reported from Zirakpur main market every day. You can think of common man’s plight in the dark,” said Meenakshi Mathur, a Savitri Greens housing society resident on the VIP road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/non-functional-street-lights-in-zirakpur-invitation-to-crime-173435
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Protest against delay in Senate elections||Another protest was held for delay over the Senate elections. The protesters included alumni, students and stakeholders. They alleged that the PU Senate elections were being deferred without any reason. The protest was at the Students Centre in Panjab University.“The PU Senate is the highest governing body of our university and has both elected (PU alumni) and nominated members (by the Central Government). Being the apex decision and policy making body, it is of utmost utility since all its members have been associated with Panjab University at one time or another. These Senators understand problems which university faces in its day to day working thus enabling in smooth functioning of the University,” said protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protest-against-delay-in-senate-elections-173436
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Travel firm penalised for making false promises to retired IAF officer||Not fulfilling promises has cost a travel firm dear. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has not only directed Club Resorto Hospitality Ltd, New Delhi, to refund Rs75,000 along with interest at the rate of nine per cent to a retired Indian Air Force (IAF) officer, but also asked the firm to pay a sum of Rs11,000 towards compensation for mental agony and physical harassment. The conumer commission has also directed the firm to pay a sum of Rs7,000 as litigation expenses to the complainant.The caseThe order was passed on the complaint of Group Capt Narendera Jit Singh Rishi (retd), who alleged that the firm failed to provide services as told by their representatives and also failed to refund the booking amount.The order was passed on the complaint of Group Captain Narendera Jit Singh Rishi (retd), who alleged that the firm failed to provide services as told by their representatives and also failed to refund the booking amount.The complainant stated that he paid a sum of Rs75,000 to the travel firm on December 27, 2018, after a presentation was given by its representatives. But, the firm failed to provide him offered facilities along with other extra special benefits/offers, he added. Dissatisfied with services/offers, the complainant requested the travel firm within 8-10 days from the date of taking membership for its cancellation on January 4, 2019. Despite his request, the firm failed to refund the membership fee to him.After hearing arguments the commission noted that acts on the part of the travel firm and its representatives amounted to deficiency in service or unfair trade practice. The commission stated, “The the firm and its representatives cannot by any of the provisions forfeit the amount of complainant and as such are liable to pay back Rs75,000.”The commission further added that the firm and its representatives failed to fulfil their commitment as assured and also deprived the complainant of his hard earned money without any default on his part and rather they themselves enjoyed fruits of the amount for fairly a long period. As such the complainant was liable to be compensated on account of physical harassment and mental agony, the commission stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/travel-firm-penalised-for-making-false-promises-to-retired-iaf-officer-173448
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Court slaps Rs 1,000 fine on two for not wearing mask||To teach violators a lesson, a local court has imposed a fine of Rs 1,000 each on two persons for their failure to wear masks in public places yesterday.Another person was fined for running a shop late in the night violating the lockdown norms.This is for the first time that a local court has imposed a fine on the violators of the lockdown norms. The court imposed the fine on the violators after the police presented challans against them. The police have registered an FIR against them under Section 188 of the IPC. Masks were made compulsory for everyone in Chandigarh after the lockdown was imposed and not wearing it was made a punishable offence. Apart from police personnel, the administration also authorised certain officers of the administration and the MC for issuing challans for this offence. A fine of Rs 500 was fixed for the violation.The challans were presented before the Court of TPS Randhawa, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chandigarh. In one case, the accused, Ram Khelawan, was found not wearing mask during the Covid-19 lockdown on April 29 near the light point, Shastri Nagar, Mani Majra. Vinod was found running the shop from his house despite the fact that the lockdown was imposed from 9 am to 5 pm. He was ordered to pay a fine of Rs 500 under Section 188 of the IPC. Another resident, Madan Lal, was found not wearing mask during the lockdown on April 25 near the Government School, Kishangarh.Finding a prima facie case, a notice of accusation under Section 188 of the IPC was served on the accused to which all of them pleaded guilty and did not claim trial. After hearing, the court imposed fine as all of them pleaded guilty voluntarily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-slaps-rs-1-000-fine-on-two-for-not-wearing-mask-173461
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 surge: Increase in fine, more strictness on cards in Chandigarh||The UT Administration may increase penalty for violation of Covid-19 guidelines and impose some restrictions in view of a sudden spike in cases in the city.Sources said the Administration might reconsider its decisions in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs on various relaxations given from time to time as the Covid cases had again started increasing in the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida tweeted: "Corona cases are rising alarmingly. Expect higher penalty, stricter implementation and other restrictions."Parida also asked the participants of Chhath Puja to follow the Covid protocol, as the permission given to perform the rituals was conditional.Despite strict warnings, many visitors were found violating the social-distancing norm and also not wearing masks inside the Rock Garden which was reopened to the public yesterday after nearly eight months of closure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-surge-increase-in-fine-more-strictness-on-cards-in-chandigarh-173462
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Prominent authors make Literati-2020 enticing virtual event||Tips for budding authorsPhilosopher-author Gurcharan Das says: “No matter what the day or mood is like, just show up. It has been a ritual for me for years that I come at my desk at 6 am and spend a major part of my day here.” Consistency is the key! And when it comes to happiness, his idea is: “Don’t take yourself too seriously but take your work very seriously. Stay light, not as a feather but as a bird.”After a brief inaugural address by the CLS chairperson, IAS Sumita Misra, who believes the digital medium has taken the festival to a different scale of cultural exchange, the first plenary session featured powerful philosopher-author Gurcharan Das. The moderator of the session was Manraj Grewal Sharma, a senior journalist.Gurcharan Das shared his life and journey, how he took to writing, from being a weekend writer to becoming a full-time author. India’s rise from poverty and freedom from British Raj became the idea for his first book “India Unbound”. And thereon, for each book, he went back to the country’s past.If corruption in India took him to Mahabharata and gave him the idea for his second book “Difficulty of Being Good”, then the foundation to his book “Riddle of Desire” became “kama”. Kama, he says, is elevated as a goal in life in India and there was a time when ancient people fought for it. In a light moment, he even suggested Valentine’s Day should be made Kama Day in India since there is Kama Dev, a God who is worshipped in this country.This trilogy turned into a quartet with “Moksha”. Away from the religious connotation, the author says: “We are all working towards the liberation from ego and all its shades such as greed, jealousy, lies, etc”. “There are people who are not so self-involved, who are kind and caring… I think that’s a step towards liberation. That is my quest which is work in progress,” he explained.The conversation then veered towards the present government and whether it is a stumbling block or not. Without mincing words, Gurcharan Das said it was nation that was rising bottom upwards, unlike China that is top down. According to him, though the state maybe weak, the society, which is formed by people, is the strength of this country. So far, India is a case of growth at night and to change the course, there is need to have reforms in the governance, policing, judiciary, etc. “Why should there be delayed justice in the country, why are there still billions of cases that are pending? Why is the bureaucracy so insensitive and why do people like you and me fear going near a police station?” When these things change, that is when the real growth will happen, the author asserts.The second session saw Vivek Atray in conversation with authors Jyotsna Mohan Bhargava and Naomi Datta. The session focused on the young generation and its involvement in social media. How a profile on Facebook, then Twitter and now Instagram has become the centre of everyone’s life and all that matters is the number of likes and re-tweets. It’s a false but powerful world we are living in and while there are some benefits, there are many reasons to worry.The third session had Indian diplomat and author Navtej Sarna and Indian-born Irish author Cavery Madhavan in a session titled “Tracing Footsteps” moderated by a columnist, Col Avnish Sharma. The next session saw Bangalore-based novelist-columnist Amandeep Sandhu with writer, podcaster and commentator Sarabpreet Singh explore the “Pain & Pride: Punjab’s Journey Through the Years”.Day one concluded with Niharika Bhuwania in conversation with another travel writer, book reviewer Anuradha Goyal who shared her experiences at the session on “Incredible India!: Sacred Tales of Indian Temple”.— Gurnaaz Kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prominent-authors-make-literati-2020-enticing-virtual-event-173463
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Classical artiste Salil to spell magic today||After a hiatus of close to eight months, the curtains will finally go up for a classical live performance in the tricity tomorrow.Noted classical artiste Salil Bhatt will mesmerise the audience at the Pracheen Kala Kendra. It will be the first major performance for the Satvik Veena player. Although he did a couple of live concerts during the lockdown, it felt like an assassination of art, music and artiste put together. “Everyone preferred only online shows but after doing two or three such concerts, I realised performing online without any audience and without the real setting is just like you are assassinating the art. So, my father and I stopped immediately.”Limited audienceSajal Koser of Pracheen Kala Kendra is all too happy to bring classical art to the city. He says it’s high time things got back to normal for the world of art. “On the day of the concert, the entire premises will be disinfected twice or thrice and it’s strictly “no mask, no entry”. A limited number of people have been invited and the seating arrangement will be marked. We will also provide masks at the venue.” Since a limited number of people are invited, the show will be telecast live on various social media platforms, including the official YouTube channel, Facebook and Twitter.Performing art and gadgets are not a great combination for some justifiable reasons. “Who will hold a mobile handset for an hour? And when we did the shows, we saw people come, visit for a few seconds and then move ahead aimlessly. Someone entering the session, someone walking out, it’s very distracting for everyone.”This performer breathes and lives through his art and audience. Thus this show means some semblance of normalcy finally. “For a performer that energy exchange is a must. That’s what the art is all about. An artiste will die if he doesn’t get the applause and appreciation, the reaction from his audience instantaneously. That’s how we have lived our life from day one. The ambience is all lit up, then we appear, the curtains go up, the whole vibe is so dramatic and uplifting. The applause at the end gives you the reason to live for another day.”Ask him if there’s any apprehension to come on the stage during the pandemic and pat comes the answer. “No apprehensions, no doubts whatsoever. The entire world is going on, the system is working. Visit any market or public places and you’ll know if any protocol is being followed at all. Here every necessary precaution is being taken and it’s a limited audience show, so there is no reason to worry.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/classical-artiste-salil-to-spell-magic-today-173464
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Youth held for theft, snatchings in Chandigarh||A 25-year-old youth has been arrested by the local police for snatchings and a motor vehicle theft.A team, led by Inspector Amanjot Singh, SHO of the Sector 39 police station, nabbed the suspect, Kamal Verma, a resident of Sector 40, from the Sector 39/40 light point.History sheeterThe suspect had three cases registered against him in the past, including two in Chandigarh and one in Mohali.The police said two snatching incidents reported in the recent past had been solved with Kamal’s arrest.In one of the incidents, victim Anup Sharma of Sector 37 had reported that on August 7, he had gone for a morning walk when two motorcycle-borne miscreants started following him and suddenly the pillion rider got down from the motorcycle and snatched his gold chain.In another incident, victim Munish Jaggi, a resident of Sector 38, had reported that he was standing outside his house on September 28 when motorcycle-borne miscreants arrived and snatched his gold chain.The police said the suspect had also stolen a motorcycle from Sector 40 on the intervening night of September 23 and 24. All cases were registered at the Sector 39 police station.The police said the two snatched gold chains and the motorcycle had been recovered from the suspect. “The second suspect has been identified and will be arrested soon,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-for-theft-snatchings-in-chandigarh-173465
21-11-2020||Chandigarh||Zirakpur resident attacked at Ram Darbar, 2 held||DBA supports farmers' demandsChandigarh: The District Bar Association, Chandigarh, has decided to support the farmers' demands. A resolution in this regard was passed by the association on Friday. According to the resolution, it was decided to help the farmers in their agitation at the judicial levels whenever and wherever required by them. It has also been demanded in the resolution that the farm Bills and ordinances 2020 should be withdrawn immediately. Former president of the association RS Bassi also supported the farmers' demands. TNSWater supply to be hit todayMohali: Due to a leakage in the Kajauli, Phase 4, pipeline near Maroli village, the water supply to Phase 3B2, 8, 9, 10 and 11, Sector 70 and 71, Shahi Majra and the Industrial Area, Phase 1 to 5, Mohali, will be affected on November 21. In the morning, the water supply will be at low pressure, in the afternoon, there will be no water supply, while in the evening, the supply will be at low pressure.Man’s mobile phone snatchedChandigarh: Two unknown persons snatched a phone from a man near the road separating Sector 52 and 53. In his complaint, Chander Kesh Verma of Kajheri village, said the incident took place on November 17. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-resident-attacked-at-ram-darbar-2-held-173466
