23-11-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 3 more deaths, 98 cases in Chandigarh||Three more deaths in Chandigarh took the COVID-19 toll to 263 while 98 new cases of novel coronavirus pushed the infection count to 16,769 in the Union Territory on Monday, according to a medical bulletin.There are 1,117 active cases, as of now, in Chandigarh, it said.         The bulletin said that a total of 72 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 15,389.It said that a total of 1,33,478 samples had been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,15,935 tested negative while reports of 132 samples were awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-3-more-deaths-98-cases-in-chandigarh-174740
23-11-2020||Saanand Verma was recently spotted with actor Paresh Rawal in Chandigarh. They were shooting for Rajkumar Rao and Kriti Sanon’s untitled film directed by Abhishek Jain. The film is being produced by Dinesh Vijan. Saanand has an important role to play in the film.||Paresh Rawal spotted in Chandigarh||Saanand says, “Sharing screen with Paresh Rawal was always on my wish list and I am so happy this happened through this film. We had a very good outdoor shooting in Chandigarh and I had some great moments. Paresh sir is an actor par excellence. One can learn so much just by looking at his acting. I am a greedy actor and I have always taken something or the other from my co-actors.” He adds, “When I met Paresh Rawal on the sets I was so happy to see him. Look at the films he has done in his career. He played negative and positive roles both very convincingly and that’s the best part. My favourite films are Judaai, Hera Pheri, Oh My God, Sardar… the list is endless.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paresh-rawal-spotted-in-chandigarh-174382
23-11-2020||Aditi Tandon||Oxford vaccine most suitable for India: PGI chief||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 22PGI, Chandigarh, Director Jagat Ram today said the Oxford University-Serum Institute of India vaccine, which is in the final stages of development, was the “most suitable for Indian settings”.Speaking to The Tribune, he said the vaccine trials were progressing very well and early results were “very encouraging”. The PGI, Chandigarh, had already administered the second dose of vaccine to 100 volunteers as part of the ongoing phase 3 trials in India, he added. “Early phase trial results from the PGI showed strong safety outcomes in 149 participants who were administered the first dose of Covishield. In the final and third phase of the trial, all participants will be inoculated with the second dose. The second dose has already been given to 100 participants and the trial is nearing completion, after which results on immunogenicity and cell mediated immunity will be generated and analysed for final outcomes,” he said.Easy storageAccording to PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram, unlike the Pfizer vaccine that requires minus 70°C storage structures, Covishield can be stored between 2 and 8°C. Hence Covishield can be transported to rural hinterland to cover rural population as well.To a specific query about why he thought the Oxford University-AstraZeneca-Serum Institute’s Covishield was the most suitable for Indian settings, he said, “Covishield is the most suited for India because it can be easily stored and transported. Unlike the Pfizer vaccine that requires minus 70°C storage structures, Covishield can be stored between 2 to 8°C. Hence Covishield scan be transported to rural hinterland to cover rural populations as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/oxford-vaccine-most-suitable-for-india-pgi-chief-174519
23-11-2020||---||AAP opposes move to abolish PU senate||Chandigarh, November 22The Aam Aadmi Party today opposed the Union Government’s proposal to abolish senate at Panjab University, Chandigarh.In a press release, party MLAs Kultar Sandhwa and Jai Krishan Rodi said the move to abolish the senate of region’s oldest university would kill the democratic nature of the heritage institute.They said under the new education policy, the government was planning to replace the university senate with a board.They said the state government should have a say in the university affairs as the land for it came after displacing a large number of villages of Punjab.The Aam Aadmi Party leaders said any such move would deprive state residents of their right to higher education. They said senate and syndicate kept an eye on the functioning of Chancellor of the university, so both bodies were essential to ensuring the democratic character of the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-opposes-move-to-abolish-pu-senate-174482
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury dips to 8.1°C in Chandigarh||The city’s minimum temperature dipped to 8.1°C today, making it the new lowest November temperature in the past three years.A day before, the city had recorded the minimum temperature of 8.4°C, which was the lowest in the month of November in three years till yesterday. In November last year, the lowest temperature was 10.4°C while in 2018, it was 8.7°C. In 2017, the city had recorded 6.8°C as the lowest temperature in November.The all-time lowest minimum temperature in November was recorded in the year 1975 when the mercury had fallen to 3.7°C. The year 1970 had seen the highest maximum temperature in the month of November when the mercury had reached 34°C.At 8.1°C, the minimum temperature recorded today was a degree less than normal. The maximum temperature was 22.5°C, which is four degrees less than normal.According to the Met Department, the minimum temperature is expected to increase and hover around 12°C for the next three days. The maximum temperature is likely to drop a bit and stay between 20°C and 22°C. The department has predicted generally cloudy conditions for the next three days.“Snowfall in Himachal Pradesh has had an effect on the temperature in the city,” said a Met official. Due to cold conditions, the city may experience fog and mist in the morning and evening hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mercury-dips-to-8-1%C2%B0c-in-chandigarh-174512
23-11-2020||---||Authorities go slow on encroachers in Panchkula||Panchkula, November 22Despite clear-cut instructions from Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, encroachments continue to cause nuisance at markets in the city. A large number of shopkeepers and vendors have encroached on roads, corridors, footpaths and park areas.These encroachments not only persist in commercial hubs or main markets of Sector 8, 9, 10 and 11, but also in the internal markets of sectors.The Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and the Municipal Corporation (MC) have failed to remove theses encroachments from areas under their respective jurisdictions. Even though the authorities have carried out several anti-encroachment drives in the past, they have failed to come up with a concrete solution to the problem.After anti-encroachment drives, vendors and shopkeepers again encroach on footpaths and open areas.Several residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) have taken up the matter with the authorities concerned time and again, but to no avail.Rajinder Kumar, a resident of Sector 7, said: “Shopkeepers should also take it as their responsibility. They should obey rules and regulations and keep their goods within the demarcated area.”Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has issued a reminder to the HSVP, Panchkula Estate Officer Anil Kumar Doon and Municipal Corporation Commissioner RK Singh, asking them to contain illegal occupation by shopkeepers in markets across the city.The DC office on August 10 had issued a letter to both authorities and asked them to remove encroachments in market corridors as per rules and send an action taken report. However, both authorities are yet to apprise the DC office of the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/authorities-go-slow-on-encroachers-in-panchkula-174514
23-11-2020||Street vendors have again started sitting in non-designated areas in Sector 22||No stopping illegal vendors||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-stopping-illegal-vendors-174516
23-11-2020||---||Heritage theft: More suspects identified||Chandigarh, November 22Sarfaraj, a carpenter whose arrest led to the recoveryof 20 heritage chairs stolen from Panjab University, has revealed the names ofsuspects involved in the theft and smuggling of heritage items.The police are hopeful that the information will help them recover more heritage items stolen from the city. Police officials said the other suspects had been identified and would be arrested soon.Police investigations have revealed that the suspects have links with antique dealers in Mumbai, which is being probed further.“More heritage items, including chairs stolen from the PU, are expected to be recovered,” said a police official. A total of 48 heritage chairs were stolen from the sociology department of the PU between November 1 and 3.The police investigation had led to the arrest of Sarfaraj, a Baltana resident, while he was carrying two stolen chairs. His interrogation led to the recovery of 18 chairs from the forest area in Dhanas.More recoveries likely: PoliceA total of 48 heritage chairs were stolen from the sociology department of the PU between November 1 and 3. “More heritage items, including chairs stolen from the PU, are expected to be recovered,” said a cop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heritage-theft-more-suspects-identified-174344
23-11-2020||Mohali||Man hangs self; mother-in-law, wife booked||The Sohana police have booked the wife and mother-in-law of  Hardeep Singh (26) who allegedly committed suicide at his home in Manauli village last night. Those booked have been identified as Gurwinder Kaur and Karamjit Kaur, both residents of Kumbra village. The complainant, Balwinder Singh, the victim’s father, said Hardeep separated from Gurwinder Kaur after marriage in 2017. Gurwinder was four-month pregnant and was living at her mother’s house in Kumbra. Hardeep met his wife at Kumbra many times.  Balwinder went to see his son but found him dead. The neighbours said Hardeep committed suicide by hanging from a ceiling fan.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-hangs-self-mother-in-law-wife-booked-174345
23-11-2020||Panchkula||Woman shares OTP, loses Rs 3.34 lakh||A 40-year-old woman from Pinjore lost Rs3.34 lakh within a few minutes of her sharing a one-time password (OTP) with a cyber crook posing as a manager of her bank.Rajni Dwivedi of Adarsh Nokwal Colony said she received a phone call from a person, who introduced himself as the branch manager of the SBI and claimed that her debit card was about to expire.“He told me that I must have received an OTP on my phone. As soon as I shared the OTP with him, Rs3,34,900 got deducted from my bank account,” the complainant stated.A case has been registered under Section 420 of the IPC at the Pinjore police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-shares-otp-loses-rs-3-34-lakh-174346
23-11-2020||---||2 die, 80 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 22The city today recorded 80 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 16,671. Two more deaths were reported, taking the toll to 260.An 87-year-old man from Sector 8, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, died at Ivy Hospital, Mohali. A 65-year-old man from Sector 40, a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, succumbed to the virus at the GMCH-32. A total of 119 patients recovered from the infectious disease in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries in the UT to 15,317.96 test positive in Mohali, no fatalityMohali: As many as 96 new cases of Covid and 116 recoveries were reported from the district on Sunday. Among the new cases, 76 were from Mohali (urban), 17 from Kharar, two from Kurali and one from Banur. The district Covid count has reached 14,396. As many as 12,885 patients have been cured of the disease. The active cases are 1,245. With no death on Sunday, the toll stands at 266. On Saturday, three deaths and 117 new cases were reported. TNS75 fresh cases, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported 75 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 8,345. With no fresh deaths, the district toll stands at 121. While 7,715 patients have defeated the virus so far, 509 cases are still active. The district Covid recovery rate is 92.45 per cent. As many as 166 health workers, including Chief Medical Officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur, have tested positive for Covid so far. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-die-80-new-cases-in-chandigarh-174347
23-11-2020||OPEN HOUSE||Residents could have exercised more restraint||Wise decision of UT AdministrationThe AIR Quality Index value of city dropped from 341 last year to 140 this year, which itself speaks about success of ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers. At least, we are able to inhale properly on Diwali courtesy Covid-19 impact. This is one of the few wise decisions taken by the Chandigarh Administration.Bharat Anand, ChandigarhAnalyse failure of ban enforcementOn Diwali might, ground reality was altogether different. Although, there was less bursting of firecrackers as compared to previous years in Chandigarh, yet in Mohali and Panchkula the practice continued for two days. Firecrackers sound made life difficult for citizens particularly elders and toddlers, who couldn’t sleep properly and also made birds and animals restless. The administrations of the respective cities must take a strict view of the situation and analyse reasons for failure in the enforcement of the ban orders in letter and spirit by agencies concerned particularly the police. Corrective actions need to be taken to ensure proper implementation of the ban orders during next year Diwali.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliMonitor villages on the peripheryThe ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers was not successful in the UT. The Administration is least concerned about safety of the public. The ban should have been implemented strictly. Villages in the UT and on the periphery should also be monitored to stop the nuisance of bursting firecrackers.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, Chandigarhtraders forgot health comes firstThe blatant disregard for the law, as well as public health, was visible on Diwali in the UT. The Administration took a right step by ordering a complete ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers, but the order went up in smoke. The contention of traders that they were bearing losses in business had no locus standi. Lives of the people could not be put to risk just for money.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurFailure of police, administrationThe firecracker ban in Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali wasn't fully effective. People did abstain out of their own wish, but many didn't adhere to the ban and burst firecrackers, which were not even green. The Administration and the police failed in fully implementing the ban orders in the City Beautiful.Abhinav Kapil, ChandigarhAnnouncement should have come in advanceIn almost all sectors, the ban on firecrackers was by and large successful. Only green crackers should be permitted. Air pollution is a man made curse and can be controlled if laws are implemented without playing vote bank politics. Health of public is more important than the earnings of few. However, the ban should be announced well in advance so that no businessman bears losses.KC Rana, Chandigarhless firecrackers bursting this yearThe ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers was fairly successful in the UT. The AQI of Chandigarh was much better than its adjoining regions. There was a drastic reduction in bursting of firecrackers, evident from infrequent noises. However, checking of vehicles at entry and exit points of the UT especially those connected to adjoining suburbs where sale of firecrackers was permitted could have been better. At night, sounds were heard in the city, which means some residents were able to procure firecrackers from the adjoining areas.Joy Singh, ChandigarhSend violators to lock up for 24 hrsResidents have proved that they are educated illiterate. They don't fear the police or the Administration. The police should be vested with powers to challan those violating the ban on bursting firecrackers. The challan amount should be at least Rs2,000. Any person, who is not able to pay the challan amount, should be sent to lockup for 24 hours. Traders selling firecrackers should also be dealt with similarly.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhAdmn should have been stricterThe ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers on Diwali in Chandigarh went up into the air. People bursted firecrackers with impunity and without realising their moral duty of saving the environment. They were selfish to think of just own profits and pleasures at the stake of harming the environment. The Chandigarh Administration should have been stricter in implementing the ban.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, Chandigarhrestriction should be for whole countryThe ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers was total failure in Chandigarh. This is evident from the AQI level of the city. The ban should be implemented in the entire nation to save the environment. The authorities of adjoining cities must think about coronavirus, asthmatic patients, small children, elders and road accidents due to pollution before permitting sale and bursting of firecrackers in future.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliAn eleventh hour decisionBan on the sale and bursting of crackers in Chandigarh was the eleventh hour decision. Shopkeepers and the public already had stock of firecrackers. Therefore, people burst firecrackers despite ban. It was a flop show on the part of the Administration. Had the decision been taken much in advance and created awareness about this, the ban would have been a success. Moreover, relaxation to burst firecrackers in Mohali and Panchkula for two hours put a dampener on the ban.Abhilasha Gupta, Mohalimixed response from residentsTotal ban on the sale and bursting of crackers is impractical solution to control pollution in the UT. There was less pollution this year. The ban was partially successful as people still burst firecrackers in the city. Only 11 challans were issued for the violation of the ban, which is not enough. Mohali and Panchkula gave relaxation in bursting of firecrackers, which increased pollution in the tricity.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhIt did make a differenceBan on the sale and purchase of firecrackers on Diwali could not give the desired result. Still it made some visible difference this time. Smoke and noise created by bursting firecrackers was almost absent and the air quality remarkably good on Diwali night. Those who abstained from bursting firecrackers in Chandigarh did so by listening to their inner voice and not because of the ban imposed by the UT Administration. Some enthusiasts, who bought firecrackers from Mohali and Panchkula, did have fun. The police could have enforced the ban properly. It would be better if Mohali and Panchkula have similar ban in the future.SC Luthra, Chandigarhban Not a martial law or diktatBan on the sale and bursting of firecrackers on Diwali was not a martial law or diktat that evoked compliance in toto. The intent was by and large acknowledged well. Even children were seen denigrating the practice. The drastic drop in cases of burns and eye injuries on Diwali proves the utility of the ban. Nonetheless, it was flouted by sourcing crackers from neighbouring areas. A uniform regulation in the tricity could have resulted in better compliance. More than dreading penalties most people abstained from fireworks of their own volition. Bursting of firecrackers is sheer display of affluence and an evil practice that ought to be steadily done away with completely. Wider awareness/education on the evils of playing with firecrackers can stem the rot.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaPollution level decreased in UTThe ban imposed by the Chandigarh Administration led to decrease in the pollution level. If there is more pollution cases of Covid-19 will rise. Only green crackers should be sold in cities where air quality is moderate or below. Timings for bursting of firecrackers should be restricted to two hours during festivals like Diwali.Akshar Kumar Singla, ChandigarhLaw catches flies, but lets hornets goThe sale and bursting of firecrackers was banned on Diwali. Less firecrackers were sold and bursted than before. Everyone knows that the law catches flies, but lets hornets go. But, the Administration failed to implement the ban orders completely. Arrangements should be made in advance to check the sale and bursting of firecrackers. More pollution will spread Covid-19 in the UT.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliJust an eyewashBan was not fully effective in the UT due to clandestine sale of firecrackers. People were bursting firecrackers on the city's outskirts till morning. No police action was taken against such violators. Moreover, banning firecrackers is not a solution. It's just an eyewash. Ban causes loss to traders and their workers. The Administration should take long term measures to improve the air quality in the UT.Anita Tandon, KhararDrop in air quality index indicates successReports in newspapers a day after Diwali were contradictory. Headlines read the Administration failed to enforce complete firecracker ban in the City Beautiful where as the AQI dropped to 140 this Diwali as compared to 341 last year. Is it not the result of the ban? The AQI does indicate that the ban on bursting firecrackers in Chandigarh was effective. People eagerly wait for Diwali. As such it is difficult for them to check their temptation to burst firecrackers. The police also have to exercise restrain lest their action can hurt religious feelings of some residents.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliNot observed completelyIt was wise on part of the Chandigarh Administration to ban bursting of firecrackers on Diwali keeping in view the existing conditions of Covid-19 and pollution. But, residents did not fully agree with it as some bursted firecrackers while ignoring health of others and their own. The Administration should enforce such bans to improve the AQI. Residents must follow restrictions to reduce risk of the Covid-19 and prevent air pollution.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliImplemented but with lapsesBan on firecrackers on Diwali was a welcome step. It improved the air quality and noise levels dropped in the UT. However, there was a lapse in the implementation of directions. It should have been in the same spirit as being done on other occasions when people are challaned even for minor violations.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhIt had some effectLess firecrackers were bursted this Diwali. All this was due to ban imposed by the Administration. Another reason could be awareness of UT residents towards society. The ban helped to keep the pollution level lower in the City Beautiful.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhViolators went scot-freeThe Administration and the police apparently failed to implement ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the UT. Violators went scot free. Obviously, the offenders bought firecrackers from Mohali and Panchkula. This raises many questions on the capability of the police and the Administration. Hopefully, the authorities will learn from their mistake and implement the firecracker ban more effectively in the future.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliAim was not to punish publicThis year Diwali came with Covid-19 scare. Though the firecracker ban was effective up to an extent, air did not improve much. Unless people act responsibly no authority or government can improve air quality. The ban was not to punish public, but to imbibe self responsibility towards environment and improving health.Charu Malhotra, Mohaliadmn’s quick, stern action improved AQIThe Chandigarh Administration was successful in imposing a blanket ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in comparison with other states. However, few flouted the norms and were penalised. Perhaps, the AQI of Chandigarh is way better due to quick and stern action of the Administration and the cooperation of residents of the City Beautiful.Shobhna Kalra, Chandigarhwas Ok for elderly, but disappointed kidsBan on the sale and bursting of firecrackers on Diwali in the City Beautiful has resulted in less air and noise pollution and limited injuries and expenses. This is acceptable to elders, but growing children are hard hit by the Administration's decision. Children wait for Diwali for over an year. It is difficult to convince them not to burst crackers. Depriving them from their childhood joys without any of their fault is not fair.Capt Jagdish Verma (retd), ChandigarhBan has come as a reliefThere was a remarkable reduction in air pollution in the UT. Hospitals in Chandigarh witnessed 83 per cent drop in cases of burns especially eye injuries this Diwali with only 27 injured reported compared to 162 last year. Ban is important to prevent the second wave of Covid-19. Besides, elders suffering with various ailments also got relief from air and noise pollution. However, the Chandigarh Administration took a late decision to ban firecrackers. Dealers as well as vendors suffered monetary losses.SK Khosla, ChandigarhOrders went for a toss in City BeautifulBan on the sale, purchase and bursting of firecrackers was brazenly violated in Chandigarh. The decision, which was taken when Diwali was round the corner, went haywire due to lack of the strict implementation. Browbeating violators or awarding punishment to those found on the other side of the fence is not the right way to deal with the menace. The solution lies in educating people at large, especially the younger lot, about disastrous effects of firecrackers on our health, especially children and elderly, besides vitiating the environment. The dispensation should impose a blanket ban on manufacturing of firecrackers and their sale and purchase. The Administration must ensure that ban orders are passed on to those investing in the firecracker business. Eco-friendly crackers may be an alternative. Compulsive violators won't desist from making a cocktail of both of type of firecrackers thus making a mockery of the ban order.Ramesh K Dhiman, Chandigarh QUESTIONDo you think the careless attitude of residents during the festive season led to spike in Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-could-have-exercised-more-restraint-174520
23-11-2020||---||Stray dogs haunt Mullanpur residents||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 22Those living at Foothills IAS PCS Society, Mullanpur, are a harried lot due to the stray dog menace in the area.Residents, especially the children and the elderly, are living in a constant fear as the number of stray dogs has increased considerably and there have been several instances of dog bites and attacks in the locality.Harmeet Kaur, a resident, said: “Two days ago, I was going for an evening walk when a dog came from behind and tried to bite me. Luckily, I evaded it just in time. Many people in the area have reported the stray dog menace and dog bites.”Residents said the menace had increased a lot as many families and animal lovers have started giving food to the stray dogs without caring for the safety of other residents.“We tried to tell some people that by giving food to stray dogs in the residential society, they are creating a scary situation. We, too, are dog lovers and care for them, but our own safety comes first. They should behave responsibly. But they have a very rigid attitude towards the issue. People should feed the stray animals outside the housing society so that their population does not increase in the locality,” said Harmeet Kaur.Another resident Subodh Chandra Aggarwal said: “The population of dogs is indeed large. The area does not falls under any municipal corporation, but the authorities are willing to help to us. We are looking for other alternatives to get curb this menace.”Residents said there was a need for a dog-sterlisation drive here to bring the stray dog population under control. Several instances of dog bite reportedResidents, especially children and the elderly, are living in a constant fear as the number of stray dogs has increased considerably and there have been several instances of dog bites and attacks in the locality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stray-dogs-haunt-mullanpur-residents-174522
23-11-2020||---||Sector 21 bird sanctuary in state of neglect, say activists||Chandigarh, November 22Fearing adverse affect on the life and breeding of birds, city-based activists have highlighted the “neglected state” of the bird sanctuary in Sector 21.In a letter to UT Adviser Manoj Parida, Harman Singh Sidhu, a member of the Global Alliance of NGOs for Road Safety, stated that lately, the sanctuary had been totally neglected causing irreparable damage to the habitat of birds.“Birds are very sensitive and any damage to their habitat adversely affects their lifestyle, breeding and molting, amongst other things, thus, leading to a sharp reduction in their population,” he said.Birds are very sensitive and any damage to their habitat adversely affects their lifestyle, breeding and molting, amongst other things, thus, leading to a sharp reduction in their population. —Harman Singh Sidhu, member, Global Alliance of NGOs for Road SafetyHe alleged that an illegal cement structure was being constructed inside the sanctuary and an antenna of a mobile company had been installed on ‘Nirankari Gurdwara’ in Sector 21-B.“The sanctuary is now a home to a dozens of stray dogs. Earlier, walkers were not allowed to bring their pets inside but now, due to lack of any check, people have also started bringing their pets to the sanctuary,” he said.He requested the Adviser to issue directions to immediately stop the construction of the cement structure and dismantle it under the supervision of experts causing minimum dust and noise. The antenna of mobile company should be relocated as the radiations adversely affect the health of birds, he said.Prof JC Verma pointed out that the sanctuary was in a shambles and that why, tourists rarely visits the sanctuary. “Heaps of waste is seen lying everywhere and papers are scattered all around, polluting the environment. This has affected the habitat of birds — as is evident from the dwindling number of birds such as Grey Partridge, Cuckoos, Night Jara and Oriole,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-21-bird-sanctuary-in-state-of-neglect-say-activists-174523
23-11-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Real estate firm fined for deficiency in service||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 22The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed Emaar MGF, Mohali, to refund Rs40,11,251 to a customer.Holding the delay in giving the possession of the plot as deficiency in service, the commission also directed the realtor to pay Rs50,000 as litigation expenses to the complainant.Sanjay Walia, a resident of Delhi, approached the commission after the realtor failed to deliver the possession of the plot in the stipulated period as per the agreement.Walia said he decided to purchase a unit measuring 300 sq yards in the proposed project named Pinewood Park, Mohali Hills, Sector 108, SAS Nagar, Mohali. The total sale consideration of the plot was fixed at Rs40,28,499. He paid Rs40,11,251 to the realtor, but he did not get the possession of the plot by June 29, 2010 i.e. within a period of three years asenvisaged under Clause 8 of the agreement for dearth of development activities at the project site and also necessary approvals from the competent authorities.Even the main entrance to the project was not accessible in view of a pending litigation before the Civil Court, Kharar, under Sections 29, 33 and 63 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927. He alleged that the opposite party had failed to execute the buyers’ agreement despite repeated requests. Meanwhile, the real estate firm denied all allegations.After hearing arguments from both parties, the court said deficiency in service as well as unfair trade practice on part of the opposite party was proved as per the records.In view of the above discussion, the real estate firm has been told to refund Rs40,11,251 to the complainant, along with interest @12 per cent per annum from the respective dates of deposit onwards without deducting any TDS within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the certified copy of this order, failing which the amount would carry three per cent penal interest from the date of passing of this order till the realisation.The firm should also pay Rs50,000 litigation cost to the complainant within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of a certified copy of this order, failing which the said amount would carry interest @9 per cent per annum from the date of passing of this order till realisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/real-estate-firm-fined-for-deficiency-in-service-174524
23-11-2020||The last day of Literati-2020 saw interesting tapestry of love||Curtains down on 3-day Literati||Nandita Puri, a journalist, author and wife of late Bollywood artiste Om Puri, spoke about the grim realities of intercontinental child adoption that a majority of the time is a cover for international child trafficking. She shared the sad story of Jennifer, from her recent book, who was adopted from Mumbai at the age of eight, taken to the US, abused, exploited and ultimately deported to India.In its third session, the literature festival explored romance writing with copywriter, author and screenwriter Anuja Chauhan. Writer of taglines such as “Yeh Dil Mange More”, “Nothing Official About it”, and author of some best-selling romcoms, Anuja said writing requires one to innovate, improve and excel from the first book to the next one.Then it was time for “Holy Grail of Success from Vedanta to Modern Chanakaya” with Dr Janki Santoke, a Vedanta scholar, along with researcher of “Kautilaya Arthshastra” and author of “Corporate Chanakaya”, Dr Radhakrishnan Pillai. Dr Janki Santoke reiterated that Vedanta is a system of life and continues to guide people who care to learn from it. Dr Pillai pointed out the perennial relevance of Chanakya in current times and the need for it to become a part of management and leadership studies.In the next session, Arun Maira, chairman of HelpAge International, and Kaninika Mishra, author of “The Indic Quotient”, got talking about corporate growth and social responsibility.Karnal Singh, a 1984-batch IPS officer and IIT-Kanpur pass out, and author of “Batla House”, along with criminal lawyer Vishvajeet Chaudhary, looked at the humane aspects of policing and what legal reformation is required to enable the police to carry out their investigations effectively to deal with terrorism.Indian mythology and historic fiction writer Anuja Chandramouli and Koral Das Gupta, an author, painter and entrepreneur explored the narrative of women in Indian mythology.National award-winning actor and writer Ashish Vidyarthi, who wears many other hats, unfolded his concept of life, providing a new perspective on life, its purpose and the magic one can create in others’ lives. He talked about frailty of life that this pandemic has brought to the fore. He said it could also be looked at as an extreme privilege if one learns to celebrate and liberate oneself at every step of the way.Punjabi film writer-director with movies such as “Jatt James Bond”, “Farar”, “Bambukat”, “Rabb Da Radio”, “Saab Bahadur” and “Ik Sandhu Hunda Si”, Jass Grewal spoke about his work and his belief in the writings of Paramahansa Yogananda.The concluding session was with Chandigarh Literary Society chairperson Dr Sumita Misra in conversation with Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni, a bestselling author, poet, activist and teacher, who joined in from Houston, USA. Her last novel “The Forest of Enchantments” was a retelling of the Ramayana from Sita’s perspective. Recalling her starting days in the USA, back in 70s, she said she would wear a sari to work since there weren’t many Indian women in Ohio back then. She started writing to analyse herself and soon began to capture the travails of the Diaspora. Chita said: “Men should open their minds to strong and creative women who handle their lives much better.”— Gurnaaz Kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curtains-down-on-3-day-literati-174527
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University Syndicate members to meet today||Panjab University Syndicate members have decided to hold a meeting tomorrow to discuss various issues.However, the meeting has not officially been called by the PU Registrar or Vice-Chancellor. According to the PU Calendar, the Syndicate meetings are to be convened by the Registrar as directed by the Vice-Chancellor or as decided by the Syndicate.Awaiting a meeting since July, members of the Syndicate, whose term end next month, had protested on the campus demanding immediate conduct of the Senate polls and a Syndicate meeting.Notably, the Vice-Chancellor had earlier called for an online emergency meeting twice in September, but members had refused to attend it and instead demanded a physical meeting.The members have been alleging that the Vice-Chancellor is using the powers of the syndicate, but does not consult its members. “The Senate elections have been withheld and there has been no meeting of the Syndicate. The authorities should have conducted it in a phased manner. In tomorrow’s meeting, we will discuss taking things further,” said a member. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-members-to-meet-today-174529
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Employees’ union seeks closure of government schools in Chandigarh||The UT Cadre Educational Employees Union has written to the Director, School Education, to close government schools on the lines of the Haryana Government amid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh.A meeting of union members was held today and various other issues were also discussed on the occasion. “Teachers are already working extra by taking both online and offline classes in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The Education Department should promote deserving teachers to lecturers. The probation period of teachers inducted in 2015 should be cleared,” said Swaran Singh Kamboj on behalf of the union.Union members also decided to extend their support to the UT Electricity Department employees, who are protesting against the privatisation of the department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/employees-union-seeks-closure-of-government-schools-in-chandigarh-174533
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||F4F Event: Two Chandigarh lads selected||Kartikay Singh, Aryaveer Singh and Aniket Kullu have been selected as India’s representatives for the eighth season of Football-For-Friendship (F4F) social programme 2020. These youngsters are part of Minerva Academy Football Club’s in-school football development programme. They have been recommended by the club to participate in the F4F 2020.Kartikay is from St Stephen’s School, while Aryaveer and Kullu are from St John’s High School, Sector 26. This year’s F4F programme will be held in the online format due to the global pandemic outbreak and will be supported by the 2020 UEFA Champions League. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/f4f-event-two-chandigarh-lads-selected-174535
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Man duped of Rs 4.50 lakh||Cyclothon organisedChandigarh: The ROTTO, PGIMER, organised a cyclothon to kick-start weeklong celebrations of the upcoming 11th Indian Organ Donation Day on the PGI campus here on Sunday. Witnessing the participation of senior faculty members, youngsters and cycling enthusiasts, the 15-km cyclothon was flagged off by Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, from the Kairon Block here. Prof Jagat Ram said: “We are well aware that there is a gap between organ availability and requirement. So, we want to disperse a message of a healthier lifestyle by organising this event.” TNS32 units of blood collected at campChandigarh: To mark the 72nd National Cadet Corps Day commemorations, a blood donation camp was held here on Sunday and 32 units of blood were collected. The camp was conducted at the Chandigarh NCC Group Headquarters, Sector 31, in collaboration with the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. TNSExaminations begin at PECChandigarh: Punjab Engineering College (PEC) started conducting exams on Sunday. As many as 70 per cent final-year students of mechanical, computer science and electrical courses appeared for the exams. “The exams began in a smooth way. For foreign and other students, we conducted online exams simultaneously. The students scanned the answer sheets and submitted them in a PDF format,” said Sanjeev Kumar, Dean Academics (PEC). TNS2 arrested for illegal miningMohali: The police have arrested two persons involved in illegal mining of sand and gravel in the Majri block area on Sunday. The suspects have been identified as Kulwant Singh, a resident of Majri block in Mohali, and Ranjodh Singh, a resident of Ropar. They were arrested following a complaint of mining inspector Rohit Kumar. In his complaint, the mining inspector alleged that he, along with his team, intercepted two tippers in the Majri block. One tripper was transporting sand, while another one was carrying gravel. The drivers of these vehicles also failed to produce the requisite permission. The duo was nabbed on the spot and the tippers were also impounded. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-duped-of-rs-4-50-lakh-174537
23-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Civic body claims on street light repairs come hollow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 22Tall claims of the local Municipal Corporation about fixing non-functional street lights within 48 hours seem to be holding no water.Since the EESL, a public sector undertaking (PSU), took over maintenance of street lights from the corporation, the local residents are a harried lot. The residents said non-functional lights were not properly repaired despite their complaints.Kuldeep Singh Gill, president, Bright RWA, Sector 21-B, said: “I complained on toll-free number 18001803580 about three defunct street lights on November 1. Contrary to the promise of ensuring repairs within 48 hours, the lights were not fixed till yesterday. I had to approach several channels, after which they repaired the lights this morning. Still, one street light was not repaired as we were told it was of Bajaj make, not EESL. This system is all chaos.”He appreciated the old system wherein local JEs or SDOs got the lights repaired.Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sectors Welfare Association of Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said: “It is a very bad system imposed on the city residents. The agency is not doing any work. Lights remain out of order for even one month. Poor residents do not even know about their complaint numbers. Why the MC has failed to impose any penalty on the company?”According to information MC officials shared with The Tribune, as per the 2017 agreement reached between the civic body and the ESSL, having replaced all street lights with LED ones, the PSU will take care of maintenance of these lights for seven years. A toll-free number was also released for street light complaints. In a strange arrangement, issues relating to street light fitting are to be fixed by the EESL while the MC will resolve supply issues.Owing to poor coordination between the two entities and lack of accountability on the part of EESL, most complaints remain entangled between supply and fitting issues. “The whole work, including supply, should have been given to the company, which could have avoided this confusion. It would have also helped in putting MC officials on other tasks,” said a resident.A source said: “The EESL has outsourced the work. The MC should have itself outsourced this work. Just because it was a PSU, the company was given the work leaving the residents to suffer. There are many states which have not hired the services of this PSU of the Centre, but Chandigarh has.”Meanwhile, non-functional street lights were seen in a majority of southern sectors. Road from the railway station to the poultry farm, and the stretch near the High Court and Sukhna Lake, too, had non-functional street lights.Meanwhile, Ajay Raj, General Manager, EESL, did not respond to the phone calls and text messages sent by this correspondent. The MC Superintending Engineer, Krishan Pal Singh, who heads the electricity wing, said: “The residents should now call 24X7 helpline number 0172-2787200 for street light and other MC issues. The issue will be resolved.”Strange arrangementIn a strange arrangement, issues related to street light fitting are to be fixed by the EESL while the Municipal Corporation will resolve problems concerned with the electricity supply.Public at receiving endOwing to a poor coordination between the two entities and lack of accountability on the part of the EESL, most complaints remain entangled between supply and fitting issues. “The whole work, including supply, should have been given to the company, which could have avoided this confusion. It would have also helped in putting MC officials on other tasks,” said a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-claims-on-street-light-repairs-come-hollow-174480
