24-11-2020||Chandigarh||2 Covid deaths, 79 fresh cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh health authorities on Tuesday reported two more coronavirus deaths and 79 fresh cases, pushing the numbers to 265 fatalities and 16,848 infections.There are 1,128 active cases as of now in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, according to a medical bulletin.A total of 66 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 15,455, the bulletin said.So far, 1,34,281 samples have been taken for testing, of which 1,16,658 tested negative while reports of 96 samples are awaited, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-covid-deaths-79-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-175239
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ayushmann Khurrana is busy shooting in Chandigarh; misses his 'warm' wife Tahira Kashyap||Actor Ayushmann Khurrana, who is currently busy shooting in hometown Chandigarh, is missing his wife, writer-filmmaker Tahira Kashyap.Ayushmann fondly calls Tahira 'warm human', and he posted a picture of her on Instagram Stories.In the image, Tahira is seen sitting in front of a room heater dressed in sweatpants, shirt and a pair of sneakers. ""Missing this warm human," Ayushmann captioned the picture.The actor, who is busy shooting for Abhishek Kapoor film "Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui" here, has checked into a hotel to stay away from his family as a safety measure amid the pandemic. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ayushmann-khurrana-is-busy-shooting-in-chandigarh-misses-his-warm-wife-tahira-kashyap-175149
24-11-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Killer stretch a nightmare, claims four lives in 15 days||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, November 23Four persons have lost their lives in the past 15 days on a killer stretch near Nabha Sahib on the Zirakpur-Patiala road.The Airport light point and Aerocity Chowk are two fast-emerging hotspots where major and minor accidents are a daily affair.Speeding, heavy vehicular rush, multiple entry-exit points and lack of enforcement of traffic rules combine together to make a deadly cocktail.On November 21, two persons were killed and as many injured when a recklessly driven SUV hit a taxi waiting to take a U-turn on the Zirakpur-Patiala road. The SUV driver first hit the police beat box at the intersection and then rammed into the taxi around 1.30 am.On November 20, Jasmer Singh (65), who was riding a scooter, was killed after being hit by a bus near a petrol pump in Nabha Sahib village early in the morning. The Naraingarh Jhungian resident was going to his daughter’s house in Lohgarh when an unidentified driver of a PRTC bus, coming from Patiala, hit him. The victim fell on the road and succumbed to his head injury on the spot.On November 8, a 48-year-old autorickshaw driver lost his life around 7.30 pm when he took a U-turn from the traffic lights towards Nabha Sahib and a car coming from the wrong side hit him. He is survived by his wife and two children.The Zirakpur traffic police have identified 14 such black spots and have written to the authorities for manpower, but they are yet to hear from them.Locals said the main cause of accidents was speeding and reckless driving. Also, people do not follow traffic rules and a moment of negligence becomes a misery of a lifetime.“Often people take the wrong side after refuelling at the petrol pump and are run over by vehicles coming in at high speed from the opposite side,” said the owner of a tea stall near the petrol pump.Another reason for a majority of the accidents is the multiple entry-exit point to residential colonies on the national highway. “In a hurry, localites coming out of residential colonies forget that there is heavy vehicular rush moving at high speed on the national highway,” Zirakpur traffic police incharge Omvir Singh said, adding that “there are multiple black spots in this short stretch. The crossing near the petrol pump has been identified as a black spot.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/killer-stretch-a-nightmare-claims-four-lives-in-15-days-174926
24-11-2020||---||Disability no bar for these lovebirds, tie knot||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 23Can there be a better gift than tying the nuptial knot with the one you love on your birthday? Of course not, says Rahul, a quadriplegic, who got married to Anamika, an able-bodied woman.Chandigarh Spinal Rehab, Sector 28, was buzzing with activity as its inmate Rahul got married on his birthday today. For Anamika and Rahul, convincing their kin for the wedding was a Herculean task. Rahul taking ‘pheras’ on his wheelchair with an emotionally charged Anamika following him, taking vows to take care of him as she has been doing since forever, was a sight to behold.Their love story is indeed awe-inspiring. The couple, Rahul Singh Diwakar and Anamika Bhartiya, both 29, know each other since 2000, when they were playmates in the neighbourhood in Fatehgarh. It was in 2008 that they started developing feelings for each other.Rahul shares their journey — one of love, trauma, and love being a balm for the scars left by the trauma. He says: “I always used to see Anamika before leaving for any work, but on that fateful day (March 13, 2016), I was in a hurry and didn’t meet her. I was going to appear for the AAO exam and was riding pillion on a bike when the vehicle skidded on a road and I suffered injuries on my back. I was taken to a hospital by my friends, but I wasn’t aware of what lay ahead in life.”Rahul, while talking about the strong bond between him and Anamika, says: “Even though the lower half of my body was completely paralysed, it made no difference to Anamika’s love for me. My father was in the Army and mother and sister were teachers. I was often alone at home and Anamika would take care of me until the family members came back in the evening.” This went on for three months before his father was transferred and Rahul and his family shifted to Lucknow in 2018.“I used to talk to Rahul for several hours on the phone daily as he was depressed,” says Anamika. She lost both her parents six years ago.The wedding was hosted by Chandigarh Spinal Rehab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/disability-no-bar-for-these-lovebirds-tie-knot-174927
24-11-2020||---||Chandigarh's wait for 1st woman SSP (Traffic) gets longer||Chandigarh, November 23The city’s wait for its first woman SSP (Traffic and Security) may get longer as 2011-batch IPS officer Manisha Chaudhary, who is at present the SP, Panipat, has run into trouble with a case of abetment to suicide against her and two other cops in Haryana.Manisha’s name was approved by the Centre earlier this month for the post of the UT SSP (Traffic and Security) on an inter-cadre deputation from the Haryana cadre to the AGMUT cadre for three years.Manisha was set to join as the SSP (Traffic and Security), but former councillor Harish Sharma jumped into a canal near Binjhol village in Panipat last week. Sharma’s family alleged that he was being harassed by the police.Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij had set up a SIT to probe the incident. Vij had ordered that Manisha should not be relieved for her deputation till a report was submitted.The post fell vacant after DIG Shashank Anand was relieved of the charge on July 29. SP (Crime and Headquarters) Manoj Kumar Meena is officiating as the SSP (Traffic and Security).Manisha’s name was approved by MHAThe name of Manisha Chaudhary, who is at present the SP, Panipat, was approved by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) earlier this month for the post of the SSP (Traffic and Security), Chandigarh, on an inter-cadre deputation from the Haryana cadre to the AGMUT cadre for a period of three years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-wait-for-1st-woman-ssp-traffic-gets-longer-174928
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Pay Rs 900 for RTPCR test||The UT Health Department has slashed the rates for the Covid tests being conducted by private laboratories in the city.An order issued by the department stated that the rates have been reduced from Rs1200 to Rs900 for an RTPCR test and from Rs650 to Rs500 for a rapid antigen test.“After due deliberations on the matter and with consent from leading private laboratories, the cost of Covid tests have been reduced,” stated the order. The order will come into effect immediately and non-compliance will invoke action under Section 188. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pay-rs-900-for-rtpcr-test-174929
24-11-2020||Panchkula||Salon owner stabbed in Panchkula||A salon owner was injured after 10-12 men allegedly attacked him with a knife at Sector 15 here.The incident took place at Chand Unisex Salon around 3.30 pm after the owner refused to allow one of his employees, Rajni, to leave the work early to attend a wedding.Victim Jameel Ahmed, aka Chand (42), told the police that despite not allowing Rajni to leave the salon early, she picked up her belongings and put it on a table in the eating space and got ready to leave. When another employee Uzman asked her to lift her items as he wanted to eat lunch, she badmouthed him which led to an argument between them.“Rajni called her brother Rahul from Rajiv Colony to the spot, saying she will teach me a lesson. Her brother Rahul reached the spot with his friends Mohit, Rakesh, Ravi and seven-eight other  men and asked me why I didn’t allow his sister to leave early from work. Rahul then took out a knife and attacked me. As I turned around to protect myself, the weapon got stuck in my right hip.,” the complainant said.The victim was then taken to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital where the doctors removed the knife from his hip. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/salon-owner-stabbed-in-panchkula-174930
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 98 fresh cases, three deaths||Mohali sees 1 more fatality, 158 casesMohali: One more fatality due to Covid was witnessed in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the case tally to 267. The district saw 158 fresh cases, while seven more persons were cured of the disease. The district has so far seen 14,554 positive cases and 12,892 patients have been cured. There are now 1,395 active cases, while 267 persons have succumbed. TNS37 fresh cases, one death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported 37 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 8,382. It also witnessed one death. The toll stands at 122. A 71-year-old woman from Sector 16, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, succumbed to the disease. Among the fresh cases, four each were reported from Nada village and Sector 21, and three each from Jaisinghpura, Sector 10, Sector 12-A and Sector 4. While 7,794 patients have defeated the virus so far, 466 cases are still active. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-98-fresh-cases-three-deaths-174931
24-11-2020||Panchkula||Loot case fake; driver, aide held||The case of Rs14-lakh loot from a canter driver reported on Friday near Garhi Kotaha village in Raipur Rani has turned out to be fake.Cracking the case, the Sector 26 crime branch of the Panchkula police revealed today that the loot story was concocted by canter driver Dharambir and his friend Balwinder Singh. Both accused were arrested today and produced in a local court, which remanded them in judicial custody.Inspector Aman Kumar, in-charge of the crime branch, said during the investigation, it came to the fore that Dharambir had hatched the conspiracy to withhold the money. There were loopholes in the story narrated by him to the police, he said.Dharambir, the prime accused, reportedly confessed to the police that he had given the money to friend Balwinder before making a fake call to the police from Garhi Kotaha that four car-borne men had looted him of Rs14 lakh at gunpoint.‘We have recovered the entire amount from them,” Inspector Kumar added.On Friday, Dharambir had filed a complaint that four car-borne miscreants robbed him of Rs14 lakh at gunpoint near Garhi Kotaha village in Raipur Rani. He told the police that he was driving back to Marranwala (Pinjore) after collecting Rs14 lakh cash for a consignment of aluminum scrap from a metal factory owner in Jagadhri.On the complaint of the driver’s employer and scrap trader Nirbhay Singh, a case was registered against four unidentified persons under Section 25 of the Arms Act and Section 392 of the IPC at the Raipur Rani police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/loot-case-fake-driver-aide-held-174948
24-11-2020||Mohali||2 attack cop with brick in Mohali, held||The police have arrested two persons for allegedly assaulting a constable of a PCR party at Guru Nanak Colony, Jagatpura, Sector 65.The suspects have been identified as Mani Kandan and Shingara, both residents of the colony.According to the police, there was an engagement ceremony in the colony last night and two parties had a dispute over playing of DJ. Mani and Shingara were also involved in the quarrel. On getting a call, Constable Ramandeep Singh reached the spot with his party to settle the dispute, but the suspects, along with their accomplices, allegedly attacked him when he was trying to intervene in their matter. They assaulted him and removed his turban, and later attacked him with a brick on his head. The constable was taken to the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 from where he was discharged today. Phase 11 police station SHO Jagdeep Singh said, “We nabbed the suspects today. Their accomplices will be arrested soon. A case has been registered against them under Sections 353, 186, 332 and 149, IPC. They will be produced in the court tomorrow.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-attack-cop-with-brick-in-mohali-held-174972
24-11-2020||---||Woman among two more arrested||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 23Two more suspects — a woman and a broker — involved in the theft of 48 heritage chairs from Panjab University (PU) have been arrested by the UT police and 15 more chairs have been recovered.Three persons have been arrested so far in the case and total 35 chairs recovered.The suspects arrested are Usha (42), alias Sweety, a resident of Sector 25, and Naresh Mittal (36), a resident of Sector 41. The police said while five chairs were recovered from Usha’s house, 10 were recovered on Mittal’s instance from a godown in Dhanas. SP (Crime) Manoj Kumar Meena said Usha was one of those who had stolen the chairs. “Mittal deals in old furniture and heritage items. He acted as a broker in the racket. Mittal used to get the chairs repaired from Sarfaraj, the carpenter arrested earlier, and delivered them to buyers,” said a police official. The police said Mittal was an important link to the smugglers involved in the heritage furniture theft. Sources said other suspects in the case have also been identified. The police said Usha was a habitual offender and had earlier been arrested in theft cases.A total of 48 heritage chairs were stolen from the PU Sociology Department between November 1 and 3. The police investigation led to the arrest of Sarfaraj, a Baltana resident, while carrying two heritage chairs. His interrogation led to recovery of 18 chairs from the forest area in Dhanas.Thefts in the pastWomen from Sector 25 have earlier also been involved in the theft of heritage furniture. In 2016, three women of Sector 25 were arrested for allegedly stealing heritage items from Le Corbusier Centre in Sector 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-among-two-more-arrested-174973
24-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court stays conviction of former Engineer-in-Chief||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 23Four years after former Engineer-in-Chief VK Mahendru was convicted by the trial court along with others in a 23-year-old power theft case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed his conviction.Mahendru was on deputation as an Executive Engineer with the UT Electricity Department when a complaint was received alleging that the Director of Bhushan Industrial Corporation, Brij Bhushan Singhal, had manipulated the posting of an Assistant Executive Engineer to indulge in electricity theft for his industries during peak load hours.The appellant was convicted with other accused on September 2, 2016, before being sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three years. His counsel Manu K Bhandari argued that an appeal filed in the matter by Mahendru was admitted and his sentence was ordered to be stayed on October 5, 2016.Appearing before Justice Ritu Bahri’s Bench through videoconferencing, Bhandari submitted that the applicant’s age was 75 and his wife was more than 72. He had no other source of income except the pension, which had now been reduced from Rs88,000 to Rs44,000.Taking up the matter, Justice Bahri asserted: “The applicant is a senior citizen. If at the time of the final decision of the appeal, it is held that the alleged offence has not been committed by the applicant, an irreparable loss would be caused to him. It is not the case of the CBI that any recovery order has been passed against the UT Administration or any recovery has been affected for theft of electricity”.Justice Bahri also referred to a case filed in 1999 by the HVPN against the Union of India and others. The nigam was seeking a direction for payment of more than Rs19 crore required to be made good principally by the UT and the Bhakra Beas Management Board for pilferage of electricity.Justice Bahri asserted that it was held that action could not follow without making persons primarily responsible for the theft a party to the litigation. The principle of filing a suit merely against a master for a wrong committed by a servant could be adopted for criminal wrongs.Before parting with the case, Justice Bahri asserted that applying the ruling and keeping in view the applicant’s age, the application was allowed and his conviction was stayed during the pendency of the appeal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-stays-conviction-of-former-engineer-in-chief-174974
24-11-2020||---||Chandigarh may get relief from cold for 3 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 23What may come as a relief, the minimum and maximum temperatures are expected to increase for the next three days in the city.The minimum temperature, which remained the lowest in November in three years for the past two days, today improved a bit. From 8.4°C on Saturday and 8.1°C on Sunday, the minimum temperature today rose to 9.6°C. For the next three days, the minimum temperature is expected to hover around 13°C. Also, the maximum temperature, which was 22.8°C today, is expected to increase between 23°C and 24°C for the next three days. Meanwhile, the weather is expected to remain generally cloudy tomorrow, followed by partly cloudy for the next two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-get-relief-from-cold-for-3-days-174975
24-11-2020||---||Stopped at VC office, Syndics protest delay in House meeting||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 23Miffed over being stopped from entering the office of the Panjab University (PU) Vice-Chancellor and not getting proper treatment, Syndicate members threatened the VC to stop personal attacks or be ready to face the music.However, the VC denied taking any dictation from Syndics and maintained that the entry doors of the office were locked keeping in view the security protocol.“This is a public office and cannot be locked. As Syndicate members, we have the right to enter this office. Not even the police or Army can stop us. If the authorities continue to launch such personal attacks, we will reply with the same intensity along with proofs, which will put many in trouble. We have everything,” said Syndic Ashok Goyal.“I won’t be taking any dictation from Syndics on this matter. The gates were locked considering security protocol. There’s nothing to make a fuss about,” said Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor (VC).Heated arguments between VC, SyndicsA 30-minute heated argument started at the assembly area of the VC office after Syndicate members reached here to meet him. Syndics maintained that they were here to inform the VC about the meeting, which was not scheduled as per the PU calendar and was called by members themselves. However, on being stopped at the office entry gate Syndics were forced to call the VC to a common area in the presence of media to hold an open discussion.“Syndics were shocked to find the Senate hall, Syndicate room and Senate lounge locked. Deeply anguished over this, we marched towards the VC office. To our utter dismay, all gates around office were closed immediately. Syndics condemned such an act of the VC wherein members were declined entry into the office,” said Syndic Harpreet Singh Dua.Issues raised by Syndics“Syndicate members expressed their resentment over the fact that Senate meeting has not been convened for the last 11 months while the last Syndicate meeting was held more than four months ago. We expressed disappointment over different alibis used by the VC,” added Dua.“The VC postponed Senate elections in August on the pretext of Covid-19 pandemic and later citing lack of economic resources for conducting poll besides, unwillingness of the non-teaching staff to perform election duties. Now, he has put the onus on the Chancellor,” said Dua.Syndics demanded to hold an immediate physical meeting. They maintained that all decisions taken by the authorities were illegal and need immediate action.“The authorities have taken decision in anticipation of house’s approval, but without informing its members. The VC should tell if he is under pressure by the Chancellor or any other group so that we can go and meet him/them. We are here as the VC is approving all orders,” added Goyal.Meeting should be held as soon as possible, said Syndics. The campus had appropriate venues to hold meeting of 15 to 20 people, they added.Meeting at appropriate time, says Vice-ChancellorThe VC maintained that the meeting would be held at an appropriate time and in a safe environment. Syndicate members were free to meet the Chancellor, the VC added. “We are not denying to hold Syndicate meeting. But, it will be held at an appropriate time and when the current situation gets normal. If something happens, the blame will be passed on to the authorities without giving a second thought,” said Prof Raj Kumar.“Syndicate members are free to meet the Chancellor. Earlier, also they met Punjab Governor, UT Administrator and many other officials. We (PU) have to abide by rules, authorities decision and Covid-19 situation. Such pressure tactics won’t make us to say or do things according to Syndics or any other individual,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stopped-at-vc-office-syndics-protest-delay-in-house-meeting-174977
24-11-2020||---||NSUI submits memo on issue of promotion to MSc||Chandigarh, November 23Members of the NSUI met the Dean (University instructions), Prof RK Singla, and submitted a memorandum regarding promotion of students from BSc to MSc.“Students require 90 per cent credits for promotion. However, many students are falling short of the criteria. Earlier, students used to get a special chance to reappear in exams and complete the eligibility. Due to Covid-19 crisis, this special chance was not given to students,” said Manoj Lubana, the NSUI national media in charge.“University should find a solution to the issue as it concerns students’ future. We demanded that there should be relaxation in credits or provisional admission should be given to these students,” said Rahul Kumar, vice-president, PUCSC.Meanwhile, Prof Singla assured NSUI members to resolve the issue as soon as possible. NSUI members Sehaj, Rajkaran Baidwan and Kanav were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nsui-submits-memo-on-issue-of-promotion-to-msc-174979
24-11-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||50 per cent drop in attendance at Mohali government schools||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 23In the wake of spurt in Covid-19 cases in Mohali district, the attendance of students in government schools has gone down by more than 50 per cent.According to information, about 25 to 28 students were present in a class daily in government schools. After the increase in Covid-19 cases, this number has gone down to 10 to 12 students.Pertinently, schools in the district reopened on October 19 after about six months’ lockdown. Confirming the development Manpreet Mangat, Headmistress, Government High School, Landran, said the number of students attending classes had gone down from 28 to 12.Still teachers were pursuing brilliant students to attend classes regularly so as to remove any doubts in a particular subject, she added.Teachers were approaching parents to convince them to send their wards to school so that they could get proper education, which was possible only through physical attendance only, she said.They hoped that the number of students in the school would increase in another few days after coronavirus cases declined, she added.The school was also holding online classes for students, who preferred to stay home, she said. They were allowing students to attend classes only after getting due permission from their parents, she added.District Education Officer Himat Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. However, a senior official of the Education Department said lower attendance in schools was also due to change in weather conditions. Students’ number could go down further as the temperature would plummet in the coming days, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-per-cent-drop-in-attendance-at-mohali-government-schools-174981
24-11-2020||---||Chandigarh colleges reopen, few students show up||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 23Local colleges reopened with very thin attendance after the Directorate of Higher Education (DHE) gave permission to open educational institutions for the final year students from today.As many as 12 local colleges are affiliated with Panjab University (PU) and function under the DHE. “On the first day of reopening, the college campuses were sanitised and worked out all protocols as per the guidelines of the UGC and the Chandigarh Administration for the safety of students and the staff,” a DHE official said.“In many colleges online house examination are being conducted during this week. Some colleges have reopened campuses for research scholars in first instance,” he added.“Regular physical classes for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students will begin by this week end. The department may review its decision from time to time keeping in view the ongoing status of the Covid-19 pandemic as per instructions of the Government of India and the Chandigarh Administration,” he said.A low turnout was expected after the PU insisted to continue online classes while the DHE ordered opening of colleges. In many colleges, majority of students have not submitted consent forms to attend regular classes amid rising coronavirus cases in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-colleges-reopen-few-students-show-up-174983
24-11-2020||---||Panjab University to remain closed today||Chandigarh, November 23Panjab University campus, offices, teaching departments and its affiliated colleges will remain closed tomorrow on account of the martyrdom day of Guru Teg Bahadur following. The UT Administration issued a notification in this regard.Meanwhile, Panjab University institutions, regional and rural centres and affiliated colleges in Punjab will remain open tomorrow. However, all meetings and examinations will be held as per schedule announced earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-remain-closed-today-174985
24-11-2020||---||Results declared||Chandigarh, November 23Panjab University has declared the results of MSc (home science-human development and family relations), fourth semester; bachelor of commerce, second semester; certificate course in Tibetan and diploma course in Tibetan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/results-declared-174986
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Artistes to join farmers’ protest in Delhi on November 26||Artistes and noted singers from Punjab here today supported farmers by announcing that they would participate in their protest rally to be held in Delhi on November 26.Addressing a press conference at Kisan Bhawan here today evening, Jass Grewal, Kanwar Grewal, Haraf Cheema, Lakha Sidhana and Sonia Mann said, “Leaders despite their political affiliations should come on a common platform to support the farmers’ cause. It is not the issue concerning farmers and labourers, but of every individual in the country”.Sonia Mann said, “Sarpanches whether from Shiromani Akali Dal or the Congress should come together and participate in the protest rally. Youth of the state should participate in the rally only then pressure will be built on the Prime Minister to revoke the Agriculture Bills.” If stopped by the police they would sit on dharna at the same place for four months, she added. They would be carrying four months ration with them, she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/artistes-to-join-farmers-protest-in-delhi-on-november-26-174988
24-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Lying closed for years, Chandigarh MC to run gyms on PPP mode||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 23Get set to hit the gym in your neighbourhood community centre as the Municipal Corporation (MC) is on its way to hand over these gyms to interested parties under the PPP mode.Almost all gyms have been lying closed for about two or five years due to the apathetic attitude of the civic body. A few gyms closed down even after their inauguration, in the absence of any policy or planning to run them.A few gyms, including one at the community centres in Sector 22, 49 and Mahila Bhavan, Sector 38, were functional for some time. Many gyms, including the one in Sector 27, were never opened to the public. The gyms at the modern community centers of Sector 37 and 38 also failed to open their doors to the public. These two modern community centres were built at a cost of Rs 5 crore each and were inaugurated about two years ago.The main reason the MC gave for these gyms lying closed is there being no policy to hire a gym trainer. A few gyms which remained functional for a brief period were also closed down as the trainers could not be paid by the gym committee. Issues related to involvement of councillors and ward residents in gym committees also played a spoilsport.“It is a sheer waste of public money. It is surprising that years after setting up the gyms, the authorities are still in the process of framing a policy to run them. It should have been framed before setting up the facilities,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, Chairman, FOSWAC.Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said: “I think running the gyms under the PPP mode is a good move. At least, we will be able to run and maintain them. But, we should set minimum affordable rates for the public and it should be ensured that ward residents are given priority in enrolment.”Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav said: “The PPP model will be implemented after getting approval of House on November 27. It will generate revenue and we will also be able to run the gyms professionally, besides taking care of their maintenance.”There are around 46 community centres in the city and about 50 per cent of them have gyms. Several machines are in need of repairs.What forced their closureThe main reason the MC gave for these gyms lying closed is there being no policy to hire a gym trainer. A few gyms which remained functional for a brief period were also closed down as the trainers could not be paid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lying-closed-for-years-chandigarh-mc-to-run-gyms-on-ppp-mode-174990
24-11-2020||---||One in every 10 tricity residents suffering from diabetes: Expert||Mohali, November 23According to the ICMR, India has emerged as a hub of diabetes.We have a maximum number of diabetics in Punjab and the tricity has one in every 10 persons suffering from the disease. Thus, timely precautions are necessary to lower its risks.This was stated by Dr Vivek Sabharwal, internal medicine specialist and diabetologist, Amcare Hospital, while addressing a virtual session today. Dr Sabharwal said not all forms of diabetes are caused for a person being overweight or leading an inactive lifestyle.In fact, some forms are present in patients since childhood which is known as type 1 diabetes and in that case, artificial insulin is a must, he opined.Dr Sabharwal elaborated that long-term insulin could also cause a significant increase in weight, which, in turn, can increase insulin demand.It also increases salt retention, thus triggering high blood pressure which further increases cardiovascular risks, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-in-every-10-tricity-residents-suffering-from-diabetes-expert-174991
24-11-2020||---||Railways resumes service of 4 pairs of clone special trains||Chandigarh, November 23As the protesters in Punjab have lifted their rail blockade, the Railways has restored four pairs of clone special trains originating from or having a halt in Chandigarh.However, the New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi train would remain cancelled until further orders due to low occupancy.Ambala Divisional Railway Manager Gurinder Mohan Singh said the New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi had been cancelled as its occupancy level remained around 40 per cent.“We have been reviewing whether to restore or not the New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi on a weekly basis. The AC train will be restored if its bookings go up,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railways-resumes-service-of-4-pairs-of-clone-special-trains-174992
24-11-2020||---||Second draw to be held tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 23The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will hold the second draw for the allotment of flats in Maloya on Wednesday.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, said a computerised draw would be conducted for the allotment of 448 flats to occupants of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 on November 25. He said a list of the occupants, who will be included in the draw, has been uploaded on the website of the CHB.He said the 380 occupants are from the pre-fab shelters at Sector 52 while the remaining 68 occupants are from Sector 56. There are 15 applicants, who had submitted a copy of the disability certificates, and they would be considered for the allotment of flats on the ground floor, he added.The Chandigarh Administration had decided to re-locate the residents of pre-fab shelters to EWS flats in Maloya I. The project is being implemented under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) Scheme of the Centre.The CEO said the first computerised draw was held on November 10 for the allotment of 352 flats and the physical possession of the flats was handed over last week. He said the demolition of 275 pre-fab shelters in Sector 56 had already been completed and the demolition of about 350 pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 was underway and would be completed this week.In compliance with the Covid protocol, a live telecast of the draw would be streamed on YouTube and the draw would be streamed live at the site of pre-fab shelters through a display van.Immediately after the draw, results will be uploaded on the website of the CHB and at the site of the shelters.He said the physical possession of the flats in Maloya I would be handed over in a staggered manner to avoid rush and to ensure compliance with the social distancing norms.Garg said as per the tentative schedule, the subsequent draws would be held on December 2 and 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/second-draw-to-be-held-tomorrow-174993
24-11-2020||---||BSF’s cycle expedition team reaches Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 23The Border Security Force’s “Infinity Ride—2020,” a cycle expedition traversing the nation from Srinagar to Kanyakumari, arrived here today. The expedition is a part of a national campaign to psychologically empower the BSF personnel disabled in the line of duty.As many as 30 cyclists, supported by BSF riders and the Aditya Mehta Foundation, had commenced their 3,842-km journey from Srinagar on November 19 and are scheduled to reach the country’s southern tip on December 31.Surendra Panwar, Additional Director-General, BSF, felicitated the team members for their determination and participation in the expedition. He said the BSF had 298 personnel with more than 40 per cent disability.He added that the BSF was reckoned for its deft handling of sensitive and volatile borders as well as other security-related tasks and because of its professionalism and commitment, it is the most preferred and sought-after force by the Centre for handling internal security tasks and election duties in hyper-sensitive areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bsfs-cycle-expedition-team-reaches-chandigarh-175000
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Green Diwali drive winners felicitated||Winners of the Green Diwali campaign were today honoured by the Department of Environment, UT.To promote a cracker-free, pollution-free and safe Deepawali this year, the Department of Environment, along with Yuvsatta, an NGO, had organised an Inter-School Short Mobile Video Contest on the theme, “My Green Diwali-My Green Pledge”, in which more than 225 students and teachers from 20 prominent schools of the city participated.Today, at a function held following all Covid protocols at Paryavaran Bhawan, Debendra Dalai, Director, Department of Environment, honoured the prize-winning students and teachers.Dalai said this year, just one burns case from Chandigarh was reported at the PGI on Diwali night against 60 in the previous year.Pramod Sharma, Coordinator of Yuvsatta, said besides the merit certificates and mementos, the winners were also given cash prizes of Rs 1,000 each in the junior category, Rs 1,500 each for seniors and Rs 2,500 each for all teachers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/green-diwali-drive-winners-felicitated-175001
24-11-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Lockdown no excuse for delay in housing  project||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 23Lock down due to Covid 19 and a shortage of construction material are no excuses for not giving the possession of the flat to a consumer on time.While rejecting all excuses for the delay in completion of the project by a Mohali-based builder, the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, directed the builder to refund the entire paid amount of Rs 23,12,500 to the consumer with interest.The commission also directed the builder to pay a compensation for causing mental agony and physical harassment, for deficiency in providing service, adoption of unfair trade practice and also for cost of litigation in a lump sum of Rs 50,000 to the complainant,Sukhwant Bhatia (70) approached the commission after the builder failed to deliver the flat on time. In the complaint filed before the commission, she said she booked a residential plot measuring 250 sq yd on May 17, 2012, in a mega housing project, known as Palm Garden, Mullanpur, Punjab. The total price of the plot was fixed at Rs 46,25,000.She said despite the fact that a substantial amount Rs 23,12,500 had been paid to the opposite party (real estate firm), as per demands raised by them from time to time, yet they neither allotted the plot nor executed the buyer’s agreement. Nor did they offer possession thereof, for want of development activities at the project site. She alleged that the project was launched without obtaining necessary approvals/sanctions from the competent authorities. When neither plot number was allotted to the complainant nor the buyer’s agreement executed between the parties; she stopped making further payments to the opposite party and sought a refund of the amount.The opposite party denied all allegations and claimed that the delay in delivery of possession of the plot was on account of a shortage of building material, the ban on mining imposed by the government concerned, and also the Covid-19 lockdown.After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that nothing was placed on record to prove the claims. As far as plea taken with regard to Covid-19, it may be stated here that the said pandemic took place in India in March 2020 when the lockdown was executed. However, the lockdown has no relation whatsoever with the inordinate delay in the matter, as the plot had been purchased by the complainant in 2012. Also, as per the settled principle of law laid down by the Supreme Court of India, in the cases where no agreement has been executed by the builder after the booking of the plot/unit, then the reasonable period of two to three years has to be taken into account for completion of the construction and development activities and delivery of possession to the allottees/buyers thereof.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-no-excuse-for-delay-in-housing-project-175002
24-11-2020||Chandigarh||Man held with 500-gm opium||Covid: UT to hold review meetingChandigarh: The UT Administration will review its decisions, including opening of schools, at a meeting on Thursday. The UT Administration may withdraw some relaxations in view of a sudden increase in Covid cases in the city. The issues of increasing fine for not wearing mask and closing down of schools, community centres, tourist spots and public places would be taken up at the meeting, said a senior official of the Administration. TNSBSNL launches programmeChandigarh: The BSNL (Chandigarh) is organising a customer outreach programme for enterprise business customers of Chandigarh, Mohali, Panchkula, Dera Bassi from November 23 to 28, on the directions of MC Singh, General Manager, BSNL, Chandigarh. During this period, the BSNL will reach out to all government and private organisations and apprise them of various enterprise business products.TNSAGMUT cadre IAS officer joins UTChandigarh: Nitika Pawar, a 2012 batch AGMUT cadre IAS officer, has joined the UT Administration. She has been appointed Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Agriculture Census Commissioner, Director of Food and Supplies, Director-cum-Special Secretary of Tourism, Special Secretary of Personnel and Additional Managing Director of CITCO. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-500-gm-opium-175006
