25-11-2020||Chandigarh||87 more test COVID-19 positive in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported 87 new cases of the novel coronavirus, bringing the infection tally to 16,925, according to a medical bulletin.The death of a 57-year-old coronavirus positive man pushed the related toll to 266, said the bulletin.Chandigarh has 1,127 active COVID-19 cases, as of now, according to the bulletin.Seventy-seven more patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 15,532.A total of 1,35,876 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing and 1,18,166 of them came out negative while reports of 120 are awaited, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/87-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-chandigarh-175755
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali Police issues advisory to take diversions as farmers’ protest leads to traffic jams||Mohali Police issued an advisory against taking the Chandigarh-Zirakpur-Delhi and the Patiala-Zirakpur-Chandigarh routes, where an ongoing farmers’ protest march to the national capital has caused traffic snarls.The advisory, issued on Wednesday evening, suggests alternatives---Chandigarh-Panchkula-Nada Sahib-Yamunanagar-Delhi route for Delhi, and the diversion from Chhatt Light point towards Mohali to Chandigarh.This is the full text of the advisory.  “Due to farmers (sic) agitation on 26-11-2020 and 27-11-2020, the commuters travelling from Chandigarh/Punjab towards Delhi/Ambala might face heavy traffic congestion on the roads.We humbly suggest not( sic) to undertake non essential travel towards these routes:1. Chandigarh-Zirakpur-Delhi(Alternative route :Chandigarh-Panchkula-Nada sahib-Yamunanagar-Delhi) 2. Patiala-Zirakpur-Chandigarh(Diversion from Chhatt Light point towards Mohali)Sorry for inconvenience caused @sasnagarpolice @trafficsasnagarpolice”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-issues-advisory-to-take-diversions-as-farmers-protest-leads-to-traffic-jams-175751
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh suspends bus services to Haryana; Punjab and Himachal may get affected||As farmers plan to march towards Delhi, the Union Territory administration has decided to suspend all Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) bus operations in and out of Haryana.The march is from November 25 to 27.The official spokesperson said, that the CTU operation in Punjab and Himachal may get affected as well. As such, commuters are requested to plan their journey on CTU buses after enquiring at 0172-2700006 (ISBT-17), 0172 2624403 and 0172-2624413 (ISBT-43), the spokesperson added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-suspends-bus-services-to-haryana-punjab-and-himachal-may-get-affected-175680
25-11-2020||Naina Mishra||Augment cold chain for vaccine, Chandigarh told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24The UT Administration has been directed to augment the cold chain and transport mechanism for a Covid vaccine by the Centre. The direction was issued at a meeting held with the Prime Minister today. Cold chain is a system of storing and transporting vaccine at the recommended temperature from the point of manufacture to the point of use.City asked to form steering panelAll states and UTs have been told to form a steering committee on Covid vaccine. We have been asked to prioritise population for the vaccine and augment the cold chain. Chandigarh already has an adequate cold chain system and orders for more ILRs have been placed.- Manoj Parida, UT AdviserChandigarh has around 50 ice lined refrigerators (ILRs) under the universal immunisation programme.According to the Central Government, the country is banking upon two vaccine candidates in the Phase 3 trials — one by the Serum Institute of India-Oxford University (AstraZeneca) and the other by Bharat Biotech. The tentative cold chain requirement for both these vaccine candidates can reportedly be met with the existing cold chain infrastructure.Two US-based pharmaceutical companies, Moderna and Pfizer, have declared their Phase 3 reports and both require stringent cold chain management at - 70°C.The PGI is one of the trial sites for the Oxford vaccine. Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “The Oxford vaccine does not require extreme cold temperature for storage. We have all facilities to store the vaccine even if the temperature requirement is -75°C or 2 to 8°C.”Vaccine beneficiary will get certificateThe Central Government has announced that every beneficiary will be pre-registered for the Covid vaccine through bulk upload, self-registration and survey. Push messages will be sent out to the beneficiary and vaccinator before the vaccine session. Every beneficiary will receive a certificate upon the completion of the vaccination through SMS.The first group of beneficiaries to get vaccination will be healthcare workers, followed by frontline workers, the elderly population (above 50 years) and population with comorbid conditions.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “ANMs in the UT are already trained for an electronic system wherein the pre-registered beneficiaries will be vaccinated through SMS notification and a certificate will be generated upon completion. The database of around 12,000 healthcare workers has been created, who will receive the vaccination in the first phase.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/augment-cold-chain-for-vaccine-chandigarh-told-175462
25-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Civic body mulls regularising violations in 2 rehab colonies||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24On the line of the one-time settlement offered to CHB allottees for need-based changes, the local Municipal Corporation has proposed to regularise building violations carried out by 4,298 allottees on the payment of a one-time fee at the Mauli Jagran and Sector 52 rehabilitation colonies.Most of the people here have violated the terms and conditions of allotment by making unauthorised constructions like cantilevers, toilets or a storey. About 80 to 90 per cent of the licensees have sold out the transit sites on the general power of attorney.In this regard, violation notices are also being issued by the branch concerned. However, it appears to be a tough task to root out all illegal occupants and cancel/resume the transit sites.Area councillors Chandrawati Shukla and Anil Dubey want suitable changes in the policy and building violations regularised by way of one-time payment to give relief to needy poor people and stop the issuance of the notices.“When no action is being taken against CHB dwellers for building violations, why are the poor being targeted? Just like them, these colonies should also be given a one-time settlement offer. There should be no discrimination,” said councillor Shukla.Based on a representation of the two councillors, the corporation is bringing an agenda for approval at the General House meeting, scheduled for Friday. If approved by the House, the final nod will be from the UT Administration.For the rehabilitation of economically weaker sections of society living in slum conditions, the Licensing of Tenements and Sites and Services in Chandigarh Scheme-1979 was introduced by the UT Administration. Transit sites were allotted in 1998 following a biometric survey in 1997.Under the scheme, only the ground floor was to be used for different trades, but the allottees built to two-three floors. Many of them earned a huge amount by selling the houses.Councillors root for changes in policyArea councillors Chandrawati Shukla and Anil Dubey want suitable changes in the policy and building violations regularised by way of one-time payment to give relief to needy poor people and stop the issuance of the notices.Cow cess for vehiclesChandigarh: All vehicles purchased from outside, but registered with the RLA in the city may have to pay cow cess. The matter will be taken up in the MC House meeting for approval. The cess is already being levied on vehicles purchased from the city.‘No discrimination, please’When no action is being taken against CHB dwellers for building violations, why are the poor being targeted? Just like them, these colonies should also be given a one-time settlement offer. There should be no discrimination.- Chandrawati Shukla, Councillor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-mulls-regularising-violations-in-2-rehab-colonies-175463
25-11-2020||---||‘No walk-in’ at PGI OPDs to stay for now||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24In the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases in the city, the PGI will not restore the outpatient departments (OPDs) to their full capacity for the time being.UT logs 79 cases, two more deathsChandigarh: As many as 79 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the city on Tuesday. The UT also witnessed two deaths, taking the toll to 265. As many as 1,128 cases are active. A 50-year-old old man from Sector 46 died at Fortis Hospital, Mohali. A 70-year-old man from Sector 37 died at Eden Hospital, Chandigarh. TNS2 more deaths, 80 cases in MohaliMohali: Two more Covid-19 fatalities were witnessed during the past 24 hours in the district, taking the death toll to 269. Meanwhile, 80 fresh cases also surfaced in the district, while three more patients were cured of the disease. There are now 1,471 active cases in the district. TNSThe institute had partially restored the physical OPDs to a restricted number of patients for which an appointment through tele-consultation is required. The PGI is a hub of tertiary care medical services in the region and used to witness a daily footfall of around 10,000 patients every day in the OPDs.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said they had to be alert so that those visiting the hospital did not catch infection.“We are totally responsible towards the non-Covid services as well. We are catering to patients over telephone and in case a patient needs immediate attention, they are being called for consultation in person,” said he.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-walk-in-at-pgi-opds-to-stay-for-now-175464
25-11-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula sees two fatalities, 14 cases||The district witnessed two more Covid fatalities during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 124, while 14 fresh cases were reported, taking the case tally to 8,396.Civil Surgeon Jasjit Kaur said a 61-year-old man, a resident of Sector 25, succumbed to the virus. A 41-year-old man, a resident of Kalka, also died of the disease. Both had comorbidities.Among the fresh cases, one each was reported from Amravati Enclave, DLF Valley, Kalka, Raipur Rani, Sectors 9, 21 and 25, two each from Pinjore and Sector 11, and three cases from Sector 15. The district has so far seen 8,396 positive cases and 7,807 patients have been cured. There are now 465 active cases, while 124 persons have succumbed to the disease. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-two-fatalities-14-cases-175465
25-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||MC eyes Rs 6.8 cr from water connections||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24The MC is expecting Rs6.87 crore in revenue by giving temporary water connections to 2,128 consumers, who are currently using the water supply illegally and staying outside Lal Dora.According to a report by the public health wing, the connections are currently being used without a prior permission by any authority and no bill is being paid to the civic body.If the temporary connections are issued by the MC outside Lal Dora/Phirni for these 2,128 consumers, the corporation will get an estimated amount of Rs4.01 crore in the first year. If the water charges for the past two years are included, the amount goes up to Rs6.87 crore.“The charges include the bills of previous years. It is just a rough estimate,” said Shailender Singh, MC’s Chief Engineer. As per the water supply bylaws, a connection is sanctioned where the civic body has installed a sewerage system. However, these consumers have laid down a sewer line themselves and joined it to the MC’s sewerage network. Thus, 30 per cent sewage cess is part of the expected revenue. The agenda will be taken in the MC’s General House meeting on Friday for approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-eyes-rs-6-8-cr-from-water-connections-175466
25-11-2020||---||13,783 violators unmasked so far, challaned||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24So far, 13,783 challans have been issued by the Chandigarh Police to people for not wearing a mask. With the number of Covid cases rising, the challaning drive has also been intensified. As many as 1,705 challans have already been issued this month in comparison to 1,675 issued in October.Social distancing: 365 challanedThe police have also issued 365 challans for violating the social distancing norm in the city.Challans for not wearing a mask at public places were started in June and since then, 13,783 challans have been issued in different parts of the city. The maximum number of challans was issued in July.As per records, while 582 challans were issued in June, the police initiated a rigorous challaning drive and 5,929 challans were issued in July.The number was 2,585, 1,307 and 1,675 in August, September and October, respectively. Those not found wearing a mask are fined Rs500.DSP Charanjit Singh Virk, spokesperson for the UT police, said the beat staff had been asked to patrol market areas and other public places to enforce the order of compulsory wearing of mask.Besides challans, the police have registered 285 cases under Section 188, IPC, majorly against those who refused to pay the fine. A police official said efforts were also being made to enforce social distancing. A total of 365 challans had been issued for violating the social-distancing norm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-783-violators-unmasked-so-far-challaned-175467
25-11-2020||Zirakpur||Topi gang member held in Lohgarh firing case||The police have arrested the suspect who allegedly fired multiple gunshots at Lohgarh Park and injured a man in July this year.The suspect has been identified as Vivek Bhardwaj, a resident of Omaxe City, Phase 1, Palwal, and is a henchman of the Topi gang, led by Amarjeet Singh Topi of Pehowa. The suspect was on the run ever since the incident took place.Zirakpur police station SHO Rajpal Singh Gill said the police had also recovered a .315 country-made pistol, one live round and some banned intoxicants from his possession. Zirakpur DSP Amroz Singh said Vivek was nabbed near the Chhat light point. A fresh case under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act had been registered against him at the Zirakpur police station. On November 22, Vivek was produced in a local court, which sent him to five-day police remand. On July 4, Vivek fired around five gunshots on Harpreet Singh, a resident of Lohagarh, following which he had sustained leg injuries. A case under Sections 307, 506 and 34 of the IPC and 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against him at the Zirakpur police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/topi-gang-member-held-in-lohgarh-firing-case-175468
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Thieves strike at IB officer’s house in Chandigarh||An amount of Rs 5 lakh and jewellery were stolen from an Intelligence Bureau (IB) officer’s house in Sector 46.According to the police, Sansar Chand, a resident of Sector 46, who is a junior intelligence officer in the IB, reported that he was on two weeks leave. On November 21, his neighbour called him to inform that his house was lying open.The complainant rushed to Chandigarh and found Rs5 lakh, which he had taken as loan from a bank and jewellery items, including gold and silver, stolen from his house. The police were informed following which a case was registered at the Sector 34 police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-strike-at-ib-officers-house-in-chandigarh-175469
25-11-2020||Panchkula||Kalka resident held in hit-&-run||The Panchkula police have arrested a Kalka resident on the charge of rashly driving an Active scooter, which led to the death of a person on November 13.The accused has been identified as Tarun Kumar, a resident of Tangra village in Kalka. According to the information, complainant Satish Kumar, a resident of Abdullapur in Pinjore, told the police that his father, Ojha Kujur (67), had gone to a market around 7.30 pm. When his father was crossing the road near a temple in Pinjore, a rashly driven Activa had hit his father. He said his father fell on the road and received serious injuries on head and chest.He said the two-wheeler driver escaped from the spot. He said he took his father to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital in Panchkula for treatment. The doctors referred him to the PGI where his father succumbed to the injuries.A case under Sections 279 and 304A of the IPC was registered. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kalka-resident-held-in-hit-run-175470
25-11-2020||---||Report blames unskilled labour for Dera Bassi building collapse||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, November 24The Sub-Divisional Magistrate’s report into the Dera Bassi building collapse has found no major fault with the Municipal Council officials but cited the use of unskilled labour and the deceased ‘supervisor’ as the main reason for the incident in which four persons lost their lives. Survey only on paperThe Dera Bassi Municipal Council had announced a survey of all unsafe buildings in the town. The Executive Officer had said: “All buildings older than 50 years will be inspected. If found unsafe, notices will be issued to the owners, and these will be demolished.” Two months later, Executive Officer Jagjeet Singh said: “I will have to check with the building inspector.’’However, for not completing the paperwork before the start of construction, “a disciplinary warning will be issued to the erring MC officials for not taking the Form C from the owner of the building,” said SDM Kuldeep Bawa.On the day of building collapse, September 24, a magisterial-level inquiry was ordered to submit the report in 10 days time.Migrant labours Gopi Chand (60), Raju (46), Ramesh (45) and supervisor Haridev Singh (72), and also the brother of the building owner were killed when a double-storey building at Meera Milli Mohalla, near Ramlila Ground, collapsed under its own weight.Eyewitnesses said reused bricks and iron of the old residential building were being used to erect a new commercial building over it. Sanitary pipes were embedded in the pillars of the building.Sources said a preliminary report by the MC building inspector had also attributed the collapse to structural stability and load-bearing aspect being ignored.Bawa said: “It was totally unskilled and technical lapse. Otherwise, the building plans, both ground floor and the first floor, were passed by the MC. The structural stability of the building measuring less than 500 sq foot is to be given by the architect. In this case, the building owner was himself acting as a supervisor.”A Dera Bassi realtor, an old hand in the construction business, said: “The Municipal Council’s role here is limited to approving the building plan. What the owner does thereafter largely goes unchecked as there is a lot of construction going on in this area. The MC may take action against erring individuals only if someone gives a complaint in writing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/report-blames-unskilled-labour-for-dera-bassi-building-collapse-175471
25-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Olympic association meet on Nov 27||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24The Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA), which has not conducted any state championship in the past 15 years, will hold its annual general body meeting and executive committee meeting to discuss the election plan.The agendaIn a circular, the COA confirmed that the meeting will be held on November 27 for approving the financial status of the association, general secretary’s report, affiliation/disaffiliation of associations, finalisation of election dates for the next term amid Covid-19 and other issues.In a circular, the COA confirmed that the meeting will be held on November 27 for approving the financial status of the association, general secretary’s report, affiliation/disaffiliation of associations, finalisation of election dates for the next term amid Covid-19 and other issues.Earlier, the COA has planned the meeting on August 30, but it was postponed after a few members approached the UT Administration against holding the meeting amid Covid. This time, the COA has chosen Chandigarh Press Club, Sector 27, as the venue for the meeting.However, in this meeting, there’s no mention of conducting any championship in the near future. The four-year term of the current house ends this month.The COA has recently started distributing Rs10,000 among affiliated associations as “diet money” for players. On distributing the amount to some of the associations that have not even conducted a single championship, Maha Singh, General Secretary, COA, said they would seek utilisation certificate.“We will definitely ask them to submit a utilisation certificate for getting the second installment of the grant. A circular in this regard will be issued soon,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/olympic-association-meet-on-nov-27-175472
25-11-2020||---||Punjabi University divided over VC office charge||Patiala, November 24While the state government is yet to take a decision over allocating the charge of the Punjabi University’s VC office, employees and students are already creating demands regarding the same.While some teachers’ groups are against the allocation of the additional charge to a bureaucrat, students’ groups demand otherwise. Some students have threatened to launch protests over the matter.Faculty members on the campus said the government should handover the charge to an academician only. Professors said: “As per the UGC rules, the university’s charge should be given to an academician. It should not be given to a bureaucrat.”The university teachers’ association has also raised the same demand in a letter written to the office of the Chief Minister.Meanwhile, the Secular Youth Federation of India (SYFI), a student group, said the university’s charge should be given to a retired IAS officer. Harvinder Singh, former president of the student party, said: “Teachers fear that if a bureaucrat gets the charge, he/she may take action against wrongful recruitments and other matters of the university.”Sources said the authorities were considering some people for the charge, including the current secretary, Higher Education and former university Registrar Dr Yograj.Resounding demands of grants for the university, the ‘Sanjha Vidyarthi Morcha’, comprising student groups AISF, PSU, PSU (Lalkar) and SFI, has also decided to launch protests stating that the university had been at the receiving end due to lack of grants from the state government.A professor said: “Whoever gets the charge should be competetnt enough to pull the university out of the financial mess.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-divided-over-vc-office-charge-175473
25-11-2020||---||Burglar nabbed||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, November 24The police nabbed a burglar while stealing Rs 1 lakh and jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh from a house at Harmilap Nagar last night. His accomplice managed to escape. The suspect, Monu, a resident of New Indira Colony, Mani Majra, confessed to the crime. Baltana police post in-charge Kulwant Singh said: “Monu’s accomplice will be arrested soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/burglar-nabbed-175474
25-11-2020||---||Guru Nanak Chair established at Chandigarh University||Chandigarh, November 24To commemorate the ongoing 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, Chandigarh University, Gharuan, in collaboration with the Punjab Government, inaugurated “Guru Nanak Chair for Studies in Universal Advancements” at the university.Spiritual guru Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, Technical Education and Tourism Minister of Punjab Charnjeet Singh Channi, social activist and environmentalist Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal inaugurated the Chair on the campus of the university.The chair will offer a multidisciplinary platform for quality research along with publications on the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev on the sustainable development of humanity. To underline the importance of medicinal plants among the community, especially when the world is reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic, the tricity’s first Guru Nanak Bagichi, comprising 13 highly used medicine plants, was also inaugurated on the campus.Addressing the gathering, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar said: “The philosophy and teachings of Guru Nanak Dev are relevant and important for mankind, especially when the world is fighting a war against an unknown enemy, coronavirus. The teachings of a great guru should not be confined to one religion but these should give a universal message to propagate love and pray for prosperity of others too.”Channi said: “How visionary Guru Nanak Dev was as the Guru gave the message for sustainable development 550 years ago which the United Nations is discussing amongst the nations today, and is very much relevant in the 21st century”. While giving the message of protecting the environment for our children, Baba Seechewal said: “Guru Nanak has conveyed the message to respect nature, mother earth and other natural resources such as water and air. We have forgotten the teachings of Guru Nanak who said “Pawan Guru Panni Pita Mata Dharat Mahat” which means that our environment is like our family but what we see today is deteriorating air due to pollution and depleting underground water”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/guru-nanak-chair-established-at-chandigarh-university-175475
25-11-2020||---||Finally, cleaning of Nature Park begins||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, November 24After several complaints and reminders about the upkeep of Nature Park to the Forest Department and the Local Bodies Department, the Municipal Council, PUDA and GMADA, the cleaning of the open park began today.The Nature Park is one of a few open spaces where residents can go out for a morning and evening walk in Dera Bassi. It has been in neglect for the past several years with one government agency blaming the other for its poor upkeep.Finally, the Forest Department started the cleaning of the park today. Officials expressed hope that the park near the Government College would be ready for users within one week. ‘’After pursuing the matter for the past one year, the efforts of the Joint Action Committee have been successful. The residents can now hope to visit the park in the morning,’’ said Sukhdev Chaudhary, a social activist.The residents will felicitate officers and employees when the park is thrown open to the public.District Forest Officer (DFO) Gurmanpreet Singh said the park would be beautified and necessary changes made as per the need.The construction of the park was finalised in 2013. An MoU regarding the modalities was signed between the MC and the Forest Department in 2014 but gradually, the park fell into disuse.‘’Hundreds of people visit the park daily but there are a lot of problems. The authorities have not paid heed to them. It will bring about a good change in the lives of people,’’ said Sidhu, a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-cleaning-of-nature-park-begins-175476
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||7-day FDP begins||A seven-day online faculty development programme on the theme, “Self-Reliant India: Policies and Challenges,” is being organised by the UGC-Human Resource Development Centre, Panjab University, Chandigarh, under the aegis of RUSA 2.00 from November 24 to 30.Dr Simran Kaur and Dr Smita Sharma are the course coordinators. Prof BK Kuthiala, Chairman, State Higher Education Council, Haryana, was the chief guest who addressed the participants at the inaugural session. He said the theme was very relevant as it was important to understand the meaning and scope of self-reliance for a dynamic country like India.Prof SK Tomar, honorary director of Human Resource Development Centre (HRDC), Panjab University, gave an introductory talk on the HRDC and its field of work. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-day-fdp-begins-175477
25-11-2020||---||RBU faculty development programme||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 24The University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Rayat Bahra University organised an e-faculty development programme, "Contemporary Trends in Pharmaceutical Sciences: Endeavouring to create Frontline Health Professionals", to mark 59th National Pharmacy Week.Prof MPS Ishar, former Vice-Chancellor of MRS PTU, Bathinda, was the chief guest at the inaugural function while Prof Saranjit Singh, Head, Pharmaceutical Analysis, NIPER, Mohali, was the guest of honour.Prof PS Satyal, Registrar of Rayat Bahra University, presented the welcome note followed by the introductory speech by Dr Gurfateh Singh, Head, USPS, Rayat Bahra University.More than 400 persons from various universities, schools and institutes of India participated in the e-FDP programme.Dr Parvinder Singh, Vice-Chancellor of RBU, in his presidential address at the valedictory function, said the deliberations at the programme would go a long in promotion of new interventions and teaching methods for teaching and research.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rbu-faculty-development-programme-175478
25-11-2020||---||Neighbour acts as real-life hero||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24In what can only be described as an act of heroism, Mohammad Bilal (39), without fearing for his life, rescued a six-month-old girl, Ragni, from a fire caused by a domestic gas leak at Govindpura in Mani Majra on Monday. The minor suffered burn injuries and is undergoing treatment at the PGI. Bilal also suffered minor injuries during the incident.Bilal’s brother Mohammad Harun and neighbours Salman and Anish also suffered injuries while trying to control the fire.Anish, a vegetable vendor, was trying to fix the regulator on an LPG cylinder when the fire broke out on Monday morning.Ragni, who was lying on a cot, got trapped in the fire. Her grandfather cried for help.Anish and Salman were trying to douse the fire. Harun also reached there and tried to cover the cylinder with a wet cloth.“As I tried to put a cloth on the cylinder, fire suddenly erupted following which all three of us fell away from the cylinder,” Harun said.Anish, Salman and Harun suffered minor burn injuries during the incident.In the meantime, Bilal, who is a heart patient, reached there and jumped towards the cot to rescue the minor girl. “Without fearing for my life, I went near the cylinder and reached up to the cot,” he said.Bilal fell down while rescuing the baby and suffered injuries on his knee and hands.“My hair got burnt. However, fortunately, I didn’t suffer burn injuries,” he said.Bilal then took the minor girl away from the fire and handed her to a woman, Meenakshi, who without wasting any time rushed the child to the Civil Hospital, Mani Majra, with the help of a motorcyclist. The minor girl was further referred to the PGI.Bilal and three others were also taken to the hospital. They were later discharged after administering first aid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/neighbour-acts-as-real-life-hero-175479
25-11-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||‘Changing loan repayment schedule without consumer’s consent illegal’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24Stating that changing repayment schedule of a loan by a finance company without a consumer’s consent is illegal, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission penalised ICICI Home Finance Company Limited for violating the RBI guidelines. The commission directed the firm to examine and reset the loan account of the complainant in light of the RBI circular. Told to pay reliefThe commission also directed the company to pay Rs20,000 compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs10,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant.The commission also directed the company to pay Rs20,000 compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs10,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant.Ranjit Singh Sohal, a resident of Sector 40, had raised a loan of Rs12,47,511 in February 2008 from the finance company (opposite party), which was to be repaid in 10 years i.e. 120 months at monthly EMI of Rs19,936.As per the offer letter, the rate of interest was floating in nature i.e. adjustable, which was fixed at 14.75% per annum. The complainant had been regularly depositing the EMI without fail. As per the terms of the loan, the last instalment was to be paid and the account was to be closed on May 1, 2018. No default was made by the complainant. When the complainant visited the office of the opposite party on June 25, 2018, he was handed over a repayment schedule according to which the loan period was increased by 53 months and he needed to pay the instalments till September 1, 2022.The complainant alleged that the decision was unilateral. He was neither given any intimation of increase in rate of interest or EMIs nor did he consent to it. It was a clear violation of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, circular issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the law laid down by various adjudicatory bodies.He alleged that despite requests, the opposite party did not withdraw from its stand. The complainant alleged deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on part of the firm and sought relief.The opposite party contested the consumer’s complaint and justified its decision. It said any consent was not required from the complainant as the parties were bound by the terms and conditions of the agreement.After hearing the arguments and examination of records, the commission noted that the opposite party had violated the circular of the RBI, under whose control the company functions. The commission said as per the RBI guidelines and the judgment of the Apex Court, the consent of the borrower has to be taken so that he might opt to continue with the loan account or close/shift the account.As such, the opposite party is proved to have indulged in deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. In view of the above discussion, the complaint succeeds and the same is accordingly partly allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/changing-loan-repayment-schedule-without-consumers-consent-illegal-175480
25-11-2020||---||Mohali to up Covid sampling to check spurt||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 24The district administration has decided to make all-out efforts to increase Covid sampling to curtail the spike in coronavirus cases.Directions issued to Civil SurgeonThe Civil Surgeon was asked to ensure 24x7 availability of sampling team at the district hospital along with two dedicated mobile sampling teams for the needy round the clock.While reviewing the Covid-19 status with SDMs and SMOs of the district, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan here today directed to make all-out efforts to increase Covid sampling to check the spurt in cases.“Testing may be increased two-fold with special focus on vulnerable sections coupled with aggressive contact tracing,” said Dayalan.Dayalan directed the SDMs to prepare an advance weekly sampling plan targeting vulnerable sections. The District Development and Panchayat Officer (DDPO) was also directed to conduct similar exercise and prepare the weekly plan for the rural areas in consultation with sarpanchs.The Civil Surgeon was asked to ensure 24x7 availability of sampling team at the district hospital along with two dedicated mobile sampling teams for the needy round the clock.Entrusting the responsibility of overseeing the contact tracing to the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development), he was told to ensure maximum physical contact tracing nothing less than 15 persons per case by dedicated sampling teams.The nodal officers were asked to ensure home isolation of asymptomatic patients and regular check by control room/doctors. “Keep a tab on equipment and bed availability and ensure availability of L2 and L3 facilities to the needy patients,” Dayalan said.The control room might be re-strengthened with requisite staff to be operational round the clock to sort out the grievances of callers, he said. Strict enforcement measures with respect to compliance of health protocols and advisories were also stressed upon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-to-up-covid-sampling-to-check-spurt-175481
25-11-2020||---||Army recruitment rally at Khanna from December 7||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 24Army recruitment rally for candidates who have registered their names from Ludhiana, Moga, SAS Nagar and Rupnagar districts will be conducted from December 7 to 22 at AS College, Kalal Majra, Khanna.Stating this, an Army spokesperson said the recruitment was for various categories of soldiers, including soldier general duty, soldier clerk/store keeper technical, soldier technical, and soldier nursing assistant.He said a total of 14,632 candidates had registered for the recruitment screening. Taking due precautions for Covid 19, no candidate was to report to the rally site one day in advance. Friends/parents of the candidates would not be permitted at the rally site. All candidates would carry out RT-PCR test five days in advance and get a Covid negative certificate signed by a government doctor. Besides, all candidates must carry a face mask, gloves and hand sanitiser.The spokespersons said the candidates could download their admit card from their registered email id or from the website www.joinindianarmy.nic in. Entry to the rally site would begin at 7 am and end at 10 am. The candidates would undergo physical fitness test followed by physical measurement test.On the day of screening, the candidates must bring original documents, including Aadhaar card, education certificates, online residence/nativity certificate and online caste certificate, both issued by the tehsildar/SDM. No manual certificate would be accepted.The candidates below the age of 18 years should bring a no claim certificate duly signed by their parents. The candidates must report at the rally site by 6 am on their respective screening days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/army-recruitment-rally-at-khanna-from-december-7-175482
25-11-2020||---||Farmers urged to lift dharna from railway tracks||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 24The Mohali Industries Association (MIA) today appealed to the Kisan Sangharsh Committee to lift dharna from railway tracks so that goods trains can resume operations.Addressing the media here, Rajeev Gupta, General Secretary, MIA, said Punjab was going through an economic crisis due to the shortage of raw material and non-movement of goods trains due to which production had come to a standstill. Exporters were facing a huge challenge because finished product was loaded on goods trains and stranded on tracks.Gupta said the state had resumed its industrial operations after the lockdown and it was difficult for MSMEs to meet day-to-day expenses.He said the industry stands beside the Kisan Sangharsh Committee and its demands.“We stand united and appeal to the state and the Centre to resume rail operations so that the state can continue its production,” said Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-urged-to-lift-dharna-from-railway-tracks-175483
25-11-2020||---||Chandigarh warns power staff of action||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24The UT Administration has warned employees of the Electricity Department of salary cut and disciplinary action if they go for strike on Thursday. The UT Powermen Union has given a call for observing a one-day strike on November 26.An official spokesperson stated that the UT Administration had always been sympathetic to the genuine demands of the electricity employees and there was no cause for any strike by them.The principle of “no work no pay” would be strictly enforced and the employees were, therefore, advised to attend duty, said the spokesperson, adding that defaulting employees would also be liable for other disciplinary action.Necessary arrangements had been made to maintain the continuity of power supply, but chances of failure of power supply due to any untoward incident could not be ruled out, he said.The Administration requested electricity consumers to kindly cooperate with the authorities. The public is requested, in general, to contact various complaint centres in their area for electricity complaints. They can also contact the control room. The public is also requested to keep a vigil on electricity lines. In case they find anyone indulging in sabotaging the power supply, they may inform the police control room.The union is up against the UT Administration over privatisation of the department. The union stated that the Electricity Department was relatively maintaining good supply of electricity at reasonable rates without any gap of revenue in purchase and sale within the permissible transmitting loses and there was no reason to privatise the department at all.They said the government was hell-bent on privatising the department despite being in huge profit for the past several years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-warns-power-staff-of-action-175484
25-11-2020||Zirakpur||Man booked on rape charge||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-on-rape-charge-175485
25-11-2020||---||‘Shelter to gangster’: Two get bail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24A local court has granted bail to Deepak Wadhwa and Parwinder Wadhwa arrested for allegedly providing shelter to purported gangster Monty Shah in Rajasthan.Monty had allegedly fired gunshots to threaten Parveen Shah and his associate bouncer Tirath, who is a key witness in the Sonu Shah murder case, in Burail last month. The police had arrested the duo, along with another accused Virender Soni, after the firing incident.The police claimed that the suspects also helped Monty escape from Hanumangarh, Rajasthan, before the police conducted a raid to nab him.Jagtar Kureel, counsel for the petitioners, claimed before the court that both petitioners were innocent and had no concern with the Lawrence Bishnoi gang as well as the murder of Sonu Shah or providing alleged shelter to Monty Shah.Kureel claimed that there was no such proof on record against the accused of any of commission of alleged crime. He said the petitioners had been arrested in this case in October and since then they were in custody whereas nothing had been recovered from them.After hearing the arguments, the court said allegations of providing safe stay to the co-accused was a bailable offence, which is triable by the Magistrate. There is nothing on record that any FIR had been lodged against any of the petitioners. Investigation was pending and trial of the case might take sufficient long time.The court said keeping in view the totality of facts and circumstances, the petitioners be admitted to bail, but on furnishing a personal bond of Rs50,000 by them with one surety of the like amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shelter-to-gangster-two-get-bail-175486
25-11-2020||---||World record: 2,800 artists come on a single platform||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24Chandigarh-based startup Chhapai.com has brought laurels to the city by creating a world record along with 2,800 national and international artists.Chhapai.com, in collaboration with International Art and Imagination Forum (IAIF), created a world record by bringing together artists from over 100 countries, 2800-plus art submissions in 25 categories. Titled as World’s Largest Online Creativity Event- W-LOC, this one-of-a-kind event took place on November 7 and 8.Rajesh Batra, the man behind International Art & Imagination Forum, wanted to give back to the community of artists in a way that their art gets admired not only in their own regions but also beyond borders and boundaries.“We have been working with designers, visual artists, illustrators, editors, writers from different parts of India and abroad. All these creative minds are the base of my venture and when this Covid situation arrived, I observed how severely it impacted the economic livelihoods and morale of these artisans,” said Rajesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/world-record-2-800-artists-come-on-a-single-platform-175487
25-11-2020||---||Employees want rates reconsidered||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24Rejecting the proposals of the Administration, representatives of the UT employees have requested the authorities to reconsider the rates of land and construction price offered under the UT Employees Self-Financing Housing Scheme, 2008.Following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the UT Administration held a meeting with representatives of the employees on November 17. The Administration offered a price range for flats under the scheme and requested the employees to give their consent at the earliest so that they could move the Ministry of Home Affairs for an approval.In a letter to the UT Adviser, employees’ representatives Dr Dharmender Shastri, Balwinder Singh and Dr Brahmprakash Yadav said: “Finding the rates not viable and acceptable, the employees have shown their inability to accept the same.”They said: “A majority of the successful applicants in all four categories under the scheme have raised serious concern about the exorbitant rates of land and the proposed rate of constructions, which are in variance with the cost of flats offered to the employees in 2008.”They said they were not at fault and paid the earnest money well before the date and the whole fault lies with CHB and Administration. Therefore, they cannot be burdened with such exaggerated rates.Around 4,000 flats were to be built in Sectors 52, 53 and 56 by the Chandigarh Housing Board for government employees as part of a scheme launched in 2008.A draw of lots was held in 2010, in which 3,930 employees among 7,827 applicants were selected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/employees-want-rates-reconsidered-175488
