29-11-2020||Chandigarh||96 new COVID-19 cases take Chandigarh's tally to 17,342||The COVID-19 death toll in Chandigarh rose to 276 on Sunday with two more fatalities, while 96 new cases pushed the infection tally to 17,342, a medical bulletin issued here said.There are 1,140 active cases currently, it said.A total of 69 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 15,926, the bulletin said.A total of 1,41,616 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,23,467 have tested negative while reports of 143 samples were awaited, it added. ---- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/96-new-covid-19-cases-take-chandigarhs-tally-to-17-342-177596
29-11-2020||---||Man stabbed to death in Panchkula, friend hurt||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 28A 30-year-old man from Chandigarh was killed while his friend, a resident of Panchkula, sustained serious injuries when they were allegedly attacked with a knife at Rajiv Colony in Sector 17 here late on Friday evening over an old animosity.The victim was identified as Ravi Shankar, a resident of Mauli Jagran, who worked at a meat shop in the colony. Deepu of the colony, who was injured in the attack, is undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32, Chandigarh. His condition is stated to be critical.A police spokesperson said the suspect was identified as Sudhir (30) of Rajiv Colony. He was arrested and would be produced in a court tomorrow.Going by a complaint filed by the victim’s brother Shiv Shankar, the police are suspecting that personal animosity led to Ravi’s murder. The police, however, added that the actual reason behind the attack will only become clear after a thorough investigation into the case.In his complaint, Shiv stated that the stabbing took place around 10.15 pm on Friday. Some youths had informed the victim’s family that Ravi and Deepu had been stabbed and were lying injured. The injured duo was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where doctors declared Ravi brought dead and referred Deepu to the GMCH-32.A case has been registered against Sudhir under Section 302 (punishment for murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC at the Sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-stabbed-to-death-in-panchkula-friend-hurt-177405
29-11-2020||---||Zirakpur, Dera Bassi MC staff on strike||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, November 28The third day of a strike by various employees’ unions in the civic bodies of Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru took toll on the civic amenities in the area. Sanitation work, repair of street lights and anti-encroachment drives were affected as employees sat outside the Municipal Council offices and raised slogans against the authorities.Door-to-door garbage collection in Zirakpur is set to be affected from Monday, the protesting employees said.Various employees’ unions of the MC are protesting against anomalies in their salaries. The protesters said they were not getting salary as promised.The protesting employees said according to the Punjab Labour Department notification issued on June 21, 2019, an amount of Rs9,978 had been fixed as salary for sanitation workers in the municipal bodies. Despite this, they were being paid Rs8,700 per month. The authorities are wilfully not following the rules.“The employees do not get salary slips. Their provident fund and the deducted ESI amount are not being disclosed to them. The employees want their ESI cards to be issued as they are not being able to avail of the benefits,” said Ravinderpal president of the Zirakpur Nagar Council Employees Union (AITUC). Sources said the Executive Officer was on leave and would talk with the protesting workers on Wednesday.In Dera Bassi, sanitation workers struck work. As a result, garbage was found strewn at various places, including the Municipal Council office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-dera-bassi-mc-staff-on-strike-177406
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Four deaths, 89 new cases in Chandigarh||The city today witnessed 89 new cases of Covid, pushing the tally to 17,246. The day also saw four deaths due to the contagion, taking the toll to 274.A 69-year-old man from Sector 20, a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus, died at Alchemist Hospital, Panchkula. A 78-year-old man from Sector 34, a case of acute kidney disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, breathed his last at the PGI.A 66-year-old man from Sector 46, a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, succumbed to the virus at the GMCH-32. A 71-year-old man from Sector 40, a case of hypertension, also died at the GMCH-32. —TNS96 test +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 96 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to 8,615. With no new fatality, the toll remained 127. The district Covid recovery rate stands at 92.7 per cent. tnsMohali sees two deaths, 176 casesMohali: Two persons lost their life to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 276. Meanwhile, 176 fresh cases were reported from the district till this evening. Of the fresh infections, 82 cases were reported from Mohali (urban). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-deaths-89-new-cases-in-chandigarh-177407
29-11-2020||---||Pawan Bansal: Will try to live up to party’s expectations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28Former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal today said he would try to live up to the expectations of the party in handling the charge of All India Congress Committee treasurer.Bansal, who is the incharge of the party administration, was given the additional charge of the post, which fell vacant with the demise of Ahmed Patel. “I am thankful to the Congress president and Rahul ji. I am aware of the task ahead of me. It is one of the many responsibilities Ahmed Patel was handling. The way he was handling it, I would try to live up to the expectation of the party,” said the former minister.He added that he would have to be in Delhi for at least five days a week now.Extending his wishes to Bansal, city Congress president Pardeep Chhabra said the former MP’s appointment as the AICC treasurer was a proof of his honesty, loyalty and dedication towards the party and showed that the party trusted his ability and acumen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pawan-bansal-will-try-to-live-up-to-partys-expectations-177408
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Manisha Chaudhary all set to join UT||Manisha Chaudhary will soon join the post of the SSP (Traffic), Chandigarh. The post had fallen vacant after DIG Shashank Anand was relieved of the charge on the completion of his three-year term on July 29.The Haryana Government today transferred the services of the 2011-batch IPS officer to the Central Government.She has been directed to report to the Joint Secretary (UT) of the Ministry of Home Affairs, leaving her appointment as the Panipat SP with immediate effect. The ministry had approved her appointment as the SSP (Traffic and Security), UT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manisha-chaudhary-all-set-to-join-ut-177409
29-11-2020||Panchkula||Man burnt alive at Morni house||Smoking a cigarette proved fatal for a 40-year-old man at his house at Thana Badiyal in Morni last evening.The victim, Madan Singh, died after the mattress he was lying on caught fire due to a burning stub while he was consuming alcohol.The police said the incident came to light when the victim’s brother, who lives around 50 metres away, noticed the smoke emanating from the house around 11 pm.He entered the house and saw fire around the bed. He shifted the partially charred body of his brother, a habitual drinker, to the hospital, where he breathed his last.On the basis of statements of the victim’s family members, the police have ruled out any foul play behind the incident.The body was shifted to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital for post-mortem. It was later sent to BPS Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, for forensic examination. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-burnt-alive-at-morni-house-177410
29-11-2020||Mohali||Water supply in Mohali to be hit for 2 days||In view of a sudden leakage in a pipeline of Phase IV of the Kajauli Waterworks, the water supply would be affected in various parts of the city for the next two days.Sunil Kumar, Executive Engineer, Water Supply and Sanitation Division No. 2, said the supply would be hit in Phase 3B2, 8, 9 and 10, Sectors 70 and 71, Shahi Majra village and Phase I to V of the Industrial Area on November 29 and 30.He said on Sunday morning, the water supply to these areas would be at low pressure and as per the availability of water. He said in the afternoon, there would be no supply while in the evening, the supply would be at low pressure and as per the availability of water.The official said on Monday morning and evening, the supply would depend on the availability of water while there would be no supply in the afternoon. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-supply-in-mohali-to-be-hit-for-2-days-177411
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Truck driver dies in mishap||A 31-year-old truck driver was killed and five others were injured when their vehicle collided with a container truck near the Hallo Majra light point this morning.The victim, Manoj Kumar, was a resident of Haripur village. The driver of the container truck is yet to be arrested. The police said both vehicles were coming from Zirakpur.At the light point, the container truck took a sudden turn towards Makhan Majra, which led to the collision. The police said the victim was severely injured and had to be extricated from the vehicle. He succumbed to his injuries at the GMCH-32. The other injured persons were discharged after getting first aid at the GMCH-32. A case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/truck-driver-dies-in-mishap-177412
29-11-2020||Naina Mishra||Every 8th female, 9th male at risk  of developing cancer in UT: Report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28One in eight females is at the risk of developing cancer in the UT and breast is the most common cancer site among them, reveals the Cancer Incidence and Mortality in Chandigarh (2015-16) report released by the PGI today.Similarly, every ninth male is at the risk of developing cancer and lung is the most common primary cancer site among them.In the year 2015-2016, the Population Based Cancer Registry (PBCR) registered 1,800 cancer cases. Among them, 907 were males and 893 females. The registry reported 787 patients, including 454 males and 333 females, died of the disease.“The Administration should take an initiative to make cancer a notifiable disease in the UT as in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. The registries will be useful to monitor cancer trends,” read the report.Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai, and the PGI, with cooperation of the Directorate of Health Services, UT, established the PBCR at the School of Public Health, PGI. It was set up to establish baseline data to assess the burden and pattern of cancer cases of the area. Prof JS Thakur from the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGI, is the principal investigator of the registry.A total of 33 data sources comprise cancer hospitals, general and private hospitals, pathology laboratories and birth and death registrar offices. Around 66.6 per cent of the registered cancer cases were from the PGI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/every-8th-female-9th-male-at-risk-of-developing-cancer-in-ut-report-177413
29-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Outsourcing gaushalas could have saved civic body crores||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28While the cash-starved Municipal Corporation (MC) will shell out nearly Rs2 crore on fodder in a year for its two cattle pounds at the Industrial Area, Phase I, another gaushala of the civic body in the city is being operated by an NGO without a penny being spent by the MC.Had the MC expressed an interest in allotting the two cattle pounds through an open tender to an NGO, wastage of crores would have been avoided.“We have raised the issue in the MC House several times, but they did not bother to pay heed. They should invite all interested social organisations or other agencies to operate the cattle pounds. There are NGOs, like the one operating the Sector 45 gaushala, which can come to the MC’s rescue,” said Devinder Singh Babla, leader of the Opposition.Vinod Kumar, vice-president of the NGO operating the Sector 45 gaushala, said: “The operation of cattle pounds should be handed over to NGOs through an open tender. People like us are ready to look after the MC’s cattle pounds. There are around 1,000 head of cattle in our gaushala and they are mostly taken care of with donations. A large number of visitors buy fodder for the cattle and pay for it.”The civic body has 1,100 head of cattle and Rs90.52 lakh has been allowed for green fodder and Rs1.02 crore for dry fodder by the corporation. A visit to these cattle pounds showed they were not even well-maintained. The MC staff finds tough to even dispose of the cow dung.Chander Kant, Gau Seva Pramukh, Punjab, said: “Gaushalas are self-reliant. One can have machines for making diyas and flower pots with cow dung. It can also be used in cremation with wood. It is good for the environment and we can save trees too. We are ready to offer training.”Meanwhile, Mayor Raj Bala Malik said the MC would look into the proposals regarding operating the cattle pounds through some NGOs when the new spacious gaushala in Raipur Kalan was ready.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/outsourcing-gaushalas-could-have-saved-civic-body-crores-177414
29-11-2020||Panchkula||Residents want Panchkula MC elections postponed||Even though the State Election Commission is expected to announce the schedule for the Panchkula MC elections soon, residents have written to the election body to postpone the civic body poll due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases.The Citizens’ Welfare Association, an apex body of citizens of Panchkula, said representatives of several RWAs in the city were under pressure from senior citizens to request the authorities to defer forthcoming MC elections.The local polls are expected to take place by the end of this month or early next year.SK Nayar, president of the CWA, said they had received a number of objections from senior citizens and retired Army professionals living in various sectors on the immediate holding of local body elections amid the pandemic.Keeping in view their reservations, the CWA had on October 11 convened a meeting of 17 RWAs. The presidents and secretaries of most RWAs were of an opinion that civic elections be postponed and a letter was written to the election body on the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-want-panchkula-mc-elections-postponed-177415
29-11-2020||---||Traffic lights soon in New Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 28Three traffic lights are set to be installed in New Chandigarh to curb the increasing number of road accidents in the area.The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has already erected poles at the Medicity intersection, Siswan T-point and Omaxe intersection. The traffic lights would be made functional in the coming days, said GMADA officials.“Rs35 lakh would be spent on the project to curb road accidents on the stretch,” said a GMADA official of the Electrical Wing.Residents here have been complaining about frequent accidents on the stretch due to speeding vehicles. “Most of the accidents happen during the night or in foggy weather conditions when fast moving vehicles fail to anticipate the vehicles coming from other sides,” said Dheeraj Raina, a resident of Omaxe housing society.Many a time, two-wheeler riders get run over by bigger vehicles. Residents said tipper trucks are also the bane of road users here. Due to the ongoing construction activity in the area, tipper trucks ply on the road 24x7. As a result, the road gets damaged and the pace of repair work and recarpeting is tardy in the area. “The bad condition of roads, damaged stretches, potholes and uneven surface also add to fatalities in the area,” said Nitesh Kanwar, a resident in Medicity.Meanwhile in Nayagaon, the police issued tickets for speeding and breaking traffic rules. “As many as 10 traffic offenders were fined for speeding,” said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-lights-soon-in-new-chandigarh-177416
29-11-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Ex-Dy Mayor: Congress taking political mileage by releasing funds before poll||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 28Eyebrows are being raised over the timing of release of funds for development works in the city as the elections to the Mohali Municipal Corporation are to be held in January next year.Former councillors and candidates of opposition parties claim that this was being done by the Congress to take political mileage in view of the forthcoming MC elections.The councillors said the MC House had already passed the resolution and floated tenders for carrying out 200 development works, including pruning of trees, maintenance of parks, laying paver blocks, construction of three roads and setting up 50 multipurpose gyms in parks. These works could not be started due to the lockdown. In the meantime, its tenure ended on April 26.They said Rs25-crore funds, which the Cabinet Minister claims to have brought from GMADA, were actually held back by the estate agency. He said the MC had spent the amount anticipating that the funds would be released by the agency.Former Deputy Mayor Manjeet Singh Sethi said Rs85 crore to Rs100 crore was due from the Local Bodies Department, but it was not released on time. As a result, development works hit the roadblock. The MC had spent Rs30 crore anticipating that the funds would be released by the agency.Questioning the timing of the release of funds to the MC, which the Cabinet Minister claims to have brought for the development of the city, Sethi said what was his contribution in bringing the funds? These were of the MC and held back by the estate agency.He said had the minister brought over Rs100-crore funds, then he could take the claim of bringing funds for development works. City residents were educated and they knew who had carried out development in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-dy-mayor-congress-taking-political-mileage-by-releasing-funds-before-poll-177417
29-11-2020||---||Congress leader, 5 others booked for firing into air||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, November 28A Congress leader, his brother and four others were booked after an altercation at a wedding ceremony in Lohgarh escalated into gunfire on Friday night.A case has been registered against Pali Sidhu, the Congress leader, his younger brother Gogi, Lali, Manpreet, Harvinder Singh and an unidentified person on the charge of firing into the air. The police have arrested Manpreet and Harvinder Singh. “The remaining suspects will be arrested soon,” said Rajpal Singh Gill, Station House Officer, Zirakpur police station.In his complaint to the police, Bhagat Singh, a resident of Gurdaspur, stated that Gogi and his two friends had an altercation with him and his friends while coming out of the wedding party.The suspects fired into the air to intimidate them, he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leader-5-others-booked-for-firing-into-air-177418
29-11-2020||---||Three Kala Kachha gang members held from Baddi||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 28The Mohali police today arrested three members of an inter-state “Kala Kachha” gang from Baddi. With their arrest, the police claimed to have solved over 12 cases, including four blind murders.The arrested persons have been identified as Matching, a resident of Muradabad, Wasim, a resident of Patter, UP, and Ramjaan, a resident of Kasur Basti, Delhi.The suspects were involved in a murder case in Mullanpur when they struck at two farm houses at Majra village on October 15. They murdered one of the family members, who belonged to Nepal and injured others. They also looted gold ornaments and cash from the farm house.The gang members targeted another farm house on the same night and injured the family members, who belonged to Bihar. They also looted gold ornaments and cash from them.A case under Sections 458, 342, 380, 460, 506 of the IPC was registered against unknown persons at the Mullanpur Garibdass police station on October 15.During interrogation, the accused confessed to their involvement in over 20 crimes, including four murder cases, in Punjab and Haryana. They made their base at Baddi and used to strike in different parts of Punjab and Haryana.One of the accused, Matching, is a proclaimed offender since 2013 in a case in Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-kala-kachha-gang-members-held-from-baddi-177419
29-11-2020||---||Minister lays stone for Rs 3.55-crore works||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 28Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today laid the foundation stone of development works worth Rs3.55 crore in various sectors.Sidhu said Rs2.04 crore would be spent on the construction of volleyball, lawn tennis and basketball courts in various parks across the city. Rs1.01 crore was for upgrading the markets of Phase 9 and Rs49.50 lakh would be spent on recarpeting roads in Sector 71, he said.Addressing a gathering, Sidhu said the Punjab Government was committed to ensure welfare of the citizens and these development projects were meant to encourage youngsters to adopt a healthy lifestyle. “Under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh, no stone will be left unturned to improve the health of our citizens,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-lays-stone-for-rs-3-55-crore-works-177420
29-11-2020||---||PU issues guidelines||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28On the basis of the instructions of the Director, Higher Education, Panjab University has issued guidelines for BEd admissions for Colleges of Education in the UT and affiliated to the university.In all, 10 per cent seats have been recreated for the economically weaker section (EWS) for admission to local colleges. Such candidates can send their application to the coordinator, BEd admissions, along with supporting documents, as per the instructions, including payment of application fee of Rs2,175.A candidate has to deposit his/her fee online at https://payonline.puchd.ac.in against the Fee Code “M0120”. In case a candidate, who wants to apply under this category, but has already paid the application fee, need not pay the amount again (mention previous application number).Also, candidates have to attach all documents in support of their claims, including Class X DMC, graduation and postgraduation (if any) detailed marks certificate, EWS certificate, fee slip and send all these in a single portable document format (PDF) file to the website — chandigarhbed@pu.ac.in —on or before last date.Forms will be available from December 1 and have to submitted at the website —chandigarhbed@pu.ac.in —on or before December 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-issues-guidelines-177421
29-11-2020||Mohali||3-day counselling from December 21||Three-day counselling of candidates as per the advertisement issued by the Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSB) for the recruitment on 85 posts of ‘Upvaid’ will start from December 21.Stating this in a release, PSSB Chairman Raman Behl said: “As per the guidelines issued by the Research and Medical Education Department in 2015, registration with the Board of Ayurvedic and Unani System of Medicine, Punjab, is mandatory. So, candidates are advised to get their registration done before the counselling date.”For the convenience of candidates, the board had given them three weeks to get themselves registered and the counselling had been fixed from December 21, Behl added. The recruitment process was stalled due to a civil writ petition filed by some candidates in the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The PSSB Chairman advised students to prepare for the tests. The last date for applying online for the recruitment of Assistant Superintendent of Jails was December 7, said Behl. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-day-counselling-from-december-21-177422
29-11-2020||---||Walk to create awareness on heritage organised at Qila Androon in Patiala||Patiala, November 28The Patiala Foundation oraganised its sixth edition of annual heritage walk today at ‘Qila Androon’, which is part of the ‘Qila Mubarak’, a heritage fort under the iHERITAGE project.The walk began at 10 am from Baba Ala Burj. After paying obeisance at the Baba Alaji jyot, the walk continued through the chambers of Qila Androon and other related places within the premises.The chief functionary of the Patiala Foundation, Ravee Singh Ahluwalia, led the walk and took participants through the history of the Patiala dynasty.Encouraging participants to work towards the larger cause of heritage conservation, he stressed upon the need to create awareness about history and culture among the younger generation.The chief guest of the event was SSP (Vigilance) Mandeep Singh Sidhu while other participants included Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra, traffic advisor (Punjab) Navdeep Asija and Patiala Foundation members, including SP Chand, Pawan Goyal, Rakesh Badhwar, Anmoljit Singh, Jaspreet Walia, Harpreet Sandhu, GS Sikand, Vikram Malhotra and Dr Nidhi.Foundation volunteers, including Harshdeep Singh, Bharpur Singh, Sukhdarshanpalbir Singh, Jaskirat Singh, Madhur Verma, Rishabh, Shubham, Lovish Balana, Muskan, Simranjeet Kaur, Gurpreet Kaur, Palak and Abhinandan Mittal, ensured that proper Covid-related protocol was followed at the event.Almost one-hour walk ended at the Durbar Hall. “We initiated iHERITAGE project under which work is being done for the recognition of heritage sites in Punjab. Besides, people are motivated to engage with their heritage under the project. Under this initiative, various engaging events have been conducted to create awareness about heritage and culture,” said Ahluwalia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/walk-to-create-awareness-on-heritage-organised-at-qila-androon-in-patiala-177423
29-11-2020||---||Olympic association meeting rescheduled||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28After postponing twice, the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) will now hold its annual general body and executive committee meetings to discuss the election plan on December 4.“The meeting has been rescheduled for the coming Friday (December 4) to discuss the old agenda at the same venue,” said Amarinder Singh Bazaz, president, COA.The COA, which is under fire for not organising any state championship in the past 15 years, had earlier announced to hold meeting on August 30 and later on November 27.The meeting is important as the term of the current House has already ended. This will be the first step to choose new office-bearers for a term of four years.The COA confirmed that the meeting would be held for approving the financial status of the association, general secretary’s report, affiliation/disaffiliation of associations, finalisation of election dates for the next term amid Covid-19 pandemic and other issues.However, there’s no mention of conducting any championship in the near future. “The meeting is important as the process to choose next office-bearers will be discussed. The current team is already drawing flank for not organising any championship and also for distributing diet money to such associations, which have not conducted any event for the last four years. Such issues will be raised at the meeting,” said senior Chandigarh Olympic Association official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/olympic-association-meeting-rescheduled-177424
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Parents unwilling to send wards to schools||Parents of students are not in favour of reopening private schools even eight months after the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic. At the same time, the attendance in government schools is also dwindling day by day for regular teaching.The Independent Schools’ Association president, HS Mamik, said, “Parents are not in favour of reopening schools. Only students of board exam classes will be called to schools if their examinations are conducted physically.”“We have checked with parents of students through telephone and found that only 10 to 15 per cent are willing to send their wards to schools. There will be no other survey as of now as we are fully aware of parents’ concerns,” he added.The parent of a student, Mamta Kaushik, said, “I will not be sending my child to school at no cost until Covid vaccine is available. We cannot afford to compromise children’s safety. We will be adapting to new form of online education till a proper solution is available.”The UT Education Department had allowed private schools to open while following instructions given by the department or amend these as per their requirement. However, schools have to adhere to the SOPs issued by the Ministry of Education. The department had decided to reopen government schools in a graded manner for students of Classes IX to XII for regular teaching.An official said, “These days the attendance is thin in view of resurgence of Covid cases in the UT. It has dropped to 1,000 students from over 3,000 from the past few days in government schools. It is barely two per cent of the total students’ strength.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-unwilling-to-send-wards-to-schools-177425
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cleanliness drive at PU||The horticulture division of Panjab University organised “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan” today.Anil Thakur, Divisional Engineer (H), along with his staff and workers, carried out the cleanliness drive from Gate No. 1 to Gate No. 2. As many as four trolleys of waste were removed from the university campus. Flowerbeds at Gate No. 1 and 2 were replenished to beautify the entrance of the university campus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cleanliness-drive-at-pu-177426
29-11-2020||---||Covid: 5,367 Patiala health workers to be vaccinated first||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 28Acting proactively, the Health Department has identified around 5,367 frontline health workers, who will be administered Covid-19 vaccine on priority, as and when the first batch is rolled out.In fact, following directions of the higher authorities, the Health Department has already enlisted health workers in the government sector, who would be vaccinated.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra, said they had prepared a list of around 5,367 frontline health workers in the government sector. However, the exercise to identify workers from private health facilities was underway, he added. As many as 2,547 frontline workers in the private sector had been identified, who would be administered Covid-19 vaccine on priority, he said.“The list of frontline health workers in the government sector, which includes employees from Rajindra Hospital, Medical College, Ayurvedic College, Mata Kaushalya, Dental College and the staff of Health Department, has already been submitted,” he added.Health workers, who would be administered vaccine on priority, include ASHA workers, lab technicians, doctors, medical officers, nurses, and ambulance drivers, he said.Meanwhile, around 53 Covid-19 cases were reported today. With this, the count of positive cases has reached 14,518 in the district.“We have declared Aman Nagar on the Sirhind bypass road as new micro-containment zone after many positive cases surfaced in the area,” Dr Malhotra said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-5-367-patiala-health-workers-to-be-vaccinated-first-177427
29-11-2020||Chandigarh||BEL, CSIO join hands||The Panchkula division of Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO), Chandigarh, will work as joint partners for design and development of futuristic technologies in the area of aviation and perimeter security.A memorandum of understanding (MoU) in this regard was signed between the two organisations here today. Jitender Kumar, Additional Director General in the Defence Ministry’s Directorate General of Aeronautical Quality Assurance was the chief guest on the occasion. He appreciated efforts of the CSIO for developing aviation technologies.The CSIO Director, Prof SA Ramakrishna, said, “The partnership between the two organisations is cemented by this agreement. It has enabled CSIO to be BEL’s natural research source. Meanwhile, BEL becomes the industry partner that takes up and translates to reality niche technologies developed by the CSIO.”Prabha Goyal, General Manager, BEL, said, “BEL will jointly explore and develop futuristic avionics technologies and systems for perimeter monitoring in order to contribute towards self reliance.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bel-csio-join-hands-177428
