30-11-2020||---||Mohali reports 93 fresh COVID-19 cases, 2 deaths||Mohali, November 30Two more fatalities due to COVID-19 were reported during the past 24 hours in Mohali district, taking the death count in the district to 279.Meanwhile, 93 fresh cases surfaced in the same period while 78 patients were cured and discharged from various hospitals.Of the total 93 cases, 49 were reported from Mohali (Urban), 19 from Dhakoli, nine from Gharuan, eight from Kharar, seven from Dera Bassi and one from Banur.To date, Mohali has reported 15,469 positive cases, of which 1,312 patients have recovered and discharged.There are 2,069 active cases with 279 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-93-fresh-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-178060
30-11-2020||Amit Bathla||New high: Panchkula collects over 3,000 samples in 24 hours||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 29To keep the second Covid wave at bay, the Panchkula administration is making all efforts to ramp up testing as per the instructions from the state government.As per the Covid bulletin released by the Health Department today, the district collected over 3,000 samples in the past 24 hours, the highest in a day so far.Of the 3,158 samples, 2,500 have already been processed at the Civil Hospital’s in-house lab.CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur said their results were encouraging and suggest low positivity rate.As many as 5,448 samples were collected from Monday to Saturday during the last week (from November 23 to November 28) in the district – at an average of over 900 samples per day. Panchkula has collected 1,14,188 samples so far.High-risk areas identifiedThe district administration has identified 27 high-risk areas from where most Covid cases were being reported daily. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja had instructed officials to roll out extensive sampling in these affected localities.Steps to check spreadPanchkula SDM Richa Rathee recently conducted a meeting with representatives of several Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) seeking their help in checking the spread of coronavirus in the district. The RWAs were told to encourage citizens in their respective localities to come forward for testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-high-panchkula-collects-over-3-000-samples-in-24-hours-177818
30-11-2020||---||Shop gutted at Lakkar mandi||Patiala, November 29 A nameplate shop at the Lakkar mandi was gutted in a fire early this morning. Fire officials said they received information about the fire at 5.40 am. Lachhman Das, fire station officer, said: “Four fire tenders were pressed into service. It took over 1 hour to douse the flames.” He said no loss of life was reported in the incident. Officials said the equipment kept in the shop were destroyed in the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shop-gutted-at-lakkar-mandi-177746
30-11-2020||Panchkula||Rajiv Colony murder: Judicial custody for suspect||The suspect in the stabbing incident at Rajiv Colony in Sector 17 here that left one dead and another injured was today produced in a local court, which sent him to judicial custody.  There was an alleged animosity between suspect Sudhir and one of the victims, Deepu, as the latter suspected that Sudhir was informing the police about his involvement in betting. The three were under the influence of alcohol on Friday night when Deepu accused Sudhir of being dishonest to him. They entered into an argument and Sudhir attacked Deepu and his friend, Ravi Shankar, with a knife.  The victims were taken to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital where doctors declared Ravi brought dead and referred Deepu to the GMCH-32. Meanwhile, Sudhir’s mother Urmila told the media today that she and her family were being intimidated by Deepu’s  kin. She said she approached the police, but cops weren’t taking any action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rajiv-colony-murder-judicial-custody-for-suspect-177747
30-11-2020||---||Rise in spinal problems among youth, says doctor||Panchkula, November 29 To create awareness on common spine problems and minimally invasive spine surgeries, a team of doctors from Paras Hospital, Panchkula, addressed mediapersons here on Saturday. On the occasion, Dr Anil Dhingra said: “Every fifth Indian in the age group of 20-30 is suffering from some sort of spinal problem, which a decade ago, was seen only in senior citizens”. There had been a 60 per cent increase in spinal problems in youth in the recent past, he said, adding that change in lifestyle, weight gain and lack of Vitamin D, B12, calcium and protein were the major reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rise-in-spinal-problems-among-youth-says-doctor-177748
30-11-2020||---||6K appear for CAT from tricity||Chandigarh, November 29 About 6,000 students appeared for the Common Admission Test (CAT) across 12 centres from the tricity. Due to the Covid scenario this year, the exam was conducted in three slots and its duration was reduced from three to two hours. According to Hirdesh Madan, Co-Founder, Bulls Eye: “Though the number of applications for the test was similar to the last year, quite a few centres in the tricity reported poor attendance. This may actually mean an increase in the CAT applications next year as quite a few students may have deferred their plan”. Madan said: “This year, students were bit confused regarding the pattern as the duration of the test was reduced by an hour, but there was no clear indication on the number of questions.” Dhananjay Deswal, who is doing his engineering from the CTET, said: “CAT 2020 was moderately difficult this year. Verbal ability & reading comprehension was on the tougher side and it consisted of tricky questions. Selection of questions played a major role in the data interpretation and logical reasoning section. Quantitative aptitude was easier, but lengthy.” Bhavit Singla, who is pursuing B.Com from GGDSD College, Sector 32, Chandigarh, said: “I found the verbal section to be most difficult. Reasoning was tricky and maths was easy but lengthy. The paper was on the predicted lines”. The result is expected to be declared in the second week of January. In the second phase, after the results of the written test are declared, students go through essay and interview stage for the final selection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6k-appear-for-cat-from-tricity-177749
30-11-2020||Mohali||Three Kala Kachha gang members in police remand||A Kharar court today sent three members of the Kala Kachha gang to five-day police remand. No further arrest was made today. The accused, Matching, a resident of Muradabad, Wasim, a resident of Patter, UP, and Ramjaan, a resident of Kasur Basti, Delhi, were arrested from Baddi on Saturday. Sub-Inspector Harpal Singh said: “We are investigating the matter. All their accomplices will be arrested soon”.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-kala-kachha-gang-members-in-police-remand-177750
30-11-2020||---||Bailable warrants against Parkwood Developers MD||Mohali, November 29 Non-compliance of an order passed by the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Punjab, has proved costly for the Managing Director of Parkwood Developers Private Limited. The commission issued bailable warrants in the sum of Rs5 lakh with one surety of the like amount against the Managing Director, the Commissioner of Police, New Delhi, and the SSP, Mohali, for December 29. Advocate Narender Yadav, counsel for the complainant, said his client Dinesh Kumar booked a flat in a project, Parkwood Glade, developed by Parkwood Developers Private Limited on the Kharar-Landran road in Mohali in 2013. The builder agreed to give the possession of the flat by September 30, 2015. However, the possession was delayed and the builder abandoned the tower at mid level. On October 17, 2019, Dinesh filed a complaint before the commission for the refund of the entire amount along with interest. On February 19, 2020, the commission directed the Managing Director to refund the entire amount along with 12 per cent interest within 30 days from the date of passing of the order. The commission also directed the Managing Director to pay a compensation of Rs50,000 for causing mental agony and litigation charges to the complainant. Yadav said the Managing Director failed to comply with the order within the stipulated period of one month. Feeling aggrieved, the complainant filed an execution claiming the total compensation of Rs29 lakh calculated as per the direction of the state commission. On November 18, the state commission passed an order in execution with a observation that the Managing Director just filed an appeal before the National Consumer Commission, Delhi, which is pending for the removal of objections and it cannot be considered that it will come up for hearing. Otherwise also, there is no stay granted till date in this case. On the last date of hearing, the Managing Director had been directed to be present on the adjourned date, but none appeared. Therefore, a bailable warrant in the sum of Rs5 lakh with one surety of the like amount be issued against the Managing Director of Parkwood Developers Private Limited, Commissioner of Police, New Delhi, and the SSP, Mohali, for December 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bailable-warrants-against-parkwood-developers-md-177751
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Handa panel sweeps Press Club elections||Ramesh Handa was elected as the president of the Chandigarh Press Club in the elections held today. Handa won the poll by defeating his arch rival Sukhbir Singh Bajwa with a margin of 59 votes. He secured 304 votes, while Bajwa bagged 245 votes. The nine-member panel, led by Handa, Duggal and Nagarkoti, swept the elections. Of the 737 voters, 554 cast their ballot.  Rajinder Nagarkoti won the post of senior vice-president by defeating Rajinder Dhawan with the highest margin of 143 votes. Saurabh Duggal won the post of secretary general with a margin of 105 votes by defeating Jaswant Singh Rana. Dushyant Singh Pundir remained victorious on the post of secretary after defeating Jai Singh Chibber with a margin of 52 votes. Mona won the post of vice-president (I) by defeating Archana Sethi with a margin of 30 votes. Mansa Ram Rawat emerged victorious on the post of joint secretary (II) after defeating Amar Singh Walia with a margin of 37 votes. Among other office-bearers, Rajesh Dhal was elected as the vice-president (II) after defeating Jagtar Singh Bhullar with a margin of 24 votes, KS Rana won the post of joint secretary (I) with a margin of 92 votes after defeating Manoj Rathi and Umesh Sharma won the post of treasurer by defeating Nalin Acharya with a margin of 17 votes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/handa-panel-sweeps-press-club-elections-177753
30-11-2020||Mohali||Mohali stone crushers can’t mine from 8 pm to 6 am||The district administration today prohibited the functioning of stone crushers and screening plants for mining-related work from 8 pm to 6 am.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan issued the orders while exercising his powers under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. He said mining machinery like excavators, JCBs, etc., would not be used during the period. If the load on vehicles used for mining exceeded the prescribed capacity of 12 metric tonnes, it would be considered as a violation of the government instruction. Therefore, action would be taken against those who fill up the mining equipment in excess of the prescribed load, he added.Girish Dayalan said stone crushing and screening plants at Abhipur, Mianpur Changar, Kubbaheri, Khizrabad, Salempur Khurd, Saini Majra and Humayunpur, Handesra, Rajapur and Singhpur (Bahora Khera) villages would not use trucks, tippers and trolleys at night.Dayalan said if sand or gravel was required for ongoing government projects in the district, his approval for relaxation would have to be taken.The order will remain effective in the district till January 26 next year. — TNSPrescribed load for vehiclesDistrict Magistrate Girish Dayalan said if the load on vehicles used for mining exceeded the prescribed capacity of 12 metric tonnes, it would be considered as a violation of the government instruction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-stone-crushers-cant-mine-from-8-pm-to-6-am-177754
30-11-2020||---||Bicycle taken away forcibly from 9-yr-old||Chandigarh, November 29  An unknown youth forcibly took away a bicycle from a nine-year-old child at Sector 39. The victim was cycling with his friend at a park when the suspect, aged around 20, took away the bicycle. The victim, Damanjot Singh, a Class IV student, was cycling near his house when the suspect asked him to give his bicycle.  He refused following which the suspect pushed him and took away the bicycle worth Rs11,000. He tried to chase him, but the suspect managed to escape from the spot.  He rushed back to his house and informed his family. His father Ikbal Singh said he called up the police following which a PCR vehicle and a cop, Ashok Kumar, reached the spot.  “I was shocked when Ashok Kumar started blaming my son for the incident. He started suspecting my son saying that he might have sold the bicycle to someone,” Ikbal said. He said he was surprised at the behaviour of the policeman. Ikbal submitted a complaint at the Sector 39 police station following which an investigation has been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bicycle-taken-away-forcibly-from-9-yr-old-177755
30-11-2020||panchkula||64 test positive in P’kula||Among the new cases, 10 were reported from Kalka, eight from the MDC, Sector 5, seven from Sector 21 and five each from Sector 15 and Sector 16. While 8,031 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 521 cases are still active. The recovery rate of the district stands at 92.53 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/64-test-positive-in-pkula-177756
30-11-2020||---||Two thieves land in police net, 10 two-wheelers recovered||Chandigarh, November 29  Two persons have been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police for vehicle thefts and 10 two-wheelers have been recovered.   The police said one of the suspects, Rohit, alias Changa (22), a resident of Tin Colony, Sector 52, was arrested from near the Sector 12 light point. His arrest led to the recovery of an Activa and a Passion motorcycle stolen from areas under the jurisdiction of the Sector 3 and Sector 17 police stations, respectively. The police also recovered three more two-wheelers on information provided by him.   In another case, Pardeep Kumar, alias Pappan (18),  a resident of Tin Colony, Sector 52, was arrested for stealing an Activa scooter from an area under the jurisdiction of the Mani Majra police station in 2019. The police said four more two-wheelers were recovered on information provided by him.   Both suspects were produced in a court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-thieves-land-in-police-net-10-two-wheelers-recovered-177757
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||2 die, 96 contract virus in Chandigarh||Two persons died of Covid in the city during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 276. Besides, 96 more persons tested positive for the virus. The infection tally now stands at 17,342.A 57-year-old man from Sector 19, a case of diabetes, died at the PGI. A 70-year-old woman from Sector 35, a case of chronic lung disease, breathed her last at Command Hospital, Panchkula.As many as 69 more patients have defeated the virus. The number of recoveries recorded in the city is 15,926. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-die-96-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-177759
30-11-2020||Mohali||45-year-old hangs himself to death||A 45-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house in Kansal village. The deceased has been identified as Celestin Tirkey, a native of Jharkhand. According to the police, he was under stress following job loss due to the pandemic. No suicide note was found from the spot.  “He was staying in a rented accommodation with his wife and children. Last night, he had dinner and went to sleep alone in a room. His wife found the room bolted from inside this morning. On seeing through a window, she found him hanging from the ceiling fan with the help of a dupatta,” said ASI Ramesh Lal, the investigating officer. The postmortem will be conducted tomorrow. His body was sent to the mortuary at the Civil Hospital, Kharar. The Nayagaon police have initiated inquest proceedings. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/45-year-old-hangs-himself-to-death-177760
30-11-2020||Mohali||One death, 113 cases in Mohali||One more fatality was witnessed due to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 277. Besides, 113 fresh cases surfaced while 130 patients were cured.Among the fresh cases, 78 came from Mohali (urban). Besides, one each case was reported from Dhakoli and Lalru, three from Banur, seven from Dera Bassi, 12 from Gharuan and 11 from Kharar. So far, 15,376 persons have tested positive for the virus in the district and 13,043 of them have defeated it. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-113-cases-in-mohali-177761
30-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||MC elections: SAD to contest all seats||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 29For the first time, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will contest from all wards in the Municipal Corporation (MC)elections, which will be held in December 2021.After snapping ties with the BJP, the party had started strengthening its organisation at the grassroots level so as to field candidates from all wards. At present, there are 26 wards in the city. However, the count may increase to 31 after a delimitation necessitated by 13 new villages coming under the jurisdiction of the MC.“We are preparing to fight on all seats this time. For the purpose, we have divided our organisation into five zones. We have appointed presidents at the ward and village level,” Hardeep Singh, president, city SAD, told Chandigarh Tribune.The BJP and the SAD had fought the last MC elections together. Of the 26 wards, the saffron party had contested 22 seats and won 20 of them while the SAD fought on four and emerged winner on one.“Things were not much different earlier too. Their (BJP) people used to contest as independent from the seat allotted to us under the alliance,” alleged Hardeep, the only winning councillor of the SAD during the last elections. The SAD leader, who represents ward number 10 in the MC House, said they would contest on several issues. “Increased water rates and no development in villages for the past year and a half are the main issues,” he added.Notably, AAPwill also make its debut in the MC polls and fight on all seats.In the four-cornered contest between the BJP, the Congress, AAP and the SAD, the voting ratio of the political parties is expected to come down. “Anything can happen,” said the city SAD chief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-elections-sad-to-contest-all-seats-177762
30-11-2020||---||Cops booked on extortion charge||Chandigarh, November 29Cops posted at the crime branch of the Chandigarh Police have been booked for allegedly extorting money from a liquor contractor operating in the city.UT Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said a complaint in this regard was received from the liquor contractor, who alleged that the cops were extorting money from him.We are yet to identify the cops. The CCTV footage will be scrutinised to identify them. We will probe all complaints and action will be taken against those found involved in this.—Kuldeep Singh Chahal, UT SSP CCTV footage was submitted along with the complaint to substantiate the claim. Two cops posted in the crime branch are reportedly seen in the footage.A police official said the complainant was verified based on which a case of extortion and under Sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at the Sector 39 police station.“We are yet to identify the cops. The CCTV footage will be scrutinised to identify them,” the SSP said.He said several complaints were received from liquor contractors, who alleged that cops used to extort money from them. “We will probe all complaints and action will be taken against those found involved in this,” he said.Interestingly, a few days ago, the in-charge of the operations cell, Inspector Ranjit Singh, was also transferred to the Police Lines, Sector 26, on a complaint of a liquor trader.Senior officers under lens too?Police sources said the role of senior police officers posted at the crime branch would also be probed to establish if they were involved in the extortion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-booked-on-extortion-charge-177763
30-11-2020||Zirakpur||19-yr-old electrocuted||A 19-year-old youth died after falling on high tension wires near the hotel he was employed at on the Chandigarh-Ambala road here today. His friend tried to save him and sustained serious injuries.The deceased, Kamlesh, and Davinder Kumar, the injured, hailed from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh and were working and staying at Royal Park Resort. Kamlesh’s body was charred and mutilated due to electrocution. The injured Davinder was rushed to a private hospital where his condition is stated to be out of danger. The incident took place on the first floor of the building when the victim was having lunch while sitting on a railing. He lost the balance and touched the wires.Eyewitnesses said PSPCL officials snapped the power supply after 30 minutes of the incident and brought the youth out of the wires.SI Rajesh Chauhan said they were waiting for the victim’s kin to give a statement. A case would be registered on the basis of the statement, he added.Man falls from 3rd floor, diesZirakpur: A 38-year-old man died after falling from the third floor of his house in Dhakoli on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as Ashwani Kumar of Fazilika. Dhakoli police post incharge Narpinder Singh said, “The victim was under the influence of alcohol when he slipped and fell from the third floor. He received a head injury. His neighbours took him to the CHC, Dhakoli, but doctors referred him to the GMCH-32 where he died.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-yr-old-electrocuted-177765
30-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Roundglass Punjab FC ready for I-League challenge||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 29 There’s nothing big than winning, but for the newly formed Roundglass Punjab FC, the upcoming I-League season, starting on January 9 at Kolkata, is just about making an impact.  Having three decades of experience in international coaching, Punjab FC’s coach Curtis Fleming, a former Middlesbrough and Ireland defender, has no short-term plans. He rather aims to have a stable outcome before talking about winning titles.  Staying in a bio-bubble at Kolkata, the Mohali-based outfit revealed their tournament’s kit, squad and club’s logo for the upcoming I-League season on Sunday evening.  “Learn to walk before you run... this is what I believe. There are no specific mantras for winning. It comes with the time one spends on the field and the interest he takes in improving,” said Fleming.  “This is our first season, no history and to be very frank a tough time in this Covid-19 times. However, the squad is holding out well. We are under no pressure of winning big matches or anything, but we want to leave a strong impact to our competitors. Winning such championships is a long-term process and we are working under same direction. We are here to stay. So, we are not letting mistakes to hamper our aim,” Fleming added.  Talking about team’s preparation under Covid-19 threat, Fleming said “It’s a new kind of experience, which I never thought of facing in my career. It’s really tough! None of us was prepared to face such situation. Besides physical fitness, players really need to work on maintaining mental strength.”  “Staying in a bio-bubble is not easy, but we are trying to cope with the situation. This is the reason we opted to come here early. Our daily sessions include a lot of discussions so that players can speak their mind and heart out,” Fleming added.  Club scouting talent Fleming, who is in India for long now, maintained the club staff was trying to scout the talent in a proper way especially at the junior level. “When I talk about long term programme it is specifically to target scout talent at the junior level. This region (north) has a rich history of having talented players. We have seen many players from Punjab playing at the highest level and even in the ongoing ISL. I hope we are going to take the best out of this opportunity,” said Fleming.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roundglass-punjab-fc-ready-for-i-league-challenge-177766
30-11-2020||---||Badnore to inaugurate Museum of Trees today||Chandigarh, November 29On the occasion of the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev tomorrow, the Governor of Punjab and UTAdministrator, VP Singh Badnore, will inaugurate the Museum of Trees in the city.The inauguration will be doen online because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Ex-member of Parliament and Chairman, Minorities Commission, Tarlochan Singh and PHDCCI president Karan Gilhotra will participate in the web inauguration.Conceived and curated by ex-IAS officer and author DS Jaspal, the Museum of Trees is a grove created out of genetically true replicas of sacred trees of Sikhism. Naming of shrines after trees is unique to the Sikh religion.The project has been funded by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, and is promoted by Chandigarh Nature and Health Society, a registered NGO.It is India’s only outdoor walkthrough museum where visitors can see genetically true replicas of different sacred trees.Alongside each tree are eight foot high panels that carry a picture of the tree, along with a description of botanical features and its relationship and historical and religious background of the shrine.The museum has successfully reproduced genetically true replicas of 12 sacred trees, including Dukh Bhanjani ber tree of Golden Temple; ber tree of Gurdwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodi; and ber tree of Gurdwara Babe-di-Ber, Sialkot, Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-to-inaugurate-museum-of-trees-today-177767
30-11-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula lad passes out from INA||A resident of Sector 25 here was commissioned into the Indian Navy as Sub Lieutenant in a spectacular passing out parade held at Indian Naval Academy (INA), Ezhimala, on Saturday. Sub Lt Aditya Thakur did his schooling from Ajit Karam Singh International School, Sector 41-B, Chandigarh. He was pursuing BTech (IT) from the UIET, Panjab University, during which he cleared the NDA. He was in Lima Squadron in the NDA. After NDA, he went on to join the INA, Ezhimala, to complete his training and BTech (applied electronics and communication). He was awarded the Torch in the final year for excelling in academics. His father Balbir Singh is an officer in Principal Accountant General (A&E), Haryana, and mother Rekha Devi is a language teacher in Himachal Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-lad-passes-out-from-ina-177769
30-11-2020||Did careless attitude of resdients lead to spike in covid cases in tricity? ||Residents flouted norms as Administration looked the other way||Increase fine for not wearing maskWhen guidelines fail to achieve the desired results imposing restrictions on the public becomes necessary. People are defying Covid-19 protocol and exposing themselves and others to virus. So, the fine for not wearing mask must be increased from Rs500 to Rs2,000 in the tricity. The government must ensure social distancing, use of hand sanitiser and aggressive testing to identify infected persons. The government and the public share joint responsibility to prevent the pandemic from spreading further by following all norms.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliPeople have no fear of finePeople do not wear masks properly or maintain social distance at public places as they have no fear of the fine. The respective Administration in the tricity should start imposing fine on violators regularly. Simply increasing the fine amount on paper will not help.KC Rana, ChandigarhDisregard for law, public healthThe blatant disregard for the law as well as public health was visible on Diwali across the tricity. Festivities and large congregations are superspreaders of the Covid-19 pandemic. The UT Administration took the right step by ordering a complete ban on the sale and use of firecrackers. The tricity has a large population of senior citizens, who are vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. Hence, with pollution in the air they are susceptible to health problems. These are critical and unprecedented times. As the Covid-19 threat persists abundant caution should be exercised by all in the tricity.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurEnjoy but take care of healthPeople are responsible for whatever has happened during festive season in the tricity. Despite Covid-19 threat everybody thronged markets and the worst part was without wearing masks. The problem is definitely with our attitude. If you can’t do any good then don’t become a virus spreader. Please wear masks. Take care of elderly. Everyone has the right to enjoy during festivals, but not at the cost of somebody’s health. Follow precautions till an effective vaccine is available for everyone, which is likely in the next few months. So, keep patience.Dr Tarandeep Singh, ChandigarhResidents are taking pandemic lightlyThere is no denying the fact that the careless attitude of people in wearing masks and following social distancing norms in festive season lead to a surge in coronavirus in the tricity. People have started taking the Covid-19 pandemic lightly. Moreover, they hide infection. With relaxation in the lockdown, it is clear that the government cannot protect people from the Covid-19 infection. Violating norms is not the solution. It is the time when both the people and the government should awaken and prevent the spread of the virus.Anita Tandon, KhararRush in bazaars is disastrous for allOne can agree that callousness on the part of the general public has spiked Covid-19 cases in the tricity. The general public should always wear masks, wash hands regularly and maintain social distance. The often seen rush in bazaars is disastrous for all of us. We seem to have forgotten the old dictum “Prevention is better than cure”. Unfortunately, the vaccine for the dreaded virus is yet to come. So, it’s best to take all preventive steps and enjoy good health. Prevention costs nothing.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhViolators must be dealt with strictlyTricity residents must not lower guard against the virus. They must realise the severity of the pandemic. Marriages, religious and other functions are important, but not at the cost of our lives. The law enforcing agencies, especially the police must get stricter with those, who do not take precautionary measures such as wearing mask or maintain physical distance. People turned a deaf towards repeated requests of the government to follow Covid prevention norms during the festival season. Battle against virus cannot be won without the support of residents in the tricity. Kindly adhere to Covid-19 norms to safeguard not only your life, but also of others, who come in contact with you.Bir Devinder Singh BediGuidelines thrown to the windsFestival season was not different from previous year. Wearing face mask and maintaining social distance is the only alternative to avoid the spread of coronavirus, but tricity resident mingled in crowds while shopping and visiting religious places and threw the norms to the winds. A ban on bursting of firecrackers in Chandigarh only did its bit in keeping the air pollution under control. It was not enough to prevent the spreading of virus. Let us hope and pray that the authorities concentrate on densely populated areas of the tricity to enforce Covid-19 guidelines more rigidly and the situation does not go out of control.SC Luthra, ChandigarhShun gatherings, complacencyThe Covid-19 menace plateaued after half-a-year of wide awareness and self and forced preventions and precautions. By and by people’s casual approach and taking undue advantage of relaxations during festival celebrations did result in spurt of the Covid-19 cases at an alarming proportion. Coronavirus is not leaving us anytime soon. To accomplish ‘jaan bhi, jahaan bhi’ target the habit of following new normal is the sine qua non. We have to shun large gatherings and complacency. Precaution is the only vaccine available so far. The country’s economy, lives of the people and their livelihood cannot afford fresh lockdown. Lest we forget to our detriment, carelessness on our part will have dire consequences. Vote bank politics must not weigh on the administrations of the tricity to allow suicidal misadventures and liberties by the public under the guise of their rights. Upon the conduct of each one, depends the fate of all.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaHealthy life more importantPeople do not wear masks. They have accepted Covid-19 as a part of their lives, become fearless and enjoy as usual. Their laxity is contributing to a spike in Covid-19 cases in the tricity. Many people, who recovered from the disease, are complaining of other health issues. Tricity residents must understand that nothing is more important than a healthy life and take precautions to prevent the spread of the virus. Step out of home only if necessary.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliLaw enforcement agencies’ failureYes, the careless attitude of residents led to spike in Covid-19 cases in the tricity. The Chandigarh Administration had banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers during Diwali, but the people totally ignored the order. Even the Punjab Government permitted bursting of only green firecrackers for two hours, but the people flouted this order too. The rise in Covid cases after Diwali is the direct outcome of pollution generated by residents in the tricity. How can residents play with their own lives? No strict action by enforcement agencies encouraged residents to ignore the ban.Wg Cdr Jasbir singh Minhas (retd.), MohaliImpose hefty penalty on violatorsIt was distressing to see people not following guidelines to control the Covid-19 epidemic during the festival season. Public is requested to sincerely follow the norms to contain the spread of the virus. We must follow the thumb rule to sanitise hands, keep social distance and always wear a mask when going out. This is the only way to control the pandemic as there is no medicine available to cure this disease. Violators should be fined to deter others from flouting the prevention guidelines.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliResidents are to be blamedCovid-19 cases increased during the festive season in the tricity. Residents thronged markets and took no preventive measures like wear mask, maintain social distance and sanitation. Residents are to be blamed for the negligent attitude, which led to rise in coronavirus cases in the tricity.MR Bhateja, NayagaonNo control on rushPeople are openly moving without masks in the tricity. Covid-19 cases surged as people thronged markets during the festival season without taking precautions. Neither traders nor the Administration could control rush in markets. Prevention is better than cure.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhResidents, Admn equally responsibleThe UT Administration was well aware that Covid-19 cases could rise due to the festival season. The Administration, therefore, was supposed to be proactive in strictly implementing the prevention guidelines. Apparently, the Administration didn’t come forward wholeheartedly to nab violators. Residents, on the other hand, were complacent with the diminishing positivity rate of Covid-19 cases. Instead of being more cautious during the festival celebrations residents ventured out to toss the safety norms. As such, both the Administration and residents are to be equally blamed for the spike in Covid-19 cases.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliPeople didn’t act responsiblyCareless attitude of people towards wearing masks and following social distancing norm led to surge in coronavirus cases in the tricity. People did not act responsibly. Also, bursting of firecrackers on Diwali increased pollution, which spiked coronavirus cases. People gathered in markets during the festival season flouting the safety norms and contracted the disease.Akshar Kumar Singla, PunjabCheck complacent attitude of populaceCelebrations during the festive season without taking requisite precautions brought back virus into our lives. To quell another spike of the virus, non-conformist, lackadaisical and complacent attitude of the populace must be checked. Masks meant to cover nose are down on chins. The laxity needs to be stopped. Those without mask or with mask on their chins must be fined heavily. Unnecessary trips to nearby hill stations, markets, tourist spots and socialising must be curtailed. As there isn’t any cure for this virus the adage, “Precaution is better than cure”, must be kept in mind.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhAdmn alone cannot control the virusThe careless attitude of residents during the festival season attributed to spike in Covid-19 cases in the tricity. We are taking pandemic casually. The problem is how to deal with the people, who don’t follow safety protocol? It’s duty of the general public to take all precautions. Mask is a vaccine till a real vaccine arrives. ‘Do gaj ki duri mask hai jaruri’ is right. Unless residents accept their responsibility it’s difficult for the administrations in the tricity to control the virus.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaResidents of tricity at faultResidents and respective Administrations of the tricity are equally responsible for the spike in Covid-19 cases. The Administration (s) allotted stalls leaving no scope for social distancing or wearing masks by vendors or residents thronging markets. Mostly residents ignored precautions, which could be the cause of the spike. The Administration (s) should now act swiftly and ensure that residents follow all safety norms to prevent the spread of the virus in the tricity.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliAll caution thrown to the windsNewspaper reports and social media posts exposed the careless behaviour of residents in the tricity. Markets were jam-packed with shoppers throwing all guard against the Covid-19 pandemic to the winds. There were no masks on their faces and they forgot about social distancing in public places. It is because of their irresponsible behaviour that the tricity witnessed spurt in Covid-19 infections. People may be fed up with the virus, but it is not fed up with us. Let’s consider it as our duty to bolster the hands of the government in the fight against the deadly virus.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhCallous attitude added fuel to fireTireless efforts of health workers and relentless services of doctors as well as advisories of the government all went for a toss as tricity residents not only flouted ban on firecrackers, but also violated the Covid 19 guidelines during the festive season. Even law and order enforcing agencies seemed helpless as residents continued to bursting firecrackers on Diwali. Besides, people thronged markets in the tricity. Callous attitude of residents definitely added fuel in the fire.Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaTricity residents are irresponsibleResidents of the tricity are indifferent towards the Covid prevention instructions of the authorities concerned. Many people do not wear masks and violate social distancing norms. Markets are full of people and safety norms are thrown to the winds. Traders also did not cooperate with the authorities and allowed more people inside their shops than permitted during the festive season. All should unite to fight the pandemic.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhAdministration’s lax attitude to blameThere is no denying that tricity residents, especially the younger lot, flagrantly indulged in jumping the mandatory safety protocols, which led to a spike in Covid-19 cases. While the Administration cannot absolve itself of the onus of having failed to crack a whip on habitual violators, the blatant carelessness on the part of footloose residents during the festive season led to the unprecedented spurt in the Covid cases in the tricity, Chandigarh in particular. What dispensation needs to tell residents in no unequivocal terms that if they failed to follow the prescribed norms they should be ready for disastrous outcomes in the second coronavirus wave looming large over the country. The one and only formula that could save us and others from falling prey to the virus is to adhere to the statutory norms.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhMake people aware of covid guidelinesIn the tricity, there has been a steady increase in Covid-19 cases, which shows residents flouted Covid norms during the festive season. The fine for not wearing mask does not matter. There is a need to bring awareness among residents through media and NGOs/RWAs about following Covid guidelines. The Administration should conduct regular checking at public places to make sure that people wear masks.SK Khosla, ChandigarhSocial distancing should be a habitThere is surge in Covid cases in Chandigarh as people did not take precautions during the festive season. Social distancing should now become a habit. Masks should be worn properly. Use santisers at public places and wash hands properly washed when back at home.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhQUESTIONShould Panjab University continue with Senate or should there be Board of Governors/ Directors as in some other institutions.Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-flouted-norms-as-administration-looked-the-other-way-177773
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Schoolteacher’s purse snatched||Hookah: Club owner bookedChandigarh: The owner of a nightclub in Sector 26 has been booked by the UT police after they found that hookah was being served to customers. The police said the hookah was being served to customers at the Ministry of Bar Exchange on November 28 in violation of the District Magistrate’s order. A case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered against club owner Neeraj Kharab at the Sector 26 police station. TNSDraw of lots for vendors on December 3Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation will conduct draw of lots for giving sites to the remaining registered vendors on December 3. The draw will be held at 11:30 am at the market board office in Sector 26 vegetable market. Vendors of Colony No. 4 and the Sector 26 mandi will be given sites. TNSRotary Club offers yeoman serviceChandigarh: The Rotary Club of Chandigarh played a key role in the rehabilitation of jhuggi-dwellers at Saketri who were rendered homeless by a massive fire on the day of Diwali. As soon as they received a call around 3 pm, the Rotarians were among the first to reach the spot. Fire was still smoldering when the Rotary team got busy working out immediate relief logistics and arranged food and blankets. With a helping hand from several NGOs and religious institutions, the Rotarians distributed quilts, blankets, utensils, buckets and tarpals among the people affected by the fire. They also made other arrangements like food and temporary shelter for them. Next day, Rotary Club members arranged bamboos, poles and tarpals to help jhuggi-dwellers in their rehabilitation. TNSDistrict Sports Officer retiresChandigarh: Handball coach Ravinder Singh (Laddi), who also remained the District Sports Officer (DSO), retired after serving for 33 years in the UT Sports Department on Sunday. Known for nurturing many players to international ranks and as a confident administrator, Singh remained the DSO for three consecutive years. He joined the department as a junior coach in 1987. Thereafter, he was promoted to the ranks of handball coach in 2003 and senior handball coach in 2012. TNS10-day orientation programme at PECChandigarh: Punjab Engineering College (deemed-to-be-university) will start classes for new batch of engineers on December 2. The batch of 2024 was invited to an online orientation programme to provide them with a proper introduction for this new chapter in their lives and to acclimatise the students with the vision, infrastructure and facilities of the institute through presentations and speaker sessions. The 10-day programme, which began on Sunday, will include presentations by department heads, interaction with various faculties, motivational and interactive sessions by dignitaries to mention a few. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/schoolteachers-purse-snatched-177782
