01-02-2021||Aparna Banerji & Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers unite again...this time with a firmer resolve||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 31Jagtaar Singh (18) from Chaudharywaal village is the youngest in a group of 30 to 50 men, who have packed their bags and months of ration, on a day’s notice, to head to the Singhu border.From the pandori village, too, a jattha of 15 to 20 men headed out for the Delhi border under the call given by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), said district president Mandeep Singh Samra.While farmers of the state have been as moved by Rakesh Tikait’s tears as their Haryana counterparts, the violence beamed on TV sets from the Singhu border have further incensed farm leaders, who are heading out in hordes to the Singhu and Tikri borders from Jalandhar. Even as their union leaders in Delhi busy themselves finding the whereabouts of the youth whose wincing face has gone viral on media, the videos and posts of the vent have sparked huge number of people to head out for the Delhi border.As many as 50 to 60 tractor-trailers have started from Shahkot, Lohian alone, while more have been mobilised from the cities and gurdwaras. Yellow, white and Tricolour flags have become a constant on the highway.Ajaib Singh from Lohian, who returned from the Singhu border on January 26, is going back again. “I’m just headed back on a night’s notice. We are very angry about the videos that are coming in. All villagers are angry. We couldn’t sleep all night. Our leaders have asked us to join in large numbers. Famers were not the perpetrators of the violence. On the R-Day march, too, many were misled.”Salwinder Singh Jania, president of the district unit of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said: “Asi panj nu jana si par leaderaan ne call kiti tan khade pair tur paye. (We had to go on February 5, but when leaders called, we started on Saturday itself.) Farmers from Malsian, Nakodar, Lohian, Shahkot are also leaving —some today, while many more in the coming days. While Rakesh Tikait’s statement has united farmers, lakhs went after the videos were released. Meanwhile, Saturday’s visuals have angered them. Hooligans are attacking farmers. This isn’t justified. Farmers are heading out in lakhs to lend strength to the movement.”Dalbir Singh of Kakran village said: “Not only us, other villagers are also keen on leaving. People stacked up vegetables, flour, pulses and grains the moment we said we needed supplies for Singhu. People are wholeheartedly backing the Singhu morcha. They are angered by TV visuals and we have come along with generators, 15 to 16 quintal of supplies and the needful. We will return only after the laws are withdrawn.”Jagtaar Singh (18), a Class XII student, said: “We did not like what we saw in the videos. I am the only one from my family going to express solidarity there. Many other youths from my village are also going. We will come back after the laws are withdrawn.”Kisan unions mobilise peopleFarm leaders have once again started mobilising farmers in the state. After the Red Fort incident, various kisan unions decided to give a befitting reply to the Centre and miscreants that their movement hasn’t weakened.Manjit Singh Rai, chief, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba), who came back from Delhi on January 27 asked every district head to meet people and tell them that whatever happened on Republic Day was not right and it was a well-planned strategy of some persons who were against the movement.“I came back to make people aware regarding the conspiracies that are being hatched to attack the sanctity of the movement. Now, more people are supporting us and many have desired to go to Delhi,” he said.“Several people told us that they will come to Delhi and it clearly tells that after the incident, a large number of people are connecting with us,” he said. Rai said a peaceful ‘Sadbhavna Yatra’ was held on Singhu border and national flag was installed on every tractor during the yatra to send a message that they respect the Tricolour.Davinder Singh Sandhu, vice-president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba), held a meeting in Khatkar Kalan with farmers. “We asked people to forget about the unfortunate incident on January 26. We must stay together,” he said. Co-convener of Kirti Kisan Union (youth wing) Boota Singh has taken to social media to rope in support for the movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-unite-again-this-time-with-a-firmer-resolve-206122
01-02-2021||---||Cycle yatra of LIP reaches Phagwara||Jalandhar, January 31  The cycle yatra of the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) headed for Phagwara on its second day on Sunday.  The yatra started from Gurdwara Reru Sahib, Sahnewal. LIP chief Simarjit Singh Bains said after the Republic Day fiasco, everything — from terming people of Punjab as terrorists to separatists or Khalistanis — was part of a premeditated conspiracy. He said the andolan which seemed to be on its last leg and losing numbers, dramatically rejuvenated following the emotional exhortation of farm leader Rakesh Tikait.  He saluted the courage of Tikait, whose zeal turned the movement around and flooded people to the dharna site. A huge number of LIP volunteers also donated jewellery to gift a gold shovel to Tikait.  The declaration to take out the cycle yatra was made by LIP chief Bains on January 29. He said the yatra reached Gurdwara Reru Sahib in Ludhiana, stayed there for a night and then started for Gurdwara Ravidas to stay at night. They reached GT Road, Chak Hakim, Phagwara, and on the third day, a huge cavalcade from Doaba will head to Delhi after staying at Mallian Sahib Gurdwara near Raiya and on the night of February 2, they will pay obeisance at the Darbar Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cycle-yatra-of-lip-reaches-phagwara-206123
01-02-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Healers in ‘heaven’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 31Ye daulat bhi lelo, ye shauhrat bhi lelo, bhale chheen lo mujhse meri jawani, magar mujhko lauta do bachpan ka sawan, wo kagaz ki kashti vo barish ka paani, croons Dr Kanwal Jeet Singh, while strumming his guitar in his plush garden with wife Dr Nivedita Singh.Singh is a gastro-surgeon and his wife a gynaecologist and obstetrician. While they take care of patients and heal them at workplace, nature plays the same role for them at their home garden.This is their favourite de-stressing spot after a long and harrowing day at the hospital, and a perfect place to be with a nice book and a cup of steaming hot coffee. Not only this, their kids study here too.Sit here for a while and you’ll get mesmerised by the chirps of a myriad of birds. It’s like getting in sync with nature. There are more than a 100 plants at their home along with exotic flowers. Singh has three portions at his terrace garden. It took him around four years to complete the entire look. There is an automatic watering system as well.Doctor Kanwal Jeet’s father, a retired colonel, was also an avid gardener and Singh says he got this trait from him. He said wherever his father was posted, they used to win prizes for their gardens.He goes on to share: “Heavy stress of modern life and our profession demand frequent unwinding. It is not possible to get away every now and then, so we conceived this together and gradually realised it. It’s heavenly.”Singh goes on to add: “Noons during the winter months and dusk and evenings during the summer ones — it’s ineffably divine. We have installed an old TV here and watch several programmes on it. When we watch the Indo-Pak matches, it gives us a feeling of actually being in the stadium itself,” he laughs.He gets all plants from Chandigarh. There is a part-time gardener, too, who tends to plants in their absence.At the end of the day, when he comes back home and sits in his garden to relax after treating patients, he takes out his guitar, starts strumming a few notes and the bird chirps add to the background score.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/healers-in-heaven-206124
01-02-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Important to keep farmers upbeat: Veteran players||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 31To cheer up the sagging morale of farmers protesting at the borders for the last two months, the Punjab Wrestling Association will again organise wrestling competitions at the Singhu border from February 3.Arjuna Awardees Kartar Singh, Rajbir Kaur and Sajjan Singh Cheema and Olympians Gurmel Singh and Davinder Singh Garja have announced their support after the Red Fort incident.They said the incident was unfortunate but it was an act to put the farmers’ movement in bad light.“We support farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. To infuse more energy, motivation and power in farmers and youngsters and who are spending days and nights at the Delhi borders, wrestling competitions will be organised,” they said.The competitions are being organised to make the atmosphere at the border lively, hopeful and cheerful. The organisers said several national and international wrestlers will be joining the event.The farmers present at the border will bless players before every fight.Association president Kartar Singh Pehelwan said history tells us that to destroy the cruelty of the powerful and create a peaceful society, the 6th Guru Har Gobind Singh wanted youngsters to be full of energy and motivation. So, he started an akhara outside the Akal Takht, where several pehelwans would visit and perform.“Our farmers, too, are fighting the cruelty of the Central Government, and a plethora of youngsters can be seen marking their presence. So, it is very important to keep them upbeat, which is why we decided to organise such events,” he said.Kartar Singh said farmers were away from their homes and were living in such harsh conditions, which is why such steps were being taken to boost their morale.Earlier too, Kartar Singh along with several other international players had announced to return the awards to the President.Wrestling contest at Singhu from Feb 3||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/important-to-keep-farmers-upbeat-veteran-players-206125
01-02-2021||---||Temple priest, minor girl shot at in Phillaur||Jalandhar, January 31 A temple priest and a 15-year old girl, who worked with him at the temple, were shot at by two persons at Bhar Singhpura village in Phillaur here on Sunday.  Both were injured seriously. Kamaljit Singh, the 35-year-old priest, received three bullet injuries and the girl received two bullet injuries.  The Station House Officer, Phillaur police station, said: “An FIR has been lodged against two persons under Sections 307 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 27 and 54 of the Arms Act. The victims are serious and are receiving treatment. The search for shooters is on.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/temple-priest-minor-girl-shot-at-in-phillaur-206126
01-02-2021||Open House||There is no need to worry, everything will be all right||Now, it is time for parents to learnThe decision of the Punjab Government to reopen all schools covering Classes I to XII in a phased manner needs to be supported by parents in particular and society in general. Notwithstanding that the Covid crisis has subdued and that the process of vaccination is under way, our children have to learn how to lead a meaningful and happy life amid challenges. Management of schools, teachers and parents are bound to make their wards fully conscious of the prevailing circumstances for taking all preventive measures. All related facilities should be conveniently made available and a SOP be applied strictly during the school hours. In the beginning, the teacher-parents meets must be organised twice a month to get feedback on parents’ apprehensions for taking measures to enhance their confidence and alleviate their unfounded fears. Meanwhile, the facilities relating to online classes can continue simultaneously till the complete switchover to classroom education is not achieved over the period.Jagdish ChanderQUESTIONEveryone, especially children, women and the elderly, like spending quality time in the city parks. Do you think the MC authorities are doing enough and providing proper facilities such as open gyms and good jogging tracks in all parks for its residents?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (February 4).School staff has to win folks’ confidenceKeeping in view the challenges of online teaching and persistent parental pressure, the government has reopened all schools from Class Vonwards. No doubt, the decision was taken to compensate for the loss of studies and promote physical, psychological and social well-being of students, but it is only a half welcome. Many parents are not willing to send their wards for regular physical classes fearing that most school managements are not adequately equipped to strictly comply with the directions of the government. Post-initial hiccups and hesitation, when the attendance in schools started picking up slowly, the reports of half a dozen positive cases and death of a government teacher in Ludhiana district further confirmed their doubts. Since it is the prime responsibility of the state and school authorities to maintain the safety and security of students, teachers and other staff members, they must adopt a risk-based approach and make concerted efforts to ward off the threat of putative contraction of the deadly virus. Proper ventilation, regular cleaning and disinfecting all school facilities including transport, thermal screening, treatment and monitoring on a daily basis, ensuring mask-wearing, hand-sanitisation and physical distancing on school premises, frequent dissemination of information about these provisions to parents and addressing their concerns over fee will bolster their confidence and draw an enthusiastic response for sending their children to educational institutions.DS KangRisk involved, govt should’ve waitedThe decision is fraught with risks. There is no way to ensure that the teachers coming in contact with children everyday are Covid positive or not. Getting a RT-PCR test done before schools reopen is a mere hogwash as anyone can catch the virus anytime after the concerned teacher is tested. Moreover, the vast majority of patients are asymptomatic which further complicates the picture. And as per the government guidelines, teachers are not slated to be vaccinated as yet. So, they are not protected from getting infected by the virus just as yet. The real concern is not the children catching the virus in school but the possibility of developing complications of virus because in such a situation the onus lies on the school authorities. The moot question, therefore, is whether it is worth taking a risk of exposing our children to this potentially dangerous virus. The government should have waited for the vaccination coverage to increase before taking such a decision.Dr Gulbahar S SidhuWritten permission of parents a mustThe havoc that the pandemic caused has made the public and businesses suffer a lot. The most affected sectors were hospitality, entertainment and education. The unplanned lockdown that was announced and implemented at a short notice caused panic and cost many lives, most of them immigrants from Bihar, UP, MP and other states. Now, though the vaccines have come and inoculation started, the Covid-19 curve has also flattened. It is good that the Punjab Government has allowed the resumption of classes but still due precautions have to be observed. A written permission of parents is also necessary. The education sector suffered because many poor students didn’t have smartphones to attend online classes. Though the Punjab CM has given smartphones to many, it wasn’t sufficient considering the number of students. The government and parents should also be wary that the second strain of Covid has surfaced in the UK and other countries, including India. When the Spanish flu pandemic subsided, people became careless and ditched all precautions. The result — the second wave came and caused more deaths than the first one. As it is said ‘prevention is better than cure’. The government and people should be aware of this adage so that no further damage is done.Dr JS WadhwaThe decision has to be a two-way streetIt’s high time we shed psychological fears of Covid-19. Many government offices are now working full time with precautions. The same should be carried out in schools too. Though we moved towards a new era of distance learning, which is appreciated everywhere around the globe, some limitations are encountered by those who can’t afford those mediums to learn. Internet connectivity, smartphones, laptops have burnt a hole in lower middle-class families not to mention the tuition fee is paid separately, and that, too, at a worse time when they lost their jobs. Many government schemes were launched to provide these tools but still the majority of the chunk is left deprived of the schemes. Keeping in mind every child from every background of society, it is now time to go ‘old school’. With proper measures, the education level can be back on track. Organising PTM’s frequently to ensure parents about the precautionary measures taken by the school for their wards and enlightening them what they were missing in distance learning such as personality development, discipline, speaking, writing, and social skills which can be only polished in person. Moreover, the child’s immunity and mental level significantly got affected while staying indoors. Many parents are aware of this and thus are reluctant to send their wards while some have to do so due to high internet bills. It’s a two-way street from school’s precautionary measures being ensured to parents willing to send the kid to school for their growth.Gurmanjot SinghSet the fears aside, send kids to schoolReturn of children to schools is a huge step towards normalcy which parents should support. The Punjab government has taken the decision to reopen schools for Class V and onwards. It has been a year that children have been locked in their houses. Online classes were never part of school curriculum – yes, they were a good alternative to classroom education that time but we all know that online classes can never take its place. Concern of parents is right but now it’s high time to overcome their fears by allowing their children. Also the exposure will help children to acclimatise to the new normal and will help in building herd immunity too. If parents have returned to their workplaces why not children can return to their schools? Also, vaccination has started among frontline workers and significant decline in cases is visible. Therefore it’s the right time that parents should support the decision of government by sending wards to school.Rashi RawalEnough of the waiting game!After a long time of pandemic the Punjab government has now finally decided to open schools and allowed resumption of classes from Class V onwards. It’s a great beginning to return to normalcy. But now the moot question is whether parents should send their children to school or not? I think they should because we have waited enough. We can’t wait until there’s not a single case – that would be a big mistake. We should allow our children to go school so that they adapt to current circumstances, it would be the first step to back to normalcy.KanikaStudents’ lives might be at riskNow that the Covid vaccination drive has started and fresh cases are on decline, still we have no conclusive data to support the claim that children are not vulnerable to infection. The data so far suggests that like SARS, Covid also does not really infect the school-going children aged between six and 14. However, we all know that there are several cases of illness among children too. Moreover, it is not always possible to maintain distancing, because of huge crowd. Children are so friendly and cheerful the chances of spreading of virus are more. Most parents are hesitant about vaccines, perhaps because of possible side-effects of vaccines. Moreover, the jab will first be given to healthcare workers, thus it will take more time to reach children and common people. Not only children, teachers and other staff will also be exposed to high risk of getting infected and in turn spreading the same among children. Therefore, I think that it’s not safe for the children to return back to their schools. The government should wait until situation comes under control more, especially for primary students.Shabnam ChouhanSchools must stick to guidelinesAccording to me, it is the right decision that the parents should send their children to school. As it has been a year and the children are not aware of many things like social distancing, use of sanitisers, wearing masks, etc they will get the education related to the pandemic. It will be better for them if they adapt to these things at an early age. Their loss of education and the growth is the main thing. The decline in the Covid cases gives the chance to get the life back on track but with the precautions. Schools must provide full sanitisation facilities and must follow the proper norms. Moreover, the vaccination process has started although it will take some time for vaccine to reach to children. Till then they have to follow proper instructions. Also, children have faced many problems during the digital session, it is high time that education institutes open, but with precautions.Lakshay SharmaNo need to worry if norms are followedAccording to me, it is not wrong to say that students do not like homework, regular classes. But it does not support the statement that the schools should not be reopened, and that too, after so long a time. As we know parents have returned to their offices, business and workplaces have begun than why not children should be allowed to go back to schools. It has been a year since children were cooped inside their home. During this period, children were deprived of fun, enjoyment and competitions that are organised online are not equivalent to the competitions held on premises of school. Being a student, I feel that schools should be reopened. Schools, teachers, parents and children have to take care of all Covid-19 precautionary measures. Furthermore, schools may call students on odd-even basis to maintain social distancing, parents will have to ensure that their child wears masks, gloves, also keeps a bottle of sanitiser. In my opinion, if all these steps are taken care of, schools can reopen safely.Gurkawar Partap Singh PuarSpecial task force be cut outI believe a special task force, comprising school management and parents, should be a good idea to ascertain the implementation of the safety measures before any such resumption happens. Safety of the children should definitely be the top priority, and it has to be ensured by way of an active participation and involvement of all the stakeholders.Dr Narinder K SharmaWhat if things go south?With the Covid-19 vaccination process going on and a decline in fresh Covid cases, it seems there is a ray of hope after the gloomy dark phase of the pandemic. Punjab government and some other state governments have decided to reopen schools but in my opinion the pandemic is not over yet and with the new mutations tumbling out, the threat still looms large. Perhaps, it would be better to wait for one or two more months till the vaccination drive has covered a large chunk of the population. Otherwise, with the schools reopening, if the infection spreads rapidly, it might worsen the situation. Parents would also then feel more confident of sending their wards to school. Working together, we will surely overcome this challenge.Seema JainIt’s for betterment of childrenSchools are reopening after so long because Covid cases are on a decline and vaccination has come out. Certain parents hold the perspective that they would not allow their children to go to school because of the Covid fear. Students have already become the victim of huge loss in studies owing to coronavirus. But now when the time has changed and with virus almost gone, parents are still scared of it. This is utterly ridiculous since vaccines are now available in the hospitals and are safe. Children had become sluggish while sitting at home for almost a year. Now if the government has ordered resumption of schools for children to meet their peers, take part in extracurricular activities etc, parents should send their children to the schools for the betterment of the future of the child.Saahil HansNeed to trust the school authoritiesSchools across the country have been closed since March even before the lockdown was imposed. The students of all the classes will be allowed to attend now after being closed for more than nine months. Parents are reluctant to send their children even if they are opened on government’s order after taking consent from school heads. Given the fact that Covid situation is not improving, even if the schools are opened in regular manner majority of the parents will refrain from sending their children to schools and prefer online classes. Parents should send their children to schools because our CM directed the school authorities to ensure the safety of children and strictly comply with all the precautions. Moreover, the children are flustered at homes and studying online. They should trust the school authorities. The final exams are going to be conducted offline, so a final revision will happen and for how long children can stay indoors. It hampers their health and confidence, they have become more lethargic and irritated because of no outdoor activity so parents should trust and send their children to school to feel a normal atmosphere.Shashi KiranEducation at stake, send kids to schoolSchool always plays an indispensable part in students’ life as they learn multiple things there. However, Covid had devastated the whole education system. With the arrival of vaccination, everyone looks so relaxed and elated. But the parents are in the state of quagmire about sending their children to schools or not. It’s entirely high time to allow them because they have encountered massive obstructions for last couple of months. Teachers are ready to take classes and eagerly waiting for the students. There are numerous topics which cannot be cleared to the students digitally. In such a situation, parents should send their children to the schools so that they can study in a proper manner.Shailja ThakurResumption will only favour studentsSchool is an educational institution designed to provide a learning environment to pupils under the guidance of teachers. In India, traditional ‘pen and paper’ method of education has been followed for a long time. Due to the pandemic, a lot of things had to be altered. Students have spent nearly an entire year inside their homes at their own leisure. There was neither a supervisor for them nor any offline tests could be conducted as it would have had under normal scenarios. Deterioration of students’ performance is an obvious end result. According to me, resumption of classes is going to favour the students. Now that entire world is pacing back to how it used to be before the pandemic, reopening of educational institutions should not be delayed. While physically interacting with teachers students will have to follow certain instructions, regular tests could be conducted and revisions could also be done. They will have to stop procrastinating leading their disturbed schedule to be well-adjusted. This will help them pivot back into normal regime. Mental health of students will also improve as now they will have something to look forward to and wouldn’t be trapped inside the walls of their homes. As vaccination drive has begun, people are being inoculated so as to reduce the threat and spread of disease. Hence, parents should be reassured and send their wards to school.Pushti SehgalOnline sessions merely a jokeIn my view, parents should send their children to school so that they could get in touch with their teachers in a better way. They can learn or revise those topics which were not clear to them due to the some limitations in online classes. Most students did not take their studies seriously. A lot of distractions put their efforts into vain, for example WhatsApp, Instagram and other social media apps tempted them. In online examinations students copied answers from Google, took help of their tutor or friends. Online mode of classes makes students lethargic. If students attend classes at school they will have a proper routine and will take their studies seriously but should keep in their mind that Covid is not over yet. They should follow all norms properly and understand the importance of these safety measures.Samiksha SethClassroom teaching need of the hourIn post-Covid scenario, classroom teaching can be done effectively as there is better rapport between teachers and learners. There are genuine internet connectivity issues in online teaching as precious time is lost, nearly 10-15 minutes in every session due to poor connectivity, server timeouts, poor sound and video quality especially in rural areas. There are financial constraints also involved in middle class families where they have two-three siblings taking higher secondary or college education and find difficult to bear cost smartphones and buying requisite GB data for six classes for each of their wards. Moreover, it becomes difficult for teacher to discuss and disseminate numerical and grammar digitally which is more effective in offline class as one gets immediate response of student. So, the times are safer for students to visit their educational institutions as they have fully taken precautions and requisite safety measures in terms of sanitisation and social distancing. And we should also keep in mind that our youth and adults are moving regularly in market places and eating points and are all very well aware of precautions so there is no need of unnecessary apprehensions.Prof Sandeep ChahalTiny tots most vulnerable groupAs the vaccination is not available for the general public, especially for children, and cases still surfacing, therefore, primary school children can’t protect themselves in the public so schools should not be opened until there are proper facilities available for them.Aditi DuggalChildren must stay home, period!I think students should stay home right now. As Covid-19 is a very harmful virus, parents should not take risk as of now. As when there will be no cases for a week, then only the institutes shall open so safety is assured.AnuragThe onus lies on school authoritiesIt is a very well-known fact that Covid-19 has given our world a stain that isn’t going to fade off for years. The affected education system of our country is in its worst condition. So the classroom teaching is the need of the hour. The social interaction with peers leading to collaborated learning has been missing since the closure of institutions. Although the government has allowed resumption of classes for getting the ruined education system back on track, still the risk of getting infected exists. Students should follow all the precautions so as to keep themselves safe. So, the authorities should make sure that the children are safe on premises. The proper guidelines and the ways the authorities will try to avoid the risks should be broadcasted widely. Lastly, it ends up in the hands of the parents.Hargun Singh RanaOffline method of teaching is the bestI am a senior secondary student and it’s almost 15 years now. Throughout the course of time I have always seen myself as a student who is at top of his class trying to grasp every bit of knowledge there is to absorb. But the pandemic shattered my usual course of study that I had always, the transition from books to PDF(s), from blackboards to shared screen, from complex timetables to meeting passwords was not easy. It was a cumbersome process because of my determination towards learning and I think the existing educational system is formulated around blackboards, chalks and not connected computer screens. That’s why I am in favour of schools being reopened because that is the basics of quality education in a country where a good connectivity, individual devices and resources are not uniformly distributed. Schools were and are temples of education and teaching must come in an orderly fashion which is only achieved through offline modes of teaching.Munish Dutt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/there-is-no-need-to-worry-everything-will-be-all-right-206129
