02-02-2021||Jalandhar||Girish Malik to come up with two movies||Actor-turned-director Girish Malik in partnership with local businessman Rajan Chopra announced plans about two upcoming Bollywood films with themes based around Jalandhar.While one of them is related to hockey nursery Sansarpur village which produced 14 Olympians, the other one is based on a story penned by IPS officer MF Farooqui, currently posted as IG at PAP Jalandhar headquarters.Malik, who will be bringing the two films under the banner of his company Clapstem Entertainment and TheySee Records and had also directed films like ‘Torbaaz’ and ‘Jal’ recently, said, “I was approached by Chopra with the proposal to do films on these two themes and was really impressed by the stories. We have already done some research and thought of the storyline of both the films. We will soon go ahead with more planning, including selection of the film location, casting, etc. The shooting may start in October this year.”Hockey Olympian Col Balbir Singh, who joined him for the announcement, said, “We hope that the film on Sansarpur would help rebuild the craze for the game in the youth.”Farooqui shared, “In 2012, I had come up with a story of an IPS trainee which revolves around my personal experiences when I joined as SHO in Ferozepur. My story titled ‘woh teen din’ showcases the reality of our society and system and a young officer’s journey through it. It is based on the kind of temperament required to hold the job and how one can bring changes in our system in the given circumstances.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/girish-malik-to-come-up-with-two-movies-206756
02-02-2021||Jalandhar||‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ begins commemorative journey in Punjab||General Officer Commanding, Vajra Corps, Lieut Gen C Bansi Ponnappa set off the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ for its commemorative journey in the Punjab region.  The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ has travelled from Delhi to Punjab to honour the Indian Armed Forces’ decisive victory over Pakistan in 1971. The ceremony witnessed felicitations of awardees and veterans who brought glory to the country and themselves with their gallant acts of selfless courage.  Brig Joginder Singh Jaswal (Retd) and ex-Sub Ajmer Singh among others, who fought gallantly on the Western Front in Amritsar Sector and were awarded Vir Chakra during the 1971 war, spoke about their experiences while recollecting their memories. Martyrs and veterans who had left for their heavenly abode were also felicitated by honouring their family members at the ceremony. ‘The Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ will continue on its journey through the Punjab region with serving soldiers carrying the mashaal to draw inspiration from their predecessors. The soil from the villages of these awardees and from areas where major battles were fought in 1971 war is also being collected and would be brought to the National War Memorial. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/swarnim-vijay-mashaal-begins-commemorative-journey-in-punjab-206757
02-02-2021||---||Students excel in  Science Congress||Jalandhar, February 1 The results of the Children Science Congress (CSC) organised virtually by the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology in collaboration with Pushpa Gujral Science City (PGSC) were announced on Monday.  A total of 112 projects were adjudged best on the theme ‘Science for Sustainable Living’. Out of these, 78 projects were from rural areas. Officials said around 78 per cent project were prepared by girls.  At the state-level, projects were evaluated by a team of experts. In total, 16 best projects (eight each in senior and junior categories), would now be participating at the national-level CSC. The announcement of results for senior category were declared by Dr Jatinder Kaur Arora, Executive Director, Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, and that of the junior category by Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Pushpa Gujral Science City. In the senior category, the team led by Thluxmi Handa and Yatish Choudhary from Bhavan’s SL Public School, Amritsar, ranked first for their project on potential of magnetic field for sustainable agriculture.  In the junior category, the project prepared by Anmol and Kirandeep of Government Senior Secondary School, Kot Khalsa, Amritsar, on social innovations to increase the fertility of soil stood first. The PSCST will also be organising an interactive sessions of all the selected teams with start-up experts. The Council will organise virtual tour to paddy straw briquetting plant set up by the PSCST.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-excel-in-science-congress-206758
02-02-2021||---||MC poll: 69 in district file nominations||Jalandhar, February 1 As many as 61 candidates have filed their nomination papers on the second day of nominations for the municipal elections in the district on Monday.  Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development)-Additional District Electoral Officer Vishesh Sarangal said 61 nominations, including eight have been filed in Alawalpur Municipal Council, 15 in Kartarpur, three in Nakodar, two in Nurmahal, 28 in Phillaur, three in Lothian Khas and two in Mehatpur Municipal Council, where elections are scheduled to be held on February 14.  He said the elections in the 110 wards of six municipal councils and two nagar panchayats would be held as per the schedule issued by the State Election Commission. The ADC said on the first day of filing nominations, eight candidates had filed their papers and now a total of 69 candidates have filed nominations so far.  He said the last date of filing nominations would be February 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mc-poll-69-in-district-file-nominations-206759
02-02-2021||Garhshankar||Two held with 200-gm heroin||The Beenewal police have seized 200 grams of heroin from the possession of two youths.They accused have been identified as Mela Singh, a resident of Khabbe Rajputan, and Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Kohar Hinduan, Amritsar. Garhshankar SHO Iqbal Singh said Beenewal outpost in-charge Satwinder Singh had set up a naka at Kokowal village. He said cops stopped the accused who were travelling on a motorcycle for inspection. He said 175-gm heroin was recovered from Mela’s pocket while 25-gm of heroin was recovered from Mangal’s pocket. The SHO said a case has been registered against the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-200-gm-heroin-206762
02-02-2021||---||27 fresh cases reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, January 30With 27 more cases, total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district reached 20,680 today. With one more death, the number of deceased persons in Jalandhar reached 675. The active cases in district are 202 till today. As many as 19,803 have been discharged while 119 persons are also under home isolation in Jalandhar. Kapurthala district saw 15 persons testing positive for Covid.*****Jalandhar round-upSamples collected: 5,63,163Negative: 5,21,652Positive: 20,680Active: 202Discharged: 19,803Deceased: 675Sample Inappropriate/inconclusive: 6,493Results Awaited: 198Home Isolated: 119||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/27-fresh-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-206765
02-02-2021||---||DC inspects Sakhi — One Stop Centre||Jalandhar, February 1Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday inspected Sakhi — One Stop Centre, operational in Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Civil Hospital.Accompanied by Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh and Medical Superintendent Dr Parminder Kaur, the DC visited the shelter ward, medical aid, police assistance, legal aid/case management, psychosocial counselling, and temporary support rooms at the centre.He said the centre had proven to be a boon for women, who were facing any sort of problem and it had already provided assistance to 380 victims of rape, domestic violence, physical and mental harassment, dowry besides others and sorted out 360 complaints through counselling.The DC said the victim could reach the centre physically or over the phone. He said this One Stop Centre provides support and assistance to women affected by violence, both in private and public spaces.Thori said in case the victim was a minor, the cases were solved in coordination with authorities/institutions established under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000, and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012.He said the new building had also been integrated with the 181- women helpline of the Punjab Police and the integration of the Sakhi-One Stop Centre with women helpline 181 will make services more accessible to women in distress telephonically.On the demand of centre’s coordinator Sandeep Kaur, he said he would write to the Police Department for the deployment of women sleuths at the centre. Prominent among those present included district programme officer Gurminder Singh Randhawa, district child and protection officer Ajay Bharti, legal probation officer Sandeep Kumar, child protection officers Amneet Kaur, Harneet Kaur and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-inspects-sakhi-%E2%80%94-one-stop-centre-206766
02-02-2021||Amritsar||GNDU theory examinations from Feb 15||Liquor smuggling: BJP leader bookedJalandhar: The president of BJP’s transport cell, Ajay Joshi, was allegedly booked for smuggling of illicit liquor from Jamsher Road falling under the Paragpur police post on Monday. Surinder Pal, in-charge of the police post, said his car was stopped at a naka laid on the road and six boxes of illicit liquor were recovered from him. Soon after his arrest and lodging of the case against him, BJP state general secretary Subhash Sharma and district president Sushil Sharma announced that Joshi had been removed from the post so that independent inquiry could be conducted against him. TNSAbsconding snatcher heldJalandhar: The Commissionerate Police on Monday arrested a snatching accused who had escaped from police custody on Sunday when cops were taking him to the Civil Hospital for medical examination. The accused has been identified as Honey Sahota of Tej Mohan Nagar. Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh said Honey was arrested by the Basti Bawa Khel police on January 30 in a mobile snatching case and on January 31, when the cops were taking him to the local Civil Hospital for medical examination, he ran away from their custody after pushing the cops aside. He said a case under Section 224 of the IPC was registered against him at Police Station-4. He said today, a team of Police Station-7 again arrested him for snatching a purse from a woman outside Mayor World School. A fresh case under Section 379-B of the IPC was registered against him. The Deputy Commissioner of Police said 10 criminal cases under relevant sections were registered against him at various police stations. The DCP said the accused was being quizzed by the police and would be produced in local tomorrow. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gndu-theory-examinations-from-feb-15-206767
02-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||BJP leaders flag Rs10K easy loan scheme for street vendors||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 1Most councillors and BJP leaders are sore over the fact that the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme to empower street vendors by extending collateral free working capital loans of up to Rs10,000 for one-year tenure has not been properly dealt with.The scheme was rolled out under Atmanirbhar Bharat with a target given to the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation to cover at least 10,000 beneficiaries.Even as the MC authorities claim to have gone beyond the target and covered 16,000 beneficiaries already, several councillors and BJP leaders were crying hoax. They said only a few councillors were allowed to hold camps in their areas and register their workers, thus eluding real beneficiaries.Ex-BJP MLA KD Bhandari said, “The scheme has been misused by the Jalandhar MC. They have a proper list of street vendors in the city. Ideally, they should have called them up and offered it to those interested in taking it. Instead, the Congressmen organised camps at their personal offices and gave loans to their supporters. Since this loan is without any bank guarantee, we even doubt that half of them may not repay it. We are in the process of submitting a memorandum to the Governor.”The camps were organised in areas of Congress councillor Rajni Bahri at Qila Mohalla and Rajwinder Raja’s Ward No. 48. But some Congress councillors were unhappy as no camp was held in the wards.Congress councillor Nirmaljit Singh Nimma said, “No camp has been organised in my area so far. Only selected councillors have been allowed to offer the scheme.”Varesh Mintu, who was one of the fortunate BJP councillors to be able to organise a camp in his area, said, “Around 122 beneficiaries came to take loan in my area. The next day there were more applicants and when I took up their case with the MC officials, I was told that they had already completed their target and might not be able to provide assistance.”Akali councillor Jaspal Kaur said, “The scheme is yet to be offered in my area.” Vipan Kumar, ex-councillor from Abadpura area, said, “There are so many street vendors in my area who have not been able to get any benefit of the scheme.”Even Cong councillors say beneficiaries in their areas not enrolledAbout PM SVANidhiUnder the umbrella of Atmanirbhar Bharat, the Centre had in June last year announced a Covid-19 relief package for street vendors and small businessmen to avail Rs10,000 easy loan so as to tide over the tough time as they had negligible earnings during the lockdown. The scheme was rolled out through the MC and practically started just two months ago. The beneficiaries had to come up with their Aadhar card and bank details. No guarantee was required to avail the loan, which can be repaid in monthly instalments of Rs 300 to Rs 400.Officialspeak"We had registered 12,014 street vendors during our survey in 2015-16. We expected all of them, but they did not turn up. Thus, we organised some camps at our zonal offices. In the last 15 days, we have organised some camps which helped us achieve the target. Of nearly 16,000 people registered, we have disbursed loan to nearly 800 applicants. The remaining cases are in process."—  Dr Nirmaljeet Kaur, Project Officer, MC"We tried to be as fair as possible. Our teams went to clusters of street vendors to offer the scheme. We even advertised about it." — Jagdish Raj Raja, Mayor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-leaders-flag-rs10k-easy-loan-scheme-for-street-vendors-206768
02-02-2021||Neeraj Bagga||This 11-year-old tech prodigy already has his own company||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, February 1Eleven-year old Meedhansh Gupta is no less than a child prodigy. He has been felicitated by the SGPC for preparing its website. Based in Jalandhar, his parents are also into website designing.Studying in Class V, he has been running his company where he teaches students and web development, and earns Rs 50,000 per month.At the tender age of nine, his name was registered in the India Group of Records and World Records India for developing a website. He was in Class III when he had started designing websites. He had started coding at the age of five. He credited his parents for teaching him coding and aimed to become a website engineer. His message to the children of his age group is to go for only that stream which they piques their interest.Even SGPC Chief Bibi Jagir Kaur did not mince words while praising the Gupta family in general and Meedhansh in particular. After inaugurating the SGPC’s new website, which he created for free, she stated that the entire information regarding the Shiromani committee and its activities would now be only a click away.“Sikh Sangat can easily learn about various departments, their working, SGPC’s income and expenditures through this website. It will bring much needed transparency in its working.” Besides, she added, books on Gurmat philosophy and Sikh history will be digitally available. Talking about the SGPC’s website, Meedhansh says, “I, along with my parents, developed the website in a month.”His parents, who teach the students of B Tech (computer science), noticed his curiosity in learning software engineering when he started interacting with the B Tech and M Tech students whom they had been teaching at their centre.Visibly happy, his mother Monica Gupta recalls, “He used to join the students at our centre to learn software engineering after school. Seeing his keen interest, we did not dissuade them. At the same time, we also did not exert any pressure on him to learn more about it.”A software engineer herself, she teaches website and software development. “Each child is blessed. The only need is to recognise their talent and channelise it to growth. We need to come out of the traditional path of education. The competition is mounting each day and the only need is to develop entrepreneur skills among young children, she contends.Meedhansh and his parents are running separate companies. His father Sandeep Gupta said his grasping skills are really good.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-11-year-old-tech-prodigy-already-has-his-own-company-206769
02-02-2021||---||450-kg poppy husk seized, 4 held||Jalandhar, February 1The police have busted an inter-state gang of drug peddlers and recovered 450-kg poppy husk, besides arresting four peddlers.The accused have been identified as Irshad (19), Danish (26), of Dialgam village, Anantnag (J&K); Manjeet Singh (34), of Guru Arjun Dev Nagar, Ludhiana; and Gurdeep Singh (32), of Fatehgarh Sahib.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a police party led by Assistant Sub-Inspector Jasvir Singh received a tip-off that four persons were loading gunny bags containing the contraband from a truck (JK-03-E-3324) into a car (PB-11-BE-2364) at Wadala Chowk.He said the police party raided the spot and took four of them into custody. He said cops conducted the search and found a 450-kg poppy husk packed in 23 gunny bags. The Commissioner of Police said Irshad was a Class X student and drives an auto-rickshaw. He said Danish worked as a driver.Bhullar said the duo was involved in drug trafficking for the last one year. He said Gurdeep had been facing three drug cases and Manjeet was in the drug business for the last one year.The accused disclosed that their supplier was based in Jammu and Kashmir.He said a case under Sections 15, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused and they would be produced before the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/450-kg-poppy-husk-seized-4-held-206770
02-02-2021||Jalandhar||New B Ed Session starts||Fashion show winnersLyallpur Khalsa College students won the first position in the fashion show event in the ‘Colours 2021’ organised at CT Institute Maqsudan. This information was shared by the college Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra on Monday who informed that the winning team had students Ashmeen Bains, Mandeep Maan, Japjee and Pallavi Bhardwaj. Dr Samra congratulated the winning team and its in-charges Dr Ajitpal Singh and Prof Shefali Taneja and deputy dean Dr Palwinder Singh on this achievement.Disaster management session heldTo help the students respond to the disaster situations, a demonstration on firefighting techniques was held by Department of Fire Brigade at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen accorded a warm welcome and presented a planter to Rajender, the facilitator for the demo. In her address Principal Dr Ajay Sareen focussed on the need to be prepared for the worst situations. She told that such sessions help to put theory into practice and make the students aware of the techniques to protect themselves as well as others around, thus ensuring safety for all. Rajender informed the students and faculty members about different types of fires and fire extinguishers. He showed the students how to use the extinguishing cylinders and demonstrated the use of water pipes of fire brigade vehicles. The students learnt went through a practical discourse. Rajender also talked about the responsibility of citizens to help the department and inform them at 101 in case of any fire. The students learnt the use of extinguishing fire and were equipped to use this knowledge whenever required. Dr Anjana Bhatia hosted the event and thanked the department for the demonstration.Webinar on tree talkKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a two-day webinar series. The series was organised by the PG Department of Botany. More than 250 students participated with full zeal and enthusiasm. The speaker for the first day was Dr Rajiv Angrish from Department of Botany and Plant Physiology, CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar. He delivered his lecture on the topic ‘Tree talk in the Wood Wide Web’. He explained about the various plant communications involving metabolites, molecules, volatile organic compounds and electrical impulses between plants and a host of other organisms. On the second day, he delivered a lecture on the topic ‘Plants, Agriculture and Humans: Past, Present and Future’. He divided his talk into five major parts to discuss the evolution of humans along with the domestication of crops and animals. He narrated the story behind the development and evolution of modern day grains by citing examples of wheat and maize. He also made students aware about the future prospects in the fields of biology, botany, biotechnology and use of modern day technologies in the agriculture like drones, sensors etc. The queries of students were also entertained in the queries session.FDP on apparel designProfessor Lalit Kumar Awasthi, director NIT, Jalandhar, inaugurated the online ‘Faculty Development Programme’ on apparel design sponsored by ATAL (AICTE Training and Learning Academy) from February 1 to 9 organised by the Department of Textile Technology. Dr Vinay Midha and Dr AK Choudhary, the coordinators for the course said that there will be 14 sessions on different aspects of apparel design, including design softwares, sewing machines and sewing threads, fabric defects, pattern making, marking spreading, laying and cutting and the latest in the industry ie RFID technology. The eminent experts from different institutions of the country like IIT Delhi, NIFT Kangra, FDDCI Mohali and NIT Jalandhar will be deliberating on the different technological developments in the field. The FDP has received an overwhelming response from the participants across different institutions of the country working in different areas of textile technology, fashion and apparel industry and 140 participants, including faculty and research scholars of different institutions of textile technology, fashion, apparel and home science, have registered for the programme on Monday. Professor LK Awasthi appreciated the efforts of the department and AICTE ATAL Scheme in supporting the role of NITs to provide training to faculty and students of the other institutions of the country. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-b-ed-session-starts-206771
02-02-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Atmanirbhar India? Well, residents don’t agree||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 1‘Atmanirbhar India’ — ye naara badhiya hai, par hai kuch nahee, says Ravinder Dhir, president, Veopar Sena, after the Union Budget was presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday.Sarcastic memes and comments attacking the Union Budget were doing rounds on social media the entire day. Most of the residents felt no big talks would do any good to the common man.Dhir said: “There has been a long pending demand to decrease the GST slab on sports goods. But nothing has been done. Umeed hi nahee hai ab, sab baatein hain (There is no hope now, only empty talks),” he said, adding that the cottage industry was dying and the government was hardly bothered.Yashika Sharma, who has taught in one of the leading colleges, said nothing was being done to tackle the grave and serious problem of unemployment. “I have seen students getting worried about their future and getting depressed because of this (unemployment). So, the thing which should be a priority has taken a backseat,” she said.She said another announcement that one won’t be able to seek tax redemption on the interest on Provident Fund if one contributes Rs2.5 lakh every year, was a major setback for the salaried class.“This is such a disappointment. The salaried class will suffer a lot,” she said.Gursharan Singh, an industrialist, said the thing that was shocking was that there was no mention of MSMEs. “Only we know how we have survived during the pandemic and otherwise also the condition of the industry is not good at all. So, the government should have thought about the bruising industry. The MSME industry is so unhappy with the Budget.He said there was nothing for a common citizen. “We are paying taxes to the government and this is what we get in return,” he said.Sanjivan Dadhwal, a retired headmaster from a government school, however, expressed some satisfaction. He said the Budget might benefit farmers. “Apart from that, there was no change in the Income Tax slab, but I believe there was no need for it as changes were already made last year,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/atmanirbhar-india-well-residents-dont-agree-206772
02-02-2021||As per the ongoing observation of the National Road Safety Month||Ensure that you are insured||Hear it from a girl!The Science City, Kapurthala, is all set to hold a webinar on ‘Equal Choices, Equal Future in a Stem led World’ on the occasion of International Day for Women and Girls in Science on February 11. The webinar from 10.30 am to 12.00 pm will witness the participation of Dr Neelima Jairath, Director General, Pushpa Gujral Science City, who shall issue inaugural remarks; Huma Abidi, senior director, AI Software Products and Engineering, INTEL, California, USA and young scientist and blogger Khushi Sharma. While Abidi will speak on ‘How Artificial Intelligence can change the life of women across the world and Why should we care about it’, Khushi Sharma shall speak on ‘Hear it from a girl’. The webinar is being held to celebrate contribution of women in science and to make it easier to decode science in a changing world for women from the perspective of women science thinkers and scientists.Cycling to promote fuel conservationA cycle rally was conducted by the district administration, Kapurthala, and Central Petroleum and Natural Gas Ministry for the conservation of petroleum products. About 70 participants from biking clubs of Jalandhar participated in the event. IG PAP Mohammad Faiyaz Farooqui shared benefits of cycling with participants and flagged off the rally from PAP ground. Earlier, a Saksham Pledge was also administered. Cyclists pedalled 7 km across the city and the rally culminated at Jullundur Gymkhana Club. Chief guest ADC (Development) Vishesh Sarangal lauded the efforts made by participants and motivated them for various such activities. Sarangal asserted that a small effort made by each one will lead to a significant contribution to society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensure-that-you-are-insured-206774
