03-02-2021||Jalandhar||Hope it is not a ‘waste’ of time||A Chevening scholar and having completed his masters degree in social innovations last year from the London School of Economics and Political Science, Liakatbir Singh Veghal is experimenting on something that can bring a major reform in waste management not just in Jalandhar but across many big cities of the country.The road aheadTo begin with, the team will collect plastic items only from some wards. They will buy plastics from scrap dealers, rag pickers and the staff involved in door-to-door collection of waste in these wards. After collection and bailing, they will get it transported to the designated nearest recyclers as proposed by the NGO’s logistics team. In Punjab, there are only two authorised plastic recyclers.Working remotely from here as the programme manager of a Gurgaon-based NGO ‘Karo Sambhav’, Liakatbir and his organisation are aiming that nothing which is recyclable ends up in landfills after 2025.“Since September last year, we have begun operations in four big cities, including Goa and Dehradun, from where we are collecting plastics and electronic waste (e-waste) and handing them over to the authorised recyclers. The process involves setting up collection centres for plastic waste, making purchases from scrap dealers, doing preliminary processing, making bails of 300-350 kg and transporting them to the recyclers,” he said.The youngster said, “Since I belong to Jalandhar, we want to start operations from here as well. We are in talks with the Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities and they have liked the proposal. We have held a few meetings but the MoU is yet to be signed. If this happens, we will also provide the MC with all technological inputs as to how much plastic is generated from the city on a daily basis, which would act as parameters for cutting down on the usage levels, how much have the plastics been sold for recycling daily and stuff like that. We will provide authentic, updated information through our mobile application which can help the authorities take policy decisions accordingly.”Liakatbir said as per the discussions, it had been proposed that Chuggitti can be the area for collection, bailing and storage of plastics from the city.“But if this does not work, we have also given the MC a proposal to provide an alternate site at Vikaspuri area. To begin with, we will collect plastics only from some wards. We will buy plastics from the scrap dealers, rag pickers and the staff involved in door-to-door collection of waste in these wards. After collection and bailing, we will get it transported to the designated nearest recyclers as proposed by our NGO’s logistics team,” he shared. In Punjab, there are only two authorised plastic recyclers.Liakatbir is the son of social activist Lakhbir Singh, who runs NGO ‘Pehal’ in the city. He talked about the organisation. “Since about last four-five years, Pehal had begun collecting e-waste from the city. We have a collection centre at a site in front of Verka milk plant near Amritsar bypass. It opens daily from 10 am to 11 am. Scrap dealers who collect electronic waste from the entire city sell it to us. After some days when we feel that we have collected enough, we get it transported. For this, we had already tied up with Karo Sambhav.”However, an ideal situation to run this project would be when people become so much aware and start segregation of plastics at home. “Also, we wish that we are able to run our e-waste collection centre for full day and people themselves take initiative and sell off the waste electronic stuff to us.”MC Congress councillor Balraj Thakur says he had gone through the proposal and believes that if the project takes off the city could become plastic-free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hope-it-is-not-a-waste-of-time-207210
03-02-2021||Jalandhar||Mayor holds stock-taking meeting with chairmen of ad-hoc panels||Mayor Jagdish Raja on Tuesday held a meeting with the chairmen of the ad-hoc committees to take stock of the works they had done in the last one year. The mayor asked them why the meetings were not being held continuously, to which the chairmen replied that it was due to the pandemic that they could not hold meetings.Out of the 14 ad-hoc committees, chairmen of the 12 committees attended the meeting. As per information, Bachan Lal, chairman of the public relation ad-hoc committee, and Vimla, chairman of the employee welfare committee, did not attend the meeting and told the mayor that they did not know what to do in committees. Bachan Lal also asked the mayor to make him chairman of some other committee.Chairmen Nirmal Singh Nimma and Neerja Jain shared with the mayor that officials did not co-operate with them. Mayor Jagdish Raja then told them to tell him in future if anything like this happened and he would take disciplinary action against the officials.It was only after two years since the Congress-led MC came into being when the committees were formed. However, it soon became clear that chairmen and members were dissatisfied with working mechanism and also felt like dummies. In various general house meetings too, they had raised issues related to the ad-hoc committees.Neerja Jain, chairman, advertisement committee, had recently written to MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma, expressing dissatisfaction over the working of the head of the department branch. “The officer concerned has been at the helm of the branch for the last many years. Inefficiency cannot be ignored by the committee. As this branch is revenue oriented, we are of the opinion that this branch should be assigned to single head officer,” she said. Jain also expressed that she did not want to work like a rubber stamp, who just sits and does not work. She had been raising the issue of unipoles in the city, which were wrongly installed. She said nobody was taking action against the offenders.Earlier too, Nirmaljit Nimma, chairman, buildings and roads ad-hoc committee, Jagdish Samrai, and Satinderjeet Kaur, members of the health and sanitation ad-hoc committee, and Chanderjit Kaur, member of the operation and maintenance (O&M) ad-hoc committee, had raised their concerns. Later, Chanderjit and Satinderjeet resigned from the committees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mayor-holds-stock-taking-meeting-with-chairmen-of-ad-hoc-panels-207211
03-02-2021||---||298 nominations filed in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, February 2As many as 298 candidates filed their nominations on the third day of filing papers for the municipal elections in the district on Tuesday.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development)-cum-Additional District Electoral Officer Vishesh Sarangal said 298 nominations, including 23 in Adampur Municipal Council, 31 in Alawalpur municipal council, 55 in Kartarpur, 45 in Nakodar, 24 in Nurmahal, 35 in Phillaur, 57 in Lothian Khas and 28 in Mehatpur nagar panchayat, where elections were scheduled to be held on February 14.He said total 367 candidates have filed nominations for the elections in the 110 wards of six municipal councils and two nagar panchayats. The ADC said on the first day, a total of eight candidates had filed nominations and 61 on second day. He said February 3 is the last date of filing nomination papers.169 papers filed in KapurthalaA total of 169 nomination papers were filed for the 50-ward Municipal Corporation of Kapurthala, set to elect its first Mayor this time. While 146 papers were filed on Tuesday, 23 were filed on Monday. It was in February 2019, that Kapurthala Municipal Council got elevated as a Municipal Corporation, but it had been functioning without a proper body for the past nearly two years. The residents hope that with a proper MC House, the new corporation would be able to plan and execute civic amenities in a better way and get more staff and higher budget sanctions from the state.Sultanpur Lodhi receives 18 papersSultanpur Lodhi received 18 nomination papers on Tuesday. No papers were filed on the first two days. The officials are expecting double the number of applications on the last day of filing papers, which is on Wednesday.In Hoshiarpur, 432 evince interestAs many as 432 candidates filed nomination papers for the elections of municipal elections in Hoshiarpur.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development)-cum-Additional District Election Officer Harbir Singh said as many as 185 candidates filed their papers for Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation, 52 for Dasuya Municipal Council, 13 for Garhdiwala, 29 for Garhshankar, 37 for Hariana, six for Mahilpur Nagar Panchayat, 38 for Mukerian Municipal Council, for Shamchurasi and 46 for Tanda. He said no candidate has filed his nomination papers for Talwara Nagar Panchayat so far. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/298-nominations-filed-in-jalandhar-207212
03-02-2021||Jalandhar||‘Wetlands very important for our survival’||A webinar on World Wetland Day was organised by Pushpa Gujral Science City. Around 200 students from different educational institutions of Punjab participated in the programme.On the occasion, Dr Bitapi C Sinha, senior professor from the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, and an interpretation expert, delivered a special talk on wetland conservation. During her talk, she said: “Wetlands are very important for our survival. Wetlands cover only 0.5% of the earth’s surface but are home to nearly 10 per cent of all known species. They hold and provide most of the freshwater by filtering pollutants from the ground naturally. Due to unsustainable practices, freshwater ecosystems are under threat. Therefore, immediate actions are required to be taken to protect and restore our freshwater ecosystems.” She emphasised on the role of society in wetland conservation.Dr. Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, said wetlands were important habitats for biodiversity, especially the migratory birds and hence, it is essential to see that these are well protected. Recalling her association with work on wetlands of Punjab since 1988, she said: “The state government had recognised the importance of this ecosystem in the economy and ecology of the state way back in 1987 when work on Harike Wetland was initiated. Harike was recognised as a Ramsar site in 1990, followed by Ropar and Kanjli wetlands in 2000. Now we have six wetlands in Punjab declared as Ramsar sites, which includes Keshopur, Nangal and Beas also and are being managed by the State Wetland Authority in the Department of Forests & Wildlife”. She informed that the authority was taking appropriate precautionary measures in view of the recent bird flu.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, said wetlands have been drained and transformed by anthropogenic activities like unplanned urban and agricultural development, industrial growth, construction activities, resource extraction, etc. causing substantial long-term ecological loss. He emphasised that it was easier to protect wetlands now than to restore or recreate “later” which may be too late.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wetlands-very-important-for-our-survival-207213
03-02-2021||Jalandhar||Paradise regained||In the verdant ‘paradise’ of Aruna Walia, birds chirp all day, tall plants sway and bells constantly chime as the sun floods her preciously conserved little urban forest.Former professor, musician and artist, Walia’s perfectly manicured haven is a sight for sore eyes. Her sprawling lawns are dotted by at least 20 varieties of sunflowers. Roses, dahlias, pansies, petunias and a host of other flowers that she can’t keep a track of are her other prized possessions.A professor for many years, she tended to hordes of plants at her residence in Jalandhar and took these to her husband’s official accommodation when she shifted.Now, the residence has been transformed by her choicest plant collection.Along with flowers, the property is dotted with an array of trees laden with fruits. A kitchen garden provides organic greens for the home.Her fruit trees include mangoes, amla, rosemerc, black berries (shehtoot), lemons, peaches, mandarins, guavas and heart-leaved moonseed (giloy) among others.While Walia is an ardent environment lover, she recycles used goods in her garden. Old tyres, pots, grills have been reclaimed and used to plant trees and saplings.A mix of gardening and artistry, her shrubbery features tyres done up in various hues, old pots and wind chimes. Her favourite spot is a canopy in the middle of the lawn set up with the broken branches of her own tree.Aruna says: “I have at least 250 pots and vases and a number of trees. Many are from the days I lived on rent and planted trees at home in Jalandhar. The garden is my favourite place in the house. Much of the plantation is being done on reclaimed tyres and pots. Plants give me an immense calm.”She also asks people not to waste things. “Some men were throwing away the old grills from an under-construction guest house in the neighbourhood. I asked them not to throw these away. Now, I’m using those for the beautification of my home. Waste and scrap if used creatively can really lift the look of a garden. We must work to reduce our carbon footprint.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/paradise-regained-207214
03-02-2021||Jalandhar||Colours ’21 brings out the best in students||More than 1,300 students from 22 colleges and 35 schools across the region participated in cultural festival Colours 2021 at CT Group of Institutions, Maqsudan, which concluded recently.Various competitive events, including group dance, rangoli, poster-making, quiz, solo singing and mehndi were held.The first round was done virtually and finale was held at Maqsudan campus where the finalists performed in various activities.The CT Group co-chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi was the chief guest.The campus was home to more than 1,300 students from various schools and colleges, including Dayanand Model School; Government Senior Secondary School, Randhawa Masanda; Seth Hukam Chand School; HMV Colligate School; Parvati Jain School; Lala Jagat Narain Model School; Lyallpur Khalsa College; HMV College; UCI Nursing College; Dev Samaj College for Women, Ferozepur; SD College; Paradise College and Lala Lajpat Rai College of Pharmacy; among others.Students of Lala Jagat Narain DAV Model School ranked first and Sant Sarwan Dass Model School, Phagwara, was the runner-up. Dev Samaj College for Women, Ferozepur, ranked first and Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, stood second among the colleges.Dr Jasdeep Kaur Dhami, campus director said, “We received a wonderful response from various schools and colleges in this cultural fest despite the pandemic. Students participated with competitive spirit in various activities. Colours aim at inspiring youth to elevate aspirations, stay focused and achieve greater heights.”Manbir Singh, managing director, CT Group, said, “This is a wonderful platform given to young students to showcase their talent and we thank all the participants for participating in this cultural event.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/colours-21-brings-out-the-best-in-students-207216
03-02-2021||IT was normal in the beginning but when the fever continued for more than one week||‘Even if cases subsiding, don’t take it lightly’||"It was on December 24, when I had the first bout of dry cough. I preferred to consume cough syrup to get relief but the situation didn't improve at all. After two days, my headache also increased. I didn't know what to do, however, I kept on taking painkillers, which I thought later was the biggest mistake. After the headache went unbearable for two days, my brother insisted me to get myself tested."Difficulty in breathing also raised alarms. He got his Rapid Antigen Test done that revealed that he was positive."The further swab tests confirmed that I was infected. Subsequently, I was transferred into a Covid ward. It was isolated and I was away from my family, but I thank frontline workers such as doctors, nurses, sweepers and others, who never let me feel alone. They took such good care of me that the negative thoughts could not affect me at all," Gaurav said.Living with his father, mother and his grandmother, Gaurav feels lucky that his family remained disinfected with the virus. "Fortunately, I spent most of my time in my room. After a three-day recovery at the hospital, rest of the days were also spent in my room only. Good food and necessary amenities such as a TV were a big boost that helped me kill time. I would spend my leisure time listening to music, meditating, solving puzzles, chatting with family and friends, who worked as a great motivational force for me. With limited medicine consumption, I built my immunity with natural food. As a precautionary measure, I avoided fried food and consumed medicinal drinks.He looks back on those 15 days as a blessing in disguise, as he discovered himself. From remaining free from work also helped him explore his hobbies. "Even as Covid cases have reduced, we should never take it lightly, unless the virus completely fades away from our lives. Complete precautions should be taken but once any symptom is experienced (varies from person to person) don't generate unnecessary fear and doubts. Consult your doctor at the earliest, so that timely treatment can be started at once to prevent an unexpected serious situation," advised Gaurav. —  (As told to Ajay Joshi)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/even-if-cases-subsiding-dont-take-it-lightly-207217
03-02-2021||Jalandhar||‘BJP trying to discredit farmers’ movement’||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee spokesman and vice-president Himanshu Pathak on Tuesday said the BJP's IT cell was trying to discredit the farmers’ movement in the country.Addressing a press conference, Pathak said, “We are all watching how the harmony among Sikhs, Hindus and Dalits is being disrupted by the BJP in this historic peasant movement.” He said, “Under a conspiracy, the BJP sends goons in disguise to local people among farmers and these goons beat up farmers in front of the police and then in the name of law and order, farmers are being targeted by the police, which is actually a ‘Gujarat model’.He said, “Now it is being applied to the people of Punjab and farmer organisations and journalists opposing it are being targeted.”Pathak said soon after the Delhi riots, the BJP had taken out a tiranga yatra there and now the same model was being implemented in Punjab also. “The BJP IT machinery is already working on a war footing to discredit the movement by maligning Sikhs and trying to spread hatred, especially against Sikhs. Special campaigns are underway to discredit the character of the movement,” he said.He said, “Some people who use India’s national secret information to carry out their agenda are not on the NIA’s radar, but ordinary farmers agitating for rights there are called by the NIA (National Investigation Agency). Such a move can be used by the government to discredit the movement or to disrupt Hindu-Sikh relations across Punjab and India.” Pathak called Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal a clown and back-up team of the BJP and RSS and warned them against trying to fool the farmers of Punjab. He said on 26 January, the Delhi government provided DTDC buses to the police to stop the farmers of Punjab. He said Kejriwal should explain why he provided these buses to the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-trying-to-discredit-farmers-movement-207218
03-02-2021||Jalandhar||Import duty will wipe out leather industry, say AAP leaders||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders on Tuesday said the Union Budget proved that the Centre had no concern for small businesses and the general public and was only concerned about a few corporate houses.In a joint statement, party’s urban district president Rajwinder Kaur and rural district president Prem Kumar termed the Budget as anti-people. The AAP leaders said the local industry had high hopes from the Budget owing to the economic burden caused during the pandemic, but the government instead turned a blind eye to small scale industries. They said the local leather industry would suffer.They said the leather and sports goods manufacturing industries would not get any relief. They said it would be nothing but a burden for the industry which was facing a severe crisis. The leaders said the footwear industry was 90 per cent dependent on imports for leather and the Budget had imposed 10 per cent duty on wet blue leather, adding that earlier there was no import duty on wet blue leather. They said the import duty will wipe out the leather industry. They said such neglect of small scale industries would not only burden the industries, but also endanger the jobs of employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/import-duty-will-wipe-out-leather-industry-say-aap-leaders-207219
03-02-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar city has a new singing sensation to brag about||A Class VI student of Dayanand Model School, Model Town, Laisel Rai (11) has become the new singing sensation from the city by winning the first runner-up trophy in the ‘Taare Zameen Par’ reality show telecast by a TV channel.The finale of the show was held on Saturday and Laisel won a cash reward of Rs5 lakh and a three-day family trip to Hong Kong Disneyland. She also won a three-year scholarship from Shankar Mahadevan Music Academy. Shankar Mahadevan was one of the judges of the show.A resident of New Geeta Colony here, her father Raju Rai, said soon after the auditions in September last year, he along with Laisel had moved to Mumbai. A music trainer himself, he had imparted initial training to his daughter but the four-month training she got in Mumbai polished her completely.Laisel, who was monickered ‘Chhoti Lata’ in the show, said, “More than the latest songs, I have always had more liking for the old numbers, especially those sung by my favourite singer Lata Mangeshkar. It was an honour for me to have won the title of ‘Chhoti Lata’ in the show. I will continue with my passion for music and will strive more to stand true to this title. As of now, I am really looking forward to my Hong Kong trip...which may happen in the next three-four weeks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-city-has-a-new-singing-sensation-to-brag-about-207221
03-02-2021||Jalandhar||Akalis burn effigy of Delhi Police||Agitating against the Delhi Police for its alleged ‘barbaric attitude’ towards the protesting farmers of Punjab, Shiromani Akali Dal leaders on Monday took out a march and burnt its effigy.Leaders, including former MLA Sarabjit Makkar, Youth Akali Dal leader Sukhminder Singh Rajpal and Iqbal Singh Dhindsa carried posters which showed enlarged images of Punjab farmers being thrashed indiscriminately by the police during their protest.They alleged that the Delhi Police was taking away the democratic right of farmers to protest peacefully and was creating trouble for them on a day-to-day basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/akalis-burn-effigy-of-delhi-police-207222
03-02-2021||Tanda Urmar||Man attempts rape on 4-yr-old, held||Thori is Hockey Society headJalandhar: Jalandhar DC Ghanshyan Thori has been elected as the 19th president of the renowned Surjit Hockey Society. The secretary general of the society Iqbal Singh Sandhu said, in the executive board meeting held here at local Surjit Hockey Stadium DC Jalandhar was elected the 19th president, whereas former skipper of Indian Hockey team and Olympian Pargat Singh was re-elected as working president. Sandeep Garg SSP Jalandhar (Rural) and Lakhwinder Pal Singh Khaira were also unanimously elected as senior vice presidents of the society. In the meeting, it was decided to shift the proposed new astroturf hockey ground at Burlton Park under the smart city project. After the meeting, the DC also visited on the completion of 125th day of ongoing surjit hockey academy coaching camp. TNS40K veggie kits to be distributedJalandhar: The Horticulture Department is getting ready to prepare 40,000 summer vegetable kits in Punjab. Last year, 25,000 kits were prepared. As kitchen gardening has become a favourite among residents, seedlings of vegetables would also be given to customers. The cost of each kit has been fixed at Rs80. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-attempts-rape-on-4-yr-old-held-207223
