04-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||‘Number of start-ups increasing rapidly’||Dr RS Bawa, Pro-Chancellor of Chandigarh University, said, “Students from Punjab are performing exceptionally well in the field of research and entrepreneurship. Out of 900 patents filed by students and the faculty of Chandigarh University, around 104 patents are attributed to the students from the state.”  He said due to this, state’s ranking has improved from 12th position to 7th in the recently released annual rankings by the Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trademarks. “More than 31 start-ups (28 per cent) out of 108 at Chandigarh University Technology Business Incubator (CU-TBI) have been established by students of Punjab in the last three years,” said Bawa. He said, “A total of 6,617 students bagged jobs from 691 multi-national companies during 2020.” Informing about national-level entrance-cum-scholarship test of Chandigarh University, Dr Bawa said, “The CU has launched CUCET-2021 (Chandigarh University-Combined Entrance Test), which offers scholarships worth Rs33 crore and those scoring more than 90 per cent in the test will be offered 100 per cent scholarship for the entire course.” He said, “The CUCET-2021 is an online examination, which will be conducted at various exam centres in 21 states, in two sessions, till May 2021. Students can choose the centre, day and time slot of their own choice. The CUCET is mandatory for engineering, MBA, pharmacy, integrated law and agriculture programmes.” Dr Bawa introduced the online portal https://cucet.cuchd.in/ where students can register for the entrance-cum-scholarship test. He said sports medallits would also be offered 100 per cent fee waiver. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/number-of-start-ups-increasing-rapidly-207783
04-02-2021||---||Essential to make girls self-reliant: DC||Jalandhar, February 3Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori inspected Gandhi Vanita Ashram (Children Home for Girls) and directed officials to organise a self-defence training camp for inmates below the age of 18 years.After interacting with inmates, the Deputy Commissioner asked officials of the Department of Social Security, Women and Child Development, to send a proposal immediately so that a camp could be held for girls at the earliest to make them self-reliant.He said it was a moral duty of the administration to ensure that the inmates get equal opportunities.He said girls have an unmatchable level of confidence and capability and if given a chance, they can do wonder.The Deputy Commissioner said there were 55 inmates of which 45 study at various private schools free of cost. He also went to a computer lab where the girls were attending online classes.Thori directed officials to ensure proper safety and security of the inmates and told them to install security gates.The Deputy Commissioner also took stock of the arrangements at Widow and Destitute and Observation Homes.He also visited Pingla Ghar on Gulab Devi road and checked the facilities for specially-abled persons. He handed over a grant of Rs one lakh to the management of Pingla Ghar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/essential-to-make-girls-self-reliant-dc-207785
04-02-2021||---||6 clear PCS (judicial) in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, February 3 At least six passouts from the local law colleges cleared PCS (judicial) examination, the result of which was declared on Tuesday. Keshav Agnihotri and Parminder Pindu, both from St Soldier Law College, cleared the examination in general category. While Parminder is working as assistant professor at St Soldier Law College, Keshav is currently posted as Assistant District Attorney at Phagwara. The management of St Soldier Group congratulated the candidates and wished them success in future. Before this, 23 students of St Soldier Law College’s PCS Centre have been selected as judges, the group chairman said. A function to felicitate all selected judges would be organised by the college shortly. Notably, Keshav is the fourth judge in the family. His two sisters and wife are already posted as judges. His elder sister Suman cleared the exam in 2010 and is posted in Rajpura. His younger sister Seema cleared the exam in 2019 and is serving in Balachaur. His wife Rinky Behl got selected in 2016 and is posted in Kapurthala. His father GK Agnihotri is a renowned advocate of the city and has served as the president of District Bar Association, Jalandhar, in the past. Serving as a law officer in Canara Bank, Shivani, a passout of regional campus, Guru Nanak University College, also cleared the examination in the first attempt. Lecturer of law at KCL Institute of Law, Yogesh Gill, too, cleared his paper. Mamta Vij and Jessica Vij from Jalandhar have also cleared the PCS (judicial) exam this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-clear-pcs-judicial-in-jalandhar-207786
04-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Will govt ever ensure justice to us, ask kin||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 3It’s been 35 years, but the tears of the family members of four young Sikh victims of extrajudicial killing in Nakodar on February 4, 1986, have not dried up, as they continue to fight for justice.The family and their supporters will observe the day as ‘Saka Nakodar Global Awareness Day’ tomorrow and give a letter to Punjab CM asking him as to when they should expect justice on the matter.In an incident akin to the sacrilege and Behbal Kalan firing incident, four youths — Ravinder Singh of Littran, Baldhir Singh of Ramgarh, Jhilman Singh of Gorsian, and Harminder Singh of Chaluper, who were protesting against the alleged burning of the five saroops of Guru Granth Sahib in a procession, were killed in an indiscriminate firing incident by the Punjab Police and paramilitary forces.As in the October 2015 Behbal Kalan incident, the state government appointed a judicial commission under Justice Gurnam Singh, but there was no Action Taken Report. In a letter to the CM, they have yet again urged him to fulfil the electoral promise of ensuring justice that he made to them in May 2019 during the parliamentary elections.The letter penned by Baldev Singh, the aged father of Ravinder Singh Littran, makes a painful read: “The dark deeds were done in the most vengeful manner. Even after killing them, the police secretly cremated their bodies declaring them unidentified. Even though I had seen all four bodies and was pleading them to hand over the bodies so that we could carry out the last rites, I was not allowed to do so. These killings in cold blood happened under the supervision of Izhar Alam SSP Jalandhar and Darbara Singh Guru, ADC, who was the acting district magistrate then. In 35 years, we have been able to receive only Part 1 of Justice Gurnam Singh’s Inquiry Report.” He said all their efforts to write to the CM and the Governor for intervention have hit a dead end. Nobody knows where the Part 2 of the report is. He concludes asking the CM: “Will the government ever fulfil its obligation and ensure justice to us?”The caseFour youths — Ravinder Singh of Littran, Baldhir Singh of Ramgarh, Jhilman Singh of Gorsian, and Harminder Singh of Chaluper (in pics), who were protesting against the alleged burning of the five saroops of Guru Granth Sahib in a procession, were killed in an indiscriminate firing incident by the Punjab Police and paramilitary forces in Nakodar on Feb 4, 1986.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-govt-ever-ensure-justice-to-us-ask-kin-207814
04-02-2021||---||DC, CP, SSP get vaccine shots||Jalandhar, February 3Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Senior Superintendent of Police (Jalandhar Rural) Sandeep Kumar Garg on Wednesday launched the second phase of Covid vaccination drive for other frontline warriors after they received the Covid jab at the Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Civil Hospital session site.Under the second phase of the vaccination drive, 17,748 other frontline warriors, including civil, police officials of Jalandhar, have been already registered at the CoWin app and would be covered in the coming days.The top brass of the civil and police administration not only received the vaccine but also followed all mandatory protocols.Accompanied by Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh, Medical Superintendent Dr Parminder Kaur, the DC said the Health Department had set up six-session sites for covering other frontline warriors at the Dada Colony, Khurla Kingra, Basti Guzan, PAP and Phillaur Community Health Centres (CHC) and Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. He said elaborate arrangements have been made by the district administration for a smooth and hassle-free immunisation drive. He said the district administration had built a capacity to store over 12 lakh vaccines with all points linked with cooling features to maintain the required temperature for the vaccine.He said this was the beginning of the end of the pandemic and urged people not to fall prey to rumours regarding vaccination, as it was safe and efficacious. He said nearly 7,000 health workers have been covered under the first phase of the inoculation drive and others were getting the shot as per the schedule.Bhullar and Garg said all employees of the force have done a commendable job during curfew and lockdown in the pandemic and served people through the distribution of food packets, medicines and other essentials at their doorsteps by putting their own lives at risk.They exhorted all employees of the department to come forward and take the Covid jab. Meanwhile, DCP Gurmeet Singh, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagjit Singh Saroya, Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACPs) Bimal Kant, Harsimrat Singh, and others also received the vaccine. As per the Health Department, 246 other frontline warriors received the Covid vaccine on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-cp-ssp-get-vaccine-shots-207818
04-02-2021||---||Chakka jam by farmers on Feb 6||Jalandhar, February 3Amid the ongoing controversy against the stalled internet services on various protesting sites of farmers on the outskirts of the national capital, farmers under the banner of Doaba Kisan Union will protest on Saturday against the snapping of electricity, water and internet services.The protest will be organised in various parts of the city as well as rural areas of the district. Thousands of farmers, including locals are expected to participate.Apart from that, following the call by various organisations under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint meeting of All-Kisan Mazdoor Jathebandis was held on Wednesday at the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall to prepare the further roadmap against the controversial farm laws.Makhan Singh Kandola, district secretary, Kirti Kisan Union, stated that the union members would organise a ‘chakka jam’ protest on February 6. In the joint meeting, leaders including Kulwinder Machhiana, Mandeep Singh Samrae and Amarjot Singh demanded immediate release of youths arrested on January 26 and cancellation of false cases against farm leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chakka-jam-by-farmers-on-feb-6-207822
04-02-2021||Ajay Joshi||Been there, done that!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 3With an aim to raise awareness on cancer, a UK-based NRI, Kulwant Singh Dhaliwal is all set to launch a global cancer care research centre in Jalandhar on the occasion of ‘World Cancer Day’ on Thursday.Having seen his mother dying of cancer in 2001 and father-in-law in 2006, he has waged a war against the ignorance of the disease. Dhaliwal has already been running a ‘World Cancer Care Charitable Society’ across the world and has won several awards for his noble deeds. The society was formed to provide people with cancer detection facilities. Global ambassador of the society, the 60-year-old philanthropist said since 2014 onwards, he has conducted over 2,500 mobile cancer awareness camps in the state.“It was heart-wrenching for me to see my mother battling with the disease. She succumbed to the disease when she was only 67. Despite having everything, it was more depressing for us to see her in that state. Again, a few years later, after losing my father-in-law to cancer, I had decided to do something which would help others to save their loved ones,” he said.But what rotates the knife in his heart is doctors’ statement that both could have been saved if they were diagnosed in the initial stage. Therefore, the sole purpose of conducting the camp is to sensitise people about it. “We have a mission to provide a free facility of early diagnosis to the residents across the state,” Dhaliwal added.Centre of focusA similar ‘World Cancer Care Centre’ will also be opened in Ludhiana by the society. With the help of mobile camps, the organisation has so far covered over 8,000 villages in Punjab and tested thousands of individuals all over the country for a variety of cancers – helping in both the detection and education of preventions. Around 12 cancer awareness buses equipped with hi-tech diagnosis machines are stationed at the centre.Managing director of the centre here, Dr Dharminder Dhillon, said, they have a staff of nearly 70-80 members here to ensure free screening of the cancer to the visitors. “Experts and doctors will also visit on routine basis to assist the team. Hypertension, sugar and diabetic patients will also get free treatment and medicines at the centre,” added Dhillon.An alumni of DAV College, Jalandhar, Dhaliwal is a native of Moga and after completing his education had moved to England in 1985. After building a successful business in fashion clothing, he took an early retirement to work his life off for prevention, eradication and cure of cancer.He said that in our country if we change the direction of our donation, a lot of lives can be saved. “If we make donations in government hospitals instead of religious institutions, a lot can be done to develop our health care system,” Dhaliwal shared his insight.Considering women as the most vulnerable victims to cancer, he advised residents to get the women in their families tested routinely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/been-there-done-that-207823
04-02-2021||---||593 file papers for 110 wards||Jalandhar, February 3As many as 593 candidates filed the nominations for the elections in the 110 wards of eight urban local bodies (ULBs), including six municipal councils and two nagar panchayats of Jalandhar.Of these, as many as 226 candidates filed their nominations on Wednesday, which was also the last day to file nominations. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said these 226 nominations included 36 in Adampur Municipal Council, 18 in Alawalpur Municipal Council, 13 in Kartarpur, 69 in Nakodar, 50 in Nurmahal, seven in Phillaur, seven in Lohian Khas and 26 in Mehatpur Nagar Panchayat where elections are scheduled to be held on February 14.318 candidates file nominations in KapurthalaThe process of filing nomination papers for Kapurthala Municipal Corporation and Sultanpur Lodhi Municipal Council elections was completed this afternoon. Additional District Election Officer-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) SP Angra said during the nomination process from January 30 to February 3, a total of 318 nomination papers have been filed for Kapurthala Municipal Corporation out of which 149 nominations were received today.He said 50 nominations were filed for Sultanpur Lodhi Nagar Council today bringing the total number of nominations to 68. Yesterday, 18 nomination papers were filed at Sultanpur Lodhi. A total of 386 nomination papers have been filed for both the MCs.He said the scrutiny of nomination papers would be held on February 4 and nomination papers could be withdrawn on February 5. Voting for both the MCs would take place on February 14 , followed by counting on February 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/593-file-papers-for-110-wards-207825
04-02-2021||The alleged tampering with voter list for the Phagwara Municipal Corporation elections caught by a vigilant PCS officer and ex-SDM Phagwara Major Amit Sareen seems to have gone well with the ruling Congress which has got more time to work on ground. The second elections to the Phagwara MC had earlier been scheduled for February 14 but owing to the lodging of case of tampering of votes||Buying Time !||Numbing numbersAs many as 36 Phagwara residents have been summoned by the court of Additional Sessions Judge Kapurthala Rajwinder Kaur in a 3-year-old case pertaining to the violence related to setting up of ‘Samvidhan Chowk’ at Gol Chowk in the city. They have been served with a writ for February 9. The incident pertains to communal violence that erupted between general class and SC groups at the site. Firing had taken place and Bobby, a Dalit youth, had died because of the gunshot. Among those who have been summoned include BJP leader Amarinder Singh, Sanju Chahal, Bablu Singh, Shiv Sena leader Rajesh Palta, Sushil Tinka, RSS leader Yogesh Prabhakar, Sanjeev Johny and Sanjeev Sharma from one faction. Those summoned from the other faction include Lok Insaaf Party leader Jarnail Nangal, BSP leader Harbhajan Suman, Pardeep Mall, Sagar Nangal, Rajpal Ghai, Resham Nangal, Pawan Badhan, Satish Suman and others. Some of the accused in the case, including Shiv Sena leaders Inderjit Karwal and Shivi Batta, Hindu Suraksha Samiti chief Deepak Bhardwaj and BJP leader Raju Chahal are still behind bars in the case. A case had been registered in the matter under Sections 302, 307, 323, 148, 149 of the IPC, Arms Act and SC/ST Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/buying-time-207828
04-02-2021||Jalandhar||Schools’ reopening celebrated||Psychological counselling sessionsIn one of its initiatives, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya has been providing psychological counselling to the general public as well as to the students for their overall well-being. This initiative has been taken by PG Department of Psychology. Throwing more light on it, Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that the imposed lockdown along with increasing economic instability and future insecurity tend to have an adverse effect on the mental health of people resulting in stress, tension, anxiety, fear, depression and loneliness etc. More than 250 individuals were reached out during the counselling for receiving the services and people who approached were not limited to a particular age group. Some prominent issues which came into limelight among the men and women were excessive fear of contracting the disease, maintaining work from home life balance, relationship issues leading to interpersonal conflicts and arguments. Adolescents also reported numerous psycho-social issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic. Long hours on computer screens, technical hitches of laptops/computers disrupted their attention to focus on important topics taught online, home confinement, apprehensions about future, being unable to meet friends added serious implications on their overall well-being. Principal Prof Dwivedi lauded the much-needed initiative taken by the PG Department of Psychology to provide free online counselling to the general public.Scientific logo designing competitionThe CV Raman Science Society of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised a ‘logo design competition’. The logo was to be based on scientific theme. This competition was organised through online mode. Dean faculty science and head of Chemistry Department Dr Neelam Sharma told that 137 entries from different colleges and universities were received. B Pharma second year student of Guru Nanak Dev University Rajanpreet Singh’s logo was adjudged as the best logo. He was awarded with certificate and a cash prize of Rs1,000. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the winner and organisers of the event.Placement drive conductedLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, School of Management, organised a campus placement drive of ICICI Pru Co Pvt Ltd for the students of MBA. The selection process consisted of pre-placement talk, group discussion and personal interview in which students of MBA final year appeared. Mranal Sharma, HR manager from Chandigarh, conducted the drive. Four students namely Gurpreet Singh, Heera Pratap, Karan Aujla and Sumit Nijawan got selected as unit managers/finance service managers at a salary package of Rs2.4 lakh per annum. Sukhbir Singh Chatha, director, Academic Affairs, congratulated the selected students and wished them luck for the future.‘Early detection can cure cancer’To raise awareness about the early stage diagnosis and preventive methods of cancer, the School of Medical Lab Science of Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised a guest lecture on ‘Modern revolutions in cancer prevention and diagnosis’. Dr Archana Dutta, senior consultant oncologist, PIMS, Jalandhar, was the resource person. Shivali Chadha, assistant professor, MLS department, welcomed her. Dr Archana enlightened students regarding cancer development process in human body. She discussed the types of cancer and the likely factors such as diet, atmospheric conditions and lifestyle of human beings all across the world. She briefed about recent diagnostic modalities such as PET, PSMA, PAP and Gallium Scan. Dr Archana also acquainted students with the vaccination process of cervical cancer that helps to get the primary prevention from disease. She emphasised that early detection can cure the disease. All abrupt changes in body phenomenon like weight loss, sharp downfall in haemoglobin etc. must be reported timely for prevention, she said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/schools-reopening-celebrated-207829
04-02-2021||---||Beware! Glass-coated manjha claiming lives||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 3A group of volunteers of a local NGO displayed banners to highlight the danger of the Chinese string and the degree of harm it causes to birds and human beings at Guru Mission Chowk and Model Town market recently.Yuvi Singh, founder of Animal Protection Foundation, and its volunteers said: “Many precious lives have been lost by the use of the string. There is a government ruling that bans the use of this string, but still it is being sold openly. Children must be persuaded not to use it. Parents must play a bigger role to educate their children on its harmful effects. Many lives have been lost and in some cases the sole breadwinner, leaving the family in poverty and distress.”While the foundation, around Diwali, had rescued a dog and her pup from an open manhole at the Civil Hospital, members said Chinese string had been a silent killer for long claiming both innocent wildlife and human lives. Local, migratory and wild birds had been found stranded or wounded grievously due to the Chinese strings many times. It has been cutting short the flight of winged visitors, sometimes many exotic ones, for long.The campaign was supported by the Model Town Shopkeepers’ Association, Fire Brigade and the traffic police. The NGO members said they would continue to conduct more such campaigns in future. The NGO appealed to the public to stop the use of Chinese string and help in the endeavour to save birds and human lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beware-glass-coated-manjha-claiming-lives-207830
04-02-2021||Jalandhar||in Jalandhar, 1971 war victory flames||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-jalandhar-1971-war-victory-flames-207853
