06-02-2021||Support has been pouring in from everywhere for farmers. Even the members of various unions are leaving no stone unturned in giving a message to the government that not only at Delhi borders but the movement was quaking Punjab as well. The members of Kirti Kisan Union on Wednesday announced that on February 6||Hop on!||Don't let your guard downTaking note of the Covid-19 positive cases at Government High School, Sloh, the District Education Officer, Jagjit Singh, on Wednesday, visited Sloh village. Accompanied by headmaster, Lakhbir Singh, sarpanch Paramjit Singh, panchayat member Pardeep Kumar and medical team from the district's Health Department, the DEO interacted with the School Management Committee (SMC) members, parents and school students and made them aware about the requisite precautions for combating the pandemic. "Proper healthcare of schoolchildren is the top-most priority of the Education Department. The school heads, teachers, Zila Sikhiya Sudhar team, district mentors, block mentors, SMCs, panchayats have been asked to ensure proper adherence to the guidelines," he said, adding that the medical team of the district Health Department had been taking samples for conducting Covid-19 tests at government high and primary schools, housed in the same premises, so that the requisite treatment as well as healthcare facilities could be provided accordingly.Unleashing the powerOn the call given by the National Coordination Committee of Electrical Employees and Engineers as well as the State Committee of Council of Junior Engineers, the Powercom engineers and other employees of region, wearing black badges, held a dharna here at Circle Office on Wednesday to observe 'National Protest Day' against the proposed Electricity Bill. Members of the Union condemned the pro-privatisation policies of the government.(Contributed by Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hop-on-208507
06-02-2021||Jalandhar||Entrepreneurial skills||HMV student clears CA ExamVandana Verma, a student of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, has cleared CA Final. She got 444/800. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated Vandana and her family. Vandana wants to pursue her future career in an MNC. She completed her BCom in 2017-18. On this occasion, Vandana said that hard work always pays off. She said that she got support from her parents and HMV. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen said that Vandana has made the college proud. She also encouraged other students for competitive exams.Cancer awareness dayStudents of St Soldier Nursing Training Institute, Khambra, organised an awareness programme on World Cancer Day. The main causes of cancer such as poor diet and nutrition, tobacco, infection, environmental pollution, etc were discussed. Students said that for early detection, if any family member having problems such as lumps in the chest, body or bleeding from old wounds, he/she should be immediately taken for consultation with a doctor. In addition, students Samuel, Anchal, Paramjit, Supriya, Kulwinder, Yashpreet, Navneet, Manpreet, Nisha, Mansi, Pooja and Puneet Pawan made the poster of World Cancer Day.Chairman Anil Chopra while appreciating the efforts of students said that the intention of organising awareness programme on World Cancer Day was to make the youth aware of cancer because the younger generation is the future of the country and if we make them aware, cancer can be prevented.Webinar at GNA varsityPhagwara: GNA University held a webinar on ‘Teachers’ role in NEP Implementation’ in collaboration with Niti Aayog and Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal. The keynote speaker for the webinar was Dr Manoj Pandit, ex-Principal Maharaja College, Jaipur. Dr Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director, NIT Jalandhar, was the chief guest on the occasion. The webinar was presided over by the Vice-Chancellor of GNA University, Dr VK Rattan. The webinar commenced with the introductory note by Dr Disha Khanna, Deputy dean, faculty of liberal arts. Dr Manoj in his address raised the most valuable concerns pertaining to the National Education Policy and the concern of giving significance to the life skills. Dr Devinder Singh Thakur, Secretary to VC Punjab University, Chandigarh and Sanyojak Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal offered his valedictory note. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, the Pro-Chancellor, GNA University remarked, “I am happy to see the zeal of the faculty members to ponder over the Education Policy and imbibe its valuable parameters in full swing.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/entrepreneurial-skills-208509
06-02-2021||Jalandhar||Pros & cons of Budget discussed at length||The Income Tax Bar Association organised a seminar on the pros and cons of the Union Budget-2021.  Guest speaker and eminent tax advocate of the city Sameer Bhatia outlined the major amendments in the shape of the direct tax proposals principally dealing with the restructuring of residential status in case of NRIs from 182 days to 120 days to attract foreign investment.  He discussed issues such as curtailing the time span of reopening of assessments from the present 6/10 years’ regime to three years’ regime (unless element of concealment/fraud warranted), setting up of Faceless Dispute Resolution Committee and Faceless Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) and framing up of rules with the intent to remove disparity in the claim of foreign tax credits for foreign nationals. The other amendments which were discussed included enhancing tax audit limit to Rs10 crore from the present Rs5 crore in digitally transacted entries to the tune of 95 per cent and above, tax exemption to notified rental projects, pre-filing of returns in respect of specified parameters, reducing compliance burden of charitable educational trust, age-based relaxation in filing of return in the case of senior citizens above the age of 75 years with an income from interest from specified bank and pension from the same bank.  The dis-allowance of belated deposit of employees’ contribution to labour funds by the employer was also one of the prominent steps initiated in the non-adversarial direct tax league by the government, said Bhatia. The changes in the indirect tax proposals with special reference to Goods and Service Tax were taken up by chartered accountant Karan Sahni. The proceedings were conducted by the secretary of the association advocate Gulshan Kataria under the leadership of its president and CA Jatinder Malik. The gathering was presided over by renowned tax professionals of the city namely the patrons of the association Jatinder Bhatia, Rajesh Gupta, SK Condal, former president and advocate SPS Chauhan, advocates Rakesh Kumar, SPS Chhabra and others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pros-cons-of-budget-discussed-at-length-208499
06-02-2021||---||Tobacco is India’s biggest cancer worry: Docs||Jalandhar, February 5Cancer has become one of the leading causes of death in India. A report of The National Cancer Registry Programme (NCRP) 2020, released by the ICMR and the National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research, Bengaluru, estimated 13.9 lakh cancer cases by the end of 2020 which are likely to increase to 15.7 lakh by 2025.The data also indicates that the leading sites of cancer are oral cavity, lungs, esophagus and stomach among men and cervix, breast and oral cavity among women. Tobacco is the most important identified cause of cancer and is responsible for about 40 to 50% of cancers in men and about 20% of cancers in women. India has an added burden of tobacco chewing which is more prevalent than smoking in many areas. The World Cancer Day is an international day marked on the 4th of February every year to raise awareness regarding cancer and encourage its prevention, detection and treatment. A webinar was organised by Pushpa Gujral Science City on World Cancer Day.Dr Narayanan Ganesh, head and senior scientist, Jawaharlal Nehru Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Bhopal, delivered a lecture on cancer and anti-cancer diet: myths to facts in which he familiarised the audience with signs, symptoms and modalities to detect cancer. Emphasising on the phenomenal role of diet in prevention and management of various cancerous disorders, he said, “The link between cancer and diet is just as mysterious as the disease itself. Certain foods and nutrients may help prevent—or, conversely, contribute to—certain types of cancer. With proper nutrition, active lifestyle, good quality sleep, balanced emotional health and the right choice of foods it is possible to overcome cancer and lead a long life.”Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Pushpa Gujral Science City stressed on the importance of cancer awareness. She said increased awareness, accurate information and knowledge can empower all of us to recognise early warning signs, make informed choices about our health and counter our own fears and misconceptions about cancer. She also pointed out that cancer not only affects the patient but also his entire family.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, said, “Natural food may reduce your risk of cancer. Fruits and vegetables are high in vitamins, minerals, fibre, antioxidants, and phytochemicals. The antioxidants and phytochemicals in certain fruits and vegetables are showing promising results towards preventing free radicals or cancer-causing agents from damaging cells.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tobacco-is-indias-biggest-cancer-worry-docs-208496
06-02-2021||---||SBI provides refrigerator to Apahaj Ashram||Jalandhar, February 5 The regional business office of State Bank of India provided a refrigerator to Apahaj Ashram located in the city for the convenience of the inmates. General Manager of the bank at Chandigarh MVR Ravi Kumar attended the event and said that the SBI stands with every section of the society and fully understands its social responsibilities.  The bank officials planted saplings in the premises of the ashram and also distributed fruits.On this occasion, chairman of the ashram Tarsem Kapoor expressed gratitude and termed it a big support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sbi-provides-refrigerator-to-apahaj-ashram-208497
06-02-2021||Our Correspondent||291 constables passout from Jahankhelan centre||Hoshiarpur, February 5A passing out parade of ‘Basic recruitment course’ of district cadre, intelligence, IT and T constables was held at Chaman stadium at Police Recruits Training Centre (PRTC), Jahankhelan, on Friday.A total of 291 constables participated in the parade comprising 260 men and 31 women. Additional Director General of Police SS Srivastava was the chief guest. He reviewed the parade.Rakesh Kaushal, Commandant, PRTC (Jahankhelan), briefed about the training imparted to the trainees.He said the trainees will fulfil their responsibilities with utmost dedication and success. He congratulated officials and staff of the centre and said the trainees were a symbol of their hard work and dedication.Srivastava apprised the trainees of the concept of ‘public service’ and said service to the country and society is paramount.He urged them to follow the ideal of ‘Country First’. He said passing out constables have been trained to face all types of challenges, including terrorism, drug trafficking and crime.Highlights of the event||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/291-constables-passout-from-jahankhelan-centre-208498
06-02-2021||---||Soiled for decades, efforts begin to bring Bist-Doab Canal back to life||Jalandhar, February 5The district administration has ordered the constitution of a joint panel comprising officials from the Municipal Corporation, Irrigation and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to deal with the waste in the distributaries of the Bist-Doab Canal crossing from the various parts of the city.Crystal clear once, people from the nearby areas used to take a dip in it. Also nicknamed as the ‘DAV nehar’, as the time passed and industries came in, the water and the clear space of the channel was reclaimed by industrial pollution coupled with tonnes of waste and garbage from residential and industrial areas. The administration’s declaration regarding the clearing of the canal of garbage has given a ray of light as the canal was riddled with filth for decades.Presiding over the meeting of the District Environment Committee in the District Administrative Complex, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) (Development) Vishesh Sarangal asked the officials of three departments to conduct the survey in the entire 10-km area around distributary of the Bist-Doab Canal and give a comprehensive report over the menace.On being informed by PPCB that distributary has become a garbage dumping site, the Additional Deputy Commissioner asked the officials to also start challaning those responsible for dumping garbage here. Besides, Vishesh Sarangal told them to also run an intensive awareness drive in the areas surrounding the distributary to sensitise the people for maintaining cleanliness.The ADC asked the officials to submit the inspection report to his office so that action would be taken to tackle the pollution in the distributary. Further, he told them to take strict action those who found burning the garbage which creates pollution in the environment.He said the Punjab Government was committed towards the holistic development of the city and prosperity of the people and no stone would be unturned for the cause. Sarangal also took stock of progress of Sewage Treatment Plant (STPs) projects and asked the officials to complete all works at the earliest.The ADC also asked the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department to make a strategy to ensure none of the farmers indulge in the stubble burning in the upcoming wheat harvesting season. He asked officials to give ‘top priority’ to the environment so that we can give a safe future to the coming generations. He said there was a need to give fillip to the overall development of the areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/soiled-for-decades-efforts-begin-to-bring-bist-doab-canal-back-to-life-208491
06-02-2021||---||38th edition of Surjit hockey from October 23||Jalandhar, February 5 Surjit Hockey Society has decided to hold the 38th edition of the Indian Oil Surjit Hockey Tournament from October 23. Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, who was recently made the president of Surjit Hockey Society, said in the meeting of the executive board of the Society that the decision was taken due to palpable improvement in the condition of Covid-19 and availability of vaccine. “The 38th Indian Oil Surjit hockey tournament will be held from October 23 to 31 here at the Surjit Hockey Stadium,” he said.  Top ranking 16 teams of the country, including the champions Punjab and Sind Bank and the runners-up Indian Oil, Mumbai, will participate in this nine-day bonanza. Thori further said this year’s 38th edition will be dedicated to the 400th centenary of Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur and during the tournament kits would be distributed to 400 budding players of district. In the last tournament on the 550th birth anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Dev, kits were distributed to 550 players. Thori added that in view of the success of Surjit Hockey coaching camp being conducted for the last four months and the excellent performance of the Society for 37 years, giving the direct affiliation by Hockey India (HI) to the Surjit Hockey Academy are a great achievements of the Society. He said that the players of Surjit Hockey Academy are being coached by experienced coaches like Olympian Rajinder Singh, a Dronacharya Awardee, and are being given top-notch hockey equipment and good diet. The DC appealed parents to send their kids to the academy to learn more about the game and the training at the facility is absolutely free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/38th-edition-of-surjit-hockey-from-october-23-208492
06-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||Five cases reported in Hoshiarpur||The health authorities reported five new Covid-19 positive cases in Hoshiarpur district on Friday. With this, the total number of positive cases reached 8,086. The authorities reported no death today.Civil Surgeon Ranjit Singh said out of five cases, one patient was from Hoshiarpur city while 4 were from various other health blocks of the district. At present, the district has 70 active cases and the recovery count reached 7,702. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-cases-reported-in-hoshiarpur-208493
06-02-2021||Our Correspondent---||157 frontline workers inoculated||Hoshiarpur, February 5  On the second day of the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive at the Police Lines, 157 frontline workers were given the dose. SSP Navjot Singh Mahal himself got vaccinated yesterday and said there was nothing to worry about.  Mahal said constable Rajwinder Kaur, who felt a bit nervous while getting vaccinated, was doing absolutely fine.  Senior Medical Officer Dr Swati said the woman constable was feeling nervous and shivering during the vaccination. She was kept under observation at the Civil Hospital and discharged after all her tests came out normal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/157-frontline-workers-inoculated-208494
06-02-2021||---||‘Silent Letters’ — a confluence of many worlds||Jalandhar, February 5“Poetry is as essential as breathing for a poet and a good poetry should be able to stand the test of time,” says Seema Jain, a poet, during the online book launch event of her new collection of English poems, titled ‘Silent Letters’.The event was attended by many eminent personalities and stalwarts in the domain of English and Hindi literature, besides many other renowned people from other walks of life.Among the distinguished guests were Dr Maja Herman Sekulic, award winning Serbian-American writer from New York and a global poetry icon, Prof (Dr) Atima Sharma Dwivedi, Principal, KMV College, Dr Jernail Singh Anand, acclaimed poet and critic and Professor Emeritus, European Institute of Roma Studies and Research Belgrade, Serbia; Dr Arindam Roy, renowned journalist and poet, founder and Editor-in-Chief, Different Truths, Dr Narendra Mohan, eminent Hindi poet, playwright and critic, Dr Ajay Sharma, renowned Hindi novelist, and Dr Prabhjot Parmar, Professor, Dept of English, University of Fraser Valley, Canada.Speaking on the occasion, Jain quoted Pablo Neruda and Louise Gluck, the 1971 and 2020 Nobel laureates in literature, respectively, to highlight the essence of poetry. Principal Prof (Dr) Atima Sharma said poets are like intellectual police for the world and Seema Jain through her book has carved a unique world of intellectual creativity. Dr Jernail Singh Anand described Seema Jain’s poetry as a confluence of many worlds and also highlighted her poems’ focus on the plight of being a woman in a patriarchal world.Dr Sachin Khullar on behalf of JCI Josh Jalandhar, complimented Seema Jain for her book launch. Dr Prabhjot Parmar averred that Seema Jain through her poems compels the reader to confront recent memories and think of the ‘Tired of want and deprivation’ migrants leaving cities that ‘Did not offer them shelter’. She also talked about how the intertwining of language and vivid imagery reveal these exceptional pandemic times as vignettes that resonate with the reader on multiple levels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/silent-letters-%E2%80%94-a-confluence-of-many-worlds-208500
06-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Former national boxer gets 9th rank in PCS (J)||Hoshiarpur, February 5Bhawna Bharti, a former boxer (national bronze medallist) from Hoshiarpur, ranked 9th in Punjab Civil Services (Judicial).She said, “Dedication and learning from mistakes makes one successful. One should keep on working until the target is achieved.”Bharti, who’s pursuing PhD at Panjab University, Chandigarh, dreamt of being an officer since childhood.  She did her LLB and LLM from Panjab University, Chandigarh. It was her first attempt for judicial services. “Earlier, I appeared in judicial service examinations in Haryana and Rajasthan, but could not clear (Mains) because of language paper, which used to be Hindi. But unsuccessful attempts helped me in increasing concentration and learn from mistakes.”Bhawna studied at PD Arya Kanya Vidyalya and Government College, Hoshiarpur. She won the bronze medal in national boxing championship in 2009. Her boxing coach, Harjang Singh, said, “She was a good player and she has done us proud. She has changed the notion that players cannot progress in studies.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-national-boxer-gets-9th-rank-in-pcs-j-208501
06-02-2021||---||11 ROs, five water ATMs to be set up in Phillaur villages||Jalandhar, February 5After the Water Supply and Sanitation Department surveys pointed to the presence of arsenic and heavy metals in the groundwater of 16 villages of Phillaur sub-division, it is now set to install 11 RO systems and five water ATMs to ensure potable drinking water to people.Chief Engineer KS Saini said all the ROs and water ATMs would be functional by the end of this month. “A project at an outlay of Rs1.47 crore has been chalked out to tackle the problem.”Pointing out further, Nodal Officer of the project executive engineer Nitin Kalia, said two types of RO systems were being installed in the identified 16 villages that include RO systems dispensing 500-1,000 litre water per hour and water ATMs dispensing water up to 250 litre per hour.He further mentioned that RO systems with the capacity of 500-1,000 litre water per hour are to be installed in Dolike Sunderpur, Khanke Fatehgarh, Chuheki, Bachhowal, Bhaini, Burj Pukhta, Cheema Khurd, Chaulla, Kala, Phillaur Killa and Dhesian villages whereas water ATMs would be installed in Chuheki, Batura, Bada Pind, Birk, and Amarjitpur.Both the RO systems and ATMs would cater to the population of 12,766 of 16 villages. The RO water would be provided at a nominal price of about 15-20 paisa per litre. Kalia said tubewells at the depth of 400-ft have been installed along with the RO and ATM sites and the operating company would also offer door-to-door delivery of potable drinking water.He said that once the power connections were installed at all 16 sites, the ROs and water ATMs would be made functional immediately. Also, the RO system would have a multi-grade filter, activated carbon filter, polypropylene filter, and membrane UV system.Lauding the state government’s efforts, sarpanch of Dolike Sunderpur Ranjit Kaur said that this scheme would definitely change the scenario in villages as people would be able to access clean and hazardous-free water. She termed this scheme the need of the hour. especially in the wake of the groundwater contamination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-ros-five-water-atms-to-be-set-up-in-phillaur-villages-208502
06-02-2021||---||1 death, 26 fresh cases in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, February 5With 26 more cases, total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district today reached 20,784. The number of deceased persons due to Covid in Jalandhar reached 678 with one more death today. The active cases in district are 243 until today. As many as 19,863 persons have been discharged while as many as 158 people are also under home isolation in Jalandhar currently. Kapurthala district saw nine persons testing positive for Covid today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-death-26-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-208503
06-02-2021||---||PAP Commandant, 100 cops get the shot||Jalandhar, February 5Harkamal Preet Singh Khakh, Commandant of 7th Battalion, PAP, received the Covishield vaccine today along with 100 other cops at the PAP community health centre.Khakh has the additional charge of AIG, counter intelligence, Jalandhar zone.“All of us are fine. This special vaccination camp is being held on the directions of DGP Dinkar Gupta. Under the drive, cops of the Punjab Police, being frontline workers during the pandemic, are being vaccinated,” said the officer.He said the Punjab Police had done exceptionally well during the Covid-19 crisis by delivering essentials and medicines to people’s doorstep. He exhorted all police personnel and citizens to come forward and get vaccinated in a larger public interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pap-commandant-100-cops-get-the-shot-208504
