07-02-2021||Jalandhar||Rendezvous with teachers||Scholarship distributionGovernment Girls’ Senior Secondary School, Nehru garden, organised scholarship distribution event. It was the second edition of ‘URL Khurana Memorial Scholarship Award’ for girls, run by Jalandhar-based Khurana family, in memory of their parents. Awards were given to students who performed well in Class X and they get scholarship for Classes XI and XII. The students of Class XI who were picked for scholarship were Shivani, Taniya, Jaisleen, Haseena and Khushboo. The scholarship was renewed for Class XII students Amandeep, Manpreet, Taranpreet, Khushboo, Vanshika and Navroop Kaur. Principal Gurvinder Kaur thanked and appreciated presenter Amit Khurana for contributing in education of girl child and complimented him for this noble cause in helping the girls continue higher studies. At end, students were awarded with certificates of scholarship by Khurana and Principal Gurvinder Kaur. Amit Khurana, an architect by profession, also interacted with students and motivated them to focus on their goals and wished them luck.Session for school bus operatorsIvy World School took initiative to hold a workshop for school bus operators. The workshop was conducted by the Punjab Police Department. It focused on the precautionary measures to be taken to curb the spread of Covid-19 among students as the new school year 2020-21 edges closer. The drivers, conductors and nannies were trained to make every effort to safeguard the safety of students during their mobility to and from the school. The safety measures include daily screening the temperature of students before boarding the bus, full sanitisation of the bus before use and marking the seats clearly to ensure the physical distancing. Principal S Chauhan added that it was an essential life skills workshop and hands-on experience for them, keeping in mind safety and security.Investiture at Kanya Maha VidyalayaTo inculcate the spirit of leadership among its students, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised an investiture ceremony for Student Council 2020-21. During the ceremony, oath of office was administered to all the office-bearers through which the members promised to uphold the policies of the institution while faithfully executing their office. The Student Council comprises class representatives from all faculties as well as sports, hostel and extra-curricular activities. All the members were divided into committees like discipline, student mentorship, campus beautification, library and event management, headed by captains from all the faculties, to help in the smooth functioning of the college. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated all the members on being chosen for responsible works. The office-bearers for the session 2020-21 are: Head Girl: Pranavcheet Kaur, MA Psychology Sem III, Head Girl: Kamakshi Sharma BA HSE (Sem V), Joint Head Girl: Kulwinder Kaur, BA (Sem V), Vice Head Girl:Manjot Kaur, MA Punjabi (Sem I), Vice Head Girl: Aarzoo Sharma, BA (Sem III), Vice Head Girl: Palak, B Com Hons (Sem V), Vice Head Girl: Yukta Mayor, BCA (Sem III), Vice Head Girl: Muskan Mehta, BA (Sem V), Associate Head Girl: DrishtiHanda, BSc FD (Sem V), Associate Head Girl: Tanya Handa, B.Sc Home Science (Sem V), Associate Head Girl: AnshumanSaluja, B.Sc Elec (Sem V), Associate Head Girl: Manleen Kaur, BSc IT (Sem V), Humanities Prefect: Prabhkirat Kaur BSc Eco (Sem V), Humanities Prefect: Deepshikha, BVoc (Nutrition, Heath & Exercise) Sem V, Commerce Prefect: Kashvi, B.Com (Sem V), Sciences Prefect: Anjali, M.Sc Physics (Sem III).Workshop on EntrepreneurshipThe Internal Innovation Council (IIC) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised a workshop on ‘Entrepreneurship Development Phases’. The resource person of the workshop was Leena Chabbra, director, clients code, and State president, Punjab Digital Media Council, and also an alumnus of HMV. Leena voiced her views that all successful ventures require careful planning and execution of ideas. Dr Anjana Bhatia introduced the concept of the workshop and briesfed about the MHRD’s motive of Innovation Council which is prompted towards training the youth of the country. Leena Chabbra acquainted the students with the basic steps to start any business by first selecting an idea and then studying the target audience, market viability proceeding towards the evaluation of opportunity and execution of ideas. The first real task for a beginner is to think of a good idea because it is the idea that will be the motivation to launch the business and it is the soul of entrepreneurship. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rendezvous-with-teachers-208940
07-02-2021||---||Workshop dwells on plastic waste management||Jalandhar, February 6A workshop on plastic waste management was organised by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) with the association of Action Group Against Plastic Pollution (AGAP), an NGO, in its office at the Focal Point.The workshop was presided over by the Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation Harcharan Singh. The workshop was also attended by Chief Environmental Engineer, Jalandhar, GS Majithia, Environmental Engineer, Kuldip Singh and Assistant Environmental Engineer Sandeep Kumar, along with Dr Navneet Kaur Bhullar of Action Group Against Plastic Pollution (AGAP).During the workshop, the representatives of the plastic manufacturing and producers of various industries were also present. The ill-effects of plastic carry bags were broadly discussed during workshop.President of the Plastic Manufacturing units, Ludhiana, GS Batra, and President of the Jalandhar Plastic Association Navdish Singh also gave their suggestions to encourage the use of compost material based plastic carry bags. Batra also talked about encouraging the use of bio compost carry bags manufacturing units in Punjab along with the exemption in GST, subsidy to be introduced on bio compost carry bags, etc.Highlights||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-dwells-on-plastic-waste-management-208933
07-02-2021||---||CT World’s Pavni Arora wins India’s Next Master Kids Show||Jalandhar, February 6A student of CT World School, Pavni Arora, also known as the nightingale of the school, brought laurels by winning the first season of India’s Next Master Kids in collaboration with Drishti Entertainers in the singing category.Recalling her journey, Pavni said she came across this event via social media and qualified for the first round held at Parindey Academy, Jalandhar, last year in April and appeared for the quarterfinals in Kala Bhawan, Chandigarh. During the lockdown, the semifinals and finale were held online in the month of November wherein she was able to grab the attention of a panel of the judges, including Babla Kathuria (renowned fashion choreographer and actor), Manish Kathuria (founder and chairman, INMK and Drishti Entertainers), Dhiraj Vig (director, Drishti Entertainers), Bradd (singer and actor), Abbas Ashraf (Mr Asia 2019) and Meenakshi Chaudhary (Femina Miss India) with her mesmerising performance and continued her path towards winning the title.She has beaten thousands of participants out of 67 cities in order to win the competition. She has also been announced as the brand ambassador of the India Next Master Kids (singing). Earlier, Pavni has proved her mettle by being the fame of ‘Voice of Punjab Chhota Champ season 6’, grabbing certificates of participation in the online video competition named ‘Ambassadors of hope’, initiated by the Education Minister of Punjab, and international one-minute short video contest conducted by MIIM, Kerala. Not only this, she has also been certified as Level-5 Young Artiste by SIFF Young Artiste 2020.On this proud moment, Madhu Sharma, Principal, congratulated Pavni on her success and remarked that despite of the lockdown, such platforms have acted like a boon for the upcoming artistes which not only provide an enriching experience to them but also helps them to discover this most positive form of human activity at its best. She also wished her best for the future endeavours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ct-worlds-pavni-arora-wins-indias-next-master-kids-show-208934
07-02-2021||---||Tributes paid to ex-minister Master Gurbanta Singh on 41st death anniversary||Jalandhar, February 6Former Agriculture Minister of Punjab Master Gurbanta Singh was paid rich tributes on his 41st death anniversary at his native Dhaliwal village on Friday.On this occasion, his son MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary and grandsons Kartarpur MLA Surinder Singh Chaudhary and former Punjab Youth Congress chief Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary held an Akhand Path.Describing Master Gurbanta Singh as a messiah of the marginalised and downtrodden, MP Chaudhary stated that Late Master Gurbanta Singh was known as a great social reformer, educationist, able administrator and the tallest Dalit leader of Punjab.Former minister and Markfed chairman Amarjit Singh Samra highlighted Master Gurbanta Singh’s contribution in bringing Green Revolution. He said it was during his tenure as an Agriculture Minister in Partap Singh Kairon’s government that the foundation of Green Revolution was laid with the establishment of Punjab Agricultural University and other institutions.Former minister, MP and Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training chairman Mohinder Singh Kaypee said Master Gurbanta Singh started his political career in 1932, when society was badly gripped by the evil of casteism, adding that he along with his associates Babu Mangoo Ram and others started a revolutionary tirade against these divisive forces under the aegis of Ad-dharam Mandal, Jalandhar, and led a historic struggle for eradication of untouchability and inequality from our society.Master Gurbanta Singh was first elected to the Assembly of United Punjab in 1945 and remained a member till 1977. He was so popular amongst the people that he was declared elected unopposed in 1972 Vidhan Sabha elections. He remained in the Council of Ministers of Khizar Hayyat Khan Tiwana Government before Partition, then in Partap Singh Kairon and Giani Zail Singh Governments, during which he held various portfolios.He got abolished the law which debarred the SC community from purchasing land in their name known as ‘Mutation Land Act’. He worked to get government’s vacant lands allotted to the members of the SCs, to appoint SC Nambardar in every village, for arrangement of stipends and scholarships for SC Students in schools and colleges, reservation in service for employment and promotion for SCs, loans on nominal interest to purchase land and establish small scale industries and made law for the SCs to have share in the joint pool for village common land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tributes-paid-to-ex-minister-master-gurbanta-singh-on-41st-death-anniversary-208935
07-02-2021||---||‘Regular monitoring helps improve iron levels in teen girls’||Kapurthala, February 6A recent initiative of the district administration to boost the haemologlobin levels of the teenage girls has begun partly working here.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said under the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, haemoglobin testing and iron fortification programme was conceptualised in Kapurthala in December in Nadala block on a pilot basis.She said till December 31, as many as 159 girls were tested for haemoglobin via digital prick testing Hb meters. “Out of these, 143 girls were found anaemic with Hb levels of 11 and under. She said after the intervention at the end of January 2021, the Hb level of 78 girls had improved besides showing positive signs in terms of physical parameters.Deepti Uppal said taking serious note of the situation, the district administration has taken several steps, including counselling sessions held with students along with their parents and diet charts provided with a weekly dietary schedule. She said iron and other dietary supplements (chana gur ladoo) were also provided to anaemic girls by the district administration. She said regular monitoring was also being undertaken along with biweekly counselling by respective SMOs along with ASHA and Anganwadi workers.DC Uppal said iron fortification diet packets were also distributed to 159 girls at Government Senior Secondary School Nangal Lubana today in the presence of SDM Balbir Singh, SMO and other dignitaries.“Iron is necessary for teenage girls due to continuous loss of blood during menstruation. Hence, a regular iron-rich diet is needed in teenage girls to prevent symptoms of anemia like fatigue, loss of energy, weakness, dizziness, cold hand/ feet etc,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/regular-monitoring-helps-improve-iron-levels-in-teen-girls-208936
07-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Kapurthala ready for its first municipal corporation poll||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, February 6Overflowing sewage system in most parts of the city, non-functional LED street lights and unkempt public parks are just some of the civic issues on which the first municipal corporation election of this erstwhile princely town are being contested.Even since Kapurthala municipal council got elevated to municipal corporation in February 2019, it had been functioning without a proper body. Residents hope that with a proper MC House, new corporation would be able to plan and execute projects in a better way and will be able to get more staff and higher Budget allocation from the state government.As of date, the MC here does not even have a full-fledged Commissioner as ADC (G) Rahul Chaba handles both the charges. It’s functioning with a bare minimum staff.From 29 Wards to 50For the purpose of elections, the municipal council (29 wards) got elevated to 50-ward municipal corporation with no extension of the city area. No village was added and 29 wards were further split up to make them 50.The splitting, however, did not remain a perfect division with some wards confined to 400 voters only and others having well over 2,000 voters.Uncontested, 1 ward goes Cong wayThe Ward No. 8 has already gone the Congress way. Munish Aggarwal, who is a two-time councillor, has already been declared winner from the ward after lone Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate’s nominations papers got rejected. The SAD and BJP failed to announce a candidate from this ward.Aggarwal, who is one of the contestant in the fray for Mayoral posts, boasts of the fact that prior to him, his father had represented the area at least five times as a councillor. He reportedly has full-fledged support of Congress MLA Rana Gurjit Singh.Multi-cornered contestWith an end of alliance between SAD and BJP, both the outfits have fielded their candidates in 46 and 36 wards, respectively. AAP has also fielded its candidates in 41 wards.Some of the wards including, 40, 42, 43, 46 and 47 dominated by Dalit population also have BSP candidates. Independents, too, were in fray from 18 wards. Ward numbers 12, 21, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 47, 49 and 50 have five candidates each and hence a good chance of splitting of votes. Five wards, including 3, 4, 13, 17 and 45 have just a two-sided contest between Congress and SAD or AAP candidates.Several new facesOwing to the fact that five main parties were in fray from and the number of wards split up, there were several new faces in the elections this time. Kapurthala MLA and Congress leader Rana Gurjit Singh said, “From 29 candidates last time, our list has gone up by 20. There was ward delimitation, too, owing to which some candidates could not be repeated. So, half of our candidates are new.”SAD alleges vendettaAfter SAD candidate Pardeep Singh Kular from Ward No.16 was booked for using a weapon, the party leaders said the Congress was indulging in vendetta politics. Kular said, “The FIR pertains to a fight 12 days ago wherein I did not use any weapon and an FIR was lodged against me under the Arms Act. The Congress leaders had been after me to withdraw my papers or else they would get me booked. When they saw that I did not withdrew my nomination yesterday, they got me booked. Ironically, the complainant in the case is an Assistant Sub-Inspector.”No BJP candidate in 14 wardsWhile SAD could not find a candidate in four wards and AAP skipped as many as eight wards (one rejected), BJP has left as many as 14 wards vacant. Umesh Sharda, a senior BJP leader from Kapurthala, said, “Earlier, we used to field only 13 candidates from 29 wards, but now we have fielded 36 candidates. So, we have clearly been more active this time. Our candidates are highlighting the shoddy work being done during Congress tenure. They have been making a false commitment of getting roads repaired through the NABARD.”Congress party makes tall claimsSeemingly quite confident, Congress MLA Rana Gurjit Singh has been making tall claims about the work. Even as residents rue poor sewage facilities and overflowing of drains at Ghotu Chowk, Satnarayan Bazaar, Sadar Bazaar, Panj Mandir, Devi Talab and Model Town areas, Rana said, “I have already got Rs 3.5 crore spent on sewage repair and got passed works to the tune of Rs 4.5 crore.”The residents said LED street lights, which were installed recently, had become almost non-functional. Rana said, “The government has given approval to spend Rs 1.9 crore on street lights. The tendering work could not start to technical reasons. The government has given approval for spending Rs 50 lakh on installing CCTVs cameras in the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-ready-for-its-first-municipal-corporation-poll-208932
07-02-2021||---||Covid-19: One death, 20 new cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, February 6The health authorities reported 20 cases in Jalandhar district on Saturday. With this, the total number of positive cases reached 20,804 in the district.The health authorities reported one death in the district. The death toll increased to 679.At present, the district has 244 active cases and 19,881 people had been discharged while as many as 162 people were under home isolation in thr district.Meanwhile in Kapurthala, 14 persons tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-one-death-20-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-208937
07-02-2021||Ajay Joshi||Around 1.5L people sign petition to get Kangana’s Twitter handle suspended||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 6A petition is being circulated on social media platforms to ban Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut’s Twitter account for spreading hatred and calling farmers as ‘terrorists’.As the deadlock continues between the Centre and farmers over the three agri laws, Kangana often takes to Twitter to malign farmers.Gurpreet S Atwal, Bhogpur-based farmer Farmers are fighting for their rights and justice for around six months. They have been protesting peacefully and received nothing but brutality, violence and terrorist remarks from the police and Centre. Hence, we appeal that Kangana's twitter account be suspended.While forwarding the petition, Gurpreet Singh Atwal, a Bhogpur-based farmer said the petition has been launched by Manjinder Singh Sirsa, chief, Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Parbandhak Committee.Earlier, this week, the micro-blogging site withheld around 250 accounts for supporting famers’ stir, which were later reinstated.The petition against Kangana reads that her recent tweets were harming farmers, who were protesting peacefully for their rights and were only asking for revoking the agri laws passed by the Central Government.“Kangana keeps calling the farmers ‘terrorists’ and is promoting rage. Her recent tweet called the Sikh farmers ‘cancer in the body of the nation’ and mentions how the ‘process of eradication will start’,” mentions the petition.While twitter blocked the accounts for posting provocative hashtags, including #ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide, farmers said, “Kangana was clearly talking about ethnic cleansing in short genocide. She is trying to recreate 1984 Sikh genocide and is promoting hatred, harm and violence against farmers.”“Farmers are fighting for their rights and justice for around six months. They have been protesting peacefully and received nothing but brutality, violence and terrorist remarks from the police and the Centre. Hence, we appeal that Kangana’s twitter account should be suspended,” said Atwal.As many as 1,47,566 people have already signed the petition. Notably, Twitter had earlier blocked a large number of accounts, including those belonging to Kisan Ekta Morcha, tractor2twitter and a private publication house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/around-1-5l-people-sign-petition-to-get-kanganas-twitter-handle-suspended-208938
07-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||Critical patients’ endless wait for a burns unit||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 6An 11-year-old boy suffered 90 per cent burn injuries when his kite got entangled in high-tension wires overhead on Thursday. Initially bought to the Civil Hospital, the family decided to shift their son to the DMCH.While anyone can imagine what implications the nearly two-hour journey between Jalandhar and Ludhiana can have for a patient, who suffers critical burns, the family had no choice but to travel this distance because a well-equipped Civil Hospital in Jalandhar is still waiting for the state-of-the-art ICU to be inaugurated.What’s in storeWhile it has been three years since the Civil Hospital purchased the equipment, the slow pace of the construction of the ICU at the top floor of the trauma unit has prevented its use so far.While funds worth Rs60 lakh for the equipment were donated by Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral in March 2018, the equipment was purchased in November 2018. The construction work of the burns unit began on the second floor of the trauma ward a year later — in November 2019. A press note of the district administration (July 2018) had declared that the project’s first phase would be completed in two months (from July 2018). However, two years hence, the unit still awaits completion.With a total cost of Rs1.20 crore (Rs58 lakh from the MP and the rest with Central and state’s contribution on a 40:60 ratio) the project was finally cleared for an upgrade to provide a state-of-the-art ICU for the people of the district. The finally cleared eight-bed burns unit included an intensive care unit (ICU) and an exclusive operation theatre (OT) for the treatment of burns patients on the top floor of the trauma centre.However, initial delays along with the pandemic set the pace back by at least two years. The inaugural event was cancelled at least three times with the unit still awaiting completion. Sources said since building a ramp for the unit would need evacuation of the trauma centre, it was deemed unfeasible amid the pandemic.Additionally, with the retirement of the Civil Hospital’s only plastic surgeon on December 31, 2020, this proved another setback. While the hospital has more than four surgeons and veterans, none of them are plastic surgeons. Dr Chanjiv, the last serving plastic surgeon at the Civil Hospital, who devised the project and plan for the burns unit, said: “The inaugurations of the burns ICU was stalled at least three times. We have the state-of-the-art equipment worth Rs60 lakh, which shall be functional as soon as the ICU gets operational. However, the biggest problem is manpower. Plastic surgeons and surgeons trained in burn care are needed at the unit. There should also be an option of hiring external consultants if the internal staff is not trained. I had written to the state government that all general surgeons should be trained in burn care.”Medical Superintendent, Jalandhar, Dr Parminder Kaur said: “It was the choice of the family to go to the DMCH. They chose to go there themselves due to the intensity of the injury. Meanwhile, we are also planning to inaugurate the burns trauma centre soon. We have four competent surgeons to handle severe cases. I have just joined and we are working for ways to make the burns unit functional as soon as possible. Although it would be difficult to provide a timeline for the same as of now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/critical-patients-endless-wait-for-a-burns-unit-208939
07-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Only a matter of time||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 6Last Friday, holding her brush and palette, artist Kimi Juneja remained standing for 14 hours straight to complete her painting — a painting, which so far is closest to her heart and has not been readied for the purpose of sale.Kimi Juneja, ArtistThe moment I completed it, I shared it with my friends and well wishers on social media and got a huge, unexpected response. People shared it adding videos and shabad as the tune to it. There were calls even from Canada with people asking me for its price and I told them that I had no plans to sell it as of now. My husband remained a big support while I completed this work.Having actively participated in pro-farmer protests locally, the idea of brushing the farmers’ theme bulged while she was completing some pending portrait orders of her clients, and did not settle till it was finally completed.In the painting she shows a farmer ploughing his fields while looking up at the dark clouds over his head. The painting carries words from gurbani ‘nishchay kar apni jeet karo’. “The moment I completed it, I shared it with my friends and well wishers on social media and got a huge, unexpected response. People shared it adding videos and shabad as the tune to it. There were calls even from Canada with people asking me for its price and I told them that I had no plans to sell it as of now. My husband remained a big support while I completed this work,” Juneja quipped.The 43-year-old (looks pretty young) shot into limelight a few months back when she made painting related to coronavirus and frontline warriors. “My painting of a doctor with lines ‘sarbat da bhala’ was appreciated a lot at that time,” she shared, before replaying past times, “even though I was inclined towards painting from the very beginning but I could share more time towards it after my kids grew up and were much on their own.”About her plans for 2021, she came out, “If everything goes well, I will be seeing my dream coming true. Soon, I may open my art gallery in a posh area and will display all my work there. It will lend a professional touch to my work.” Juneja’s mother and younger sister, too, are artists based in Ludhiana.A social activist as well, she said, “My gallery will also exhibit the artwork of the kids of Prayaas, an NGO for special kids. I had been organising display of their work earlier in a gurdwara, which I will now shift to my gallery.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-a-matter-of-time-208926
07-02-2021||Ajay Joshi||Chakka jam: Farmers block roads for 3 hours, commuters support by honking in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 6The ‘Delhi Chalo’ agitation by farmers on the outskirts of the national capital entered its the 73rd day on Saturday. On the call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha for a nationwide ‘chakka jam’, farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws blocked roads and highways at several places in the district.Holding banners and placards, the young generation of farmers took the centre stage. Women and children, too provided equal support at the protest sites.Interestingly, while concluding the three-long hour protest observed between 12 PM and 3 PM, locals and farmers resorted to honking cars reportedly to oppose the farm laws. Farm leaders said through mass honking, they were trying to wake up the government.Makhwinder Singh (28), preferred supporting farmers by holding placards that read ‘73 days of protest’, ‘Leher Kisan Di’ and ‘Long live farmers’.While the police and anti-riot team were deployed on the highways in large numbers to avert any untoward incident, leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Congress were also present at the protest sites to stand with farmers.Kulwant Singh Mannan, district SAD president, urban, who was present at the Maqsudan-Amritsar highway, said: “The PM Modi-led government is inattentive to the plight of farmers. Instead of fields, peasants are on roads, struggling to restore their rights, however, the Central Government was unmoved by their agitation. We also condemn the internet ban on the Delhi-Haryana borders. The arrests of farmers and activists have raised questions on human rights violations in the largest democratic country. We will continue to support farmers till their demands are accepted.”From city-based youth icon Balraj Singh Khera, a TV reality show winner and Pollywood actor, to school going kids, every one raised slogans against the Modi government at the PAP National Highway. Khera said instead of banning the social media accounts of farm activists and farm leaders, the government needs to take action against rumour-mongers spreading false information.Commuters at receiving endAmid the road blockade by farmers and political groups, the passengers, be it those travelling by bus or train, were forced to take the road on Saturday. Vehicles and trucks entering and exiting the city remain stranded on the highways. Tractors were parked on roads to curb the movement of commuters. Karandeep Singh, who had come from Tarn Taran to visit his relatives in Jalandhar, said: “I was aware of the protest, but I thought I will make it before noon, and later board a bus back home. However, the bus arrived around 11.15 am in Kartarpur and I got off a few kilometres away near Vidhipur. The police didn’t allow the bus to move ahead. I ultimately got down and covered 5 kilometres on foot.” Vikar Kumar, a student, who had come from Hoshiarpur, and was looking for a bus to reach Amritsar, remained stranded till 3 pm. All national and state highways across the district were blocked by farmers. The biggest show was seen at PAP Chowk. The intersection is crucial as all traffic from Jalandhar towards Amritsar, Phagwara and Ludhiana gets stuck here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chakka-jam-farmers-block-roads-for-3-hours-commuters-support-by-honking-in-jalandhar-208927
07-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Union Minister Som Prakash gheraoed for two hours in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, February 6Union Minister of State Som Prakash on Saturday faced the outrage of farmers, when he went out to campaign for the BJP candidates of Ward Number 18 and 19 for the municipal elections in Hoshiarpur.Som Prakash, former BJP state president Rajinder Bhandari, former minister Tikshan Sood and other BJP leaders were at a private school run by the family of state BJP NGO cell chairman Nipun Sharma in Purhiran. They remained stuck for more than two hours as farmers surrounded them and raised slogans against the BJP. Learning about it, BJP workers too reached and started raising slogans against protesters. Later, the SSP reached and persuaded the farmers to give them way.Meanwhile, hundreds of farmers sat on a dharna at Purhiran Chowk during the three-hour ‘chakka jam’ organised by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. Around 2 pm, farmers came to know that the Union Minister of State and other BJP leaders had reached to campaign for the BJP candidate in Ward Number 19. They surrounded the leaders and raised slogans against the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/union-minister-som-prakash-gheraoed-for-two-hours-in-hoshiarpur-208931
