08-02-2021||Open House||Parks should draw more people than drive them away||Condition of parks is loathsomeThe condition of parks is getting worse than before and these are in a pathetic condition as swings are broken and paints are peeling off. Heaps of garbage can be seen everywhere, boundaries are broken and gives freeway to cattle. Cows and buffaloes wander freely and cow dung can be easily seen on the tracks.The parks are a common place for the elders to sit in the evening where they pass time, but due to the poor management and broken jogging tracks, they feel hesitant coming for walks there.There are no dust bins, plants are never pruned and children are forced to play in the streets. Necessary steps should be taken to bring back the beauty of parks. Supervisors must be employed to ensure that parks are properly maintained. Full time gardeners should be employed and the neatly maintained jogging tracks, free equipment for exercise and swings for the children must be made available. Residents should also make an association to take care of these parks for beautifying the locality.SHASHI KIRANDon’t chide MC, it’s our responsibility tooThis pandemic was a sudden shake to the humanity and without any doubt it has caused us so much. From lives to deaths to unemployment to hunger, we saw so many ups and downs all along. It’s almost been a year now and it’s fair to say that things seem to be heading on track and slowly everybody is returning back to normalcy.People who had been stuck at their homes for such a long while are now finally granted to move out of their places with protocol. Everyone in their own way is tackling with it and trying to overcome it, similarly the efforts done by the MC cannot be left unseen. The MC workers are doing their best to keep us safe, while we enjoy the benefits of the city parks. And I personally believe that our safety is in our hands. It is not only the responsibility of the authorities to keep things safe and sanitised but every individual’s as well to keep Covid-19 guidelines in mind to ensure own safety. We are all in this together.Kalpana BhatiaEmpowering green growth in localitiesBeautifully maintained parks and gardens in the vicinity of localities do fascinate everyone. Adding up to the grandeur of surrounding houses and buildings, parks provide a grand space for socialisation. They are, indeed, a source of eternal joy during morning/evening walks for the residents, where bloomers, plants and sprawling trees rejuvenate us. Obviously, it is the best option for everyone, especially children, women and elderly for spending quality time.However, unlike foreign countries where parks and gardens get most attention, our civic bodies responsible for its upkeep often lack it. Some basic essentials like playway facilities for children, cycling and jogging tracks, and gyms equipment, etc are either seen in bad shape or rarely provided. What to talk of fulfillment of such needs, remote areas or corners in the parks are usually found laden with garbage and used as dumping sites for domestic waste, rendering a filthy look. Though the onus for carelessness squarely lies on civic bodies, yet residents can’t escape the blame.Essentially, the parks and gardens are reserved in localities to provide breather from congestion and relief from climate pollution. Municipal councils, during annual budgeting, reserve adequate amount of funds for parks located within its limits to provide basic facilities like water, lighting, plantation and other infrastructure. But very sadly, such spending is often misused. For better management and close supervision of such sites, RWAs may be involved with authorities to ensure proper utilisation of funds earmarked. It will help to preserve environment and facilitate improvement of needed infrastructure. Well-maintained parks lend a soothing look.NJS ChatrathGoodness of parks limited to posh areasAccording to me facility of a good park and open gym is only limited to posh areas of city. But when we look at less developed colonies, no such facilities are there. On the name of parks and open gym there is only a green piece of land with some swings in it. No jogging track or gym equipment is available. People use religious places like Devi Talab Mandir for this purpose. The MC wants Jalandhar to be a smart city but lacks in providing such basic amenities to people, especially to women and children. It is necessary that the MC should provide such facilities in every locality to elderly people, women and children. Green parks will also help in making environment clean and green.NikitaAn outsider’s cry to MCI came to Jalandhar three years ago from Kashmir and started exploring the new city as we do normally. Often, I would go to different parks when I wanted to spend my free time because we usually visit it for boosting out physical and mental health. Sometimes it disappoints me when I saw parks are available but not maintained as they should be. And some parks looked like weed cultivation land because in place of lush green soft grass there was wild growth bushing out everywhere. It is a request to the Municipal Corporation of Jalandhar as an outsider to maintain the city parks properly so that people and especially women, children and our senior citizens can get good environment around their localities. Also, the MC should invest on swings and fun parks for children.Manzoor Ahmed MirParks crucial for mental, physical healthAccording to me, many a times local urban governments neglect the responsibility of providing parks, gardens, playgrounds, etc. Sometimes they raise public parks but don’t care to maintain them. Its other aspect is that in many cities it is not possible to construct such amenities due to lack of space. Coronavirus has shown us the importance of health and hygiene and it is time to focus not only on money but health also. To promote the health, communal harmony and betterment of urban residents it is necessary that municipal authorities should pay attention to open gyms, jogging tracks at parks as it will be very helpful for young generation to distract from virtual world (mobile phones) and to connect with real world.Aseem KumarCivic bodies downplay every complaintThe spectacle and maintenance of city parks are most reliable parameter of judging the level of performance of any local governing body. But unfortunately, a lot of things are still required in proper maintenance of our city parks in the context of providing facilities to our children, women and senior citizens. Those parks which were under the control of PUDA are the worst casualty after the same were transferred to local governing bodies for their further maintenance. However, local residents took the initiative to maintain these parks out of voluntary contributions and most survived but the apathy and indifferent attitude being shown by the local administration is deplorable. The municipal bodies take every complaint very casually and are not even acknowledged. First major grievance is related to non- disposal of dry garbage at fixed intervals even after regular complaints and phone calls. Second is related to the menace of stray animals, including street dogs which trespass and live at parks making the ambience hell-like with the connivance of some fake animal lovers. This poses a serious threat to the safety of children and other vulnerable visitors besides a challenging proposition to keep the park clean and its flora and fauna secure. Thirdly, there is lack of any kind of supervision on behalf of local government to check unauthorised cutting of trees, plants and gross misuse of parks on many counts. The pruning of trees and landscaping should be done regularly under expert guidance while ensuring strict compliance by all the stakeholders. More is required to be done and upgraded in the field of providing modern infrastructure for physical fitness of the visitors and entertainment of children.Jagdish ChanderSmart city talk is just a mirageWhile the municipal authorities are doing their work, the city still lacks facilities like parks, open gyms, jogging trails, etc as a smart city. Many decaying parks are not even fit for passers-by. Broken swings, pits and shattered stones are a major danger for children to play. In the pandemic time, people sitting at home visit the park for peace of mind. If the park environment is not conducive in itself, they feel more disturbed to go there. In some colonies, land for parks has been identified and in some the construction has been left incomplete. Due to lack of parks, children play on the streets, risking accidents and other problems in colonies everyday but the Municipal Corporation (MC) officials are ignoring them. The elderly also spend much of their time sitting in the balcony of their house, taking a walk on terrace or sitting outside the house because they have no options other than that. At the time of elections, the government claims that they will give us all the facilities that we are entitled to, but after the elections they will fulfill their promise by making one or two parks instead of 10 parks. Considering these things, the MC officials should start the action soon. Parks should be built in places where there is none. Parks in despicable condition should be quickly repaired and managed in a peaceful environment and hygiene. Along with this, proper arrangements for seating, drinking water and lights should also be made in these parks. There should be no broken swings in the park and dustbins are a must.ShivallikaProper utilisation of public funds neededAlong with pot-holed roads, garbage mismanagement, traffic snarls, stray animals and air pollution, another major challenge that the cities and towns in Punjab are confronted with is the pitiable condition of public parks. Planned and created to promote the social, physical, mental and emotional well-being of residents, particularly children, women and the elderly, these green open spaces have ceased to be the prime attraction, courtesy corruption, apathetic and lackadaisical attitude of the municipal authorities. Apart from unhindered private structural encroachments and building of market complexes and official residential quarters, the existing facilities in these shrinking parks such as swings, slides and other playing equipment, walking tracks, lights, taps and toilets remain constantly dysfunctional despite spending huge amounts of budgetary allocations over the years. Unchecked rubbish and litter of waste material, stagnant water, mushrooming of wild grass and unwanted plants have made these parks the virtual breeding ground for house flies, mosquitoes and reptiles. Moreover, in the absence of genuine visitors, they serve as safe havens for druggies, alcoholics, gamblers and other anti-social elements. Unfortunately, repeated requests to the concerned officials to stem the rot have fallen on deaf ears. Isn’t it the constitutional and moral responsibility of civic administration to maintain the beauty, ambience and eco-friendliness of these recreational places and parks? Proper utilisation of public funds, regular inspection, seeking support and cooperation from private individuals and groups like residents welfare associations (RWAs) and withholding permission for exhibitions, fetes and social and political functions will help a great deal to mop up the prevailing mess.DS KangHefty fine should be imposed on litterersGone are the days when children used to play in parks with their peers. In this age everything has changed since parks are not in the condition to roam and play. Actually parks are full of likes of people who smoke, drink and play cards. At times there is a fraught of garbage which looks filthy and nobody wants to go inside the park. It is the matter of concern and administration should think seriously about that. Hefty fine should be imposed on those who make parks deplorable. Parks are for children, adults and elder people to rejoice in recreational activities. However, the truth is that the parks need maintenance and administration should spend the taxable money of people on the parks.Saahil HansQUESTIONThough the authorities are trying their best to end the menace of begging, people seeking alms are a common sight. What should the district administration, police and social organisations do to stop this practice?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (February 11).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parks-should-draw-more-people-than-drive-them-away-209391
08-02-2021||Jalandhar||Cyclotrack — A ride ushering in positivity||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cyclotrack-%E2%80%94-a-ride-ushering-in-positivity-209393
08-02-2021||Jalandhar||Old-age home at Nahla village soon||The construction of an old-age home at Nahla village is set to begin soon as the administration has sent a proposal to the Department of Social Security, Women and Child Development.It has earmarked 52-kanal land in the village, where the new home would come up at a cost of Rs7.65 crore. DC Ghanshyam Thori said a committee had been set up for ensuring the regular monitoring of the work. He said the report had been sent to the department for the release of funds. He said an old-age home would provide shelter and safer space to elders, who do not have anyone to take care of them.The DC said the old-age home would have facilities such as free medical check-up, ambulance, food, clothes, and leisure activities. Thori said the administration would also allow everybody to be a part of community activities to provide them with a good environment. He said the administration was committed towards protecting the rights of senior citizens. He said it was the need of the hour to ensure that senior citizens developed a sense of belongingness. He also appealed to the people to come forward for the cause. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/old-age-home-at-nahla-village-soon-209387
08-02-2021||---||Consequential seniority upon reservation in promotions: Federation condemns move||Jalandhar, February 7Resentment seems to be brewing among the employees of the general and other reserved categories against the state government’s move to allow consequential seniority upon reservation in promotions as per the 85th Amendment.Jaswant Singh Dhaliwal, state president of the General Category Welfare Federation, urged the state government to discuss the matter with other stakeholders before taking any decision.Shyamlal Sharma, Chief Organiser, General Category Welfare FederationAs per the data collected by the Punjab Government in 2018, the percentage of SC employees was in excess in initial recruitment as well as in promotion against permissible limits. Allowing consequential seniority upon promotions due to reservation as per the 85th Amendment is against the judgment and will certainly lead to contempt of court proceedings. We condemn this move and will take the legal course, the responsibility of which will lie with the Punjab Government.“The Supreme Court in M Nagraj’s case laid down the condition to exclude the creamy layer of the Scheduled Caste employees from the benefit of reservation in promotion. But even after 14 years, the government has not taken any decision regarding it,” said Dhaliwal.He said the Apex court also imposed other conditions in its judgment of October 19, 2006, that before fulfilling these conditions, the benefit of consequential seniority upon promotions under reservation couldn’t be allowed.The Supreme Court in its judgment of September 26, 2018, upheld all conditions imposed by the Apex court in M Nagaraj’s case, except the collection of data regarding backwardness.Moreover, Shyamlal Sharma, chief organiser of the federation, said as per the data collected by the Punjab Government in 2018, the percentage of Scheduled Caste employees was in excess in initial recruitment as well as in promotion against permissible limits. Allowing consequential seniority upon promotions due to reservation as per the 85th Amendment was against the judgment and would certainly lead to contempt of court proceedings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/consequential-seniority-upon-reservation-in-promotions-federation-condemns-move-209394
08-02-2021||---||Civic poll: ROs asked to keep a strict watch||Kapurthala, February 7Observers for elections to the Municipal Corporation of Kapurthala and the municipal council, Sultanpur Lodhi, on Sunday asked the Returning Officers (ROs) to ensure free and fair elections in the district.Presiding over a meeting with the ROs at the District Administrative Complex, general observer Vinay Bublani, police observer SK Kalia, accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, said the ROs were the backbone of the elections as they played a major role in holding the elections in a smooth manner.They asked the ROs to visit all 96 polling booths where elections to 62 wards were going to be held. Sufficient security for all 46 sensitive polling stations was needed as a part of the confidence-building measure. Notably, as many as 49 wards in the Municipal Corporation of Kapurthala and 13 wards in the Sultanpur Lodhi municipal council would go to polls.A total of 93,245 voters — 48,232 men and 44,996 women — would decide the fate of 238 candidates contesting the elections. The elections will take place in 96 polling booths — 46 sensitive and 50 non-sensitive booths. Prominent among those present on the occasion were ADC Rahul Chaba, SP Jasvir Singh, SDM Varinder Singh Bajwa and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/civic-poll-ros-asked-to-keep-a-strict-watch-209395
08-02-2021||---||Ensuring sustainability of ODF status with community toilets||Jalandhar, February 7To sustain its Open Defecation Free (ODF) status and ensure proper management of solid and liquid waste, the administration is set to build 28 community sanitary complexes at a cost of Rs87 lakh in various villages of the district.These community sanitary complexes will also ensure that all sections of the village have access to safe sanitary facilities at any time.These complexes are being constructed in those villages where people do not have sufficient space for toilets at homes. The complexes are being built in villages including Jalasingh, Khusropur, Jamsher, Bambianwal, Muhadipur, Bolina,Chachowal, Wadala/ Raipur, Chitti/ Johal, Manko, Litera Kalan, Ismialpur, Samrai, Jethpur, Chhota Bara Pind, Desalpur, Bal, Bhikha Nangal, Mallian, Salempur Masanda, Qasimpur, Rurka Kalan, Dhani Pind and Mander under the Har Ghar Pani Har Ghar Safai Mission.Nangal Salempur village sarpanch Harbhajan Kaur said the work on the complex in her village would begin this week as all formalities, including funds, earmarking of land and others have been completed.She said only two families, belonging to the poor strata, do not adequate space for toilets inside their houses.Mangal Singh, sarpanch of the Sangal Sohal village, said these complexes would also be accessible to all people in the village and can also be used by passersby and participants of public gatherings, thereby ensuring open defecation in the village. He said the construction work has begun in the village and would be over by March end.Block Development Panchayat Officer (BDPO) East Mahesh Kumar said he has been personally monitoring the construction of these complexes in seven villages so that these can be built soon. He said the water supply and sanitation department is the executive agency of these projects.The Deputy Commissioner Ghandhyam Thori said that the directions have been issued to the officials for the timely completion of the complexes to ensure hygiene and healthy sanitary facilities to the people.Ensuring safe disposal of human wasteThese complexes would be accessible to all people of the village and can also be used by passersby and participants of large public gatherings, thereby ensuring that the district remains open defecation free. The construction work has begun in the village and would be over by March end.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensuring-sustainability-of-odf-status-with-community-toilets-209396
08-02-2021||---||1,800 take the jab in 4 days, no adverse reaction reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, February 7In the last four days, around 1,800 frontline workers have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine in the district. As many as 577 frontline workers were vaccinated on Saturday.In Jalandhar, the vaccination drive has been going on across 13 centres (five in urban areas), but some centres were kept closed owing to limited footfall of beneficiaries. More than 17,000 frontline workers have been registered in the district, including police personnel, administrative officials and paramilitary forces, among others. On Friday, over 500 beneficiaries were administered the dose.As AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine comes in vials having 10 doses, several centres were kept closed on Saturday as fresh vial isn’t opened as long as seven people do not report at a centre. Notably, of 11,800 health workers registered to be vaccinated in the district in the first phase of the drive, more than 7,000 had been vaccinated.With 1,800 more vaccinated in the second phase – around 8,000 doses had been administered in the district so far. As many as 238 and 412 people had been vaccinated within first two days of the second phase of the drive, respectively. While 16,490 doses were brought in for the first phase, for the second phase, the district got 13,000 more doses. A total of 17,400 frontline workers have to be vaccinated in the second phase.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “We have a total of 16 to 17 centres in Jalandhar of which 13 were operational on Saturday. Some centres were kept closed after less beneficiaries reported. Various departments are also sending us updated list of frontline workers. This is just the beginning of the drive and many people are expected to be vaccinated in the coming days.”Notably, no adverse reaction, except fever, body ache or temporary inflammation has been reported among the beneficiaries in the district so far.Jalandhar records 21 fresh casesJalandhar: With 21 more cases, the Covid tally reached 20,825 in the district on Sunday. The toll, however, remained at 679. There are 242 active cases in the district so far. As many as 19,904 persons have been discharged, while as many as 154 persons are under home isolation in Jalandhar at present. Meanwhile, Kapurthala district saw four persons testing positive for Covid on Sunday.Education Department on alert after over 30 students test +ve in NawanshahrNawanshahr: Following the guidelines issued by the Punjab Education Department, the department officials in Nawanshahr district are taking immediate steps to ensure proper adherence to Covid-19 protocols along with the district Health Department, said District Education Officer (Senior Education) Jagjit Singh on Sunday. Notably, more than 30 students of Government High School, Sloh, tested positive for Covid-19 recently. Not only this, three students from Government Senior Secondary School, Nawanshahr, also tested positive on Sunday. After this, the department has gone into an overdrive and become over cautious and alert. Taking note of the positive cases at Government High School, Sloh, the DEO said he was regularly visiting the village along with the Headmaster of the school Lakhbir Singh, Sarpanch Paramjit Singh, panchayat member Pardeep Kumar and a medical team and following up with them. Earlier also, the department officials were interacting with the school management committee (SMC) members, parents, teachers and students to make them aware about the requisite precautions for combating the disease. Not only this, regular visits were made to several schools to check whether students were wearing masks or not and if any student was seen without a mask, he was provided with one. Singh said: “The Education Department has a vast social media network, which includes WhatsApp groups of school heads, teachers, students, sarpanches etc. Hence, making optimum utilisation of social media groups, the district Education Department has been making every one of them aware about the Covid-19 precautions.” The officials are also making phone calls to students and their parents to monitor the situation. Singh said he would be visiting the village on Monday as well. “I will ensure that everyone gets fine and healthy,” he said. All students are asymptomatic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-800-take-the-jab-in-4-days-no-adverse-reaction-reported-in-jalandhar-district-209397
08-02-2021||---||Constable loses life in firing incident on PAP campus||Jalandhar, February 7A Punjab Police constable reportedly lost his life in a firing incident. A gunshot was heard around 6.15 pm on the PAP campus, nearly 500 metre away from the main gate.The deceased cop has been identified as Constable Pritpal Singh (50), a resident of Gurdaspur. While he was presently residing on the campus only, his family including two children and wife were living at their native place in Gurdaspur.SHO Cantt police station, Sub-Inspector, Amritpal Singh, said it was yet to be ascertain as to how the gunshot was fired. The deceased died on the spot and the police were investigating the matter.Even as the reason behind the firing is yet to be ascertained, sources said the bullet was fired from the constable’s self-loading rifle (SLR). The police anticipate that Pritpal committed suicide. He was deployed as a guard in the 9th Battalion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/constable-loses-life-in-firing-incident-on-pap-campus-209392
