09-02-2021||---||Now, a 5-yr-old girl is victim of banned Chinese kite string||Jalandhar, February 8As the 5-year-old Pihu’s mother sits out in open taking the little girl in her lap, she peeps through her bandaged forehead and eyes and tells her mom, “I do not want to gaze at the sky. Now, I hate watching those colourful kites. Their patterns no longer amuse me.”The cute filly is the latest victim of the Chinese kite strings. A resident of Preet Nagar, she along with her parents was on a scooter on Sunday, when the manjha cut through her face inflicting serious injuries.Even though at least three children have received grievous injuries due to the use of banned Chinese kite strings, the district administration and the city police are yet to wake up from the slumber and nab the traders involved in its indiscriminate sales.After 11-year-old Ankur had sustained nearly 90 per cent burn injuries due to an electric shock after his kite’s string got entangled with an overhead high-tension wire in Jhansi Nagar last Tuesday and his friend ,too, got injured, Pihu is the third victim to get injured in a span of just one week. Standing in front while her father was at the wheel, a kite string slashed across her face. Before she could raise an alarm and the scooter could be stopped, the damage was already done by then.Her father Rakesh said he saw blood gushing from her forehead and the left side of her eyes. Hearing their screams, people from around the area immediately came to their help. “We took her to two hospitals, but it was Sunday and there was no staff. We could not get cotton pads…no medical aid for good 25 minutes. Then we rushed to Kamal Hospital where paediatrician Dr Anubhav Gupta immediately attended to her. Her wounds were sutured with 15 stitches on her face. She remained at the hospital and we finally got her home this afternoon.”Pihu’s mother, Sonia, alleges, “The use of Chinese strings is so rampant that everyone is using them despite being aware of its repercussions. I really thank God that the string passed just above her eyes and there has been no loss of vision. Doctor is telling us that her scars would heal up well.”Rakesh adds, “Today, it was my daughter. Tomorrow, it can be another child and can be fatal too. So, why are the governments, MLAs, councillors, civil and police administration not waking up? Why can’t they implement a proper ban? Why these strings are so openly available in the markets and the police not even keeping a check? Why is everyone so indifferent to this menace?”Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, however, maintains, “We have been conducting raids daily, confiscating Chinese string rolls and lodging FIRs against the traders indulging in the sales of the banned item.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-a-5-yr-old-girl-is-victim-of-banned-chinese-kite-string-209901
09-02-2021||Jalandhar||Eagle rescued by Animal Protection Foundation||The Animal Protection Foundation on Monday rescued an eagle stuck in Chinese string. In the past two years, 10 to 15 animals have been found trapped in the banned string. Foundation president Yuvi Singh  said, “The eagle was rescued by some boys from Jalandhar Cantt who handed it over to us. After administering first-aid to it, we left the bird of prey at a local animal shelter. We have found several eagles, pigeons, dogs and recently a cat wrapped in Chinese strings.  “The string is not only fatal for birds and animals but has caused serious injuries to them. To save the speechless birds, we should stop the use of the banned string. We have found eagles trapped in Chinese string hanging loose from poles and animals immobilised on streets due to it.” He said, “We urge government officials to look into the matter and ban the sale and purchase of the Chinese string.” NGO members said though they had organised an awareness camp in Model Town area about the dangerous effects of Chinese string, cases of injuries to birds and animals due to it had only increased. Many individuals and birds suffered injuries caused by Chinese string. The NGO expressed concerns that despite a Supreme Court ban, Chinese string was easily available in the market. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/eagle-rescued-by-animal-protection-foundation-209902
09-02-2021||---||Former mayor alleges corruption in civic body||Jalandhar, February 8Former Mayor Sunil Jyoti on Monday alleged that there was rampant corruption in the Municipal Corporation of Jalandhar. He alleged that Smart City Mission funds were being used for the MC’s works but no single project had come up under the Mission. He said he would take up the matter with Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri.He said, “There were several works that were to be done under the Smart City Mission, but it seems that the MC is shut and a front has been opened in the form of the Mission. Every work — be it purchase of sweeping machines, jetting machines or machines for the Fire Brigade — is being done with Smart City Mission funds. Nothing is happening according to the vision of the smart city.”He claimed that no work was done under the Area Based Development (ABD) model. “Not even a single penny has been spent under ABD till date,” the former mayor alleged.“Most of the main roads are in bad shape. There seems to be corruption in the MC. Those running the corporation hardly bother about checking whether the funds are being used for right purpose. Just because the funds are coming from the Central Government, it does not mean that the money should be wasted,” he said.Jyoti said there were two models under the Smart City project — the Pan City project and the ABD model. The purpose of both models had not been accomplished. “There would be total development under the ABD while under the Pan City project, transportation and social security should have been taken care of,” he said, adding that he would be meeting Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and would urge him to appoint a nodal officer to look into it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-mayor-alleges-corruption-in-civic-body-209903
09-02-2021||---||PSU seeks release of Nodeep Kaur, action against cops||Jalandhar, February 8Women activists of the Punjab Students’ Union on Monday spoke in favour of Nodeep Kaur, an activist and member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan, who was arrested on January 12. She is in detention ever since.The Punjab Students’ Union demanded the immediate release of Nodeep Kaur. Condemning her detainment and alleged torture by the Haryana Police, PSU activists demanded the dismissal of the police officials responsible.Notably, the demand to release Nodeep Kaur has grown into a robust online campaign, where various celebrities and prominent activists and organisations have demanded her release. She has also become the poster girl for labour rights in the midst of farm agitation. The Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan has also been actively supporting the farmers’ agitation.PSU district president Varjeet Kaur and general secretary Ramandeep Kaur, while speaking at Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar, said the police and the BJP government in Haryana violated human rights.They said she was a victim like other activists, who were constantly being targeted and arrested for speaking the truth. They said Kaur had spoken for the rights of labourers. They said despite the activist having undergone so much injustice, those responsible for jailing her walk free and haven’t been punished. They demanded that the officers responsible for jailing her be dismissed. They also demanded that the case registered against her be dismissed and she be released immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/psu-seeks-release-of-nodeep-kaur-action-against-cops-209904
09-02-2021||---||Foreign dreams dashed, youths protest outside travel agent’s office||Jalandhar, February 8 Over a hundred youngsters along with their family members held a protest outside the office of an  immigration company at PPR Mall on Monday alleging fraud.  The protesters alleged that the owner of the firm duped them on the pretext of sending them abroad. People from various districts, including Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Nawanshahr, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana and Phagwara among others gathered outside A to Z Immigration firm alleging fraud worth crores. Those aspiring to go abroad said the company promised them to provide visas for Malaysia, Singapore, Qatar, Dubai and even England. While the immigration firm is lying shut for the past few weeks, protesters, demanding the arrest of the owner, said after taking the money in lakhs, the company neither prepared their documents nor returned the money. They instead issued them fake paper visas. Kuldeep Kumar, a resident of Preet Nagar, said he had given Rs1.5 lakh to the travel agent of the company to receive work visa of Singapore. However, after taking the money, the agent did not call him. Similarly, the parents of the youth said the agent demanded Rs2 lakh as the token amount and it varied depending upon the country they applied for. Mandeep Singh, who had come from Kapurthala, said he was approached by the company during the lockdown and subsequently, he paid the expenses for his documents, but after receiving the money, the company only made fake promises and didn’t tell him about the status of his documents. The division number 7 police reached the spot and assured the protesters of necessary action. ASI Surjit Singh (IO) said they have registered a case against the company for duping people on the pretext of sending them abroad, adding that the owner and the staff were absconding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/foreign-dreams-dashed-youths-protest-outside-travel-agents-office-209905
09-02-2021||---||23 test +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, February 8  With 23 people testing for the virus on Monday, the Covid-19 tally reached 20,848 in the district. With four deaths in the district on Monday, the death toll rose to 683.  There are 238 active cases in the district so far and as many as 19,927 persons have been discharged, while as many as 154 people are still under home isolation in Jalandhar currently. Meanwhile, Kapurthala district saw 11 persons testing positive for Covid-19.  Three die, 8 test positive in Hoshiarpur With eight new positive patients, the district tally reached 8,124 on Monday. With three more deaths, the toll reached 342. There are 82 active cases, while the number of patients who have recovered is 7,728. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said of Monday's patients, two are of Hoshiarpur city and six from the rest of the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/23-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-209906
09-02-2021||---||Now, get 56 more services through Sewa Kendras||Jalandhar, February 8Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Monday reviewed the preparations for the state-level virtual launch of 56 additional citizen services through Sewa Kendras. CM Capt Amarinder Singh will launch the services from Chandigarh on Tuesday.Presiding over the meeting, the DC said the government was committed towards according topmost priority to ensuring public services to citizens in a hassle-free manner. He said the Sewa Kendras had been acting as a facilitating agency for people coming for their routine administrative works.He said these new 56 additional citizen services through Sewa Kendras will facilitate people. He asked officials to ensure elaborate arrangements for the virtual launch, excluding the areas where model code of conduct is being enforced due to elections in six municipal councils and two nagar panchayats.The DC said the officers had been assigned duties regarding the function and any sort of callousness is unwarranted. Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh, DEO Secondary Harinder Pal Singh, District Technical Coordinator Hatinder Malhotra, Gurpreet Singh, and others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-get-56-more-services-through-sewa-kendras-209907
09-02-2021||---||RTA Secretary challans 60 private buses||Jalandhar, February 8The Secretary, Regional Transport Authority, on Monday issued challans to the owners of nearly 60 buses plying illegally to the national capital.It came to the fore that most such buses were starting from Jalandhar or Amritsar and were taking advantage of the fact that fewer Punjab Roadways buses were plying to Delhi due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Since the railways had also limited their services due to the protests, private operators from Jalandhar were also plying buses to UP and Bihar without any legal permit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rta-secretary-challans-60-private-buses-209908
09-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Not farmers, but Cong opposing BJP, says state party president||Hoshiarpur, February 8The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is being opposed not by farmers, but by Congressmen under the guise of farmers. They are deliberately trying to destabilise the state. BJP state president Ashwani Sharma said this while addressing a press conference here on Monday evening in the Bahadurpur area of the city.He said there was no such thing as democracy in the state and the hooliganism of the Congress was visible everywhere.Replying to a query, he said the Congress government had not carried out any development work in its four-year tenure and was now opposing the BJP leaders in the guise of farmers to divert the attention of people. He said earlier, the Congress was spreading propaganda for municipal elections that the BJP would not be able to field its candidates in these elections. BJP has won the first battle by fielding candidates and the second would be won by the fatwa of people’s votes. He said in present circumstances, BJP candidates were facing great difficulty in campaigning but despite this, the morale of the candidates was high.Also present on the occasion were District Election Observer of BJP Rajinder Bhandari, former Cabinet Minister Tikshan Sood, Vijay Agarwal, Mahinderpal Mann, district president Nipun Sharma and Shiv Sood among others.Mann: AAP indulging in propaganda for political gainsPhagwara: Slamming Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha for issuing baseless statements, former Punjab Minister and Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann on Monday said he was indulging in slanderous propaganda for cheap political gains.After Chadha’s comments yesterday that Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had not brought any good policy for the state and that he had not been protecting farmers, the former Punjab Minister said Chadha has no moral right to speak anything against the CM. Mann lashed out at Chadha saying: “It was ironical that the person who couldn’t differentiate between wheat and paddy is in charge of the AAP in the state”.He said Chadha was still a novice in politics and was not aware of the contribution of the CM towards the state and the country. Mann said such statements were unwarranted and undesirable adding that any attempt to malign the image of the Chief Minister would be dealt heavily.The Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation said Punjab was the only state in the country which has taken the Centre head on by repealing the anti-farmers laws passed by the Modi government. Mann said there was no leader in the entire country to match the growing popularity of the Punjab Chief Minister due to which the Opposition parties, including AAP, were envious of him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/not-farmers-but-cong-opposing-bjp-says-state-party-president-209909
09-02-2021||When farmers came to know about Ashwani Sharma’s arrival in Hoshiarpur||Farmers oppose state BJP chief in Hoshiarpur||Farmers’ leader Gurdeep Singh Khun Khun said: “How are Punjab and anti-farmer BJP leaders reaching out to people today to seek votes? No one will tolerate these BJP leaders.” Nambardar Manjit Singh Khun Khun, Lawrence Chaudhary and Harbans Singh Sangha were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-oppose-state-bjp-chief-in-hoshiarpur-209911
09-02-2021||The second phase of Covid-19 vaccination began in the district and SSP Kanwardeep Kaur got a vaccine shot at the Civil Hospital||Selfie conscious!||Lending a friendly ear to undertrialsChief Judicial Magistrate-cum-secretary District Legal Services Authority, Kapurthala, Ajit Pal Singh, held a camp court in Kapurthala and heard the problems of the undertrials. He also toured the legal-aid clinic at the jail and minutely checked the record of the free legal services being provided to prisoners and the undertrials. Para-legal volunteers/employees at the jail were also instructed to maintain separate records and files at the legal-aid clinic of the prisoners and undertrials getting free legal services, so that prompt work could be initiated in their cases. He instructed the jail superintendent to encourage prisoners and undertrials to participate in sports to improve their mental health. He heard the problems of the undertrials. He said prisoners and undertrials have the facility for free legal aid, without an income bar, from sub-divisional courts to Supreme Court and the fee for the appeals on these cases is also borne by the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/selfie-conscious-209914
09-02-2021||Mona Rani||‘Positivity greatest asset in fight against Covid’||She contracted the virus days after another teacher at the school died of Covid-19. She was among five teachers who got infected from the virus.Unlike many others who have a mild fever and largely stay asymptomatic or at the most have a mild fever – her fight with the Covid wasn’t that easy. The sudden rise in sugar levels of the colleague who succumbed served as a grim reminder to her. But it helped her in being extra careful.Mona says, “At school, I was the last one to get infected, but at home both my husband and son got Covid-19 after me. Those were very trying times. I had 103° Fahrenheit fever for four to five days, after which remained at 99° Fahrenheit. I also had cold and doctors told me that my chest had been affected up to 36 to 38 per cent due to the virus. After 15 days of staying in quarantine, I tested positive again. So, it was a long process to recovery. For months, I sat in the sun and consumed warm water. These periods were marked with relentless checking of oxygen levels.”She says eventually healing came from the mind. “Covid impacts you most if you take it to heart. Being positive addresses half the problem. I have personally experienced a rise in oxygen levels on times when I was stress-free compared to when I was fretting it out.”While Mona started going back to school around 15 to 20 days ago, she says she is doing it amid great precautions.“I still have fatigue and immense pain in legs. Covid has impacted my eyesight to some extent. It’s a slow and gradual progress to good health. Slowly, I will regain confidence. Going to school also serves as a distraction. I wear mask and use sanitiser regularly. While some students do not practise social distancing, I regularly explain them about the adverse effects of the virus.”Her daughter, an MBBS student, who got vaccinated a couple of days ago, has fever ever since she got the dose.Mona says, “I am inching towards good health. I told my daughter that things will get better and she needs to stay positive. Everyone fighting Covid has to look at the brighter side, stay alert, consume hot water and keep an eye on oxygen levels.”(As told to Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/positivity-greatest-asset-in-fight-against-covid-209915
09-02-2021||Jalandhar||School gate opens at KMV||LKCTC students complete IT projectWith the objective of blending technical inputs with entrepreneurial and managerial skills, the entrepreneurship and incubation cell of department of IT, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, accomplished the project of social media presence of ‘The Solution Hub’. MCA students Parul Chadha, Kanika and Himani initiated and completed the project on various social media platforms under the guidance of Rameshwer Singh and Kamal Nain Sharma. Amisha Suri, director, and Amit Suri, project head, appreciated the efforts of students. Nidhi Chopra, HoD, department of information technology, congratulated the students for their endeavours. SK Sood, director, appraised the efforts of students and encouraged them to grab new opportunities available for them in the dynamic scenario of IT.NSS volunteer in R-Day paradeLyallpur Khalsa College NSS unit volunteer Maninderjit Singh represented Punjab at the Republic Day parade on January 26. Principal Gurpinder Singh Samra honoured the volunteer. Samra said Maninderjit Singh is student of MA political science at the college and was selected for pre-Republic Day camp at LPU on November17, 2020. Later, he was selected for Republic Day camp at Chitkara University, where he stood first in the state-level merit. He attended the Republic Day camp as an NSS volunteer from January 1 to 31. Tarsem Singh, chief NSS officer, said four boys and four girls represented Punjab. The volunteer expressed his delight and considered himself fortunate to be a part of such event. He also showcased Punjabi culture at National Youth Festival ‘Yuvaah 2021’.Online PPT competitionStudents from political science department at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya participated in the national-level inter-college care study-based power point presentation online competition organised by DAV College, Chandigarh. There were total 29 participants from 19 colleges from all over the country. Sanjamjeet Kaur and Ishpreet Kaur of BA Sem-V bagged honourable mentions. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students for their achievements.KMV’s 6th governing body meetingKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised its sixth governing body meeting. The meeting was chaired by Chander Mohan, president, Arya Shiksha Mandal, and graced by other internal members of the governing body. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi maintained that the meeting played a pivotal role in enhancing the quality of education and research on the campus. The house appreciated all reforms carried out under autonomous system especially the usage of digital technology implemented by KMV for teaching and learning in the lockdown.BD Arya students shineStudents of BD Arya College, Jalandhar Cantt. secured eighth position in the All-India Essay Writing Event, 2020, organised by Shri Ram Chandra Mission in collaboration with the United Nations Information Centre for India and Bhutan and Heartfulness Education Trust. TNSLPU signs 11 MoUsPhagwara: Lovely Professional University signed 11 MoUs with international and national universities of six countries in a single day. These MoUs are to lead a consortium of universities to research sports education in Spain, Cyprus, Portugal, Sri Lanka, Indonesia and India, under the Erasmus plus project of European Commission. These are aimed at capacity building in the field of sports, physiotherapy and physical education through research and community development. The group of universities and institutions would also research models and strategies followed for imparting sports education at different levels of education. MoU signing ceremony and meeting with EU-Spirit partners was held via Zoom meetings. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/school-gate-opens-at-kmv-209916
09-02-2021||Jalandhar||23-yr-old ‘escapes’ from shelter home in Jalandhar||A 23-year-old girl went missing from the Pingla Ghar here today. As per the authorities, she escaped in the morning. A complaint has been filed with the Police Station No. 2.The girl, who was staying in the Pingla Ghar hostel, was also working at its office as a computer operator. The girl was brought to the Pingla Ghar by her family in 2019.SHO Sukhbir Singh said, “The girl went missing this morning. Her last location was traced to the bus stand. As per preliminary information, she wanted to leave the Pingla Ghar for quite sometime.”Administrator, Pingla Ghar, Capt Jagdish Chand said, “The girl was suffering from depression and getting treatment. She wanted to leave the Pingla Ghar and we had also written regarding it to the DC, DSSO, Civil Hospital and the District Magistrate. She had never left the Pingla Ghar before.”Captain Jagdish said she came in 2019 after her family sought shelter for her from the then DC. Her mother had run away with someone and her family did not want to keep her. He said, “She had been pressing for a job outside. That seems only plausible reason for her escape.”Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “During my recent visit, the authorities informed that a girl, receiving psychiatric help, was lodged at the Pingla Ghar and wanted to take up a job outside the place. As an adult, she is free to take her decisions. The exact reasons for her leaving the place can only be ascertained when she is found.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/23-yr-old-escapes-from-shelter-home-in-jalandhar-209849
09-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||AAP: Capt Amarinder gave consent to passage of farm laws||AAP state co-in charge Raghav Chadha today said the SAD and BJP were not the only parties to bring in the farm laws as the Congress was also an equal partner in the move because it “gave its consent when the Bills were passed”.Chadha arrived in Hoshiarpur for canvassing for the municipal corporation elections. Addressing a press conference, he said, “The Punjab Contract Farming Act-2013 was introduced by the SAD-BJP government and was stamped by the Congress. It was clearly stated in Section 25 of the Act that a farmer could face jail or fine if he did not comply with it.”“It is a law that makes farmers a kind of bonded labour,” he added. He said Capt Amarinder Singh and Sunil Jakhar were MLAs at that time, but they did not oppose the law. “Now, when the Modi government came up with the black laws on agriculture, Capt Amarinder was a member of the high-powered committee, and he agreed to the passage of the laws,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-capt-amarinder-gave-consent-to-passage-of-farm-laws-209856
