10-02-2021||Jalandhar||4-day workshop on psychology||Session on banking softwareA workshop on banking software ‘Finacle’ was organised by Post Graduate Department of Commerce and Management of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen for students of BVoc (Banking and Financial Services). On this occasion, students visited the circle office of Punjab National Bank, Jalandhar. Sunil Kumar, Chief Manager, Punjab National Bank, welcomed the students. Riya Makkar (Manager, Department of IT) explained the use of latest version of Finacle. She explained core banking solution, modules and user access system in Finacle. She gave information to students regarding account opening, customer information file (CIF). Gagandeep Singh (Manager, Department of IT) explained the concepts of Transaction Maintenance System of Banks, Account Enquiry System and Banker-Customer Relationship.National Deworming DayEklavya School celebrated virtual National Deworming Day. Educators of Eklavya explained about this day virtually to students. They explained that these infections can be prevented by using clean toilet, hand washing particularly before eating and after using toilets, wearing slippers and shoes, eating properly cooked food, washing fruits and vegetables in safe and clean water. School chairman JK Gupta said we should try to improve their overall health, nutritional status, access to education and quality of life. Director Seema Handa explained the importance and benefits of deworming, as well as prevention strategies related to improved practices for hygiene and sanitation.Drivers’ check-up campDepartment of Physiotherapy and NSS unit of Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised a camp for drivers’ safety. This event was held to promote road safety. Drivers got their blood test, blood pressure and sugar levels checked. They were also told about the impostance of exercise. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra lauded the staff. She said such camps can prove very essential to keep drivers healthy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-day-workshop-on-psychology-210267
10-02-2021||---||Tearful adieu to BSF IG Bakhshish Singh (retd)||Jalandhar, February 9The Mortal remains of IG (BSF) Bakhshish Singh (retd), who passed away on February 6, were consigned to flames with full honours at Model Town cremation ground here on Tuesday.DIG (PSO) Pratul Gautam, DIG (G) BS Rawat, DIG Rajesh, Col Ravi Bhushan from the Indian Army and Joint Director Information and Public Relations Department Dr Ajit Kanwal Singh Hamdard laid the wreath. The dignitaries expressed condolences to family members of the departed soul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tearful-adieu-to-bsf-ig-bakhshish-singh-retd-210258
10-02-2021||---||BMC flyover develops ‘crack’||Jalandhar, February 9The BMC flyover on Tuesday developed a crack after which the police did not allow any vehicle to go to other side via the flyover. To avert any untoward incident, police personnel will remain at the site till morning.As per the information, the flyover was built 10 years ago. Rajnish Dogra, Superintending Engineer, Building and Roads (B&R) from Municipal Corporation, said, “We cannot say that it is a crack, but a depression is there in the portion of reinforced earth filling. We will get it checked why this has happened and will be sending a technical team to the spot in the morning.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bmc-flyover-develops-crack-210259
10-02-2021||---||GNDU College begins FDP on entrepreneurship||Jalandhar, February 9A two-week Faculty Development Programme (FDP) on entrepreneurship started at Guru Nanak Dev University College, Ladowali, here on Monday. The programme was organised under the aegis of science and technology department of the college.Dr Benipal, Dean, College Development Council One must study its effects on society and the environment. Such knowledgeable programmes should be conducted more in the near future.Dr Benipal, dean, college development council, marked his virtual presence as the chief guest. Moreover, Sudhir Gera, partner of Kirloskar Oil and Engine and also an expert on entrepreneurship, was present as the special guest.While commencing the session, Dr Benipal remarked that before starting a business, one must study its effects on society and the environment. On the occasion, he commended the great efforts of Dr Ashish Arora, chief coordinator of FDP, and also recommended such knowledgeable programmes in the near future.Dr Kamlesh Singh Duggal, OSD and programme patron of the college, thanked Benipal and Gera.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gndu-college-begins-fdp-on-entrepreneurship-210260
10-02-2021||Jalandhar||College students come up with sensor-based solar light system||A research team of CT Group of Institutions has made a passive infrared (PIR) sensor-based solar light system.Navdeep Singh, assistant professor, electronics and communication engineering, said: “The system consists of a solar panel module that converts light energy (photons) from the sun to generate electricity in direct current form. This module is fixed firmly on top with suitable tilt and inclination so as to receive maximum sunlight throughout the day. So, it produces suitable voltage and current, which is used to charge the battery. This energy stored in the battery is used to light up the LED during night time.”He said the main feature of this light was “Walk By, Lights On: Motion Sensor”. “Solar light can detect up to 140 degrees with a longer sensor length of 26 feet IP65 waterproof rechargeable solar lamp. It can convert up to 17 per cent of the sunlight into electricity energy,” he said.Singh said: “This system also consists of charge controller, which is used to control the charging of the batteries. Since the output from solar panels is variable and needs adjustments, charge controllers fetch the variable voltage/current from solar panels and condition it to suit the safety of the batteries. The main functions of charge controllers are to prevent overcharging of batteries from solar panels, over-discharging of batteries to the load and to control the functionalities of the load. The charge controller protects the battery from overcharge and deep discharge.”Appreciating the efforts of the team, director Dr Jasdeep Kaur Dhami said in spite of all these features, this development could be implemented as a sustainable energy. “Also, we are planning to solarise some parts of our campus,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/college-students-come-up-with-sensor-based-solar-light-system-210261
10-02-2021||---||2 open-air gyms for police families at PAP in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, February 9Two open-air gyms were dedicated to the police families by Inspector General of Police (IGP) PAP MF Farooqui on the PAP complex here on Tuesday on the directions of Special Director General of Police (DGP), Punjab Armed Police, Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota.Accompanied by Commandant 7th Battalion of PAP, Harkamal Preet Singh Khakh, IGP MF Farooqui said the project of setting up open air-gyms have come up in a record time with dedicated efforts put in by the Commandant 7th Battalion of the PAP.He said in today’s world, everyone was concerned about their health and these open-air gyms would fulfil the need for regular exercise and workouts. He revealed that more than 1,200 families of police employees living at the PAP complex would be able to use the new facilities.Meanwhile, Harkamal Preet Singh Khakh said not only youngsters, but the elderly persons as well as women would be benefitted by exercising in fresh air through open-air gyms. He said they would remain fit and healthy without having to pay for charges at expensive gyms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-open-air-gyms-for-police-families-at-pap-in-jalandhar-210262
10-02-2021||Of the 56 services||Now, get 327 services via Sewa Kendras in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 9To ensure smooth and hassle-free citizen-centric services under one roof, Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Kumar Rinku and Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday dedicated 56 new services at Sewa Kendras belonging to revenue, police, and transport departments to the people.Ghanshaym Thori, Deputy CommissionerOfficials were carrying out regular inspections at Sewa Kendras and ensuring all applications get settled in a time-bound manner without any inconvenience to people. Participating in a virtual launch of the new services by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, MLA Jalandhar West and the DC said of 56 new services, 20 services belong to the police, while one is of Revenue Department and 35 of Transport Department.They said now, a total of 327 citizen services would be provided to people through 33 Sewa Kendras of the district. They said the Jalandhar district was delivering public services in a stipulated time-frame set up by the government since July and has the pendency rate of just 0.7 per cent.They said officials were carrying out regular inspections at Sewa Kendras and ensuring all applications get settled in a time-bound manner without any inconvenience to people. Meanwhile, Kulwinder Kumar, a resident of local Aman Nagar, spoke to the Chief Minister through video-conferencing and appreciated the state government for delivering the copy of the birth certificate of his granddaughter within a stipulated time.Prominent among present on the occasion included Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh, deputy general manager (business analysts) Prabhakar Singh, district technical coordinator Hatinder Malhotra, district manager Harpreet Singh, district e-mail governance coordinator Gurpreet Singh and others.What’s in the offing?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-get-327-services-via-sewa-kendras-in-jalandhar-210263
10-02-2021||---||4 child labourers rescued from rubber factory in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, February 9A labour task force of the administration rescued four child labourers from a rubber factory in Surgical Complex located on the Jalandhar-Kapurthala road this evening.Acting on the complaint of an NGO, a team, headed by District Programme Officer Gurminder Singh Randhawa, along with the police raided the premises of Preet Rubber Industry.Randhawa said a total of four children were rescued from the unit. He said after the medical examination, the rescued children were produced before the Child Welfare Committee. He said the committee handed over one of the rescued children to his parents as his age was above the requisite age prescribed under the Act.He said one child was sent to Pingla Ghar while two others were shifted to Rajpura Protection Home. The DPO said the police were taking legal action against those persons who were employing child labour in their firm.SHO, Basti Bawa Khel police station, Gagandeep Singh Sekhon, Deputy Director (Factories) Sukhminder Singh, Labour Enforcement Officer Chandan Gill and other officials were present during the raid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-child-labourers-rescued-from-rubber-factory-in-jalandhar-210264
10-02-2021||---||It was written in the stars!||Jalandhar, February 9Meet 31-year-old Serrenee Khinda, a young city-based tarot card reader, vastu expert and numerologist, who has not only mastered the art of astrology but has also turned it into a thriving profession.In the span of over nine years, besides training herself in the field, she also started her own venture to make a career out of it. Lately, she has organised a seminar on the same here. Talking further about the unconventional career option, she says, a major chunk of students are nowadays opting for astrology courses and with the advent of technology and modern science, the business has shot up from former times.Serrenee Khinda, City-based Tarot card reader, Vastu expert & NumerologistPrior to the introduction of formal courses in astrology, it was limited to one or the other methods. However, now it has emerged as one of the most promising and lucrative career options. One can work with any organisation as an astrologer, numerologist, palmist, tarot card reader or vastu expert. With experience and capital, one can also set up own consultancy firms.“Prior to the introduction of formal courses on astrology, it was limited to one or the other methods, however, now it has emerged as among the most promising and lucrative career options. One can work with any organisation as an astrologer, numerologist, palmist, tarot card reader or vastu expert. With experience and capital, one can also set up own consultancy,” added Khinda, who runs her own consultancy. She is popularly known as the ‘lady of luck’ on her Instagram account @tarotreaderserrenne.Before building a successful career in astrology, cultivating desired skills are equally important. For Khinda, sharpness of mind is a must-have in your repertoire.“Meditation always helps in developing concentration. As tarot is a deck of 78 cards, each with its own imagery, symbolism and story. Hence, the sharpness helps in understanding karmic and spiritual lessons represented in the cards. Similarly, numerology is also a universal language of numbers to get the insights. My spiritual journey began in the early years of my childhood when I naturally developed interest in palm reading and started predicting future for friends and family. When I turned 20, I inclined towards psychic energies and completed occult education. Subsequently, I opted to practice the science of tarot, astrology, palmistry, numerology and vastu shastra,” added Khinda, a resident of Maqsudan. Professionally, She has helped many individuals, industrialists, celebrities and business owners from different countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/it-was-written-in-the-stars-210265
10-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||93% students show up on Day 1 as meritorious school reopens in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 9Even as most government schools, which reopened two months ago, are registering 70-80 per cent attendance on the campus, as many as 93 per cent students showed up at the residential meritorious school here on the first day on Tuesday.Of the 472 students in Class XII, 434 already arrived on the campus till this evening. As many as 415 students attended the classes, which began this morning. As no student could take admission in Class XI this year due to the Covid pandemic, the school authorities did not face much trouble in maintaining social distance among students.School in-charge Jagriti Tiwari said: “Our hostel rooms are quite big and we were accommodating six students in each room till last year. But now, we have three students in each room. Since we have more benches at our disposal, no student had to share it. The double-seater benches are now being occupied by a single student. We have two halls in the dining mess. I am sending students in three shifts to take their meal so that all tables are sanitised and proper spacing is maintained before the next batch of students enters.”She said to instil confidence in parents, teachers had undertaken three “Zoom” meetings with them since the official announcement about the school reopening was made a few days ago.“We told them about the strict protocol we would be following to keep the students safe. All students who joined the hostel yesterday had to bring their recent RT-PCR tests. A few students who did not join today have said that their Covid reports are pending and that they will join once they get the reports. We have told the parents that their wards should bring everything they would require till the end of their examination as they won’t be allowed to go home, except for taking JEE examination (in case they chose a centre near their hometown),” Tiwari said.She said even if the parents would have to send in anything, it would be taken from the gate and kept for two days before being handed over to the ward. “Even if parents want to meet their children, they are required to bring along their RT-PCR reports,” she said.Tiwari said: “The pre-board examinations will start from February 15 and the board examinations from March 22. In the present situation, we hardly have 25 of the remaining 40 days to teach and guide the students. We have earmarked our plans to take extra classes. The biggest benefit these days would be that our students would be under our direct vigil and they would not be allowed to waste time.”The new normal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/93-students-show-up-on-day-1-as-meritorious-school-reopens-in-jalandhar-210266
10-02-2021||---||Cop arrested for taking Rs 1L bribe||Jalandhar, February 9The Punjab Vigilance Bureau on Tuesday arrested an Inspector posted at the Phagwara Municipal Corporation for taking a bribe of Rs 1 lakh.BK Uppal, DGP-cum-Chief Director, Vigilance Bureau, said: “Inspector Palaparneet Singh has been arrested for accepting bribe from Satinder Singh, a resident of Phagwara.”BK Uppal, DGP-cum-Chief Director, Vigilance BureauPalaparneet had demanded Rs 1 lakh as the government fee for approving the map of his 20-marla plot. Satinder's father Jaswinder Singh had already paid Palaparneet in two instalments. Consequently, when Jaswinder visited the office, he came to know that Palaparneet had been transferred after suspension and the file related to his plot never reached the Phagwara Municipal Corporation office.He said the complainant had approached the VB and alleged that Palaparneet had demanded Rs1 lakh as bribe for allowing construction of a boundary wall and approving the map of his 20 marla plot, which was registered in the name of his mother.“Palaparneet had demanded Rs1 lakh as the government fee for approving the map. Satinder’s father Jaswinder Singh had already paid Palaparneet in two instalments. Consequently, when Jaswinder visited the office, he came to know that Palaparneet had been transferred after suspension. When Jaswinder enquired about the file related to his plot, he was told that no such file was submitted in this office,” Uppal said.He said Jaswinder had filed a complaint against Palaparneet in the Satnampura police station.During interrogation, Palaparneet accepted that he had taken Rs1 lakh from Jaswinder but returned Rs15,000 and would return the remaining amount within one month.Palaparneet had given a cheque for Rs85,000 to Jaswinder, which bounced.A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against Palaparneet at the Jalandhar Vigilance Bureau police station and further investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cop-arrested-for-taking-rs-1l-bribe-210268
10-02-2021||---||‘Mission red sky’ to rehabilitate drug abuse victims||Jalandhar, February 9In a step aimed at helping drug dependents in leading a normal life, the district administration has directed 50 officials of various departments to identify 500 drug dependents and provide them job opportunities through skill development or training programme.Vishesh Sarangal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Massive crackdown on peddlers by the state government and large-scale awareness programmes, including DAPO and Buddy among others, have yielded positive results, as these movements have created awareness among the general public.Additional Deputy Commissioner (development) Vishesh Sarangal said the state government had launched ‘Mission Red Sky’ — to rehabilitate drug abuse victims through skill development and employment. He said under the mission, each official would identify 10 drug dependents and provide job opportunities to them by enhancing their capabilities through skill development/ training programmes, so that they can earn livelihood like others.He said SDM-I, SDM-II, BDPO Adampur, BDPO Bhogpur, GM District Industries Centre, MC Joint Commissioner, Excise and Taxation Commissioner, ACA Puda, District Sainik Welfare Officer, Civil Surgeon, Secretary RTA, District Social Security Officer, SE PSPCL, Executive Engineers Sewage Board, PPCB, PWD (B&R), Water Supply and Sanitation, SE Improvement Trust, GM Roadways (I and II), Deputy Economic Statistical Assistant, District Food and Supply Controller, District Sports Officer, Assistant Labour Commissioner, AR Cooperative Societies, District Development and Panchayat Officer, BDPO Jalandhar West, BDPO Jalandhar East, District Manager SC Corporation, District Small Savings Officer, District Welfare Officer, DM Warehouse, DM Punjab Agro, DM Punsup, District Education Officer (EE), District Programme Officer, Chief Agriculture Officer, District Forest Officer, Deputy Director Animal Husbandry, Assistant Director Youth Services, BDPO Lohian Khas, BDPO Nakodar, BDPO Nurmahal, SDM Nakodar, SDM Phillaur, BDPO Rurka Kalan, SDM Shahkot, BDPO Shahkot, Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner (I and II) have been tasked for this cause, so that those dependent on drugs do not face any kind of problem in getting employment along with their treatment.He said Assistant Commissioner (G) Hardeep Singh would be the nodal officer of the mission in Jalandhar and ensure that each of the officers achieve the target and help drug dependents to become active-partner in the socio-economic growth of the state either gainful employment or starting own ventures.The ADC said the administration would continue its efforts until the entire district was made free of drugs. Those present on the occasion included ACA PUDA Anupam Kler, SDMs Rahul Sindhu, Dr Jai Inder Singh and AC (G) Hardeep Singh among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mission-red-sky-to-rehabilitate-drug-abuse-victims-210252
10-02-2021||---||Don’t vote for BJP: Farmers to locals||Jalandhar, February 9Local residents under the banner of various farm organisations in the Doaba region took out a protest march from Adampur to Hoshiarpur on Tuesday.The protesters included farmers, labourers and daily wage workers. Besides condemning the government for passing the three agricultural laws, the farm leaders said the march mainly focused on appealing to the residents to not vote for BJP candidates in the upcoming municipal bodies’ election. The protest march started at 11.30 am and concluded around 3 pm in Hoshiarpur.Amritpal Singh Jolly of Hoshiarpur (Doaba) Kisan Union said: “We had planned to gherao all booths where voting is scheduled to take place, but the police stopped us midway. Farmers and daily wage labourers have urged the residents to not vote for BJP candidates in their respective areas.” Harneet Singh, Mainderjit Singh and Deep Singh were among others who participated in the protest. The MC polls are scheduled to begin from February 14.Support pours in from US Jalandhar: Sikh organisations from the US, along with local social organisations, convened a meeting in Fresno, California, under the name ‘American Sikh Sangat’ to unite and uplift farmers agitating against the agricultural laws on the Delhi borders. About 80 organisations from across the US attended the meeting and held discussions with leaders of the struggling farmers’ organisations through video-conferencing. Advocate Amarveer Singh Bhullar sought information about the trial of the youth, farmers and journalists arrested by the police after the Red Fort incident in Delhi on January 26. The release of activist Nodeep Kaur was also discussed. Amarpreet Singh, head of Khalsa Aid, Asia, described the current state of farmers’ struggle and prayed for the struggle to proceed properly. In the end, resolutions were unanimously passed by the ‘sangat’, in which the ‘American Sikh Sangat’ requested all farmers’ organisations and youth to unite with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and lead the movement under their leadership and raise their voice. If there was any kind of misunderstanding or rift between farmers’ organisations, the ‘American Sikh Sangat’ was ready to play the role of a mediator in restoring their unity. The ‘American Sikh Sangat’ further requested farmers’ leaders to first prioritise the condition of release of the youth, social workers, senior citizens and journalists, who had been falsely implicated and imprisoned under political pressure. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dont-vote-for-bjp-farmers-to-locals-210255
