11-02-2021||---||Roads connecting rly station barricaded till March 10||Jalandhar, February 10Three major roads connecting the city railway station have been shut for the public for the next one month.Reason: The construction work to lay new sewerage line and recarpetting of roads started on Wednesday.However, owing to this, railway passengers and commuters will face a tough time at the station. The main routes leading towards the railway station are Damoria Overbridge Road, Railway Colony Road and Mandi Fanton Ganj Road. As all three entrance roads to the railway station have been barricaded, traffic snarls are expected on the alternate routes for the next four-five weeks.The new construction process is expected to give a facelift to the railway station. As per the officials, the blueprint of the project and its implementation has been covered under the Smart City Mission. An MC official said a budget worth Rs6 crore has been assigned for the project and it would be completed under the supervision of railway engineers.With this, the diversion of traffic for a month will remain a tough task for the traffic police.After the diversion of traffic routes, vehicular rush is expected to increase in areas, including Bhagat Singh Road, Kishanpura Road, Mohalla Govindgarh, Gurunanakpur Crossing, Adda Hoshiarpur and Quila Mohalla, among others.Vehicles moving to the railway station from Adda Hoshiarpur and Mandi Fanton Ganj Road will now have to use the same road from Bhagat Singh Chowk to Kishanpura Road.Meanwhile, DRM Ferozepur, Rajesh Agarwal, said: “The project includes broadening of roads connecting the railway station. Though the station building would remain the same, the green cover outside it will increase and there will be a proper space for parking. The movement of heavy vehicles will also be curbed after the construction. An estimated time of nine months has been kept for the construction work.”The workers present on the site said due to illegal parking and continuous movement of vehicles, it was difficult to proceed with the construction.Business may take a hitThe construction work will take a huge toll on the business of existing parking operators and taxi service operators. As the auto-rickshaw stand has also been demolished, auto-rickshaw drivers said till the construction was completed, the footfall of passengers would be minimal, making a direct impact on their earning. The nearby hotel and guest house owners also anticipated that they wouldn’t get sufficient visitors for a month.Considering the delayed construction of the road from Mahiran Gate to the railway station, shopkeepers nearby appealed to the authorities to complete the project on time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roads-connecting-rly-station-barricaded-till-march-10-210785
11-02-2021||Ajay Joshi||40 days on, victim’s family awaits justice||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 10It’s been 40 days, but the accused behind the rape and murder of a 7-year-old girl is still at large. Despite several claims of conducting raids, the police are yet to arrest him.For over a month, Manoj Kumar (name changed), the father of the victim, has been knocking the doors of the police station every day to get justice for his daughter. The victim’s body was found strangled to death in the district after being raped on January 3, last month.“Since that day, we haven’t been able to sleep. With each passing day, restlessness to see the accused behind the bars intensifies. I lost my job because of this, as I keep frequenting the police station. Despite that, we only want the accused to be arrested as early as possible,” teary-eyed Kumar said.The minor girl went missing from Hazara village in Patara district police station on January 2 evening. Her body was recovered the next day from a sugarcane field at Johal-Bolina area in Rama Mandi, Hoshiarpur Road. The cops said the victim was found brutally murdered in the fields.Investigations revealed that she was killed by Santosh, a 25-year-old migrant labourer, who abducted the girl before strangling her to death after raping her.The deceased was the eldest among the four siblings and her mother is still unable to forget the nightmare. Manoj, while on his way to the police station, said: “My wife still hasn’t been able to come out of trauma. She goes to bed hungry most of the time. The incident has taken a huge toll on her health. I have three more daughters and she is worried about them. We haven’t lost hope, but we want Santosh to be punished. As a neighbour, he betrayed our trust.” To afford two-square meals, Manoj works three days a week as a daily-wage labourer.Meanwhile, SHO, Patara police station, Rashpal Singh Siddhu, said cops are on their toes to nab the accused. After failing to locate his whereabouts in Jalandhar, two police parties were sent to his native place at Katihar district in Bihar, but to no avail. We have been trying to nab him.The girl was reportedly alone in her house, when the accused, who was residing in her neighbourhood, abducted her on the pretext on buying chocolates for her. Later, around 5.30 pm, when the victim’s parents, both migrant labourers, arrived, their daughter was missing. Victim’s friend told them that she had gone with Santosh. Subsequently, when they asked Santosh about her, he said he dropped the minor home after an hour.Meanwhile, Santosh also went underground which compelled the victim’s parents to report the incident to the police. After this, a search operation was launched and the minor’s body was recovered on January 3. Following the statements of the victim’s parents, he has been booked under Sections 302 and 376 of the IPC and the POCSO Act. The post-mortem report of the girl also confirmed physical abuse and murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/40-days-on-victims-family-awaits-justice-210786
11-02-2021||---||MC Commissioner takes stock of BMC flyover||Jalandhar, February 10A day after a crack was witnessed at the BMC flyover; MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma reached the spot along with other officials. It is pertinent to mention that its defects liability period had already got over long time back.MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma said everything was discussed by senior officials and the company that built this bridge was also informed regarding the same.“The company sent its team and the members have ensured that the technical study will be done within two-three days. Later on, remedial measures will also be taken in this regard,” the Commissioner, said, adding that he has asked the team to do the work at the earliest.He added that the approach road to the flyover had developed a crack. As per information, because of the crack, there was a bulge in the retaining walls too.Notably, the Improvement Trust had got the flyover built. Showing concern, the MC Commissioner said the team had been advised to act promptly. Officials from the Improvement Trust, and Building and Roads (B&R) department were also present on the occasion.The traffic police has for now diverted the traffic.‘Firm to submit report in 2-3 days’Parvez, a technical expert from SP Singla and Company, which constructed the bridge for the Jalandhar Improvement Trust in 2011 for Rs20 crore, visited the site on Wednesday. Commissioner Karnesh Kumar said the company official told him that the crack largely appeared on the approach road and the bridge seemed safe. He said: “I will get a detailed report from the company in two-three days. After that, we will plan for remedial measures.” The MC Commissioner said, “We will get all the bridges inspected.” We have received complaints regarding DAV flyover, Chogitti flyover and Lyallpur Khalsa College flyover.ExpertspeakDr Rajiv Kumar, assistant professor, Civil Engineering (NIT), Jalandhar, said, "The exact reason behind the crack can be known after visiting the spot. The pattern and shape of the crack are quite an indication. The crack is longitudinal, around seven inches wide and 100- ft long. There can be many reasons for the crack to appear on the bridge. It can be due to settlement of the earth, expansion of concrete and position of joints between layers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mc-commissioner-takes-stock-of-bmc-flyover-210787
11-02-2021||---||MC House to take up unipole issue||Jalandhar, February 10 The alleged scam in allotting tenders and installing unipoles across the city in violation of the advertisement bylaws is the only agenda finalised for the General House Meeting scheduled for February 19. Advertisement ad hoc committee chairperson Neerja Jain and the panel members have submitted a written report, highlighting violations in the installation of the poles. Jain, at recently held meetings with the Mayor, had pointed out major flaws, including dereliction of duty by staff members, in the process and urged the Mayor to fix the alleged anomalies. She said no meetings and requests were yielding any result, which was why they had submitted all details in writing. In the report, she mentioned that during investigation it was found that senior officials were involved in the entire malpractice and the guilty should be punished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mc-house-to-take-up-unipole-issue-210788
11-02-2021||---||It is ‘shore’ love!||Jalandhar, February 10The heart of Indians residing abroad have always been longing for the betterment of their motherland. While working and earning, they often remember the shores they have come from and to fulfill the desire of seeing their people and the place of origin in better shape, they can go to any extent, even part with the hard-earned money for which they have to leave for foreign lands.For long, non-resident Indians have been contributing for the construction of religious places. In almost every village one can see beautifully constructed gurdwaras, temples, deras but the charity has further branched out and NRI’s have started contributing to other sectors also.In Haripur village, NRIs have been instrumental in setting up of sewage treatment plant, a dispensary, gyms, a well-maintained park and what not.It is no more a village, where the residents would face problems of overflowing sewerage emanating foul smell all day long, and would pass through a filthy pond. Today, two ponds paired with the surroundings of a beautiful park and walkway enamours residents. While one is used to preserve treated water, other stores rainwater.Jagtar Singh, an NRI who has been living here in the village these days, shared that they have been helping the village under ‘Haripur Vikas Committee’, especially formed to contribute to the village.Jagtar is the vice-chairman of the committee, while his counterpart, NRI Joga Singh, who is in Canada, is the chairman. He lists out the chronology of works. “We felt the need to build a dispensary for the people of village and did so in 1983. Then in 2017, we constructed a sewerage treatment plant.” To ensure that village’s youth don’t get pulled towards wrongdoings, three gyms, including an indoor gym, have also been raised.Jagtar said there were more plans in the kitty for the village. “Our dream is to see the village grow and people should live here without facing any problems. I, along with Joga Singh, and other NRIs are fully committed to our birthplace,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/it-is-shore-love-210789
11-02-2021||---||Scant participation on Day 1||Jalandhar, February 10Sports trials held for admission to residential wings in the Sports School here saw a scant participation on Day 1, courtesy: pandemic. Last year, too, not much participation of the players was seen because no trials were held in 2019. The trials were held in the month of February in 2020.As per the official record, 140 players appeared for try-out in games like gymnastic, volleyball, boxing, athletics and football. The age group for the players is 17-19.As per the information, the players who were selected during last trials are no longer consider ‘selected’ because the lockdown was imposed in March and no wing could be started. Sources from the department said the list was ready, but since last year no wing was there, everything becomes invalid.“Some students have crossed age limit and others go through some physical changes, that is why those who are interested will have to give trials again,” sources said.The trials for day scholar players will be held on February 12, and for swimming, April has been chosen but dates are not out yet.While the sports officials said there were days when a large number of players used to turn up for the trials and competition was cut-throat, they showed a concern that for last some years the enthusiasm has somewhat dipped sharply.However, the trials will continue tomorrow and officials are hopeful that the same picture is not witnessed and the number of participants increases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/scant-participation-on-day-1-210790
11-02-2021||Jalandhar||‘Money transfer biz on path to recovery’||Even as the forex companies, financial services and money transfer firms have witnessed a massive slowdown during pandemic, TC Guruprasad, Managing Director of EbixCash, a Mumbai-based firm, said here today in Jalandhar that all such businesses had bounced back to a great extent.Giving an insight, he said “We are large players in terms of leisure and institutional businesses. We also operate in airports. In pre-Covid days, we were operating in 26 airports but as of now, we have resumed work only in 12, including New Delhi, Amritsar and Lucknow. We have not opened up in Pune, Nagpur, Vijayawada and Coimbatore. This is because primarily only Vande Bharat and Air Bubble flights are opening and Director General Civil Aviations has not allowed commercial flights. We were expecting a market bounce back in the market by February or March but it could not happen as the UK and Europe got shutdown again.The MD also announced the launching of a new product with MasterCard, “We already had our card for the past 20 years. It is a globetrotter, multi-currency forex card for which we are the issuers and not the bank. Students are taking it in large numbers and parents find it easy to top it up. They even get good discounts at stores.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/money-transfer-biz-on-path-to-recovery-210792
11-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 arrested with pistol, injections||155 boxes of liquor seizedHoshiarpur: The Sadar police have seized a truck parked near Chandigarh Bypass and recovered 155 boxes of liquor from it. Talwinder Kumar, in-charge of the Sadar police station, said the police received a tip-off that a truck was parked near Chandigarh Bypass, after which the police removed the tarpaulin from it recovered 155 boxes containing 13.95 lakh ml smuggled liquor from it. He said the price of the recovered liquor was around Rs3.5 lakh. He said a case has been registered in this regard. OCRly union Office bearer electedJalandhar: In the Union Divisional Council meeting of the railway workers, Vikas Jaitley, a union member, was unanimously elected as the Divisional Assistant Secretary of the Firozepur Railway Division. While the appointment was done in the presence of all divisional council members, Rajesh Kumar, Divisional Secretary, Ferozepur Division, in an address to the gathering, said Vikas Jaitley was a hard working leader of the railway division and has been working for five years in the post of branch secretary The appointment was welcomed by all branch presidents and branch secretaries of the division and by all office-bearers of the division. Key demands related to workers were also raised in the meeting. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-arrested-with-pistol-injections-210794
11-02-2021||Jalandhar||NIT signs MoU with NIFT, Kangra||Webinar on placementsThe placement cell of St Soldier Law College today organised a webinar on the theme ‘How to prepare for company placements’. Madhuri Sharma, an alumnus of the college, working as a special counsel in the Legal Service Department at Bengaluru, was the resource person and Assistant Professor Neha Chhinna was the moderator. Madhuri said students must prepare for a company job at least two years before the completion of the law course. She said, “The students are expected to have excellent communication skills and must also develop personality traits of a corporate manager.” The students had a long question-answer session. College Director Dr SC Sharma said such sessions would become a regular feature of the college.Online debate competitionAn online debate competition was organised for the students of Class XI of Innocent Hearts School. The students voiced their views on ‘Development of Artificial Intelligence’ and talked about pros and cons of advancement in technology. They said the technology had two perspectives and it is up to us to make the best use of it. This competition was conducted online and the judges were Ambika Pasrija, Priya Pahuja and Anju Gautam. The judges had a Herculean task judging the best out of 37 students, who took part in the competition. The first position was bagged by Vanshika Talwar, the second was taken by Vanshica Kocharand Prachi Bajaj and Parasmani and Kanan Pathak bagged third prize.Road safety, life safetyThe NSS unit of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya participated in the Road Safety Month-2021. This is being organised by the Youth and Sports Ministry of Government of India from January 18 to February 17. The theme of this campaign is ‘Road safety, life safety’. The main objective of the campaign was to apprise the citizens of road safety. The campaign was organised under the guidance of NSS Programme Officer Veena Arora, Dr Anjana Bhatia and Harmanu Paul. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen said it was the need of the hour to make everybody aware of the road safety. “Life is very precious, so we should protect it,” she added. Programme Officer Veena Arora also said accidents could be checked with awareness and intelligence. Harmanu Paul also encouraged NSS volunteers to follow the rules strictly. Principal Sareen flagged off the road safety rally and encouraged all the volunteers. On this occasion Asstt. Programme Officers Pawan Kumari and Dr Meenu Talwar were also present.National De-worming DayKanya Maha Vidyalaya observed National De-worming Day by organising a poster making activity. The event was organised by the Department of Student Welfare. During the event, students of all streams made beautiful awareness posters depicting the importance and benefits of de-worming. Students through the help of posters gave information about the causes, precautions and treatment of worms and how we can live a healthy life by avoiding intestinal worms. The posters of students namely Divya, Gurdev, Avantika and Vashika were appreciated more for their innovative design and effective message. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi appreciated the efforts of the students and faculty members for organising such social awareness events. She further maintained that it was important for the young people, especially the students, to be made aware of various health issues so that they could be able to lead a healthy life. Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, Dean, Department of Student Welfare and Sadhna Tandon for organising the event.Fun-filled day for studentsIVY World School organised a ‘Fun Day’ in the kindergarten wing. The young learners participated and enjoyed a virtual fun-filled day with fun games. There were ample games in which kids participated with full zeal and enthusiasm. The tiny tots enjoyed a freeze dance, scavenger hunt, mystery sounds and pictionary games as well as in bees race. Children showed their enthusiasm for the coin stacking making a fun face with bangles, grains and raw rice. They enjoyed their day by beading pasta in a string, pick and transfer peas, and enjoyed making numbers with kidney beans. S Chauhan, principal, Ivy World School, congratulated and appreciated the support and cooperation given by parents for the fun games.Changing business trends discussedPhagwara: The GNA University, under its academic initiative, Corporate Knowledge Infusion Series of the GNA Business School, organised a panel discussion on the theme ‘Achieving marketing resilience in turbulent times’. The main objective of this event was to acquaint the students with the changing industry or business trends, practices and strategies. The panel comprised eminent dignitaries- Atin Khanna, vice president and Priority Circle Manager, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Noida; Dilpreet Singh, Head Customer Relationship Management and Loyalty, The Oberoi Group, New Delhi and Rahul Shrivastava, Head Business Development and Strategic Initiatives, Cambay Engineering Services, Hyderabad. The panelists cited relevant examples based on their knowledge, experience and learning from various business segments such as banking and financial, hotel, consumer goods, etc to acquaint the students with the strategies employed by the business managers and marketers to increase the customer confidence, trust and engagement among the consumers to generate loyal consumers with higher patronage value. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-signs-mou-with-nift-kangra-210797
11-02-2021||Cases of students testing Covid positive are increasing in the district. Daily sampling is being done and officials of the Education Department are also adopting various ways to deal with the problem. District Education Officer (SE)||Tapping social media to raise awareness||Girls, get free coaching for competitive examsGirls in the district have a reason to cheer. Under ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ programme, free online coaching would be started for girls willing to appear for competitive exams, soon. Coaching will be given to them for preparing them for competitive examinations. Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Aditya Uppal said the classes would be extremely beneficial for girls to attain a position in their careers.Nasha mukt bharat: Adopt sports, shun drugsParticipants of kabaddi match held under Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan in Nawanshahr.A kabaddi match was organised by the district administration recently under ‘Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan’. The match was held at the Government ITI centre ground. The aim was to refrain the youth from falling prey to drugs and instead adopt sports in their lives. More than 20 students from the district took part in the kabaddi match.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tapping-social-media-to-raise-awareness-210799
