13-02-2021||Jalandhar||Showering Love on parents||Commerce Olympiad heldStudents of State Public School participated in the International Commerce Olympiad organised by International Olympiad Foundation. There were different subjects offered to the students. Pawanpreet Kaur of Class XII commerce won laurels by getting the third position. It was a proud moment for the school and the parents. President of the school Dr Narotam Singh, vice-president Dr Gagandeep Kaur and Principal Savina Bahl congratulated Pawanpreet Kaur and wished good luck for her future endeavours.PCS preliminary exam todayThe exam for Punjab Civil Services is being conducted by the Punjab Public Service Commission at Lyallpur Khalsa College and HMV College on Saturday. This information was given by the College Principals Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra and Prof Ajay Sareen, respectively, who said that all preparations regarding the exam had been made. The examination staff had been given proper training and instructions for the smooth conduct of the paper. Superintendents for these centres have been appointed. Various meetings have been scheduled with teaching and non-teaching staff of the college who are appointed in these centres in various capacities. All the important instructions and responsibilities have been given to them.Presentations on Modern PoetryStudents of PG department of English from Kanya Maha Vidyalaya gave a presentation on the topic of ‘Modern poetry’. It was a week-long activity in which students explained in detail the ‘Modernism movement’ and also discussed the various phases in 20th century English poetry development. Students also discussed the diverse themes that can be found in modern poetry namely realism, love, pessimism, nature, religion and mysticism etc. Students also gave descriptions of various modernist poets such as TS Eliot, Robert Frost, Robert Graves, Rupert Brooke, WH Auden and Basil Bunting etc. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that these type of activities helps in developing critical aptitude in the minds of the students wherein the students try to analyse the literature in critical way.National selection for skatersIn the 32nd Punjab Roller Skating Championship (2020-21), Hargun Hundal, Grade V of Innocent Hearts School, Green Model Town bagged the second position along with two silver medals in line skating in 5000 meters and 2000 metres and she brought laurels to the alma mater by being selected for national level. She also got the third position and won a bronze medal in 1000 meters in line skating. Ekampreet of Grade VIII also captured the third position in 100 metres in line skating. Pranav Sandal of Class VIII Innocent Hearts School, Loharan Branch, bagged the second position at district level in Air Pistol Shooting Championship (under-14) and also selected for state Level. Rajiv Paliwal, Principal of Green Model Town branch and Shallu Sehgal, Principal, Loharan branch, congratulated the victorious students and their proud parents. Sanjeev, HOD of the Sports Department, also congratulated the students.TNSNIT signs MoUGovernment Millennium Polytechnic, Chamba; Government Polytechnic, Kinnaur; and Government Polytechnic, Rohru have signed Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) with Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT) Jalandhar. Puneet Mahajan, Principal, GMP Chamba,and Ashok S Pathak, Principal, GP Kinnaur and Rohru, signed these MoUs with Prof L K Awasthi, director, Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, with a view to help organise workshops, seminars, conferences (online and offline) on emerging issues related to mental health and well-being of youth based on the mutual discussion. It was decided that the MoUs will be more focused towards the students training and field visits, skill development programmes, curriculum design, guest/expert lectures, faculty development programmes, placements of trained students, sharing of facilities, and stipends. Prof Awasthi, Director, Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, expressed his well wishes for all the four institutions while signing these MoUs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/showering-love-on-parents-211703
13-02-2021||---||Govt school named after Comrade Harkrishan Singh Surjit||Jalandhar, February 12Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Friday said to commemorate and laud the contribution of renowned personalities, the state government has named five government schools after martyrs.A government school situated at Bundala village in Jalandhar district has been named after Comrade Harkrishan Singh Surjit. Now, the school will be known as Comrade Harkrishan Singh Surjit Government Senior Secondary School, Bundala. Having served as a national general secretary of CPI (M), he passed away in 2008 at the age of 92.Singla said apart from implementing the name changing policy in a transparent manner, the state government has ensured improvement in quality of school education. The minister said results of reforms introduced by their government has shown positive results, which were visible as enrolment and results improved incredibly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-school-named-after-comrade-harkrishan-singh-surjit-211700
13-02-2021||---||Swami Dayanand Saraswati remembered||Jalandhar, February 12DAV University celebrated the birth anniversary of Swami Dayanand Saraswati – a great social reformer and founder of the Arya Samaj. The function aimed at creating awareness about his contribution in promoting equal rights for women, including the right to education and reading of Indian scriptures.Denounced idolatryThe function started with the yajna held at the newly constructed yagyashala on the campus. The yagyashala was surrounded by 10 havan kunds representing different departments of the university where the members of the teaching, non-teaching staff and students performed yajna. The entire campus reverberated with the chants of the Vedic mantras.The chief guest at the function was Kundan Lal Aggarwal, a noted Arya Samaj missionary and philanthropist. Addressing the students, the officiating vice-chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi said Swamiji denounced idolatry and ritualistic worship and worked for reviving Vedic ideologies. She said that Swami Dayanand Saraswati was the first to give the call for Swaraj as ‘India for Indians’ in 1876, a call later taken up by Lokmanya Tilak.Earlier, welcoming the guests and students, Dr KN Kaul, officiating Registrar, said Swami Dayanand Saraswati influenced many people, including Swami Shraddhanand, Bhagat Singh, Lala Hardayal, Madan Lal Dhingra, Ram Prasad Bismil, Mahatma Hansraj and Lala Lajpat Rai. Arun, a student of B Tech CSE, shared his views on the life of Swamiji. Other dignitaries, including Dr RK Seth, dean Academics, and coordinators of different departments were also present at the function.A competition to depict the life and contribution of Swami Dayanand Saraswati was also organised by the Fine Arts Club of the University. Results: Poster making: Rabia (first), Aniket (second), Sapna (third); oil pastel: Gaurav (first), Anjali (second) and Aishwariya (third); watercolour painting: Neeraj (first).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/swami-dayanand-saraswati-remembered-211701
13-02-2021||Phillaur||Stone laid for upgradation of Gandhi Dham||Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Friday laid the foundation stone of renovation, beautification and upgradation works to be undertaken at Gandhi Dham memorial situated at Panj Dheran village here.It was on this day 73 years ago that the ashes of father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi, were immersed in Satluj and later a memorial was named Gandhi Dham and established at the same place. MP Chaudhary said the condition of the memorial was rickety and significant renovation work was needed to preserve its historic value.“For this work, due to the efforts of Phillaur assembly in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary, the state government has approved Rs2.3 crore. It is vital that we preserve our heritage and remember the sacrifices of freedom fighters,” he added. Chaudhary thanked the Punjab Chief Minister for approving the grant and informed that the Block Panchayat Samiti would complete the work by October 2. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stone-laid-for-upgradation-of-gandhi-dham-211702
13-02-2021||---||Lyallpur Khalsa College holds kavi darbar on ‘Kisan Andolan’||Jalandhar, February 12The PG Department of Punjabi from Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Jalandhar, organised a kavi darbar titled ‘Kisan Andolan De Sandarb Vich’ to support the nationwide protest of farmers on the campus here today.Principal Dr Navjot Kaur, in her address, saluted the courage of the 80-year-old mothers who are determined, are standing shoulder to shoulder holding the kisan unions’ flags and are leading the agitation. She also demanded that the government should scrap such black laws.The initial recital was by Dr Mukhvir Singh who pondered that the human existence has been degraded to the size of ants. Prof Navroop recited poem on the rebellion of peace loving Indian farmers which has set an example for the whole world. Prof Sandeep Singh recited poem on the pitiful condition of farmers while Prof Kuljit recited a poem dedicated to Indian farmers.Dr Tejinder Kaur also recited a poem on celebration of Indian farmer’s strength, positive outlook and courage. Prof Seema Jain recited a cry about the exploitation of farmers. Dr. Amardeep Deol presented an emotional outburst in the form of a satire on rulers who exploit the poor farmers. Dr Ram Murti’s poem commented on short sightedness cruelty and cheap tactics of powerful rulers.Sant Sandhu presented a metaphorical poem in which he challenged the policies of the government. The poets beautifully expressed their emotions and feelings in melodious words. The audience was enthralled and kept in flowing with the speakers and poets. The stage was conducted by Dr Akal Amrit Kaur, Head, PG Department of Punjabi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lyallpur-khalsa-college-holds-kavi-darbar-on-kisan-andolan-211690
13-02-2021||---||PCS (J) result: Six students felicitated||Jalandhar, February 12Six passout students from Law Department of Guru Nanak Dev University (Regional Campus), Ladhewali, who had cleared the Punjab Civil Services (Judicial), were felicitated on the campus on Friday.Simran, a successful candidateWe had completed the course work for the LLM and were preparing our dissertations when we appeared for the exam. We cracked the preliminary exam without coaching. This happened because we used to study six to seven hours daily after reaching back from college.The students who cleared the exam include Simran, BA LLB (2013-2018) and LLM, (2018-19); Parveen, BA LLB (2013-2018) and LLM (2018-19); Jaskiran Sondh, BA LLB (2013-18), LLM (2018-19); Jasika Vij, LLB (2005-2008) and LLM (2010-2012); Keshav Agnihotri, BA LLB (2008-2013); and Shivani, LLB (2014-2017).Parveen, Simran and Jaskiran, who were batchmates shared tips with juniors on cracking exams. The trio said they did not take any coaching for preliminary exam. “We had completed course work for LLM and were preparing our dissertations when we appeared for the exam. Without coaching, we cracked the preliminary exam. This happened because we were very thorough with our subjects. We used to study six to seven hours daily after the college,” said Simran.She said, “Thereafter, we joined an academy in Chandigarh and prepared for the interview, which carried 100 marks.”Parveen shared his life’s odds, “My father is serving as a driver in a private company. I am the first person in my family to have even passed matriculation. My family always had high hopes from me and I am happy having fulfilled their dreams.”Jaskiran said, “I took family law as specialisation in LLM, which really helped me crack the exam.” Dr Jyoteesh Malhotra, Associate Dean, GNDU Regional Campus, congratulated the passout students and wished them success in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pcs-j-result-six-students-felicitated-211691
13-02-2021||---||CT Public School students lift cricket trophy in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, February 12With an aim to promote sports among students, the CT Group of Institutions organised an Inter-School U-19 Cricket Tournament in which 16 schools participated. The participating schools included Innocents Hearts School, Tagore Public School Nakodar, Cambridge International School, DPS Jalandhar, CT Public School, Police DAV Public School Jalandhar, ND Victor Public School Jalandhar Cantt, Government Senior Secondary School, Ladowali Road, and APJ School.A week-long tournament terminated with the finale match between Police DAV Public School and CT Public School. A brief preview included DAV Police Public School defeated Apeejay Public School by 58 runs in the first finals whereas the CT Public School won the second semi final against Delhi Public School by 52 runs. The final match was played between CT Public School and DAV Public School.CT Public School won the championship beating Police DAV Public School by nine runs. The winning team received a cash prize of Rs 11,000 whereas the first runners up received Rs 5,100 along with trophies. Kamal was adjudged as ‘Man of the Match’ and ‘Man of the Series’ as well. Padma Shri Bahadur Singh (Olympian) was the chief guest of the valedictory function whereas Iqbal Singh Sandhu, District Mentor, and Vikas Chadha, Block Mentor, remained ‘Guests of Honor’ for the occasion. CT Group Chairman Charanjit S Channi, Vice Chairman Harpreet Singh and the organisers Dr Vaneet Thakur, Sansar Chand and Davinder Singh congratulated the winners and all teams for participating in the tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ct-public-school-students-lift-cricket-trophy-in-jalandhar-211695
13-02-2021||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Rebels giving tough fight in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, February 12While Congress has fielded candidates in all 50 wards of the Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation, Bharatiya Janata Party and Shiromani Akali Dal, which are contesting polls separately for the first time, failed to field their candidates in all the wards.The BJP fielded its former councillors to contest from other wards and the Akalis shunned their Panthic agenda and fielded candidates from different sections of society. The AAP, which has been contesting civic body polls for the first time, managed to field 50 nominees.At the same time, a large number of rebel candidates from various parties, were in the fray as Independents. As a result, close contest can be expected in many wards.The most talked about wards with Independent nominees include Ward No. 6 and 34. In Ward No. 6, Congress took a big risk by not giving a ticket to its three-time councillor Brahmshankar Jimpa. Candidates from various parties were trying hard to gain ground in Jimpa’s ward.Similar is the case in Ward No. 34, where the BJP refrained from giving ticket to its former councillor couple - Sanjeev Dua and Sunita Dua. Sanjeev filed his nomination papers as an Independent candidate. The ward had councillors from Dua family for five times. Sanjeev and his wife Sunita had been councillors from this ward for two consecutive terms.The candidates fielded by AAP and Congress in Ward No. 34 were not residents of this area while BJP’s nominee’s ‘criminal’ record may cost dearer to the saffron party. After Khraiti Lal Katna was denied ticket by Congress, Katna and his daughter-in-law (Monica) jumped into the fray as Independents. The MC election has become a prestige issue for former cabinet minister Tikshan as his wife Rakesh Sood is in the fray from Ward No. 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rebels-giving-tough-fight-in-hoshiarpur-211698
13-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||Lt Gen Bikram Singh's ancestral village gets statue, memorial and library||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 12On November 22, 1963, the day the former US President John F Kennedy was assassinated, a numbing incident also unfolded here in India. A copter crash at Poonch in Jammu consumed five senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Air Force.Lieutenant General Daulat Singh, General Officer Commanding In Chief, Western Command, Lieutenant General Bikram Singh, General Officer Commanding, 15 Corps, Air Vice-Marshal Erlic Wilmot Pinto, Air Officer Commanding, Western Command, Major General Nalin Kumar Dhirajlal Nanavati, Military Cross, General Officer Commanding 25 Infantry Division, Brigadier SR Oberoi, Military Cross, Commander 93 Infantry Brigade and Flight Lieutenant SS Sodhi were the victims.The generals were en route a reconnaissance mission and the accident impacted a protocol change wherein senior generals of the army were banned from traveling together in future. “This was the first major accident in which Indian Army and Air Force officers lost their lives,” Brig (retd) Onkar Singh Goraya says.A native of the Kahma village in Nawanshahr, Lt Gen Bikram Singh, also famous as the ‘hero of Ladakh’ is all set to get a memorial at his ancestral village (Nanka pind) of Siana (in Nawanshahr). Last year on November 22, Finance Minister of Punjab Manpreet Badal unveiled a statue and laid the foundation stone of a library and museum in his memory there.“In think in the crash we lost a future army chief. He was a hero. The government of Punjab thinks people ought to have a sense of history to get a sense of destiny. We want the future generations to remember him. The government is installing a statue and setting up a library in his memory. We are open to contributions of documents and other memorabilia from the Rajput Regiment and his family as well for the memorial,” the minister says.Lost in obscurity, this revival of his legacy has triggered nostalgia among people. In Jammu and Ladakh, his portraits can still be found in houses, while grocers, dhabas and paan walahs don’t charge money, as a token of respect, from the family whenever they visit and a Jammu committee still fights to get his statue shifted to a more prominent location of the town. A gurdwara at Bikram Chowk (named after him) in Jammu is also graced by his portrait.Brig (retd) Goraya, tells, “The general perception among people was that he saved Ladakh. I was posted as a second lieutenant in the early 60s. The first time I travelled to Kashmir Bikram Singh was the Corps Commander at the headquarters in Udhampur. He was worshipped by most of the Kashmiris because he maintained peace and was apolitical. They were very happy with him and many households had his photographs hung.”Lt Gen HS Panag talks about his departed counterpart. “Bikram Singh had a sterling reputation as a general in Ladakh. People were quite happy to see him. There is no doubt that Ladakh was a much better battle than the one fought in NEFA. However, the withdrawal from Chushul remained controversial.”Twin committees keep him alive||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lt-gen-bikram-singhs-ancestral-village-gets-statue-memorial-and-library-211686
13-02-2021||---||Amid incidents of violence, campaigning ends in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, February 12Amid incidents of violence reported in Kapurthala and Adampur, campaigning for 22 civic bodies ended on Friday in various parts of Doaba.Polling is scheduled for February 14 for the Municipal Corporations of Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, municipal councils of Sultanpur Lodhi, Nawanshahr, Banga, Rahon, Kartarpur, Adampur, Alawalpur, Nakodar, Nurmahal, Phillaur, Mukerian, Tanda, Mahilpur, Garhdiwala, Hariana, Sham Churasi, Dasuya, Garhshankar, and nagar panchayats of Mehatpur and Lohian Khas.At Ward No. 34 of Kapurthala, workers of Congress and SAD indulged in violence today evening. Stones and bricks were pelted by supporters of candidates from the two parties. Four workers, including a woman got injured during the brawl and were immediately admitted to the Civil Hospital for treatment.Both factions blamed one another for the violence. A Congress supporter, Jaspreet Singh, who suffered injuries on his hand and head, said he was campaigning for party candidate Narendra Singh when some Akali workers attacked him. Injured woman, Amandeep Kaur, said Congress workers manhandled her and even threw bricks at her. Arvinder Singh and Manjinder Singh, too, got hurt in the incident.In another incidence of violence in Adampur on Thursday evening, Akashdeep, husband of a candidate (Kanu) from Ward No.7 was attacked with sharp-edged weapons while he was returning home after the day’s campaign.Kanu has the support of Akalis. SAD MLA from the area said, “The victim was hit so brutally that he had to undergo multiple surgeries. His thumb got completely cut and doctors have said that his two fingers may not work properly.” The entire incident got captured on CCTV cameras and cops were saying that they were identifying bike-borne miscreants. While Kapurthala Municipal Corporation is going for polls for the first time, Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation will get its second House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-incidents-of-violence-campaigning-ends-in-jalandhar-211687
13-02-2021||Ajay Joshi||Anything for the love of spines & succulents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 12While most of the people detest the idea of growing cactus in their gardens, Navdeep Singh, a city resident, is out to dispel the myth. With around 2,000 varieties of cacti and succulents, he is also trying to create awareness regarding the benefits of growing these plants.It was in 2015 when he met cactus lovers and was immediately drawn towards beautifying his balcony with cacti. He regularly started keeping more and more varieties of cactus and succulents in his garden. After collecting these from various parts of the country and through the exhibitions, he has dedicated the top floor of the house to the thorny plants.“I started up with roadside cacti plants, I gathered more information on cactus and found out that there are hundreds of breeds of plants, including those that produce flowers,” said Navdeep.Refusing to believe that cacti bring ill-luck to its owner, Singh has also named his home as ‘Passion Garden (Cactus House)’.A resident of the Model House here, he is regularly visited by those having a green thumb. They also purchase plants from him.Most growers share seeds among themselves. “Getting seeds and saplings of cacti is very difficult since people are wary of having these plants,” says Singh. “All over the country there are a few nurseries that sell these plants. Having imported some plants from foreign countries, I usually order cactus and succulents from Calcutta, Rajasthan, Pune and other states. We have our association of cactus lovers,” added Navdeep. While he does the plantation job, his wife, Gurmeet Kaur keeps their cacti garden decorated. Different kinds of pots are kept in different corners to give the required shape to their plants.Navdeep Says, he also has plants that last nearly 40-50 years. He is the proud owner of rare and expensive breeds of cactus; astrophytum myriostigma crest and astrophytum capricorne. As these are very expensive plants, he says, “I don’t really care about my expenses when it comes to spending on these.”While officials from different agriculture universities in the state visit his garden to see the unusual cacti collection, he has contributed in making a cactus park at Bhawanigarh in Patiala.Nurturing cactiThese are low maintenance plants. They are perennial plants which means they keep growing year after year. “Cactus should be sowed in pots having good drainage, and placed under adequate sunlight. We make the adequate porus soil for them on own and also mix charcoal in the pots to soak the extra water. The flowers in cactus and succulents usually grow after mid February. Even during the summers the colourful flowers in cacti blooms like a rainbow in blue clouds,” said Navdeep. He and his wife have also created new varieties of cacti in their garden by cross pollination, grafting and seed germination methods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/anything-for-the-love-of-spines-succulents-211704
13-02-2021||---||Covid-19: No stopping, 122 students test +ve in Nawanshahr||Jalandhar, February 12The coronavirus again spread its tentacles in the district from where it actually began almost a year ago. As 122 students tested positive in Nawanshahr schools, parents have become panicky. Rapid sampling is being done in the schools. The everyday increase in the infections, regarding students, in Nawanshahr has become a major cause of concern for the Education and Health Departments. Along with them, 17 staff members have also caught the virus.Dr Shena Aggarwal, Deputy CommissionerDuring the assembly, the students are being asked to put on their masks and maintain distance. We are increasing our awareness activities and are continuously reviewing the situation with the school principals.Government High School, Saloh, was the first to come under the effect and now a high number of students have also tested positive at Government High School, Balachaur, and Government Senior Secondary School, Nawanshahr, and Government Senior Secondary School, Karyam. Such is the situation that the Health Department has sought permission from the state authorities to start vaccination of the teachers in the school.Senior health officials said that after the students started testing positive, they decided to conduct sampling in every government and private school of Nawanshahr and the 100% testing of the staff and the teachers will be done now. Samples of the students and staff have already been taken from 26 schools in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapur said every possible measure was being taken to tackle the problem. “We have now sought permission from the state department to vaccinate the teachers of the schools. The permission has been granted and now the data of the teachers is being prepared,” he said, adding that proper awareness campaigns were also started in the schools.Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal said according to the guidelines from Government of India, the staff of Education Department, which is on Covid duty, will be vaccinated. “During the assembly, the students are being aware to put on their masks and maintain distance. We are increasing our awareness activities and are continuously reviewing the situation with the school principals,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-no-stopping-122-students-test-ve-in-nawanshahr-211705
