14-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||All set: Polling for eight civic bodies today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 13With Ward No.11 in Kartarpur going the Congress way uncontested, the fate of remaining 415 candidates from 109 wards of eight local bodies of Jalandhar will be decided on Sunday. As many as 1,15,633 voters of the district will exercise their franchise.A total of 125 booths have been set up in the district for six municipal councils of Adampur, Alawalpur, Kartarpur, Nakodar, Nurmahal and Phillaur and two nagar panchayats, including Lohian Khas and Mehatpur. Four officials for each booth have been dispatched with EVMs and polling material to conduct voting. Other than the 500 designated polling officials, nearly 120 government employees have been kept in the reserve. Almost 20 employees have been deployed at the headquarters to oversee arrangements, do all correspondence and mobilise staff or material as and when required.AAP candidates outnumber CongCongress has not fielded any candidate on its symbol in Adampur, Alawalpur and Nurmahal. In all, it has fielded only 65 candidates from 110 wards. Surprisingly, Aam Aadmi Party has fielded 72 candidates in Jalandhar.BJP, BSP have same number of nomineesEven as Jalandhar is a hub of BJP’s activities, the saffron party has fielded only 17 candidates leaving as many as 93 out of 110 wards without a candidate. The party has failed to field its candidates in Kartarpur, Lohian Khas or Mehatpur. Surprisingly, BJP and Bahujan Samaj Party have fielded an equal number of candidates in the district. SAD is slightly better off. Even though polling is being held in areas, which have been strongholds of SAD during its tenure, Akalis have not fielded any of its candidates in Kartarpur, Nakodar and Nurmahal. In Alawalpur also, the party has its lone nominee.Some interesting contestsA couple is in the fray from two wards of the Kartarpur MC. While former MC chief Prince Arora is contesting on the Congress symbol from Ward No.6, his wife Jyoti Arora is an Independent candidate from Ward No.4. The couple deliberately chose not to contest on symbol from Ward No.4 so as to garner more votes.Similarly, Darshan Karwal and Harjinder Karwal, who are brothers, are contesting from Ward No. 6 and Ward No. 7 of Adampur MC. The duo who had previously been with SAD and had later joined Congress were contesting as Independents. They formed their own group in Adampur called Karwal group, all of whom were contesting on an election symbol ‘farmer riding tractor’.AAP flays attack on its candidate’s house Jalandhar: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has strongly condemned the attack on the residence of the AAP candidate from Ward No.7 in Lohian Khas, Rajni Bala, blaming Congress workers for the same. In a joint statement, district rural president of the party Principal Prem Kumar and district urban president Rajwinder Kaur said fearing defeat in the local body elections, the Congress party now wanted to loot the elections. They said, “On Friday, some Cong-backed goons attacked the residence of AAP candidate Rajni Bala from Ward No.7 in Lohian Khas.” The miscreants smashed the lights of the house, intimidated and pressurised her into withdrawing her candidature. They said, “Some Congressmen had perhaps indulged in such an act to give a signal that if the AAP candidate contested the elections, she would have to pay a heavy price.” They said as soon as they got to know about the incident, a large number of AAP volunteers rushed to the spot and the police were called. They alleged that instead of taking action against Congress workers, the police started threatening the AAP volunteers stating that they were ruining the atmosphere. “The traditional parties are afraid of a new change going to be introduced by a third party which is pro-people. That is why the Congress wants to spoil the elections by intimidating the AAP candidates,” they said. The leaders further said the Aam Aadmi Party was not afraid of the Congress goons. They said the AAP had lodged a complaint with the Punjab State Election Commission against bullying by the Congress and demanded that paramilitary forces be deployed in the state to conduct the elections in a free and fair manner. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-set-polling-for-eight-civic-bodies-today-212206
14-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||Amid farm stir, only two candidates fighting on BJP ticket from Phillaur||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 13A group of farmers from her own Bacchowal village came to the house of Gurpreet Kaur, BJP candidate from Phillaur’s Ward Number 9, asking her not to contest the election from the party. But amid heavy opposition, Gupreet (21) and Navdeep Singh (30) are the only two BJP candidates from Phillaur, of a total of 15 wards, who are contesting on the party ticket.While Gurpreet is a pharmacist, who runs her own clinic, Navdeep is a journalist, who contributes for a YouTube news channel started by a friend.While Navdeep hasn’t personally been pressurised or persuaded by anyone not to contest from the BJP, Gurpreet has. However, she says despite her decision to stick to the party, farmers left amicably.Gurpreet said: “On February 11, several elders and farm leaders from my village came to me. They asked me why I was standing with the BJP, when many farmers were dying at the protest sites. They said if I stick to the party, I should be willing to face opposition in future. They will not back me but farmers. They said they won’t oppose me if I contested as an independent. But till then, my nominations had already been filed. My decision had been made. Farmers although made it clear that their opposition wasn’t against me as an individual but only towards the party.”The 21-year-old who was appointed the general secretary of the BJP mahila morcha hails from a family that has a 20-year-old association with the BJP. Both her grandfather (retired DSP Sr Puran Singh) and her uncle have been associated with the party. Both she and her father run separate clinics. Ahead of the poll, her clinic remained closed for days as she remained busy in canvassing.Kaur says: “Other than that, I have been freely canvassing in my area and I stick to my party. I have been honoured with responsibilities, which I will carry out diligently. As far as the farm agitation is concerned, I think much of it is political and provoked by other political parties. I hope an amicable solution is sought soon. My aim is to highlight the Central Government’s schemes in the area and get these implemented. That is what I have been laying stress on during my campaign too.”Navdeep, the 30 year old property dealer as well as a part-time journalist, who lives in Phillaur town is contesting from Ward No. 11. Unlike Kaur, he hasn’t been requested by anyone not to contest from the BJP. However, he says he stands in solidarity with farmers. Navdeep who was previously in the BSP supported the Akali-BJP combine for many years and has now chosen to contest from the BJP.He says: “I have never faced hostility because I am from the BJP. Yes, there is opposition to farm laws, but no one approached me for not contesting from the party. I hail from a village and I stand with farmers. If local people are chosen as BJP representatives, we will be in a better position to get the voice of the farmers across to the high command. We want the farmers’ issues to be resolved. I am all for an amicable solution.”Speaking about the area, he says: “Our area has seen very little work. I plan to work on street lights, water supply, roads, garbage disposal and completion of the long-pending Valmiki dhaam.”Others contesting as IndependentsStaff leave for 223 booths in Hoshiarpur district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-farm-stir-only-two-candidates-fighting-on-bjp-ticket-from-phillaur-212207
14-02-2021||---||Farmers on pucca morcha against mining mafia||Jalandhar, February 13Even though it has been 13 days since the members of Kirti Kisan Union have been sitting on a pucca morcha against the mining mafia along the Beas at Baja village of Sultanpur Lodhi, the officials concerned have not paid any heed to their demand so far.Villagers from Mangupur, Hussainpur Dullowal, Sujokalia, Burewal, Baja, Patti Safdarpur and Talwandi Chaudrian villages held a press conference on Friday alleging that the Mining Department had so far not paid any heed to their demand of stopping mining at the site, which could lead to flooding of their 20,000 acre fertile land and ruining their crops.Raghbir Singh, block president, Kirti Kisan Union, said: “At the site where mining is being done, the river has already changed its course and has started corroding our land. We have been demanding that spurs be put up to strengthen the bandh and save our land. Instead of giving us any compensation later, the administration should pay a heed to our demands, cancel the site for mining and strengthen its edges.”Rajinder Singh, Shamsher Singh, Mohan Singh, Resham Singh, Labh Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Sukhwinder Singh also shared the same grievance.GS Pannu, SDO, drainage, said: “The mining company officials are in the process of taking away their entire machinery from the site and shifting it elsewhere. They just have the weighing apparatus left at the site, which, too, would be moved anytime. They have said that they cannot operate with farmers’ protest going at the site.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-on-pucca-morcha-against-mining-mafia-212209
14-02-2021||Kapurthala||Fate of 238 candidates to be sealed today in Kapurthala, Sultanpur Lodhi||Voters from Kapurthala city and Sultanpur Lodhi town would use their franchise tomorrow as the polling for the two local bodies (municipal corporation and municipal council) would be held from 8 am to 4 pm.In the poll, the fate of candidates for 49 wards of the Kapurthala Municipal Corporation and 13 wards of Sultanpur Lodhi municipal council would be decided. Munish Aggarwal, Congress candidate from Ward No.8 of the Kapurthala MC, has already been declared winner unopposed.A total of 196 candidates are in the fray for the Kapurthala MC, while 42 candidates are in the fray for the Sultanpur Lodhi MC. The district administration has set up 96 polling booths for both the civic bodies, out of which 81 are in Kapurthala and 15 in Sultanpur Lodhi.In the Kapurthala MC, 69,327 voters would be able to exercise their democratic right, out of which 35,739 are men and 33,575 are women voters. While 13 voters belong to third gender, the Sultanpur Lodhi MC has 12,764 voters. District Election Officer-cum-DC (Kapurthala) Deepti Uppal said as per the instructions of the State Election Commission, the Covid-19 protocols would be strictly followed during the voting. She said four duty magistrates had been posted in Kapurthala and two in Sultanpur Lodhi for good coordination between the civil and police administrations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fate-of-238-candidates-to-be-sealed-today-in-kapurthala-sultanpur-lodhi-212210
14-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||Woman clears PCS (J) after 14 yrs of marriage||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 13She first dreamt of it in 2017 and saw it come true in 2021.Jesica Vij, a doting mother to two kids, has cracked the PCS (Judicial) exam this year after 14 years of her marriage. Already working as a lecturer at Army College, Mohali, she now readies for her new innings in life with the support of her family.While her husband Many Mittu is a judicial magistrate in Chandigarh, she had been harbouring the dream of cracking the judicial services for the past many years.“My husband has been a constant source of inspiration for me. He had been asking me to appear for the exam. I made my first attempt in 2017 and cleared the prelims and mains but couldn’t clear the interview. I gave it a shot again and here I am,” she said. While her 13-year-old son Armaan is in Class VI, her seven-year-old daughter is in Class II.Wasn’t it difficult with kids?“I am lucky enough to have been blessed with a family which keeps inspiring me to do better. My husband, in-laws and parents had been there with their perennial support. They always pitched in during my exams to help me study. My kids have also been adorable and quite adjusting all this while. They would see me studying and take out their own books to do their homework. Since my husband is also in the judiciary, the environment at home has been very conducive. I got to learn a lot through his experience this field.”Vij has taught at the Khalsa College of Law, Amritsar, and was working as a lecturer at the Army Institute of Law, Mohali. She had been in touch with her subject. “My connection with this field never broke since I was always working,” she says. Speaking on what attracted her to this field, she said, “I always feel justice delayed is justice denied. When we go to a judge or doctor, we do get butterflies in our stomach. Instances where people wait years to seek justice propelled me to achieve something big in my field. Their problems and disputes should be addressed as early as possible.”While her exam results got delayed by a year, she has no qualms about it. “I remained positive even through the pandemic and I somehow knew that it would all end in something good.”Her advice to other working mothers with kids is: “Fortune favours the brave. Even the word ‘impossible’ says ‘I am Possible’. Women should go after their dreams no matter what stage of life they are in.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-clears-pcs-j-after-14-yrs-of-marriage-212212
14-02-2021||---||Admn grants Rs1 lakh to Sanjivani, to bear girls’ education||Jalandhar, February 13 To ensure a better living standard and make the needy girls self-reliant at Sanjivani Sudhar Greh, run by the Association for Social Health in India (ASHI), Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday announced a grant of Rs1 lakh and bear the expenditure of the education of all girls there.  Accompanied by the officials of Social Security, Women and Child Development Department, the DC, who visited the home the first time, said the administration was committed to providing fulsome support to such centres, which were working for the betterment of the needy persons, especially girls.   He said the comprehensive grooming of these girls was the need of the hour to secure their bright future. The DC said the girls residing there must be provided best facilities for ensuring their overall development  Social worker Parminder Beri, who is the main functionary of the Sanjivani, told the DC that 18 girls have been living presently here and are studying in various schools and colleges. She said the girls were also learning tailoring, embroidery, computer besides free shelter, food, medical and legal aid was being provided to them.   The DC told the functionaries to take special care in terms of security and good environment for girls living in the place. He said Sudhar Greh Scheme was started by the government for the rehabilitation of the girls above 18, who were either deserted or without any social and economic support.  Meanwhile, Thori also visited the Missionaries of Charity and took the stock of arrangements made for the specially-abled girls living there. He asked officers of the district administration to frequently visit these institutes to keep a regular tab over the facilities being offered to the hapless children in such institutes.  Prominent among those present occasion included District Programme Officer Gurminder Singh Randhawa, Legal Probation Officer Sandeep Kumar, Child Protection Officer Harneet Kaur and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admn-grants-rs1-lakh-to-sanjivani-to-bear-girls-education-212213
14-02-2021||---||Candle march: Remembering those who died for a cause||Jalandhar, February 13 Amid the ongoing protest against three contentious farm laws, farmers under the banner of Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee, on Saturday announced to organise a candlelight march to pay tribute to farmers who lost their lives during the protest. The candlelight march will be organised tomorrow on the streets of the Model Town. Members of the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee, appealed to the residents to gather in large numbers to participate in the candle march. “Our brothers have been staying put on the outskirts of the national capital for over 70 days now. While, we will continue to protest till the laws are withdrawn, we want support from the locals to keep the spirit of farmers high. A large number of people from villages, across the district will participate in the candle march, but this time, we also need support of people residing in the city area,” said, Gurpreet Singh Atwal, a member of the committee. The candle march will begin from Model Town Gurdwara. Apart from the march, the farm leaders also demanded dismissal of FIR against Novdeep Kaur and other farmers who were still kept inside the jails. Blueprint for mahapanchayat and rail roko protest was also announced by the farmers. The leaders said they would block the railway lines on February 18 at Kala Bakra railway station, near Pathankot road highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/candle-march-remembering-those-who-died-for-a-cause-212214
14-02-2021||Jalandhar||One dies, 17 test +ve in Jalandhar district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-dies-17-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-212216
14-02-2021||For city-based Simran Chaudhary (30)||‘Virus was not much harsh on us’||“It all started with a fever. I continued taking normal medicine for fever. But after three days, I lost the sense of taste and smell. That hit the bell and alarmed me that something was not right. I immediately quarantined myself in a room, and started taking necessary precautions, advised by the Health Department.But my four year-old daughter developed cough and cold. That was the time I got scared and the next day, my husband developed fever too. I tried to remain calm, but I got more worried for both of them. I just ate right and had my meals on time. I had a concoction of several herbs, a lot of vitamin- C drinks, and other immunity boosters along with turmeric milk.My daughter’s health improved in just a few days and my husband was also fine, and they both recovered later on. I heaved a sigh of relief. I think it is all a psychological game.But still, there was a little weakness, and we all remained inside completely and were having nutritious diet. I kept in touch with my family and friends via phone and they also kept my morale high.So, I am thankful to the Almighty that my family’s health remained fine and we did not have face much difficulty. Although, now there is a decrease in the cases, I would still suggest everyone to take precautions and don’t have a casual approach towards the virus.(As told to Aakanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virus-was-not-much-harsh-on-us-212219
14-02-2021||Jalandhar||World Radio Day celebrated||Women EntrepreneurshipApeejay Institute of Management and Engineering is organising a four-week ‘Women Entrepreneurship Development Programme’ sponsored by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, which started on Saturday. The chief guest for the event was Dr Rajesh Bagga, director of the institute. He said that the programme is organised to motivate girl students of the institute to start their own entrepreneurial ventures. Dr Bagga further mentioned than in the contemporary times, entrepreneurship has changed the mindset of youth and rather than seeking jobs, they are more inclined towards starting their own ventures. The principal coordinator for the event is Dr Arvind Dhingra, Executive Director, The Science and Technology Entrepreneurs Park (STEP)- Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) and the Course Coordinator is Gurpreet Kaur, STEP-GNDEC.Havan organised in hostelKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a havan in the hostel for the bright future and good health of its students. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi was welcomed by the hostel residents with flowers. During the occasion, the beautiful hostel of KMV resonated with the sacred chants and hymns. Students and the faculty members participated in the havan with full zeal and enthusiasm. Principal gave her best wishes to the faculty and the students and prayed for a happiness and prosperity of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya. She also motivated the students to do hard work in order to attain success in their lives. Parminder Kaur, Dr Neeraj Sharma, dean, Resident Life and hostel warden Paramjeet Kaur, Balwinder Kaur and Jagjit Kaur were also present on the occasion.Webinar on Swachh SurvekshanA webinar on ‘Importance of citizen feedback form Swachh Survekhshan- 2021’ was organised at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar. The webinar was conducted under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen. Seminar coordinator and moderator Dr Anjana Bhatia gave a warm welcome to all the dignitaries. Karmesh Sharma, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation Jalandhar, Harcharan Singh, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation Jalandhar, Dr Puran Singh Yadav, Project Director, Swachh Bharat Mission, Punjab, Ramanpreet Kaur, Programme Coordinator, (PMIDC) MCJ, Jalandhar, graced the event with their presence. Principal Sareen encouraged everyone to fill the Citizen Feedback form as it will enhance the contribution both qualitatively and quantitatively. Key speaker Dr Puran Singh Yadav, Project Director, Swachh Bharat Mission, Punjab, elaborated the objective and working of the project Swachh Survekhshan and requested everyone to fill the feedback form and give their contribution in the mission.District shooting competitionKapurthala: Thirty students of Army Public School, Beas, under the supervision of their shootinsg coach Neeraj participated in the District Shooting Competition conducted at G D Goenka School Kapurthala. Students from eight other schools and one college participated in the event. Giving them a tough competition, 23 students of Army Public School grabbed a win. As they showed their consistency by grabbing nine gold medals (Sunobar Bilal, Ishita Yadav, Sukhmani Sethi, Deepanshi Singh, Saganpreet Kaur, Himanshu Chib, Aditya Bajad, Aman Bhadouria, Ishwar Singh), they won eight silver medals (Adeeb-Ul-Islam, Purankala Nepali, Lovepreet Kaur, Tayiba Rehman, Sonam Chuskit, Anisha Banka, Prince, Varun Sharma) and snatched six bronze medals ( Akanksha, Bisma Jan, Falak Manzoor, Abhilash Kumar, Lakshpreet Singh and Prashant).The students will now be representing the school at the state-level. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-radio-day-celebrated-212222
14-02-2021||Ni-MSME (National Institute of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises)||Authorised training centre of Ni-MSME||Safety net for weaker sectionsADC Rahul Chaba said a prompt presentation of cases pertaining to challans in the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, be ensured. During a meeting with SP Headquarter S Jasbir Singh and officials of District Attorney office and District Welfare Office, Chaba said administrative and legal action in such cases be taken promptly to ensure justice for the weaker and marginalised sections of the society. He also discussed the need for peace and law and order in view of the upcoming MC elections at Sultanpur Lodhi on February 14. SP headquarter S Jasbir Singh said the police were holding regular flag marches in areas due for the elections. Registration of travel agents was also discussed on the occasion. Officials said 338 complaints had been received in the year on which action was being taken. Smooth transportation, parole cases, mining were among other issues discussed during the meeting.Breaking into male bastion"Artificial Intelligence has had some big technical breakthroughs in the last decade, including deep learning gaining popularity because of the availability of big data, compute power, and algorithms. It has now moved from science fiction to real world applications. Solutions we had imagined previously are now within reach. Intel's AI technologies are being used for numerous applications including faster drug discovery to fight diseases such as cancer, optimising crop yields, smart cars and drones, finding missing children, use in forensic science, etc. India is well known as a tech hub, and I see it taking full advantage of advancements in AI as it relates to health, farming, ransportation logistics, fraud detection, autonomous driving, etc," said Ms Huma Abidi (in pic), Senior Director of AI Software products and Engineering, INTEL, California, USA, while addressing participants during a webinar organized by Pushpa Gujral Science City (PGSC) at the occasion of International Day for Women and Girls in Science. Abidi pointed out while women have come a long way, substantial gaps remain when it comes to gender parity. What has been encouraging in the last few years, however, is the coming together of the governments, academia and industry to accelerate inclusive participation of women at the workplace. She also talked about role models such as Fei Fei Li (leading human centered AI at Stanford) and Meredith Whittaker (works on social implications through the AI Now institute at NYU) among other women leaders emerging in AI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/authorised-training-centre-of-ni-msme-212224
