15-02-2021||Open House||Jalandhar City police must crack down heavily on begging cartels||Govt should come up with a strict lawThe problem of beggary is becoming a major concern warranting urgent attention and intervention in view of increasing numbers, especially of children and women. Most of them are homeless and should be put in rehabilitation centres set up by state authorities. Instead of money, give them food and clothes. The government should come up with a strict law to ban begging and should teach skill development techniques so that they can work on their own and live the life of dignity.Shabnam ChouhanAll of us have a duty to check this menaceBegging is no doubt a menace. We see it everywhere — on the streets, on the crossings and in front of the religious places. Even when the buses stop on the way, beggars encircle it and pester passengers for alms. Also, some gangs even abduct poor, maim them and then make them sit on the roads or crossings for begging and grab whatever alms are given to them by pious people. This practice should be stopped forthwith. The police, social organisations and the administration all have a role to play in ending it. First of all, people themselves should be made aware of not giving money or matters to the beggars. The social organisations should motivate such people who are quite active physically and mentally to do some earning by doing some sort of work instead of begging. The administration can allocate some designated places for the extremely poor and handicapped and people made aware of giving alms to them. This way they don’t need to roam whole day in the streets or on the roads. The police should stop the beggars roaming about for begging. They should be temporarily imprisoned and then social workers should be asked to motivate and convince them to stop begging. Even the help of psychologists and psychiatrists can be taken for the same purpose. All of us have a duty to stop this menace.Dr JS WadhwaTo end it, one must stop giving almsBegging is one of the most serious social issues in India. In spite of its rapid economic growth, India is a poverty-stricken country, which is also leading to the growth of beggars in the country. There are a few beggars in the country who actually are the real ones, who beg because they are handicapped, old or blind or they really need money for basic needs. There are many others who live far below the poverty line and opt for begging to earn their livelihood. But as the citizens of this country, it is our moral responsibility to stop this menace and the best way is to stop giving alms. It might seem that we are very heartless in not giving money to a little child begging on the street. If more and more people come out and take a pledge that they are not going to give a single penny to any beggar, irrespective of their need, I am sure beggary will be completely uprooted from our country.Akshar Kumar SinglaBegging cartels must be exposedPeople seeking alms are a common sight in India. And we often out of empathy give them some change, it might not affect us much as an individual, but as a society, it is a big threat to our nation and its development. The problem of begging is multi-dimensional. Along with issues like poverty and hunger, it has now showed another side of it – begging cartels. Begging has now become a big racket to scam people, which in itself is another concerning issue. The exploitation that happens within such cartels is condemnable and a punishable act. The authorities claim that steps to abolish begging have been taken but more necessary steps should be taken. Poverty alleviation schemes should be promoted, rehabiliation centres should be made so that these people could be skilled and employed and earn their livelihood.Kalpana BhatiaAbolish begging by all meansBegging is a burden and nuisance and there is no guarantee that the beggar is genuine or disguised as one and they spend the money earned from begging on alcohol and drugs. The root cause of begging is mainly poverty, homelessness, gender discrimination, child labour and sometimes sexually abused. Because of poverty, children tend to beg and do labour for their families. Begging is also a big business in a well-organised way. There is mafia and a racket to control all this, the beggars are assigned different locations and in different disguises. It’s a great nuisance to have them around, no doubt they present a sorry picture of the country and often irritate by harassing. Some make lucrative money and are multi-millionaires. We need to abolish begging by every means, we should arrange affordable food and clothes which are basic necessities, encourage and give them employment. NGOs should come forward for their counselling and tell them the importance of doing work and also education for their children. The government should make shelter homes for their stay, engage them in some activities and ensure that they don’t ran away from these homes because they found easy to beg. We should stop giving them and discourage them from begging.Shashi KiranProvide jobs and see the miracleWe all know that begging is one of the many problems of our country. We see a number of beggars not only on roads but also at the public places like bus stands, parks, etc. Even the people who are healthy are begging instead working. Now the solution of this problem is that social organisations should motivate and encourage them to do any kind of job that can fulfill their basic needs and help them provide a job. NGOs can hold seminars, programmes on this topic. Even the children, who should go to school, their parents take them for begging. Not only is the life of a child spoiled but also the future is endangered. Poverty can also result into crimes like robbery, gambling, rapes, etc. Police should take a strict action. The only method to finish poverty is providing jobs to all the people. Automatically, beggary will also finish.RukshanEveryone should come forward to help needyA single person can’t change everything but helping one beggar, especially a child can make a difference. We should not be dependent on district authorities or NGOs only. If everyone helps at least one, in future number of beggars will fall. You can stop these rackets and mafia gangs who run these child beggars’ racket. Also, paying them money means that you are supporting these rackets. Do not pay money to them as it is equal to destroying their lives.Kanwarpreet SinghPopulation control: The only way outSince it is more than clear that poverty is one of the outcomes of what our corrupt and under designated leaders’ doing to this precious country, it automatically becomes their role to clean this up. Though if we look deeper, it’s somehow related to overpopulation that out nation is currently facing and about which no legit precautions are been delegated. Shamefully, India is still a developing country that straight away mean it certainly lacks on economic front, but that is exactly what the government is bound to do: to analyse and plan. So, the only way out to this problem lies in controlling the overgrowing population of India as people can actually get jobs and the nation touches equilibrium. However, this is just a theory. Flaws like religion, cultural beliefs and prevailing stereotypical approaches are capable of causing some severe damage.Sahib SinghTask is difficult but not impossibleBegging is a social evil and needs to be eradicated by the society as a whole. All the governing bodies, the people and the social organisations are required to work in unison while carrying out their respective responsibilities diligently to achieve this difficult but possible task. Any government can pass the Bill to make the begging illegal but the aspect of its enforcement is challenging. While the beggars may be arrested, prosecuted, punished and jailed taking away considerable time and energy but in the long run it is not going to solve the problem at macro level. To start with solutions, people must be stopped from paying alms to the beggars to discourage them from begging which they consider remunerative as compared to any other job. The public needs to be educated about this by local administration through all available modes of publicity and may be even penalised for violating the order. Those who are destitute/ handicapped in one way or the other must be rehabilitated with the help of social organisations and those who are able-bodied and/or motivated to this unholy profession are required to be sheltered, professionally trained to make them self-reliant under well-documented government sponsored scheme.Jagdish ChanderNeed to curb overpopulationIn my opinion, there is only one valid solution to every problem in India, ie, to control the population. If we have a control over the number, people we have to support, the quality of that support and the results will be much better! Providing education to all is of utmost importance but having enough number of jobs for them is also crucial which again brings us back to our population issue. Another factor that plays a vital role in the development of any country is whether the people of that country are aware of the facilities, rights and benefits they are being provided and also, very importantly, their duties towards nation. Our people should be aware that they have a right to education, the facility of free education and mid-day meals in government schools. They should be encouraged to utilise them, and especially use them for the right things.Anirudh SainiIt is the responsibility of the administrationDue to massive overpopulation, poverty, illiteracy, unemployment, disability, old age and natural calamities, begging is a perennial social problem afflicting all states in the country. Despite several initiatives, the Punjab government has failed to achieve the desired success. An exponential increase in the number of beggars in recent years with wide-ranging socio-economic, psychological and legal ramifications has caused serious concern. Since anti-begging laws are violated with impunity, beggars are frequently seen at public places such as railway stations, bus stands, markets, religious places, tourist resorts, hotels, marriages palaces and so on. They not only present an abominable sight and disrupt the smooth flow of traffic but also tarnish the country’s international image and hinder its smooth economic development. It is the constitutional responsibility of the state government to tackle the menace of begging. As begging is a criminal act punishable under the law, the district administration should outrightly take a strict action against organised professional beggars. It should regularly conduct awareness campaigns about the ill-effects of begging. In case of the overwhelmingly destitute and vulnerable ones, it should adopt a softer stance rather than a challengeable legal recourse. The civic authorities should judiciously identify these beggars, give medical treatment to the needy and keep them in rehabilitation centres. They should encourage the able-bodied to work honestly for their livelihood and continue launching various enabling schemes to ameliorate their lot. The general public should rise above orthodoxy, superstitions and religious compulsions, and avoid giving alms to beggars. Only collaborative, concerted efforts by the government, social organisations, activists, media and academic institutions will reduce the nuisance of begging and make India a better place to live in.DS KangSociety should not entertain beggarsBegging has indeed become a nuisance and problem of great magnitude in every part of the country. Many times it is seen operated by anti-social elements which drive it on a begging business scale by forcing their wards and other abducted persons, particularly children, to bring heavy alms or so. No doubt there are so many anti-begging laws, however, these cannot be implemented harshly out of remorse and amity. The best solution for an all-together eradication of this problem is that society should not entertain the beggars no matter what. At the same time the government should come forward and create shelter homes, especially for old people so that they may live a just life of honour instead of turning into beggars devoid of basic facilities. District administration, NGOs, and allied organisations should step forward for such solutions. Special care should be accorded to infants and children who are usually exploited in cases of begging. Females, kids and old age people should be taken to shelter homes and the nexus of exploitation should be broken so that it may not be dependent on such earnings, which are based out of begging. Strict steps are indeed required to curb such exploitations.Aman MittalEntire scenario may run amok soonIn our nation, begging has widely increased day by day at roads and in public transport and this is a matter of deep concern. People should not give any kind of money to beggars because this practice has already become a huge affliction to the society. There are multiple children on roads who beg for the survival. However, the truth is many are pretending that they are handicapped and begging for help. Their parents force them to beg in front of lavish cars so that people sitting in the cars feel pity for them. This whole scenario is going out of control these days and administration should take harsh actions. Whoever is forcing the children to beg should be taken in the police custody.Saahil HansOne of the most conspicuous evilsWay back in mid-1980s, I had the chance to visit state administered beggars’ home in Kapurthala. It was housed in a very majestic looking spacious building. However, there was only one beggar lodged there and I was told in lighter vein that he might have gone out for begging. Of course, the place was in shambles though its visitor book showed that Secretary/Director Social Welfare Department had paid many visits there. In Amritsar, we have well run ‘Panghurha’ scheme for abandoned newly born babies, Pingalwara for the sick destitute, institute for the blinds, home for the destitute ladies and juvenile home for young delinquents and most importantly orphanage run by Chief Khalsa Diwan. Incidentally, Shahid Udham singh, who shot Michael O’Dwyer in London, to avenge the massacre of patriots at Jallianwala Bagh in 1919, was brought up in this orphanage. Raen Basera also exists for the beggars, but this place remains almost deserted. Some of the social welfare institutes are running very well but some are colossally neglected. Beggary, though legally banned, has emerged as one of the most conspicuous social evils. At every crossing, especially at the traffic lights, many beggars start knocking on the glasses of the cars to seek alms. This endangers theirs as well as drivers’ lives. Their regular presence does not indicate that the district administration is taking any step for their rehabilitation. Since majority of the beggars are able-bodied, they must be rehabilitated to start their lives afresh. Amritsar’s Pingalwara is known throughout the world for its charitable activities and it has the honour of the halo of Bhagat Puran Singh and its incumbent head Dr Inderjit Kaur. It may start the rehabilitation centre for the beggars. Since most of the social welfare schemes run by the government leave much to be desired, only social or charitable organisations can run such institutions.Hardish SandhuQUESTIONThe MC has a complaint redressal system — landline, toll-free number, email and web portal. Do you think these are effective and helpful in addressing the grievances of residents?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (February 18).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-city-police-must-crack-down-heavily-on-begging-cartels-212465
15-02-2021||---||Jalandhar district witnesses 73.29 pc polling across 109 wards||Jalandhar, February 14As many as 81,469 voters (73.29%) exercised their franchise in the civic body poll across the 109 wards of the district on Sunday. Of these, 41,102 were male voters, while 40,365 female and two transgenders.Ghanshyam Thori, DC, JalandharSmooth and peaceful polling was conducted across all booths in Jalandhar. Wheelchairs were provided at all booths and NSS volunteers were deputed to serve the disabled voters.In Ward No.11 in Kartarpur, a Congress candidate was elected unopposed. The highest poll percentage was recorded at Alawalpur, where 80.89% polling was done. It was followed by Nurmahal with 80.11%, Lohian Khas with 76.45%, Mehatpur with 75.87%, Nakodar with 72.22%, Kartarpur with 72.08%, Adampur with 71.75% and Phillaur, which recorded the lowest voting percentage in the district with 68.24%.As many as 8,658 votes were polled in Adampur across 13 wards; 4,596 persons turned up at Alawalpur across 11 wards; 12,927 at Kartarpur across 14 wards; 19,842 persons voted at Nakodar across 17 wards; 8,897 at Nurmahal across 13 wards; 13,305 persons voted at Phillaur across 15 wards; 6,248 persons voted at Lohian Khas across 13 wards and as many as 6,996 persons voted at Mehatpur across 13 wards.At Adampur and Lohian Khas, women voters exceeded their male counterparts as 4,361 female voters voted as compared to 4,297 male voters. At Lohian Khas, 3,204 women voters cast votes as compared to 3,043 male voters.Nawanshahr registers 69.71 per cent polling Jalandhar: Polling remained peaceful in Nawanshahr on Sunday. The three municipal councils in Nawanshahr district — Banga, Rahon and Nawanshahr — recorded 69.71% polling. As many as 43,316 people cast their votes, of which there were 21, 775 males and 21,538 females. The polling was done in 47 wards — 19 in Nawanshahr, 15 in Banga and 13 in Rahon. For all 47 wards, as many as 65 polling centres were set up, where people were seen exercising their franchise since morning. Until 10 am, 15.02 per cent voting was already completed. In Rahon, 80.76 per cent people turned out to exercise their voting right, while in Banga and Nawanshahr, the total poll percentage was 71.45 and 65.78, respectively. Ward No. 12 in Nawanshahr was the most sensitive ward and tension remained palpable in the ward the entire day. A posse of police was present in the ward to avoid any untoward incident. DC Dr Shena Aggarwal said the counting would be held on February 17. TNSCovid protocolWhile many booths saw thermal scanners and sanitisers being diligently used before voting, at others Covid protocol went for a toss as people hardly used sanitisers and many turned up without masks for voting. Mediapersons at the Alawalpur booth faced difficulty as the personnel barred them from entering.Helping the disabled||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-witnesses-73-29-pc-polling-across-109-wards-212466
15-02-2021||---||A tribute to farmers, Pulwama martyrs||Jalandhar, February 14On the second anniversary of Pulwama attack and in the wake of ongoing protest against the three contentious farm laws, candlelight marches were organised at three places in the city. A huge gathering of residents, including, youngsters, elderly and children, were present in the candlelight march.While farmers under the banner of Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee on Sunday organised the march from Model Town to Gurunanak Mission Chowk to pay tributes to the farmers, who lost their lives during the protest, the farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) conducted the candlelight march from Desh Bhaghat Yadgar Hall to Nakodar Chowk covering Jyoti Chowk and other areas. Over 150 residents and farmers took part in the Model Town candlelight march and around 200 in the BKU candlelight march.The farmers had appealed residents to gather in large numbers to participate in the march.Similarly, the Punjab Gurmukh Sevak Dal had organised the protest march from Jyoti Chowk to Kapurthala Chowk. As many as 300 people participated in the candlelight march. Students from various colleges had come in the protest to raise awareness on farmers’ protest. Pratap Singh Sodhi, organiser of the march, said they had gathered here to pay tributes to the martyred soldiers of the Pulwama attack and the farmers who died during the protest.The protesters also carried posters with slogans of ‘No Farmers, No Food, Kisaan Union Zindabad’.“Farmers have been staying put on the outskirts of the national capital for nearly 80 days now. While, we will continue to protest until the laws are withdrawn, we want support from the locals to keep the spirit of the farmers high. A large number of people from villages, across the district participated in candlelight march, but this time we also got support from people residing in cities”, added Pratap.The farm leaders and protesters demanded cancellation of FIR against Novdeep Kaur and other farmers who were still kept inside the jails.The leaders also stated that they would block the railway lines on February 18 at Kala Bakra railway station, near Pathankot highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-tribute-to-farmers-pulwama-martyrs-212452
15-02-2021||Ajay Joshi||Meet the turbanator!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 14At the height of wedding season or any special occasion, Gurshandeep Singh, a teenager, is remembered by people from various pockets of the district. While he is popular for his turban tying skills, what makes him more special is his ability to drape the headgear with just one hand.GurshandeepI developed interest in tying a turban when I was very young. Every day after school hours, I used my mother's scarf as a turban. Subsequently, after learning the skill, I started tying my father's turban. My parents were impressed with my efforts. The journey for the competitions began five years later. When I was 10, members of the Sardaria Trust Punjab approached me, encouraging me to participate in the turban-tying competitions. Since then I have participated in many competitions.Turning his misfortune into blessing, he now wants to compete in the turban tying competitions globally. By birth, he’s one-handed. However, this never perturbed him from making a mark. He was five when he started adjusting his left hand with the fabrics of a turban.“I developed interest in tying a turban when I was very young,” he said. Every day after school hours, he would use his mother’’s scarf as a turban. Subsequently, after learning the skill, I started tying my father’’s turban. “My parents were impressed with my efforts.”The journey for the competitions would begin five years later. When he was 10, members of the Sardaria Trust Punjab approached him; encourage him to participate in the turban tying competitions. “Since then I have participated in many competitions,” Gurshandeep spoke.While he aspires to open his own turban training academy in future, he last appeared in ‘Hunar Punjab Da’ reality show and prior to it he has won several competitions including ‘Turban King’ award and other special awards in various events.He says, for Sikhs, turban is an identity, a symbol of spirituality, pride and honour. A Sikh can give up his life for his turban. It is a symbol of unity and integrity for the community. “A turban is not an ordinary piece of cloth,” he reiterated.Ever since he took to it, everyone has been praising his turban style, which further created room for learning other styles too. He’s the go-to guy you want to get a turban tied for an occasion. “When there is any special function, my relatives or neighbours come to my house to get their turbans tied.”It takes him 5-10 minutes to wrap his head in any of the four styles, including amritsari, patiala shahi, morni and wattan wali. Depending on the timings in the competitions, he can also tie a turban in 4-6 minutes.A resident of BSF colony here, Gurshandeep further adds that when it comes to the most popular style and colours, ‘patiala shahi’ tops the list accompanied with bright colours. “It connects you to the times of maharajas and makes you feel royal, but, it goes well mainly with bright colours such as green, red, yellow and orange to name a few. Therefore, people on a regular basis also prefer wattan wali turban,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meet-the-turbanator-212462
15-02-2021||---||69.16 pc votes polled in Kapurthala district||Jalandhar, February 14Voting for the Kapurthala Municipal Corporation and Sultanpur Lodhi municipal council went on peacefully on Sunday, during which as many as 69.16 per cent votes were polled collectively.While 67.89 per cent polling took place across 81 booths of Kapurthala, Sultanpur Lodhi saw 75.89 per cent polling across 13 booths.At Kapurthala, 46,090 voters exercised their franchise, whereas in the holy city of Sultanpur Lodhi, 9,686 voters turned up.Barring minor skirmishes at Ward No. 1 in Sultanpur Lodhi, voting largely remained peaceful in the twin towns. There were no reports of re-polling at any booth.In an enthusiastic turnout,12.62 per cent votes were polled in Kapurthala till 10 am, 33.37 per cent till 12 noon and 49.44 per cent votes had been cast till 2 pm.In Sultanpur Lodhi, 18.04 per cent voters cast their votes till 10 am, 37.75 per cent till 12 noon and 58.47 per cent till 2 pm.Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Deepti Uppal and SSP Kanwardeep Kaur visited the polling booths throughout the day to monitor the entire process.The DC went to polling booths number 1, 2, 3, 80 and 83 of Kapurthala Municipal Corporation, besides booths number 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 13 of Sultanpur Lodhi municipal council to have a look at the polling process. She said the counting of votes for both civic bodies would take place on February 17, for which adequate arrangements had been made.Senior Superintendent of Police Kanwardeep Kaur also visited various polling booths in the city and monitored security arrangements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/69-16-pc-votes-polled-in-kapurthala-district-212463
15-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Fate of 600 candidates sealed in Hoshiarpur district||Hoshiarpur, February 14The district witnessed peaceful polling in 142 wards and recorded 66.68% polling. Shamchaurasi recorded the highest poll percentage of 80.69 followed by Hariana with 75.60%, while polling for Hoshiarpur MC was the lowest at 63.09%.As many as 600 candidates are competing in 142 wards with total 2,22,647 voters. At some places, polling continued even after the official time as voters waited in queues. The counting will take place on February 17.District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said 71.57 per cent voting was recorded in Mukerian, 68.18 in Dasuya, 73.47 in Gardhiwala. Similarly, 75.60 per cent voting was registered in Hariana nagar council, 80.69 per cent in Shamchaurasi, 69.96 per cent in Urmar, 73.79 per cent in Garhshankar besides 70.75 and 74.44 per cent in nagar panchayats Mahilpur and Talwara, respectively.More than half of the booths (126) were sensitive out of 223. As many as 107 polling booths were set up for the 50 wards of MC Hoshiarpur, while 25 booths were made for 15 wards of Mukerian, 24 for 15 wards of Dasuya, 11 for 11 wards of both Gardhiwala and Hariana, respectively, 9 for 9 wards of Shamchaurasi, 19 polling booths for 15 wards of Tanda and 14 for 13 wards in Garhshankar. Two polling booths for two wards of nagar panchayat Mahilpur and one booth for one ward was set up in Talwara.The DC inspected the election process by visiting various polling stations besides interacting with the poll staff.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said the elections in the district remained peaceful. More than 2,000 police personnel were on job to ensure peace besides maintaining law and order, the SSP said. Mahal along with SP (D) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu and other officers visited various polling booths to inspect security arrangements.Action sought against AFSO for negligenceDeputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Apneet Riyait wrote to the Election Commission (EC) to take action against Raj Deepak, an Assistant Food Supply Officer (AFSO), posted in the District Food and Civil Supplies Office, for negligence in election duty. ADC-cum-Additional District Electoral Officer Harbir Singh said Raj Deepak was appointed as the Election Supervisor for Shamchurasi Municipal Council elections. He was constantly neglecting his duties. He said due to his negligence, the election process got hampered. It was brought to the notice of the District Election Officer by the Returning Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fate-of-600-candidates-sealed-in-hoshiarpur-district-212464
