16-02-2021||Chamba||Chamba's Government Millennium Polytechnic, Jalandhar NIT sign MoU||Government Millennium Polytechnic, Chamba, and Dr BR Ambedkar NIT, Jalandhar, signed an MoU for skill development here last week.The MoU will help the Chamba institute in arranging training, skill development and guest lecturers for students, besides faculty development programmes.The MoU was signed by Dr Lalit Awasthi, Director, NIT, Jalandhar, and Puneet Mahajan, Principal, Government Millennium Polytechnic, Chamba. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chambas-government-millennium-polytechnic-jalandhar-nit-sign-mou-213119
16-02-2021||---||Jang-e-Azadi memorial reopens for public after 11 months||Kartarpur, February 15The prestigious Jang-e-Azadi Memorial was thrown open for public on Monday after remaining shut for around 11 months owing to the pandemic.The re-opening ceremony was performed by Additional Chief Secretary Tourism and Cultural Affairs Sanjay Kumar in the presence of Lok Sabha MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh, MLAs Pargat Singh, Sushil Kumar Rinku, Rajinder Beri, Chaudhary Surinder Singh, Avtar Singh Bawa Henry and Pawan Kumar Tinu, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Chairman PUNSUP Tejinder Singh Bittu.The Additional Chief Secretary said the memorial was a beacon for perpetuating the glorious contribution of Punjabis in national freedom struggle. He said keeping in view the threat of coronavirus, the memorial was closed on March 18 last year. However, Sanjay Kumar said with the weakening of Covid wave, the memorial was re-opened for public after taking full precautions as per the existing protocol.The ACS said the historical memorial showcases the valuable contribution of Punjabis in the national freedom struggle. “This project is of immense importance and its re-opening will act as a catalyst to perpetuate the glorious legacy of Punjab to younger generations,” he said, adding that prior to its closing last year, the memorial witnessed huge footfall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jang-e-azadi-memorial-reopens-for-public-after-11-months-212899
16-02-2021||---||Women flay arrest of activists Nodeep Kaur and Disha Ravi during agitation||Jalandhar, February 15Women in Mehatpur on Monday held a protest against the three farm laws and against the arrests of activists during the farmers’ protests.Women protesters from Mehtapur held a protest march across the town and burnt an effigy of PM Narendra Modi at the Mehatpur bus stand. They questioned the arrest of farmers and activists and said the Central Government was crushing every voice, which was being raised against the policies of the government. Women leaders said first an FIR was lodged after environment activist Greta Thunberg raised a voice in favour of farmers, then activist Nodeep Kaur was not released despite widespread condemnation and now, climate change activist Disha Ravi was also arrested. They said this was being done to muzzle the voices of ordinary people, who were siding with farmers.They said those speaking openly against the government’s policies were either labelled Khalistani or Maoist and now the voices from abroad in favour of farmers’ struggle were being termed conspiratorial. They said under the garb of these cases, intellectuals, writers, social activists, journalists, different leaders, were being targeted. They said similar targeting has been witnessed in the Bhima Koregaon, JNU student attack and Shaheen Bagh protests against the CAA. Leaders demanded that those arrested in the course of various protests be promptly released. Pendu Mazdoor Union, Kirti Kisan Union and Istri Jagriti Manch leaders Baljit Kaur, Bakhsho Rani, Surjit Kaur, Paramjit Kaur, Kuldeep Kaur and Anita Sandhu among others also spoke on the occasion.Farmers to protest at Nawanshahr railway station on February 18 Jalandhar: Ground-level meetings are taking place in Nawanshahr, wherein youngsters from various villages are being asked to join and add strength to the farmers’ protest in the coming days. Members of the Kirti Kisan Union on Sunday held a meeting, where it was decided that the union members would sit at the Nawanshahr railway station from 12 noon to 4 pm in protest against the three farm laws on February 18. In the meeting where at least 35 members were present, it was decided that an appeal would be made to people to go to the protest site under the leadership and guidance of farmer unions and not get distracted by any outsider. Ground-level strategies are being made daily and mobilisation being planned. Kirti Kisan Union members have been holding several activities to garner support and strengthen the movement. They recently took 300 farmers on their tractor trailers towards New Delhi from Nawanshahr on January 23 to take part in the January 26 march. Several rehearsals had also been conducted ahead of the big movement. Tractor-trailer marches were organised by the women wing and youth wing of the Kirti Kisan Union. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-flay-arrest-of-activists-nodeep-kaur-and-disha-ravi-during-agitation-212900
16-02-2021||Jalandhar||Observe February 23 as ‘Kisan Day’, says retd prof||While expressing support and solidarity with the ongoing farmers protest all over the country, Professor Chaman Lal, Honorary Adviser, Bhagat Singh Archives, Delhi, has urged the farmers’ organisations and people in general to celebrate the 140th birth anniversary of great freedom fighter and peasant leader Sardar Ajit Singh on February 23, by declaring it a ‘Kisan Day’ and holding memorial meetings, lectures and processions and focusing on farmers demands to mark the day. Sardar Ajit Singh, uncle of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, was born on February 23rd, 1881 at Khatkar Kalan village, in a family of freedom fighters. Chaman Lal, who retired as a professor from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said, Ajit Singh’s grandfather Fateh Singh was a part of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s army and continuing the tradition, all three brothers Kishan Singh, Ajit Singh and Swarn Singh were a part of the freedom struggle, all suffering long jail terms and Ajit Singh remained exiled for 38 years and had returned to India only in March 1947 at the invitation of interim Prime Minister of India-Jawahar Lal Nehru. “Ajit Singh was known as a fiery peasant leader due to 1907 Pagdi Sambhal Jatta movement of farmers of Punjab against three black laws of that time and was sent on an exile first to Mandalay in Burma along with Lala Lajpat Rai and then to South America and other countries. Due to his powerful speeches, in 1907, all three black laws were withdrawn by the colonial government. The farmers’ movement of 2020-21 against present three black anti-farmer laws is inspired by Ajit Singh’s earlier 1907 Pagdi Sambhal Jatta movement. It will be an appropriate tribute to the great patriot and peasant leader by the farmers in organising various events on the day,” he said, adding that the Punjab Government should also organise events in schools, colleges and universities and declare the day as Kisan Day. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/observe-february-23-as-kisan-day-says-retd-prof-212901
16-02-2021||---||Jalandhar district reports 40 new cases||Jalandhar, February 15The district recorded 40 new cases of Covid on Monday, taking the tally to 21,004 in the district. The number of deceased persons due to Covid in Jalandhar remained at 690.There are 208 active cases in the district so far and 20,106 persons have been discharged, while as many as 113 persons are under home isolation in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, Kapurthala district saw nine persons testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday.1 dies, 8 +ve in HoshiarpurWith the arrival of eight new positive patients, the tally increased to 8,181 in Hoshiarpur district. With the death of a 70-year-old resident of Behlwal Yogan at a private hospital in Jalandhar, the death toll rose to 349.Of Monday’s patients, two belong to Hoshiarpur city, while the remaining six belong to various other health blocks of the district. — OCJalandhar round-upSamples collected 5,95,720Negative 5,53,049Positive 21,004Active 208Deceased 690Discharged 20,106Sample inappropriate 7,448Results awaited 136Home isolated 113||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-40-new-cases-212904
16-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Tight security in place for counting in Hoshiarpur District||Hoshiarpur, February 15Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Apneet Riyait on Monday reviewed the preparations and arrangements being made in view of counting of votes to be held on February 17 for 142 wards, including 50 of Hoshiarpur Municipal Corporation.She directed the officials to ensure adequate arrangements for the smooth conduct of counting at all places.Presiding over a meeting comprising civil and police officers at the District Administrative Complex, the DC instructed all Returning Officers and other officials to ensure smooth counting without any glitch besides requisite security arrangements at all 10 counting sites.Giving details, the DC said the strongroom for the 50 wards of MC Hoshiarpur had been set up in JR Polytechnic College where counting would be held in the presence of all five Returning Officers. She said for 15 wards of Municipal Council Dasuya, counting would be held at Guru Teg Bahadur Senior Secondary School, Dasuya, for 15 wards each of Tanda and Mukerian Municipal Councils, the counting would take place in Government Senior Secondary School (Boys) and SPN College, respectively. Similarly, the counting for 11 wards of Garhdiwal Municipal Council would be held in Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Garhdiwal, whereas counting for 13 wards of Garhshankar would take place at BAM Khalsa College, while for 11 wards of Hariana and nine wards of Shamchaurasi, the counting would be held at GGDSD College and Guru Nanak College for Women, respectively. For two wards of Nagar Panchayat Mahilpur and one ward of Nagar Panchayat Talwara, the counting would be held at S Baldev Singh Senior Secondary School (Boys) and Shah Canal Head Works (D), respectively.Meanwhile, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal pointed out that two-tier security arrangements had been made for the smooth conduct of counting. He said police teams have been deployed under Inspector-rank officers outside the strong rooms, which was being supervised by a DSP-rank officer. He said foolproof security arrangements have been put in place for the counting on February 17.SDM Hoshiarpur Amit Mahajan along with District Revenue Officer Aman Pal Singh, Naib Tehsildar Gurpreet Singh and others took stock of the arrangements at JR Polytechnic College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tight-security-in-place-for-counting-in-hoshiarpur-district-212905
16-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Now, grow veggies on your rooftop — ICAR-CPRI style||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 15Having developed technologies for farmers for potato cultivation all these years, the Central Potato Research Institute of the Indian Council for Agricultural Research here has now come up with a completely diversified training module.Based at Badshahpur village on Nakodar Road here, the institute has come up with VegFast. Bearing a tagline in Hindi ‘Ghar par ugayein taza khaien’, it is a technology for rooftop vegetable production, for which the institute has even sought patent. Developed by five member agri-business incubator team comprising two engineers Dr Sukhwinder Singh and Dr Brajesh Nare, vegetable scientist Dr Sugani Devi, food technologist Dr Arvind Jaiswal and agriculturist Yogesh Gupta, the much-simplified technique has several new features.Team head Sukhwinder Singh explains: “In this cost-effective technique, we are planting vegetables in troughs made of iron mesh, which are 7 to 8 inches deep and layered with porous, tightly woven weed mats. A good soil mixture, which is rich in organic manure, and some cocopeat is added to these stands. Then healthy saplings of seasonal vegetables are planted, which can help give the first harvest within 15-20 days. Since production is very speedy because of use of saplings instead of seeds, we got the trademark ‘VegFast’ for it.”We are providing training and doing their handholding after charging Rs5,000 as licence fee and signing of MoUs. We have established about 15 service providers which are based in Jalandhar, Amritsar, Patiala, Kapurthala, Saharanpur, New Delhi and even Chennai. They have already started running the business in their respective areas and are installing the set up in houses on demand within two hours. —Sukhwinder Singh, Member, Agri-business incubator team, CPRIThe institute, which is giving demonstration to visitors and is also holding online training modules for those interested in the technique for business purposes, is issuing licences to its service providers across the region for running their businesses.Dr Brajesh Nare showed how troughs have been designed by him in different shapes and sizes, including rectangular, circular, partitioned, in steps and even in several vertical layers for flats and houses with major space constraints. He explains: “The weed mats that we are using are UV-radiated, which ensures a longer life of at least three years. We also layer it with paddy straw before putting in the soil mixture. It has the perfect perforation, which does not allow the soil to pass through and only lets extra water seep down on days, when it rains heavily. Otherwise the troughs are so easily manageable and keep the roofs clean that there is no spillage around it. We even tell service providers to offer iron lines on the top of the troughs, where creepers of vegetables such as gourds, tomatoes can be hung and even plastic sheets to protect the crops in foggy weather as is prevalent these days.”Dr Jaiswal and Yogesh Gupta showed the troughs installed at the research station, wherein spinach, mustard, fenugreek, soya, radish, lettuce, coriander, tomatoes, strawberries, bitter gourd, capsicum, French beans, broccoli, cauliflower and other vegetables had been sown. He said the troughs were ideal even if some families wanted to set up a herbal garden on the terrace with plantation of Brahmi, tulsi, mint and other medicinal plants.On how the institute moved towards other vegetables while working solely on potatoes earlier, Sukhwinder Singh said: “It all happened during Covid days. People became health conscious and wary of the use of pesticides and chemicals by farmers in fields. They approached us to help them grow vegetables at home organically. We took special permission for the purpose and finally launched this technology recently after undergoing the required legalities and paperwork for the same.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-grow-veggies-on-your-rooftop-%E2%80%94-icar-cpri-style-212906
16-02-2021||---||DC takes stock of orphanage, destitute home||Jalandhar, February 15 Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Sunday took stock of the arrangements made for the destitute/ orphan/ abandoned children at the Unique Home and Pushpa Gujral Nari Niketan, situated on Jalandhar-Nakodar Road and assured full support to both childcare institutions from the administration in all respects. During the visit, he asked the officials of the Department of Social Security, Women and Child Development to ensure that the facilities for the care and protection of children be followed in letter and spirit. He inspected the quality of food being served to children by the institutions and also checked the places, where the children were residing. Further, he also reviewed the functioning of child helpline (1098) operational at the Nari Niketan. He also asked the management of these institutes to take special care, in terms of security and good environment, for girls living here. The DC also interacted with children and motivated them to achieve their dreams with dedication and hard work. Thori said the district administration was duty-bound to ensure that these children lived their lives with dignity and pride. He said all efforts would be made so that they could contribute to the socio-economic growth of the state. Lauding both institutions, the DC also urged the management to contact him personally over any issue. He asked officers of the district administration to frequently visit these institutes to keep a regular tab over the facilities being offered to the hapless children in such institutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-takes-stock-of-orphanage-destitute-home-212907
16-02-2021||Ajay Joshi||Shown door months ago, teachers await dues||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 15Rashmi Bhandari, former teacher at Ber Sahib Trust (BST) Senior Secondary School, Kapurthala, is running from pillar to post to get her unpaid dues. Despite approaching the school management and the District Education Officer (DEO), she couldn’t get her six-month salary.Including her, there are four such teachers, who have now pinned their hopes on education officials’ intervention.They say the salary wasn’t paid for around two months after the lockdown was announced last year and later they were asked to go on leave without pay until further notice.“The school management told us that they could not pay us and subsequently the teachers were laid off without any prior notice,” Rashmi said. She said the school owed her Rs40,000 (April-September salary). “I contacted the authorities on several occasions, but in vain. They have even stopped taking my calls or replying to my messages. After sacking us, the management hired new teachers and a principal,” she said.The school management told us that they could not pay us and subsequently the teachers were laid off without any prior notice. The school owes me Rs40,000 (April-September salary). I contacted the authorities on several occasions, but in vain. They have even stopped taking my calls or replying to my messages. After sacking us, the management hired new teachers and a principal. —Rashmi Bhandari, Former teacher at BST schoolI was asked to go on leave without pay in October last year. I am yet to receive my pending dues worth Rs38,000. After lodging a complaint with the district administration, we also approached the DEO, Kapurthala. However, the DEO told us that the school was not affiliated to any education board and they were inquiring the matter. It has been two months and nothing has happened. —Kamal Sharma, Another teacherThe former principal of the school was in charge of income and expenditure. He has kept all vital documents, including staff and payment record, school registers and BST cheque books. Hence, we were not able to pay salaries as the principal has not returned the same. We have sent him a legal notice. —Iqbal Singh Khera, BST Chairman Another teacher, Kamal Sharma, who had been teaching here since November 2019, said, he was asked to go on leave without pay in October last year. He is yet to receive his pending dues worth Rs38,000.The teachers also alleged that when they were removed, neither they were given their security deposits nor experience certificates.“After lodging a complaint with the district administration, we also approached the DEO, Kapurthala. However, the DEO told us that the school was not affiliated to any education board and they were inquiring the matter. It has been two months and nothing has happened,” he said.With the strength of nearly 200-250 students, the school has been operating reportedly for the past over 15 years. “Both CBSE and PSEB students up to Class XII are being taught in the school located in Ibban gate, Kapurthala,” says Rashmi.Meanwhile, DEO (Secondary) Bikramjit Singh Thind said he had submitted his inquiry report to the Deputy Commissioner and the affiliation of the school was questionable. “Besides, the school authorities have no record of the teachers laid off last year. There wasn’t any record of their joining as well their attendance in the school,” Thind said.‘Affiliation questionable’Teachers say they complained to the administration as well as education officials regarding non-payment of salaries, following which they came to know that the school was not affiliated to any board. District Education Officer (Secondary) Bikramjit Singh Thind says the school’s affiliation is questionable and he has submitted his inquiry report to the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shown-door-months-ago-teachers-await-dues-212908
16-02-2021||Jalandhar||Baby show: 80 kids vie for top honours||To identify the talent of the upcoming artists, CT World School organised ‘Spectacle de bébé’, a baby show. The show was introduced virtually where participants participated by sending their pictures and videos of various rounds. More than 80 students participated from three cities, namely Jalandhar, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur along with one from Bihar and another from New Zealand. The prize distribution ceremony was held at CT World School’s premises where CT Group Chairman Charanjit S Channi, Managing Director Manbir Singh, Tanika Singh and Principal Madhu Sharma were present. The event commenced with the Sarwasti Vandana followed by distribution of awards. The finale was divided into five categories including 0-1 year (Perfect Koda Chrome), 1-2 year (Matchless Delineation), 2-3 year (E-Exordium), 3-4 year (The Eclectic Artist) and 4-6 year (Ms./Mr. Identical) under which accolades were bestowed to the exceptional and outstanding performers. Out of hundreds of entries received, the incomparable and talented beings were able to bag certain titles. The title of ‘Expression Queen’ was bagged by Inaaya, whereas that of ‘Perfect Poser’ went to Anayat Kanwar; The title of the ‘Radiant Smile’ went to Rihaan Chawla; ‘Photogenic Face’ title was bagged by Ajitpal Singh; ‘Finest Attire’ by Arveen Kaur and ‘Handsome Hunk’ title was won by Kiaan Tandon. Parents were enthralled by the performers of each category and appreciated the efforts of the school. Charanjit Singh Channi, Chairman, CT Group and Madhu Sharma, Principal, appreciated the efforts of the parents and participants and remarked that such platforms not only hone the skill set the talented children but also provide them with an opportunity to showcase their hidden capabilities. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/baby-show-80-kids-vie-for-top-honours-212909
16-02-2021||Jalandhar||Honoris Causa for PUNSUP chairman||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/honoris-causa-for-punsup-chairman-212914
16-02-2021||In a noble gesture||Wedding bells!||Development grantLocal MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal issued a grant of Rs5 lakh for the development of Shiromani Guru Ravidas Dharamshala at Chakk Haqim village in Phagwara. While supporting the farmers in their agitation against the controversial farm laws, he prayed for their win. After handing over the grant to the management of the dharamshala, the MLA said, Rs5 lakh would further be provided after the construction of a community hall. He assured overall development of religious places in Phagwara constituency. Block Development Programme Officer, Sukhdev Singh, ex-sarpanch of the village Krishan Shindi, chairman Gurdiao Singh Bhullarai, former MC, Om Prakash Bittu, Vinod Virmani, Ashok Bhatia and others were present on the occasion.A Rs16-crore faceliftThe Phagwara-Jandiala-Nakodar road would be widened to four lanes with the approval of the Union Government. Union Minister of State Som Prakash said the Union Transport Minister had released an amount of over Rs16 crore to the Punjab Government for this. The condition of this road is apparently very bad and due to its narrow width, many accidents occur on the road. The matter was brought to the notice of the minister by the area residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wedding-bells-212916
16-02-2021||---||District shooting competition||Kapurthala: Thirty students of Army Public School, Beas, under the supervision of their shooting coach Neeraj participated in the District Shooting Competition conducted at GD Goenka School Kapurthala. Students from eight other schools and one college participated in the event. Giving them a tough competition, 23 students of Army Public School grabbed a win. As they showed their consistency by grabbing nine gold medals (Sunobar Bilal, Ishita Yadav, Sukhmani Sethi, Deepanshi Singh, Saganpreet Kaur, Himanshu Chib, Aditya Bajad, Aman Bhadouria, Ishwar Singh), they won eight silver medals (Adeeb-Ul-Islam, Purankala Nepali, Lovepreet Kaur, Tayiba Rehman, Sonam Chuskit, Anisha Banka, Prince, Varun Sharma) and snatched six bronze medals ( Akanksha, Bisma Jan, Falak Manzoor, Abhilash Kumar, Lakshpreet Singh and Prashant).The students will now be representing the school at the state-level.Havan organised at KMV hostelJalandhar: Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a havan at the hostel for the bright future and good health of its students. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi was welcomed by hostel residents with flowers. The beautiful hostel of KMV resonated with the sacred chants and hymns. Students and the faculty members participated in the havan with full zeal and enthusiasm. Principal gave her best wishes to the faculty and the students and prayed for a happiness and prosperity of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya. She also motivated the students to do hard work in order to attain success in their lives. Parminder Kaur, Dr Neeraj Sharma, dean, Resident Life and hostel warden Paramjeet Kaur, Balwinder Kaur and Jagjit Kaur were also present on the occasion.Webinar on Swachh SurvekshanA webinar on ‘Importance of citizen feedback form Swachh Survekhshan- 2021’ was organised at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar. The webinar was conducted under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen. Seminar coordinator and moderator Dr Anjana Bhatia gave a warm welcome to all dignitaries. Karmesh Sharma, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation Jalandhar, Harcharan Singh, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation Jalandhar, Dr Puran Singh Yadav, Project Director, Swachh Bharat Mission, Punjab, Ramanpreet Kaur, Programme Coordinator, (PMIDC) MCJ, Jalandhar, graced the event with their presence. Principal Sareen encouraged everyone to fill the Citizen Feedback form as it will enhance the contribution both qualitatively and quantitatively. Key speaker Dr Puran Singh Yadav, Project Director, Swachh Bharat Mission, Punjab, elaborated the objective and working of the project Swachh Survekhshan and requested everyone to fill the feedback form and give their contribution in the mission.World Radio Day celebratedThe Media Department of St Soldier Management and Technical Institute organised an RJ competition on the occasion of World Radio Day wherein more than 40 students participated in the competition. Students recorded audio of current affairs, entertainment, shayari, songs etc in which Kumar Gaurav got the first, Raman Katyal got the second and Kajal got the third prize. In addition, a webinar was organised for students who wanted to pursue their career in radio, giving information about radio to students, Asst Prof Jaspreet Kaur told that radio is a medium that can be heard anywhere, while working. Radio provides not only entertainment but also important information and the reach of radio is the highest in the country where radio can be reached where non mediums can reach, she said. Principal RK Pushkarana applauded the students and asked them to take part in similar activities.Students get jobsTwo students from various departments of DAVIET were selected for the Mittra Consultancy LLP at a pay package of Rs3 lakh per annum. Mittra Consultancy LLP is an healthcare technology company which enables healthcare providers to harness the power of data and achieve the highest standards in patient care, service and safety. The company selected students after rigorous rounds comprising online test, group discussion, technical and HR interview. The ecstatic students while giving the details of the offer shared that their designation in the company would be that of software developers and their responsibility would be to develop softwares and highly scalable applications serving client needs. Those selected — Sarthak Murria and Srishti Gupta — shared that they started preparing for the placement drive early and concentrated on developing their interpersonal skills along with enhancing their knowledge about the core areas. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-shooting-competition-212918
