17-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||All set for counting of votes today||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 16As counting of votes for the civic body poll held on February 14 will commence today at 9 am, leaders of ruling Congress seemed somewhat more confident of making it this time. However, they were wary of some wards where candidates of all other parties, including Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), besides Independents were in the fray.In Jalandhar, the fact that only 59 per cent of the seats (65 out of 110 wards) were contested by Congress on its symbol has somehow reflected that its leaders were not able to impress upon the candidates to contest on party’s name. Not a single symbol of Congress was taken in Adampur, Alawalpur and Nurmahal.Saffron outfit on sticky wicketThe BJP, which was throughout seen on a sticky wicket, had just 17 candidates from eight local bodies from Jalandhar, none from Kartarpur, Lohian and Mehatpur.A prominent BJP leader said, “Our party has nothing to lose as we got only a few months to work on individual identity. The MC elections are actually a litmus test for Congress, AAP and Akalis, who are backing farmers against the agri bills.” Like most leaders of his party, BJP spokesperson Monty Sehgal said, “We were not allowed to campaign or even open our offices. We still fail to understand as to what kind of election it was. The funniest part was that Congress was seen backing Independents while remaining in power.”Litmus test for AAP, SADThe result of elections, however, would be a report card for Aam Aadmi Party, which saw its bubble bursting in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Jalandhar. The party had the maximum number of contestants from its symbol fighting on as many as 72 wards. The party had changed its local leadership and made many changes ahead of the election. Its Delhi-based leaders also campaigned quite actively ahead of polling.Akali leaders were also not shunning their confidence. Gurpartap Singh Wadala, SAD leader from Nakodar, said, “Even though it was a very nasty conduct of elections by Congress, we are confident of making it to halfway mark on both seats of my constituency – Nakodar and Nurmahal, where we will form our councils.” SAD-backed candidates, however, had not taken party symbol in even a single ward of either of the two MCs.“It was our well-calculated strategy. Our 16 out of 17 candidates in Nakodar fought the election on ‘tractor’ symbol and one got ‘letter box’. In Nurmahal, our 12 out of 13 candidates got ‘table’ as symbol and one took ‘bat and ball’. So, it will be pretty obvious and we expect the scene to be clear by 10 am. I will be making it to the counting centre myself to oversee the process,” said Wadala.In contrast, Congress fielded as many as 15 candidates on party symbol from 17 seats of Nakodar, but none in Nurmahal.Close fight in AdampurIn Adampur, election was fought fiercely between Darshan Karwal-led Congress-supported group and Pawan Tinu-supported group. While Congress did not take any party symbol in Adampur and Alawalpur, Akalis had five candidates on party symbol ‘scales’ and eight on ‘table’.In Adampur, the entire Karwal group contested on ‘tractor’ symbol. Pawan Tinu said, “Our rivals tried to scare our candidates by indulging in violence. Our candidate’s husband faced a murderous attack three days ahead of voting and got discharged yesterday. Still, we are hopeful of making it. Even if we win seven of 13 seats in Adampur, it will be our council. I being an MLA have a vote in it. Our rivals need to make it to at least eight, which will not be that easy for them. Rest, a few hours are left and things will get clear.”A sweetshop owner in Adampur said, “We are making laddoos in huge quantity for tomorrow. Whatever be the results, our laddoos will be sold.”A day before polls, Kartarpur Congress MLA was all smiles, “I already have one uncontested winner. Even in the remaining 14 wards, there are no SAD or BJP contestants on symbol.”Heavy security outside strongrooms||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-set-for-counting-of-votes-today-213397
17-02-2021||Our Correspondent||10 counting centres set up in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, February 16District is all set for counting of votes on Wednesday for 92 wards of seven nagar councils, two nagar panchayats and 50 wards of municipal corporation, Hoshiarpur.For municipal corporation Hoshiarpur, the counting of votes for 50 wards start at 9:00 am at JR Polytechnic College, Hoshiarpur. For seven municipal councils the counting will be happen at different centres setup across the district. For Dasuya’s 15 wards, counting will be held at Guru Teg Bahadur Senior Secondary School, Dasuya. For Tanda’s 15 wards, counting will take place at Government Senior Secondary School (boys) and the counting for municipal council Mukerian’s 15 wards at SPN College, Mukerian. For Gardhiwala’s 11 Wards, Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Garhdiwal, has been fixed as the counting place. For 13 wards of Garhshankar counting BAM Khalsa College is the choice. For Hariana municipal council’s 11 wards counting will be held at GGDSD College Hariana and for nine wards of Sham Chaurasi Guru Nanak College for Women has been opted for counting.Actually factuallyFor by-elections of nagar panchayat Mahilpur’s two wards, counting will be held at Sardar Baldev Singh Senior Secondary School (boys) and for one ward of Talwara’s, counting will be held at Shah Canal Head Works.With requisite administrative and security arrangements everything is set for smooth process of counting of votes at 10 different locations across district for total of 142 wards, where as many as 600 candidates of different parties and Independents are vying.Speaking on security, DC-cum-District Election Officer Apneet Riyait said more than 200 officials of district administration had been deputed to ensure everything goes fluidly. Meanwhile, SSP Nanjot Singh Mahal said more than 800 police personnel along with officers had been deployed to ensure there is law and order in the district. “A team of police personnel under an inspector rank officer had been deployed at every counting location, being supervised by the DSP rank officers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-counting-centres-set-up-in-hoshiarpur-213398
17-02-2021||---||Jalandhar MC officials announce to ‘boycott’ House meeting||Jalandhar, February 16Two days before MC General House meeting, the department officials today said they would not attend the meeting. They have announced to boycott and gave a letter to MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma. Reason: They always feel ‘insulted’, as they get accused in every meeting and cannot bear councillors’ questioning them in front of everyone at the meeting.Not the first timeIn the letter, the wing officials have mentioned that they all decided to boycott the meeting. Notably, this time, only one agenda will be there in the meeting where the advertisement ad hoc committee chairman Neerja Jain will be presenting a report, exposing the alleged involvement of the officials in the scam in its installation.This has perturbed the MC Department officials as they said this was an insult and they would not accept people maligning their image.“In the report which will be presented in the agenda, the points have been mentioned without any proof. There is a direct attack on the MC officials in the report, which is wrong and unacceptable,” the letter reads.It has not happened for the first time. In the year 2018 as well, in the ongoing General House Meeting at the MC Complex, the questions asked to a building inspector during did not go well with officers of various branches, which had resulted in a dramatic move as the latter boycotted the meeting which left the Mayor, councillors and others present there shocked. It had happened for the first time in the history of the Municipal Corporation.To this, the officials after boycotting the meeting, said they would only answer every question in written to the House. Mayor Jagdish Raja had then called upon the meeting with the ‘upset’ officials.One of the officials requesting anonymity said, they are always questioned in a way as they have committed a crime. “We can give answer in written, but not in a way where we get insulted in front of everyone,” the official said.Mandeep Singh, Superintendent from Tehbazari Department, said everything is negative in the meetings. “It’s like we are in a court and people accuse us. This is not right, which is why we have taken the decision,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mc-officials-announce-to-boycott-house-meeting-213399
17-02-2021||---||Non-functional streetlights put commuters’ lives at risk in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, February 16 While dense fog is engulfing the region these days, non-functional streetlights on the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway are causing huge inconvenience to the commuters. Despite being an accident-prone stretch, the authorities have turned a blind eye towards the issue. Accidents have become a regular feature on the route connecting Bidhipur and Kartarpur. The streetlights on the stretch have not been working for over an year. Owing to the dense fog, last week nearly half a dozen vehicles met with accidents on the national highway, near Gorayan, leaving one person dead. “It is a risky affair to commute on the NH 1, which connects Delhi with other states, in foggy conditions due to defunct streetlights,” said Sandeep Kumar, a commuter. The most affected routes include Chuggiti overbridge to Kartarpur. The Maqsudan bypass is one of the busiest areas in the city and commuters usually take the route to reach Amritsar and the nearby areas. Kamaljot Singh, a security guard at a factory, said, “Passersby and commuters face a tough time on the stretch that connects Suranussi and Bidhipur due to defunct streetlights. Recently three persons, including a couple, had lost their lives in a car accident.” A truck driver rammed his vehicle into a divider near the NIT campus three days ago. “Despite being a basic necessity, we are deprived of streetlights. Nothing has been done despite apprising the authorities of the issue,” said a labourer, who commutes on the road to reach his factory early in the morning. Mayor Jagdish Raja stated that the highway did not fall under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation, hence the National Highways Authority of India was responsible for the task.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/non-functional-streetlights-put-commuters-lives-at-risk-in-jalandhar-213400
17-02-2021||---||Spring arrives in hues of yellow in schools, colleges||Jalandhar, February 16Saraswati pujan, rendition of shlokas, kite flying contests, cooking yellow dishes, and poetry singing sessions marked Basant Panchmi celebrations in most school and college campuses. Most students and teachers in colleges came dressed in yellow attire.Police DAV Public SchoolPolice DAV Public School celebrated Basant Panchami with great enthusiasm. Teachers decked up in yellow clothes and yellow decoration of the stage created a perfect Basant scenario. Students of the pre-primary wing presented a cultural programme. A dance was presented on Saraswati Vandana. Various games were organised such as plate and ball, slow cycling etc. Teachers also played the games. The celebration came to an end with bhangra celebrations. Principal Dr Rashmi Vij prayed for the well being of everyone and safety from Covid-19.Sanskriti KMV SchoolSanskriti KMV School celebrated Basant Panchami and sought the blessings of Goddess Saraswati to be blessed with wisdom and prosperity in all dimensions. With this first ever celebration during the recent opening of school after the Covid, students were very happy to be in beautifully decorated school campus. With all sanitsation measures and distancing, the day came up as a day of prayers and participation in special talks, poetry in nature’s praise and devotional song in praise of Goddess Saraswati. Students also took to colours while crafting kites and Basant greetings, on offline as well as online mode. Rachna Monga, Principal, while being with the students expressed her aspirations for the students to be blessed with ever charging energy to gain wisdom and stay absorbent to good things. Prayers for all round continuity, health and productivity charged the school campus.Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical CampusLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus celebrated Basant Panchami with lot of enthusiasm and fanfare. The function was started with the speech of Director LKCTC, Dr SK Sood. He highlighted the importance of Basant Panchami and said the festival was usually considered to mark the onset of spring emulating the light yellow mustard flowers in the field. Basant Panchmi is also a festival that honours Goddess Saraswati, the Goddess of Knowledge, music and art. The teachers and the students took part in the celebration enthusiastically. The college was decorated with yellow kites. The students showcased the vibrant tradition of Punjab depicting the spirit of inner freedom, creative pride and zest for life.Innocent Hearts GroupAll students of Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions from little ones of Innokids to senior students celebrated Basant with great zeal. Under the theme ‘Spring in the Air, various activities were organised virtually. The little ones of Innokids shared their pictures in yellow attire. The students showed their imagination while depicting scenes of nature, kite decoration. The teachers of the college worshipped Goddess Saraswati at the onset of Spring and recited shlokas to receive the blessings of goddess. Virtual painting competition and yellow sweet dish making contests were organised for the students of the college. The little ones made the sweet dish in non-fire cooking competition and college students made yellow sweet rice and halwa. The children were warned not to use Chinese thread to fly kites. The students of KG I were adorned with yellow flowers for the tag of Basant King and Basant Queen.Nobel SchoolThe Nobel School celebrated Basant Panchami on its premises with full fervour and enthusiasm. The celebration commenced with the Saraswati Vandana and lighting of lamp for invoking the blessings of Goddess Saraswati. Songs and poems were also sung. Educator Pooja threw light on the importance of the festival. The excitement of the festival was seen among students. Student Ruhani of Grade VII told students to take an oath to study hard to respect teachers and parents which added charm and brightness of the celebration. Students brought home made yellow dishes to mark the occasion. Principal of the school Jyoti Verma addressed the assembly and extended warm wishes to everyone and motivated them to be progressive and good human beings in life.HMV CollegeThe student council of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, celebrated Basant Panchami in collaboration with music department of the college. Dean student council Urvashi Mishra welcomed Principal Ajay Sareen and all faculty and staff members. The festival started with Maa Saraswati Pujan done by Principal Ajay Sareen. The Principal offered yellow rice as prasad and yellow flowers to Goddess Saraswati. The students of music department sang Saraswati Vandana. Dr Jyoti Gogoa sang a beautiful song ‘Lo Phir Basant Aayi’. Jyot Sifat, office-bearer of student council, presented a beautiful handmade card to the Principal. Kite flying was also done by the students. The Principal said, “Maa Saraswati is known as the Goddess of wisdom as teachers are blessed that our words have so much importance in the lives of our students”. Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur, dean academics, Navroop, dean youth welfare and Dr Prem Sagar, head music (V) department along with faculty members and non-teaching staff members were present.KMV CollegeKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated the festival of Basant Panchmi with full zeal and enthusiasm. The students and faculty dressed in yellow added to the brightness of the celebrations. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students, faculty members and wished everyone a bright future. The Principal averred that the festival of Basant Panchmi stands for zeal, enthusiasm, new energy, new life, brightness, joy and prosperity. Saraswati Poojan dedicated to Goddess Saraswati was performed in which the Principal along with faculty paid homage to Maa Saraswati. During the occasion, PG department of music also performed Saraswati Vandana and the whole ambience resounded with holy hymns. The students also made colorful kites on the occasion. The Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, dean, department of student welfare, Dr Gurjot, dean, and Dr Poonam Sharma, head, PG department of music, for organising the event.Ivy World SchoolIvy World School celebrated Basant Panchmi in the kindergarten wing. To celebrate this festival, a special assembly was conducted. Children were informed about the importance of this festival and the association of the yellow colour with it. Prayer and pledge were followed by a divine rendition of shlokas. The pooja started with a beautiful Saraswati Vandana. The little Ivyians attired in yellow clothes, offered yellow colored flowers to the Goddess. The children gave beautiful dance performances based on Basant Panchami and savoured yellow food and sweets to mark the occasion. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, motivated the students to be progressive learners, setting up big goals and putting dedicated efforts towards promising and flourishing human harvest.Ramgarhia College of EducationRamgarhia College of Education, Phagwara, celebrated Basant Panchami, the festival of seasonal, religious and social significance with great vivacity and joy. This day is celebrated to mark the beginning of spring season in the honour of the goddess of knowledge, learning, music, art, and science Goddess Saraswati. The college atrium vibrated with the chanting of mantras and Saraswati prayer ‘Hey Sharde Maa’. As this festival is dedicated to Goddess Saraswati, the college organised ‘Saraswati Pujan’ in college premises. The staff members and students participated in the puja with complete dedication and devotion. They sought the blessings of Goddess Saraswati for wisdom and knowledge. Prasad was distributed among the gathering. BEd students Rahul Bansal and Ritu recited their self-composed poems related to Basant Panchmi. Also, students welcomed this beautiful season by participating in kite flying, singing songs and playing games.Kamla Nehru College of EducationKamla Nehru College of Education for Women, Phagwara, celebrated Basant Panchmi with great fervour. Students participated in different activities during the celebration. College students Rajvir conducted the stage and gave an introductory speech while Alka, Jasmeen and Mandeep gave musical performances. Sukhvir, Navneet and Sukhjot presented poetry on different themes of Punjabi culture and Basant Panchmi. Extempore was also conducted during the function in which all students expressed their views on topics like – Freedom is Responsibility, Definition of Family, Teaching Profession etc. Later on, all students and staff members enjoyed kite flying activity which filled environment with fun and laughter.Basant Panchami was celebrated by the students of St Soldier Group of Institutions. Students performed worship of Maa Saraswati. Students wore yellow dresses and crowns of marigold flowers. Students performed gidha, kikli, modelling and flew kites.Eklavya SchoolEklavya School celebrated ‘Basant Panchami’ with cultural fervour. Students dressed in yellow attire to make the occasion more beautiful. Students of class V made beautiful and colourful kites. Students of class III recited poetry, while students of class IV made paper flowers and a student of class VIII gave speech on this special day. The pre-primary students also participated in this celebration and a beautiful dance performance was given by them. Students offered prayers to Goddess Saraswati and played Holi with flowers. Director Seema Handa said, “I pray that the divine mother of knowledge ‘Maa Saraswati’, illuminate all of us with intellect and knowledge” and appreciated the efforts of the students. Principal Arvinder Kaur encouraged the students to participate in different activities and wished all the teachers and the students a very happy Basant Panchami.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/spring-arrives-in-hues-of-yellow-in-schools-colleges-213401
17-02-2021||---||Students, artistes condemn arrest of activist Disha Ravi||Jalandhar, February 16After the politicians and opposition leaders, even the students, activists and Pollywood actors came out in the support of Disha Ravi, a 21-year-old climate activist, who was arrested by the Delhi Police, in connection with the ‘Toolkit’ case.Pollywood actors and singers, Jassy B and Himanshi Khurana, took to their Twitter accounts to question the arrest of the activist. While both the stars have become the part of the #ReleaseDishaRavi campaign, Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, UK Labour Party MP, who has his roots from Doaba condemned Ravi’s arrest in the micro-blogging site. “One has to think about the state of a nation if young climate change activist is arrested for supporting farmers’ protest. Such acts will lead to a colossal damage to India’s reputation, as youths like Disha Ravi are global ambassadors for their country,” shared Dhesi, after ending his post with #IndiaBeingSilenced.Similarly, Licypriya Kangujam, a nine-year-old, climate and environmental activist, posted, “Arresting a 21-year-old climate activist is never a proof of a strong nation. I feel sad. This is an attempt to silent the voices of young girls and women in the country. But this will not stop us from fighting for our planet and future.” Licypriya, the youngest environment activist, recently got featured in the ‘Forbes India 30 Under 30’ special mention list for 2021.While students and youth have been urged by social activists on the social media platforms to raise their voices to protest against the authoritative regime and arrest of the students, Kawalpreet Kaur, national vice president, All India Student’s Association, appealed to people to join the protest against the illegal arrest of Ravi. “The activist was charged with sedition, which is unjust. Rise up against the muzzling of democratic voices, she added. Likewise, Varjit Kaur, a member of the Punjab Students Union, who is pursuing her masters in Political Science at Layalpur Khalsa College here, said, “A few days back it was Nodeep Kaur, and now it’s Disha Ravi.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-artistes-condemn-arrest-of-activist-disha-ravi-213402
17-02-2021||---||Being jobless made him realise importance of work||Jalandhar, February 16Vijay (35), a migrant labourer, working in the city, who was among the first lot to board the Shramik Express in May when the lockdown was imposed and the government started special trains to help out the migrant workers, is now back to his work.As he switches on the machine in the morning at the pipe fitting unit where he works, Vijay first thanks the Almighty. “Unhi ki vajah se kaam fir shuru hua. Hum umeed chod chuke they (It is just because of him that the work has again started, otherwise I had left the hope after pandemic),” he says.A native of Jharkhand, Vijay shares that he wakes up early in the morning and goes to work at around 8, and it was during the pandemic that he got to know the value of ‘having work’. Recalling his tough days, he says, when the Shramik special train was to leave for Daltonganj, Jharkhand, the migrant workers could not sleep a night before. There was a fear that they might miss the train if they slept, he shares.“Those were the toughest days of our lives. We all were dying to go back and be with our families. We were feeling empty inside when we were here, but then, when we got to know that the trains were started, we were relieved,” Vijay added.As he prepares himself for lunch at around 2, Vijay shares and remembers the time when factories were closed and there was no work, and they all were worried about their families and their own survival, but the unit owner used to call them many times a day and would provide them ration, medicines and other essentials. “I cannot thank my owner enough for the help he provided me amid the pandemic. Now I am much more committed and dedicated towards my work,” a determined Vijay says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/being-jobless-made-him-realise-importance-of-work-213403
17-02-2021||---||Short film on Basant released||Jalandhar, February 16 A short film titled ‘Beginning of Basant’ directed by photographer Harpreet Sandhu was released in Phillaur by Jalandhar MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh. The short film depicts the beautifully captured mustard fields of Punjab, which are no less than any nature scenic countryside around the world.  People of Punjab should feel proud to be surrounded by such greenery. The film emphasises the concept of nature that Almighty prevails in his whole creation ‘Balehari kudrat vasya’. Sandhu said he has directed this film to generate interest and curiosity among nature enthusiasts and promote tourism in Punjab.  The film concludes with an appeal to pray for farmers so that they can achieve their genuine rights and a special message dedicated to their hard work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/short-film-on-basant-released-213404
17-02-2021||---||MP reviews smart city project works||Jalandhar, February 16 Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Tuesday visited the city railway station and took stock of the progress of works being done under the smart city project. He was accompanied by Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri, Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry, Mayor Jagdish Raja and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Karnesh Sharma. During the inspection, he met with concerned officials and undertook an appraisal of the project execution. Speaking with the media on the occasion, MP Chaudhary said that the city railway station was undergoing a revamp with infrastructure upgradation and addition of modern passenger amenities. The works being undertaken, he informed, include facelifting and beautification, development of a parking space, installation of escalators and construction of a foot over bridge. “These works would be completed at a cost of Rs 6.26 crore. The railways have set a deadline of May 6 for their completion,” he added.  Chaudhary Santokh Singh further stated that the makeover project would fulfill a long pending demand of people of the area and it would provide passengers with a smooth and pleasant experience while arriving and departing. It would also solve the problem of traffic congestion around the railway station area, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-reviews-smart-city-project-works-213405
17-02-2021||Jalandhar||Unique exhibits of art at display||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unique-exhibits-of-art-at-display-213407
17-02-2021||---||Micro-observers deployed in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, February 16Preparations for counting of votes in Nawanshahr have been completed. The administration has deployed micro- observers and security arrangements have been foolproof around the counting centres. Voting was held on 47 seats in Nawanshahr, Rahon and Banga on February 14. A counting centre has been set up at RK Arya College, Nawanshahr.In Banga, votes will be counted at Guru Nanak College, Girls. Government Senior Secondary School, Rahon, has been made a counting centre for Rahon.The counting for 19 wards (37 booths) of Nawanshahr will be done in five rounds, while for 15 wards of Banga, the counting will be held in three rounds. In Rahon, there will be two rounds of counting for 13 booths.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Amardeep Singh Bains said training of staff deployed at the counting centres has already been done. “We have deployed micro-observers at the counting centres,” said Bains. SSP Alka Meena said the police personnel will be on their toes.CandidatespeakFormer chief of Nawanshahr council, Lalit Mohan Pathak Ballu, had grabbed media attention when he left Congress and contested as an Independent candidate under ‘Sanjha morcha’ from Ward No. 12. The ward had also been declared sensitive. Congress had fielded Rohit Chopra from Ward No. 12.Ballu said, “I am confident of my win. I have remained chief for five years and have always worked towards the development of Nawanshahr. After my victory, I will pay attention towards pending works,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/micro-observers-deployed-in-nawanshahr-213408
17-02-2021||Jalandhar||No help from farmer unions: Deceased Navreet Singh’s grandad||Hardip Singh Dibdiba, grandfather of Navreet Singh who died riding a tractor on January 26 in New Delhi, today said farmer unions should own up those who were part of the agitation and became victims of the ‘state-sponsored violence’.Yet to respond No one from the farmer unions contacted me till his bhog. A day after he died, I called up two union leaders, they did not take my call... there is no response from them even till today. Hardip S Dibdiba, Navreet’s grandfatherAddressing a press conference accompanied by MLA Sukhpal Khaira here, Hardip Singh said, “I do not want to demoralise the union leaders but they must do some course correction and move forward. They have to learn lessons from the consequences of events and only then they can become strong. They must fight for the release of activist Nodeep Kaur. They must support people like Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana.”He said, “These people had joined the agitation at their call. So what if our children stepped a little ahead during the agitation? They must understand that the crowd that moved towards Delhi had no one to guide them. If they come out now and support their own teams against the Centre’s propaganda, victory will be of farmers.”Hardip Singh alleged his grandson had been gunned down. “Even that day, there was no claimant for Navreet’s body. When I reached there, people asked me what should be done. I said Navreet was a part of the agitation and his body is the property of agitation, so they should decide but no one from the union came forward”, he said. Khaira said, “Soon we will form an action committee to take up cases of all victims of agitation. Their families need our support. Nineteen protesters are still missing. We need to work for them too.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-help-from-farmer-unions-deceased-navreet-singhs-grandad-213478
