18-02-2021||Jalandhar||Cong all the way...clear winner in 4 civic bodies||As the result for the eight Urban Local Bodies falling in Jalandhar district were declared on Wednesday, the ruling Congress got a clear-cut majority in at least four of these. The Congress won a majority by winning 11 of the 15 wards in Phillaur, 10 of 13 in Lohian Khas, 11 of 13 wards in Mehatpur and nine of 17 wards in Nakodar. In Adampur, 12 of the 13 Congress-backed candidates led by Akali rebel leader Darshan S Karwal have won the poll.Voters inclined towards IndependentsBesides Darshan Karwal, his younger brother Harjinder Karwal is also a winner. The entire Karwal group had contested on the symbol ‘tractor’. Akali Dal’s all five candidates and BJP’s all three fighting on symbol lost from here even, while a BSP candidate made it.In 15-ward Kartarpur, six of the nine candidates that the Congress contested on symbol have won. Also, of the five other candidates, who were backed by the party but contested as Independent, have won. This makes local MLA Chaudhary Surinder Singh pretty comfortable, as he has 11 councillors by his side.Situation in ALAWALPUR, NURMAHAL DICEYThe situation in Alawalpur and Nurmahal remains dicey. The two seats can go either the Congress or the SAD way. In Alawalpur, Akali Dal won the solo seat that it contested on its symbol. Of the remaining 10, Independently winning councillors local Akali MLA Pawan Tinu claims that five are by his side making it a figure of 6 of 11 and hence a majority. However, the next few days will bring in the clear picture. In Nurmahal, too, Akali MLA Gurpartap Wadala claims to be getting a majority. No candidate of the Congress or Akali Dal had contested on a symbol on this seat.COUPLE WINSA couple who was in the fray from the two wards of the Kartarpur MC was victorious. While former MC president Prince Arora has won on the Congress symbol from Ward No.6, his wife Jyoti Arora won as an Independent from Ward No.4. The couple deliberately chose not to contest on symbol from Ward No.4 so as to garner more votes.BJP, SAD ON A PARWhile the Congress, which contested 65 of 110 wards from Jalandhar ULBs on its symbol, won on 47 seats, the success rate of SAD and BJP was very low. Both parties could get a single ward each. While Akalis got a lone ward in Alawalpur, BJP got it in Nurmahal. While Akalis had contested on its symbol from 25 wards, the BJP fought from 17 wards only.BSP FAIRS BETTER, WINS from 2 WARDSSurprisingly, in Dalit-dominated Jalandhar, the BSP candidates faired better than those of the BJP and SAD candidates. Two councillors of the BSP were elected on the party symbols. While one of them got a seat in Adampur, the other got elected from Phillaur. BSP state chief Jasvir Singh Garhi expressed delight over his party performing better this time.AAP COMPLETELY WIPED OUTEven though AAP bigwigs, including both in-charges of Punjab — Raghav Chadha and Jarnail Singh — visited Jalandhar ahead of the poll and tried to back its councillors, the party scored a duck. AAP had maximum number of candidates contesting on party symbol from Jalandhar. All 72 candidates were badly trounced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-all-the-way-clear-winner-in-4-civic-bodies-214066
18-02-2021||Jalandhar||Poor show: BJP candidates get votes in single digit in most wards||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidates performed so dismally that many of them finished on a single digit in most of the wards.Sample this: In Ward No.1 of Tanda Municipal Council, falling in Hoshiarpur district, BJP candidate Rajni polled only four of 890 votes.NOTA got more preference with six votes in this ward. The situation wasn’t better off in other wards of Tanda, where Ward No. 4 candidate Gurpreet Singh polled 12 votes; Ward No. 6 candidate Ankur Malhotra 17; Ward No. 7 candidate Jaswinder Kaur three; Ward No. 4 candidate Baljit Singh four; Ward No.9 candidate Amandeep Singh eight and Ward No.12 candidate Sanjiv Kumar polled just four votes (same as NOTA).This was not the lone case, where most BJP candidates were seen finishing on a single or double digit vote tally.Now sample this: In Kapurthala Municipal Corporation elections, BJP candidate from Ward No. 10 could poll only 19 votes of total 1,598 votes.In Alawalpur MC too, Ward No. 6 candidate Jogi polled just two votes. In Ward Nos. 1 and 4 of adjoining Adampur council, BJP candidates Rajni and Bikram polled only nine votes. In Nakodar’s Ward No. 1, BJP candidate Manjit Kaur polled only eight votes, Ward No. 11 candidate Sumeer Kumar polled five and Ward No. 12 candidate Malkiat Singh nine votes.In Jalandhar district municipal council, where 17 of 110 wards were contested by the BJP, it got none.Even in Nakodar municipal council of Jalandhar, where BJP contested on seven wards, it lost all. The only ward in Jalandhar that the party has won is of Nurmahal. SAD MLA Nakodar Gurpartap Wadala says: “The winning BJP candidate from Nurmahal is the wife of Vinod Kumar Jassal, former vice-president of the municipal council. She was not interested in taking the BJP symbol, but was imposed upon by the party. She has won on her personal links and on the basis of her work in the past. She in all probability will announce to quit from the BJP in a few days. I count her as my candidate, as I was backing her. With her being on board and six other Independent winners, whom I supported, I should be able to get my team in power in the 13-ward council.”Ex-BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia, when contacted, said: “The local body poll result does not reflect the will of the masses. Unfair means have been used by the ruling party. For instance, on the polling day, a supplementary voter list without photographs was released in Bathinda. In Pathankot, our voters were shunted out of the polling booth.”About Jalandhar seats, he said: “We had never fought on so many seats, but we still attempted it this time.” For Hoshiarpur, he said: “I think it was anti-incumbency which became the main reason. Some suppressive means were also used by the ruling Congress.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poor-show-bjp-candidates-get-votes-in-single-digit-in-most-wards-214068
18-02-2021||Jalandhar||Banga delivers hung council, BJP manages just 1 seat||managed to win one seat, respectively. As no one got a majority in Banga, political outfits, especially AAP and Congress, have started brainstorming. Sources said a majority of AAP candidates were earlier associated with Congress. SAD MLA from Banga Dr Sukhwinder Kumar Sukhi said, “We have three seats and an Independent is also with us. Being an MLA, I also have a vote.” Satvir Palli Jhikki, chairman, Congress District Planning Committee, said nothing was clear. “We need three more seats to make our chief. We will try and approach the winners,” he said. AAP block chief Ranveer Rana said, they will decide the future strategy. “We will stay with AAP,” he said. In Nawanshahr, Cong won 11 of 19 wards. Independents bagged four wards, Akalis three, BSP won one ward and BJP failed to open its account. Lalit Mohan Pathak, former council chief (Cong), fought as an Independent this time from Ward No. 12. He won the election by defeating rival Congress candidate.from Banga in Nawanshahr on Wednesday.— Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/banga-delivers-hung-council-bjp-manages-just-1-seat-214070
18-02-2021||Kapurthala||Congress candidates bag 45 of 50 wards in Kapurthala||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-candidates-bag-45-of-50-wards-in-kapurthala-214077
18-02-2021||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur||Congress sweeps the poll in Hoshiarpur district||In Hoshiarpur city, Congress set a record by winning 41 out of the 50 wards in the Municipal Corporation elections. After holding the fort for 15 consecutive years, the BJP had ruled the civic body twice but they suffered a crushing defeat this time.In this election, the Bharatiya Janata Party was reduced to only four seats. The Shiromani Akali Dal could not even open its account. Contesting for the first time on its symbol, the Aam Aadmi Party won two seats. Three Independents also won the election.Prominent among the winning Independent candidates remained Pandit Brahm Shankar Jimpa. He was the vice-chairman of the Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation and had resigned from his post and party after being denied a Congress ticket and then contested as an Independent. This time, he won his fourth consecutive term since being elected as a councillor for the first time in 2003. However, Rakesh Sood, senior BJP leader and former Cabinet minister Tikshan Sood’s wife, had to taste defeat from Ward Number 5.The election results of 15 wards of Mukerian municipal council were declared after counting at SPN College, of which Congress won from 11 wards, BJP from three and Akali Dal from one ward.In Dasuya nagar council, too, the Congress won 11 of the 15 wards, while the Aam Aadmi Party won four seats. SAD and BJP, however, couldn’t open their account.In Tanda Urmar, Congress won 12 of 15 seats, SAD two and an Independent won from one ward. In Garhdiwala, 10 of 11 seats went to the Congress, while one went to an Independent candidate.In Hariana, Congress won 7 of 11 seats, while SAD won from one and Independents from three seats.In Garhshankar, Independents did a big reversal by winning 10 of the 13 seats and three seats went to the Congress, while no other party could open the account.The Congress won only four seats of nine in Shamchaurasi in a fierce contest and SAD got three seats, while Independents held the key with two seats.In the Mahilpur nagar panchayat by-election, the Congress won one of the two seats, while the other was won by an Independent.The result for the by-election of Ward Number 1 of Talwara nagar panchayat were declared by election officer Ram Prakash at the Shah Canal office. Congress Party candidate Surinder Kaur won the election by securing 216 votes, while BJP candidate Pooja Pathania polled 171 votes. Rajni Kumari contesting as the only Independent in Talwara nagar panchayat, polled 156 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-sweeps-the-poll-in-hoshiarpur-district-214084
18-02-2021||Jalandhar||Raising the stakes||With the strength of secondary and senior secondary classes in government schools of the district having got raised from 83,324 to 91,244 in the last academic session, District Education Officer (Secondary) Harinder Pal Singh says he is targeting to bring a boost in the student strength this year too.The officer shared that various activities were being planned for schools, including holding rallies, poster campaigns and use of social media to attract more students to government schools. “All such activities will be taken up, stretched and spread in city as well as rural areas once the examination is over. We had increased our school strength by 10% last year for Classes VI to XII and have set high targets for the forthcoming 2021-22 academic session too,” he said.The DEO said teachers would not be going door-to-door in the vicinity of their schools, the way some private schools do. “We no longer need to follow that pattern. As many as 60% of our total 436 schools in the district have already been converted into ‘smart schools’ with the help of the government aid. We are getting weekly grants and working on the remaining schools. We have constructed 1,100-1,200 rooms in government schools and hundreds of new classrooms would be raised this year as well. We have installed high-end projectors. The washrooms have also been renovated. The schools also have colour coding now. Since the infrastructure has got a big boost, we expect more private school students to shift to our government set up,” he told.Harinder said: “This year, we will be working more on improving English language communication among children. Our teachers of the subject have been tasked to develop such activities, wherein students will get involved more and learn in a better way.”His agenda, for the time being, is bringing 100% results in all classes, especially the board classes. Almost 75 per cent of the students have already rejoined. “Our teachers are taking online classes for the rest while encouraging them to join the campus too. We are seeing an improvement in attendance on a daily basis. For the board classes, our teachers have begun taking extra classes one hour prior to the start of the school and also from 3 pm onwards in the afterhours, so that extra attention can be given to students,” he said, before adding, “now that it is clear that all examinations will be taken via offline mode, more students are expecting to join classes in the coming days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raising-the-stakes-214085
18-02-2021||Jalandhar||32nd Nat’l Road Safety Month concludes in Jalandhar||The city police commissionerate on Wednesday concluded the 32nd National Road Safety Month conducted under the theme “Sadak Suraksha Jeevan Raksha”.A traffic awareness rally was also organised in this regard at BMC Chowk. Students and staff members of various government schools participated in the rally and distributed phamplets on road safety among the commuters.The rally was flagged off by Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, City Commissioner of Police, Jalandhar, and he urged all resident and motorists to consider it their responsibility to follow the traffic rules while driving.While making an appeal during the rally, the school children and women teachers were also holding various slogans, placards, banners and pamphlets to sensitise the commuters. The rally was concluded at BMC Chowk.The traffic police department including, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Traffic Police Gagnesh Kumar, ACP Traffic Harvinder Singh, Inspector Ramesh Lal, Inspector Kundia Devi, Inspector Amit Thakur, ASI Jasbir Singh, ASI Narinderjit Singh, ASI Baljit Singh and others were also present during the occassion and later offered mementos to the school principals.Afterwards ASI Shamsher Singh and ASI Ramesh Kumar of Education Cell of Traffic Police continued to apprise people about the traffic rules and stated that seminars on the same would be conducted regularly. The road safety month was reportedly started on 18 January.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/32nd-natl-road-safety-month-concludes-in-jalandhar-214086
18-02-2021||Jalandhar||Locals appealed  to participate in ‘rail roko’ agitation||Following the call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, farmers in the district are all geared up to organise a massive ‘Rail Roko’ agitation on February 18.Leaders of the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee, at a press conference, urged students, labourers, industrialists, businessmen, construction workers and others to participate in maximum numbers in the ‘Rail Roko’ protest. While addressing the conference, the farm leaders also stated that nearly Rs3,000 crore have so far been spent in the farmers’ protest at the Delhi-Haryana border.Harsulinder Singh, president of the committee, said, while around 472 organisations have been protesting at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, the Central government was unmoved by their demands.“We urge the locals to participate in the rail roko protest to be observed on Thursday at Kala Bakra railway station. The protest will be organised between 12 pm-4 pm at Nizamdinpur railway lines in Kala Bakra. We are expecting a gathering of 2,000-2,500 agitators during the protest. As the railway tracks mostly connect to Jammu and Pathankot, the railway authorities have already been apprised of the halt on the railway lines,” added Harsulinder.Gurpreet Singh, another leader of the committee further said after the rail roko protest, a blood donation camp would also be organised on February 20 at Kishangarh to show dissent against the contentious farm laws. Copies of the farm laws will also be printed in Hindi, English and Punjabi languages to make people aware of the draconian laws.Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee has also planned to reach colleges and universities to appeal students to join farmers’ stir at Delhi-Haryana borders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/locals-appealed-to-participate-in-rail-roko-agitation-214087
18-02-2021||Jalandhar||Self-defence training camp for girls opened at Gandhi ashram||Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday kick-started a special self-defence training camp for girls at Gandhi Vanita Ashram.The DC said that this 25-day karate training camp would infuse a sense of security and confidence in girls. He further added that as many as 50 girls including observation homes’ inmates have been selected for the first batch and more batches would be started soon. He said that girls between age group of 16 to 20 years were selected for the free-of-cost training camp.He said that it was the moral duty of the administration to ensure the girls of the home get equal opportunities at par with other girls. He said that these girls had an unmatchable level of confidence and capability and if given a chance, they can scale new heights in life. Further, the camp would give wings to their aspirations and would empower them to script new success stories, he added.Meanwhile, he interacted with some of the participants of the first batch and took their feedback about karate training camp for girls. He appealed them to learn this crucial skill carefully as it would enable them to face challenges of life with high level of confidence. He also inquired about the curriculum of this 25-day training and directed the coach to impart best of the trainings to participants.Prominent among present included District Programme Officer Gurminder Singh Randhawa, District Child and Protection Officer Ajay Bharti, Legal Probation Officer Sandeep Kumar, Harneet Kaur, Child Welfare Committee member Amarjit Singh Anand and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/self-defence-training-camp-for-girls-opened-at-gandhi-ashram-214088
18-02-2021||The state government under its Punjab Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission has started a foreign study and placement cell (FS & PC) for counselling the youth interested in foreign study and foreign placement. While giving information||Govt starts overseas study, placement cell||Teacher dedicates track to Saint RavidasDedicated to the Parkash Purb of Saint Ravidas, a religious track sung by an artist-cum-computer teacher Neeru Jassal from the district was released by Sant Niranjan Das Maharaj, leader of Dera Sach Khand, Ballan. Sant Niranjan Das Maharaj also presented Neeru with a book written by Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar on the constitution of India. Neeru expressed her gratitude towards Sant Maharaj and said it was a proud moment for her as she received blessings from Niranjan Das Maharaj. Meanwhile, it is first ever venture of Neeru as a singer, so she expressed happiness and sought public support. She further said the track she sang was written by Happy Dally and the music was provided by Saab Singh, while, the poster design and editing was done by Mandeep KB. The video has been produced by Nishu Kashyap. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-starts-overseas-study-placement-cell-214089
18-02-2021||Phagwara||LPU student ‘noticed’ by FDCI||Workshop on stitchingJalandhar: The department of bachelor of design, Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, organised a one-day workshop on ‘Stitching and machine embroidery’. Ashish, technical expert, Usha International, and Bhumika, sales officer, Usha International, were the resource persons of the workshop. Principal Ajay Sareen welcomed the resource persons and students with a welcome note. Students of bachelor of design, BA fashion design and garment construction and faculty of bachelor of design attended the workshop. Technicalities of the stitching and machine embroidery were discussed and practised. Head of deportment Dr Rakhi Mehta discussed about present scenario of machine embroidery in the world of fashion during the workshop.Internship programmeJalandhar: Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised online training for the students of fashion designing. Industrial training was facilitated with Innovative Knits, Mohali, for BSc fashion designing semester-V students. All 22 students got themselves enrolled and participated in the training programme with full zeal and enthusiasm. The training was organised by the PG department of fashion designing. The main motive of organising the industrial training was to ensure the best utilisation of time and energy of students in productive work, despite limited means during the difficult Covid-19 times. The students not only finished the training with flying colours but were also awarded stars for their commendable performance. Majority of the students received twin stars for their excellent presentation. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that KMV has empowered the women by giving them the required skills in fashion designing and other disciplines so that they should become self reliant in this highly competitive world. Principal lauded the efforts of Harpreet Kaur, head, PG department of fashion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-student-noticed-by-fdci-214090
18-02-2021||Jalandhar||ED conducts raid at Jalandhar's Club Cabana||Sleuths of the ED from Delhi today conducted a raid at Club Cabana, suspecting some hawala transactions. The sleuths inspected the site, recovered some documents and got along two officials from the premises to its local office on Cool Road. Till late evening, the team was interrogating Shiv Lal Pubby, an NRI and partner in the club, and his aide Mukesh Sharma, in a suspected FEMA violation case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ed-conducts-raid-at-jalandhars-club-cabana-213950
