19-02-2021||Jalandhar||Darshan Karwal set to be Adampur MC chief||Set to be the president of new Adampur Municipal Council, Darshan Singh Karwal (55) is a prominent name in the area. He did not just win his own Ward No. 6, but also helped 12 others from his group sail through in the 13-member council.A councillor for the third term, his younger brother Harjinder Singh Karwal, too, got re-elected from Ward No.8. He and his three brothers have remained councillors in the last House too, but they were in the Opposition. This time, the third brother did not contest the poll.Though Karwal, formerly an Akali, had switched to Congress owing to his rift with sitting Akali MLA Pawan Tinu, he did not contest on the ‘hand’ symbol. Instead, he formed his own Independent group handpicking the most dedicated lot from the town. The buzz is that owing to his personal and consistent efforts, the Congress leadership did not have to make much effort here to overturn the previous Akali-led House. Planning it all very professionally and for the past over a year now, Karwal had launched his group’s own 15-point manifesto ahead of the poll. His choice for ‘tractor’ as symbol also went well within the masses. He reportedly even helped some financially weak candidates to run their campaign well.About his further plans, he said: “My most ambitious project is to provide flats to 300 shelter-less families in the town. We already have earmarked land for the same and will get it implemented through PM Awas Yojana. We will also develop a Council’s own shopping complex in the town and do a few other fund-generating projects, so that we do not have to look up to the governments for funds.”Some SAD leaders in the area are wary over Karwal’s elevation reason being he has been a close to ex-Akali MLA Sarabjit Makkar and that the latter’s interference in the area could rise post this political turn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/darshan-karwal-set-to-be-adampur-mc-chief-214487
19-02-2021||Jalandhar||‘Outsider’ effect? AAP bags just 11 seats across Doaba||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/outsider-effect-aap-bags-just-11-seats-across-doaba-214488
19-02-2021||Kapurthala||Kapurthala’s first Mayoral candidate: Rana Gurjit  to take call||but his son, Rahul Kumar (25), got elected from Ward No.32 in Shiekhupura. Aggarwal’s strength lies in the fact that his father and grandfather had been chiefs of Kapurthala civic body earlier. Both Mansu and Aggarwal were learnt to have been making claims. Mansu’s son Rahul said, “Though it will be Rana’s call, but my father is among topmost claimants as he is the seniormost among the elected councillors.” Of the 45 winners, as many as 40 candidates were first-timers. It was for the first time that 50 per cent seats were reserved for women candidates. As a result, it’s still not clear whether Congress would want a woman on the Mayoral post.“If that will be the case, a few names are doing rounds. Savita Chaudhary’s name tops among women. Jyoti Dhir, who switched from Akali Dal and contested from Congress, and Manjit Kaur, are also doing rounds,” said a party insider. Asked about the same, Rana maintained, “The party is to first clarify the strategy for electing Mayoral candidates and issue us directions. There can be reservation for women candidates or even caste-based strategic decisions for the Mayoral post. So, till the time a decision comes from the top, we cannot decide anything at our end. In any case, the final call will be taken after calling a meeting of all the winning candidates.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthalas-first-mayoral-candidate-rana-gurjit-to-take-call-214489
19-02-2021||Jalandhar||Degrees of SC students stuck since 2017 distributed||Congress Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Kumar Rinku on Thursday started the disbursal of degrees of students that were withheld at the CT Institute since the past three years.Chairing the event, the MLA said in a major relief to SC students, the UPA Government led by Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh had started the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme. However, he said after coming to power, the Modi Government discontinued with the scheme, due to which SC students were on crossroads. Rinku said SC students faced several hardships due to the discontinuation of the scheme, as their degrees were withheld by educational institutions since 2017.However, the MLA said in a major succour to SC students, the Punjab Government had embarked a special campaign to provide these withheld degrees to students. He said due to the intervention of the state government, students whose degrees were withheld since 2017 were being provided the degrees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/degrees-of-sc-students-stuck-since-2017-distributed-214490
19-02-2021||Gurdwara Talhan ||Spiritual connect||No wonder why Doaba region, comprising Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr, is known as the NRI-dominated region. Well, the credit somehow goes to Shaheed Baba Nihal Singh Gurdwara in Talhan village. If your visa to go abroad fails to get clearance, then here’s a solution. Visit the small shrine, also known as ‘Hawai Jahaj Gurdwara’. The religious place for Sikhs is dedicated to Baba Nihal Singh, who helped locals in making pulleys for wells and worked for the betterment of society. It was established around 150 years ago by Harnam Singh, a disciple of Baba Nihal Singh.Instead of parshad, planes are offered at the gurdwara by devotees aspiring to settle abroad. Even kiosks outside the shrine sell aeroplane toys. On a daily basis, around 50-60 toys are offered here and later distributed among kids. Every year, Shaheedi Jor mela is also organised to mark the death anniversary of Baba Nirmal Singh.Imam Nasir MasjidOver 1,100 years old Jama Masjid Dargah Imam Nasir stands tall on the GT Road in the city. Situated in Gurmandi near old Jail Road, the history of the mosque states the austerity of Baba Farid Ganjshakar. He lived here for about 40 days. The mosque has a splendid architecture with a reflection of Mughal style architecture.Molana Adnan, an in-charge of the school (for children of labourers) inside the mosque, said, the tall gate of the dargah was constructed in 1937 and names of all the craftsmen and labourers who designed and constructed it are engraved on it. The names are written in Urdu and the design is based on Iranian art ‘Funn-Eh-Erani’. The beautiful gardens around the structures mesmerise devotees with its serene and peaceful surrounding.St. Mary’s CathedralAlso known as the mother church of Punjab, St. Mary’s Cathedral in Jalandhar cantonment is a sight to behold. Surrounded by fountains and blossoms, it is certainly a must visit place where time just seems to fly. While the colourful flowers in symmetrical gardens enhance the beauty of the church, frequenters say the gardens somehow narrate the history of Jesus.Located on the Mall Road, the historic cathedral is certainly a key attraction. Ornate designs and architecture sets it apart from all other structures in the town. Built in 1947, the peace and chirping of birds are captivating. It was demolished and rebuilt in 1987, when it got the status of cathedral.Rosary Villa, an open gallery, showcases the images of Christ and Mother Mary located within the church’s compound. Beautiful marble fountains adorn the villa. With palm trees and greens on either side of the pathway to the main entrance, the main church is subtle and has beautifully coloured windows.Devi Talab MandirReceiving a footfall of nearly 5,000 devotees on a daily basis, Devi Talab Mandir, situated at just 1 km from the city’s railway station, is one of the 51 shakti peeths associated with goddess Sati. With a beautiful shrine dedicated to goddess Durga, the temple is around 200 years old. Admired as shakti peeth, the religious followers believe the temple is located exactly where one of the body parts of Sati fell on earth when lord Vishnu chopped up her immolated body. The temple complex also has a replica of the sacred Hindu pilgrimage site — Amarnath cave. It is carved out right next to the temple dedicated to goddess Kali and visitors can enter the cave through an inclined path. Once inside, there are statues of animals including tigers and lions alongside the paintings of Hindu deities.Rajesh Vij, general secretary of the temple, said, the temple premises also has Balaji and Vaishno Devi shrines. “The temple committee is also running a hospital with modern machines and a blood bank. Both of them were inaugurated in 2000 and 2010, respectively,” he said.Harballabh Sangeet Sammelan, considered as one of the oldest Indian classical music festival, is also organised every year at the temple in December. Vij says the festival has been celebrated at the temple for about 144 years and sees the most famous names in classical music.Vrindavan templeLocated at Kot Kishan Chand, it dates back to around 10,000 years ago. With prayer centres for various gods and deities, the temple has ancient sculptures. The priest here stated that the religious importance of the temple holds back to when lord Vishnu and Brahma themselves stepped in the temple during annihilation of Jullandhar, after whom, the district has its name.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/spiritual-connect-214491
19-02-2021||Jalandhar||Free driving camp for girls: Second phase begins||Following a massive response to the first phase of free driving training classes for girls, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday flagged off the second phase of the driving course for girls under `Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ drive.The second camp has been started with 50 girls and more girls would be trained in the coming days by the district administration in various groups. In the earlier course, 70 girls had successfully attended the classes. The coaching would include theory and practical sessions simultaneously, with 8 km of mandatory training during each class.Thori said to make girls self-reliant and skilled in this highly competitive world, the administration has decided to launch the second phase of this project. He said the administration has already taken several steps to ensure women’s empowerment at various thresholds of society be it a career prospectus or social life. He said in the present competitive world, driving skills are quite crucial and sometimes prove a game-changer from employment point of view. The DC said it was the need of the hour to organise such camps for girls, so that they can be benefited from equal job opportunities.The DC said the administration after the culmination of the camp would also assist girls to obtain a learner’s driving licence from the Transport Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/free-driving-camp-for-girls-second-phase-begins-214492
19-02-2021||Jalandhar||Now, download e-EPIC cards from Sewa Kendra at DC complex||To achieve the target of issuing 100 per cent e-EPIC cards to newly registered (13,738) voters, the district administration has set up an e-EPIC (elector’s photo identity card) download kiosk at type-1 Sewa Kendra of the District Administrative Complex, Jalandhar.DC Ghanshyam Thori said all newly registered voters would be provided with the e-EPIC cards. He said a special kiosk has been set up at the Sewa Kendra, where e-EPIC cards would be downloaded in the mobile phones of new voters. He said all new voters would be covered by February 28, adding that other general voters would be able to avail the benefit of this facility from March 1, 2021.The DC said another scheme ‘Election Hero’ has been launched by the ECI, under which campus ambassadors of various educational institutions have been roped in. He said campus ambassadors getting maximum e-EPIC cards downloaded would be declared as the Election Hero of the month and these Election Heroes would have a chance to interact with Punjab State Icon Sonu Sood or Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab S Karuna Raju through video calling. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-download-e-epic-cards-from-sewa-kendra-at-dc-complex-214493
19-02-2021||Jalandhar||Installation ceremony of Jalandhar Rotary Club office bearers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/installation-ceremony-of-jalandhar-rotary-club-office-bearers-214494
