20-02-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar Mayor  Jagdish Raja agrees to cancel ‘shady’ unipole tender||The Jalandhar Municipal Corporation’s councillors irrespective of their political affiliations, pressurised Mayor Jagdish Raja, during a General House meet today to cancel a tender issued to a firm (Creative Designers) in 2015 for installing unipoles in the city. The meet was held at Red Cross Bhawan.As announced, MC officials remained absent from the meeting. Notably, discrepancies and alleged fraud in the entire process of installation of unipoles was highlighted.Chairman along with members of the Advertisement Ad-hoc Committee had been alleging involvement of officials and the contractor in the alleged fraud.During the meeting, the Mayor and MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma after listening to the allegations of five members of the Advertisement Ad-hoc Committee said a month can be given to officials concerned to prove their point.Every councillor present in the House opposed the move and said officials concerned had already insulted the House by not attending the meeting, thus they should not be given one month to reply.Independent councillor Davinder Rony asked the Commissioner, Tusi afsara nu bachana chah rahe ho? (Are you trying to save officials?). Why are you asking for a month?”Leader of Opposition Sushil Sharma said despite being in Bharatiya Janata Party, they were with Congress’s councillors who had exposed the scam. “We are here for development of the city. We demand stern action against the erring officials,” he said.All councillors shouted in unison, Asi Jalandhar layi khade haan, bina kisi party baazi toh (We are together for our city, without any politics).After much persuasion, the Mayor said: “Absence of officials concerned is definitely not right. They should have defended themselves by taking part in the meeting. As they are not here, show-cause notices will be issued to them.”Raja said, “Also, if all of you want the tender to be cancelled, I will cancel it.”Kamal Mittal, proprietor, Creative Designers, denied the allegations levelled against the firm. “All allegations are baseless. We will take legal action against those who have maligned our name,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mayor-jagdish-raja-agrees-to-cancel-shady-unipole-tender-215057
20-02-2021||Jalandhar||How to fly high in life||Having got started as a hobby during his NCC days in DAV College, aeromodelling is now a full-fledged profession for Amandeep Kataria (36), based at Ekta Nagar along the 120-ft road here.Though Kataria graduated in Arts, his profession has more to do with the engineering work, for which he says that he never took any formal education. “I call it all ‘jugad’ (craft) and use of ‘Google baba’, of course after having taken an initial training from Aero Modelling Instructors (AMI) at NCC. Model aircraft, helicopters and drones designed and assembled by me are being purchased by some Army officers, students of LPU’s Aeromodelling Club and some enterprising youth of Ludhiana, Amritsar and Chandigarh. I got most of the contacts during my stint as a volunteer AMI with the NCC here for about seven years,” he shares, proudly showing his collection at the workshop.Kataria shared how he does it all. “This work involves a lot of time, fine labour and money. In addition, several items have to be imported. The body of the model aircraft has to be readied from shafts of Ecuadorian balsawood, which has unique property of being superlight. After designing, the shafts have to be covered using colourful vinyl tapes or monocoating. The motors to be fitted inside have to be procured from Taiwan, Japan or the US as per requirement.”Things do not just end there. Various types of fuels like nitromethane or its mixture with methanol and castrol has to be readied for checking its functioning. There are only a few spaces in city wherein flight testing can be done. “I usually prefer going to Gakhal village just on the city’s periphery,” he said.Demonstrating the use of his various model aircraft, he showed that some more sophisticated ones can even carry a weight of 10 kg. “The range is huge depending on purpose. I customise the equipment as per the demand. Some people also want simple remotes, others want micro-flight controllers with proper panels for view and there are still others who want Digital First Person View (FPV) system as well for proper simulation. I have also catered to some orders for bomb-diffusing UAVs and assembled hexa drones with fitment to carry DSLRs for high quality video and still shots. So, accordingly the prices of all these items vary from Rs35,000 to Rs18 lakh,” the aeromodeller said.Kataria quips, “These orders are not very regular as items are highly priced and only a few people who are very passionate and trained for the purpose are using it.” To have an alternate, regular source of income, he is also working as software and website developer alongside taking up all sorts of job works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/how-to-fly-high-in-life-215058
20-02-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar sees one death, 49 new Covid cases||The district on Friday witnessed 49 fresh cases of Covid-19, pushing the tally to 21,156.The number of home isolations, which had witnessed a decrease recently, is also on the rise. With one more death due to the virus, the number of deceased persons due to Covid reached 692 in the district. The number of active cases rose to 283 in the district. As many as 20,181 persons have been discharged so far while as many as 178 persons are under home isolation in Jalandhar.Meanwhile, Kapurthala district reported 17 new cases of Covid-19. Two Covid deaths were also reported from the district. Of the two victims, one has been identified as 41-year-old resident of Alamgir village who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar and the other is a 48-year-old resident of Ramgarh village in Phagwara who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.Last dates of Covid vaccination extendedDeputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday said the state government extended the last date of administering the first dose of vaccination for healthcare workers from February 19 to February 25. On the other hand, the deadline for the first dose of vaccination for frontline workers has also been extended to March 6. Giving further details, the Deputy Commissioner said in Jalandhar, the details of 15,496 health and 19,511 frontline workers had been registered on the Covid portal. He said so far, the jab had been administered to 7,631 health and 5,856 frontline workers in Jalandhar and the district is currently leading in Punjab with maximum coverage under the vaccination drive. Ghanshyam Thori ordered the health department to ensure that the every registered healthcare worker get the message of the vaccine date so that all can be covered within the new timeline. He further asked the health officials to increase the number of session sites under the vaccination drive. He exhorted all the healthcare workers to come forward and get the dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-sees-one-death-49-new-covid-cases-215062
20-02-2021||Jalandhar||From inundated mess to a sight for sore eyes||Five years ago, rainwater used to enter classes at Government Primary School, Bhandal Himat. As a result, snakes, too, had a field day in the school and students had no other option than skipping classes.Seeing the plight of students, a couple of Non-Resident Indians came forward and turned the institute into a heaven. With assistance pouring in from abroad, scales tilted in such a manner that students quit private schools to get enrolled at one of the most sought after institute in the area.Alphabets, numerics and solar system dot beautifully painted walls and ceilings of the school. Portraits of Guru Gobind Singh, Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rabindranath Tagore and Maharana Pratap, among others, help in igniting zeal among students. Even on the boundary wall – catchy motifs and quotes of freedom fighters welcome students.Schoolhead Munish Mohan said: “Five years ago, the scenario was quite different. Students couldn’t attend classes during monsoon. NRIs completely transformed the school. The new structure was raised and vitrified tiles were used for flooring. From 30 kids, we now have 75 students enrolled in the school. Even students from private schools prefer this institute. NRIs pooled in around Rs 40 lakh to give students a decent place to study.”He said: “Family of Surjit and Sarabjit Singh took the initiative and raised the ground-level of the school by donating around Rs 30 lakh. Sukhwinder Kaur from Belgium donated Rs 4 lakh. She always encourages us to work hard. We are also thankful to the Bhandal Himat Welfare Society, which donates generously.”Himat Bhandal and Himat Buta are two villages and NRIs have also contributed to give fillip to Primary School, Himat Buta.While the school’s level was raised, the idea to decorate walls was of staff members. The schoolhead came forward with monetary help to decorate walls and make it a student-friendly school.UK-based NRI Surjit Singh, his brother Sarabjit Singh, and Belgium-based Sukhwinder Kaur have always been at forefront when it comes to donation. The Bhandal Buta Welfare Society also pitches in with money from time to time for upkeep of infrastructure.A host of other NRIs, including Sohan Singh, Kulbir Singh, Surjit Singh Sidhu, Surinder Singh, Gurdev Chand, Lal Singh Lally, Jarvinder Singh, Simrandeep Singh and Harinder Singh, among others, also contributed to ensure that students do not face hardships. The NRIs contributed for renovation of gurdwara in the village.Sarabjit Singh said, “The village school was in a poor state. It bothered my UK-based brother Surjit Singh. Thus, he had been sending money for renovation of the school. It makes us very happy to see that it is one of the most sought after institute in the area now.” He said: “My brother studied till Class VIII at the village school. Despite settling abroad, he is deeply aware of the issues beings faced by villagers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/from-inundated-mess-to-a-sight-for-sore-eyes-215063
20-02-2021||Jalandhar||Crop residue mgmt scheme: Small farmers remain outside fence||Keeping in mind the hazard posed by the stubble burning, a crop residue management scheme was launched three years ago by the Centre. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare had launched‘Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation for In-Situ Management of Crop Residue in the State of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh & NCT of Delhi’ for in-situ management of crop residue.Ill-effects of burning stubbleVarious equipment and machines such as super straw management, system (SMS) attached with existing combine harvester, happy seeder, mulcher, rotary slasher, reversible plough, super seeder, baler and rakes, crop reapers, etc. are developed and are given to the farmers under this scheme. While individual farmers get a subsidy of 50 per cent or Rs 87,000 (maximum), a group of farmers get a subsidy of 80 percent on the purchase of such equipment. For eg: The cost of the superseeder machine is Rs 2, 05,000, of which 1, 57,000 will be paid by the department and remaining will be paid by the group.Objective of the schemeAlso, it was for the first time last year that the panchayats were allowed to directly apply with the department to get machines to manage crop residue and then sublet it to farmers at affordable rates. Until now, 13 panchayats have applied for the same.While the official data shows that more farmers and farmer groups have been purchasing the machines, some farmers don’t really appreciate the scheme as they say that small farmers fail to benefit much from the scheme.Tarsem Singh, one of the farmers from Jalandhar said, he had once brought a rotavator but the company gave it at a high price. “The machines are costly and I did not dare to buy another one again,” he said.Kulwant Singh Sandhu, a farmer leader from Rurkan Kalan village, said, “A small and marginal farmers cannot purchase these. Even if someone gets it on subsidy, the company increases the price of the machines accordingly, which eventually cost the farmer very high.”While another farmer Sukhwant Singh, however, said he had been using the machines for the past two years and was satisfied with the benefits.Dr Surinder Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer, said more and more farmer groups and societies were coming forward and were motivated to use the machines. “Also, we don’t advise small and marginal farmers to purchase the machines, we instead ask them to buy it from farmer groups, panchayats and societies. It will be beneficial for them. Now, even the stubble burning incidents have witnessed a fall. I am sure, in coming days, few incidents which were reported earlier will not happen anymore,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/crop-residue-mgmt-scheme-small-farmers-remain-outside-fence-215065
20-02-2021||Jalandhar||False ceiling at MC complex falls, 1 hurt||A huge portion of false ceiling of the Councillor Hall in MC complex fell down here on Friday. As per the report, a sewadar working with the municipal corporation got trapped and suffered minor injuries. The sewadar is hearing impaired.No councillor was present at the venue when the incident happened. It is reported that 80 per cent of the ceiling fell down.There are several offices in the municipal corporation complex with poor false ceiling conditions. After today’s incident, the staff of the corporation is scared.Notably, the maintenance of the municipal corporation complex has always remained an issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/false-ceiling-at-mc-complex-falls-1-hurt-215066
20-02-2021||Phagwara||Nankana Sahib pilgrimage: Joginder Singh Mann flays denial of permission to Sikh jatha||Former Punjab Minister and Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann today said the denial of permission to the jatha for Sri Nankana Sahib by Modi Government reflected the “myopic mindset of BJP-led government towards the minorities especially the Sikhs.”In a statement issued here today, the former minister said it was unfortunate that since Independence, it was probably for the first time that pilgrimage to Sri Nankana Sahib had been stalled. He said this action clearly demonstrated the ‘anti-minority’ stance of the Modi Government. Mann said this action was totally unwarranted and undesirable as pilgrimage to Sri Nankana Sahib was a cherished aspiration of every Sikh.The Chairman of the Punjab Agro Industries Corporation said this outrageous action of the Modi government had bruised the psyche of every Punjabi in general and Sikhs in particular. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nankana-sahib-pilgrimage-joginder-singh-mann-flays-denial-of-permission-to-sikh-jatha-215067
20-02-2021||While violence was reported twice ahead of the MC elections at Kapurthala||SAD wins seats where violence was reported||All district schools to be smart by MarchPhagwara MLA S Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal on Thursday said by March, all 782 government schools would be converted into smart schools. He said while so far 728 schools in the district had been made smart schools. The MLA said while there was a 17 per cent increase in admissions in the government schools, parents were placing more trust in government education. He laid the foundation of new rooms being constructed at Government Senior Secondary School for Boys in Phagwara. He also said officials had been directed to purchase furniture, desks, sports equipment for schools. He was accompanied by officials, including school Principal Ranjit Kumar.Construction of ponds, parks, sports stadiumsThe smart village campaign and MNREGA provided employment to more than 25,000 people in the Covid-hit financial year 2020-2021. It had given a big push to the overall development of the villages across the district. The district administrations said under the ‘Smart Village Campaign’, the Thapar model ponds is a unique project which not only provides the water for irrigation but also gives clean atmosphere in villages. While 20 playgrounds had been completed under the project, 17 solid waste management projects would also be started. In the works of construction playgrounds – which started few months ago – as many as 20 out of 25 playgrounds in the district were completed with open gyms facilities at a cost of Rs 85.23 lakh. Besides, 17 solid waste management projects in the district would also be started for the preparation of organic manure from garbage and eight more works would be started in the next few days. Under the project, garbage would be collected and separated from the houses, followed by making organic manure from waste. Regularly reviewing the projects under the ‘Smart Village Campaign’, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said 10.05 lakh mandis had been generated so far in the year 2020-21 with expenditure of Rs 3019.11 lakh, she added.Overseas study and placement cell set-upUnder ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission’ the overseas education and placement cell has been set up by the Department of Employment Generation Skill Development and Training at Kapurthala DAC in which free counselling would be provided to the youth seeking study or employment abroad. DC Deepti Uppal said the first batch of counselling would be from March 1 to 31 and registration for foreign counselling done from February 21 to 25. During the counselling, candidates would be provided transparent and clear information about going abroad so they do not face any difficulty in going abroad. Candidates belonging to Kapurthala district who wish to study abroad can register at District Employment and Business Bureau Kapurthala link https://tinyurl.com/foreign studlykpt and those who wish to study abroad can visit https:// can register at the link /tinyurl.com/foreignplacementkpt. Besides, candidates can register in person at the DAC, Kapurthala, the destination of District Employment and Business Bureau, Kapurthala, or contact helpline number 98882-19247.(Contributed by Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-wins-seats-where-violence-was-reported-215069
20-02-2021||The post graduate Punjabi department of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya celebrated International Mother Language Day. On this occasion an oath was taken to write and read in Punjabi. A painting exhibition was also organised in which posters made by students on Punjabi language were displayed. In addition||Int’l Mother Language Day||English Olympiad organisedJalandhar: State Public School, Jalandhar Cantonment, has given a chance to students to participate in International Olympiad organised by International Olympiad Foundation. There were different subjects offered to the students. Yashita Sharma of Class II A won laurels by bagging gold medal in International Foundation English Olympiad (IFEO) and bronze medal in International Foundation Maths Olympiad (IFMO). It was a proud moment for the school and the parents. The president of the school Dr Narotam Singh, vice-president Dr Gagandeep Kaur and the Principal, Savina Bahl congratulated Yashita and wished good luck for her future endeavours.Workshop on mathematical modellingKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised various activities to promote academic excellence in the students. In another initiative, PG department of mathematics organised one-day workshop on ‘Introduction to Mathematical Modelling Relevant to Real World Problems’. Dr Atul Kumar Verma (Assistant Professor, Department of Mathematics) from NIT Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu was the resource person. Dr Atul commenced his lecture by introducing concept of mathematical modelling and its relevance to real life. He also gave emphasis on ‘Applications of Mathematics’ in areas of physics, chemistry, biology, medical science and computers. He elaborated all the concepts by considering realistic problems in above mentioned areas, explained the technique to develop mathematical models and their validations. Further he introduced magic square to students as one of the wonder of mathematics. In the later session, he focussed on MATLAB, a mathematical software and also introduced its importance and usage techniques to the students. Students asked relevant questions regarding modelling techniques, validations and need of error minimisation. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi said the workshop will help students dive deeper in mathematics.NIT signs MoUA Memorandum of Understanding was signed between Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar and KISCO India Private Limited (KIPL) under CSR Initiative in the presence of Prof Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director NITJ, and Rohit Khanna- managing director KISCO India Pvt Ltd (KIPL). Prof Anish Sachdeva (Dean Academic) and Prof R K Garg (Dean Industry and International Affairs) were also present on the occasion. The objective of the MoU is to support NIT Jalandhar students who belong to financially weak families (BPL category). The support to the needy students will be given as ‘KIPL Inspirational Programme for Learning’ award. Under this MOU, KISCO will pay the total fee of the students as payable to the NIT, Jalandhar, throughout the period of their study in the Institute. Maximum amount of scholarship paid by the KISCO Pvt Ltd to all such students of NIT, Jalandhar, every year shall be limited to 3.50 lakh. Prof L K Awasthi thanked Rohit Khanna, who is also alumnus of the institute. He said this will also motivate other dynamic alumni of the institute as such awards would serve as a great assistance for the deprived students of the institute.National road safety monthAs per the guidelines from Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports and Ministry of Road Transport and Highway, the NSS Unit and De-Addiction committee of MGN College of Education, Jalandhar celebrated National Road Safety Month on the theme ‘Sadak Suraksha-Jeevan Raksha’. To celebrate the event, NSS volunteers made the masses aware regarding the road safety rules. Also, e-slogan writing and e-poster making competition were also organised on the theme ‘’Sadak Suraksha-Jeevan Raksha’’. Along with this 85 NSS volunteers participated in e-quiz regarding traffic rules. Volunteers of the college took road safety pledge and e-pledge too and got the e-certificates provided. Principal Neelu Jhanji appealed the youth to follow rules of road and follow all safety measures to avoid mishappenings on the road. In e-slogan writing competition: Rachita Garg got the first position, Ritika Kalra bagged the second position and Jasbir got the third position. In e-Poster Making competition: Nandini bagged the first position, Anjali got the second position and Shelly Devi stood third. Judgement of these competitions was done by Dr Ravjeet Kaur and Geetanjali Mittu.District Rifle CompetitionPhagwara: District Rifle Shooting Association, Kapurthala, organised a shooting competition in which students of Cambridge International School, Phagwara, participated. In this competition U-18, Devpartap Kundi from Class IX won the gold medal and Mansimar Singh of Class IX bagged bronze. In U-16 category, Karanveer Singh of Class VIII won the gold medal and Ekamveer of Class VIII grabbed bronze. In U-18 category: Vaibhav Mittal won bronze in ‘Pistol shooting’ and secured position for state level. Principal Jorawar Singh congratulated all the winners who are awarded with medals and certificates.TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intl-mother-language-day-215071
20-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||NRIs transform primary school in Jalandhar into heaven||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 19Five years ago, rainwater used to enter classes at Government Primary School, Bhandal Himat. As a result, snakes, too, had a field day in the school and students had no other option than skipping classes.Seeing the plight of students, a couple of Non-Resident Indians came forward and turned the institute into a heaven. With assistance pouring in from abroad, scales tilted in such a manner that students quit private schools to get enrolled at one of the most sought after institute in the area.Alphabets, numerics and solar system dot beautifully painted walls and ceilings of the school. Portraits of Guru Gobind Singh, Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rabindranath Tagore and Maharana Pratap, among others, help in igniting zeal among students.Even on the boundary wall – catchy motifs and quotes of freedom fighters welcome students.Schoolhead Munish Mohan said, “Five years ago, the scenario was quite different. Students couldn’t attend classes during monsoon. NRIs completely transformed the school. The new structure was raised and vitrified tiles were used for flooring. From 30 kids, we now have 75 students enrolled in the school. Even students from private schools prefer this institute. NRIs pooled in around Rs 40 lakh to give students a decent place to study.”He said, “Family of Surjit and Sarabjit Singh took the initiative and raised the ground-level of the school by donating around Rs 30 lakh. Sukhwinder Kaur from Belgium donated Rs 4 lakh. She always encourages us to work hard. We are also thankful to the Himat Bhandal Welfare Society, which donates generously.”Himat Bhandal and Himat Buta are two villages and NRIs have also contributed to give fillip to Primary School, Himat Buta.While the school’s level was raised, the idea to decorate walls was of staff members. The schoolhead came forward with monetary help to decorate walls and make it a student-friendly school.UK-based NRI Surjit Singh, his brother Sarabjit Singh, and Belgium-based Sukhwinder Kaur have always been at forefront when it comes to donation. The Bhandal Buta Welfare Society also pitches in with money from time to time for upkeep of infrastructure.A host of other NRIs, including Sohan Singh, Kulbir Singh, Surjit Singh Sidhu, Surinder Singh, Gurdev Chand, Lal Singh Lally, Jarvinder Singh, Simrandeep Singh and Harinder Singh, among others, also contributed to ensure that students do not face hardships. The NRIs contributed for renovation of gurdwara in the village.Sarabjit Singh said, “The village school was in a poor state. It bothered my UK-based brother Surjit Singh. Thus, he had been sending money for renovation of the school. It makes us very happy to see that it is one of the most sought after institute in the area now.”He said, “My brother studied till Class VIII at the village school. Despite settling abroad, he is deeply aware of the issues beings faced by villagers. He also donates for the needy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nris-transform-primary-school-in-jalandhar-into-heaven-214745
20-02-2021||---||LPU student sets Asian record in Dubai||Jalandhar, February 19Physical Education student at LPU, Nishad Kumar, glorified India by setting Asian record in the 12th Fazza International Championships for World Para Athletics Grand Prix 2021 held in Dubai. Breaking the record, Nishad jumped to the best till now 2.06m for the gold, and set a new Asian record in the men’s high-jump category T46/47. In this international tournament, the promising sports star of LPU, and India, was better than Thailand’s Chanaboon (1.93m) and Khasanov of Uzbekistan (1.90m).Nishad’s contributory winning efforts were the high points for India in ending its illustrious athletics campaign at the championships with a grand haul of medals. After a shining show from other Indian athletes, expectations were high from Nishad and he proved it.LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated Nishad for bringing laurels to the country and the university. Mittal shared, “All at LPU are delighted that our athlete delivered what was expected of him. We wish him all the best for his future illustrious performances in national/international competitions of utmost importance.”Hailing from district Una of Himachal Pradesh, Nishad is pursuing his graduation in physical education at LPU on 100% sports scholarship. Seeing his talent, LPU has enabled the one-handed to follow both of his passions, studies and sports, in consonance and ardently.Nishad says, “Along with my national mentors, I am thankful to LPU and trainers here who chiselled me to be perfect in my field. I am indebted to LPU management as it offered me scholarship to continue with both studies and sports, which was otherwise very difficult for me to reach such a winning stage. I managed a very good performance at the championships, and I am feeling proud that I established a new record also. In fact, all of my hard work learnt at LPU paid off here.” He added: “Now, I want to win the gold again and set a record in (postponed) Tokyo 2020 Paralympics as well.” For this, the 21-year old has already booked a quota for India with his ranked (bronze medal) finish at the Dubai 2019 Worlds.Known after the popular name of the crown prince of Dubai (UAE), the ‘Fazza’ Championships for ‘people of determination’ have become an icon of global Paralympics sports. It is the focus of attention for all teams that aspire to reach the world through the Dubai gate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-student-sets-asian-record-in-dubai-214725
