21-02-2021||---||2-day 65th senior wrestling c’ship commences at LPU||Jalandhar, February 20 The two-day 65th Senior National Wrestling Championships commenced at LPU campus on Saturday. Near 400 wrestlers from across India are in action in 10 weight categories.  Competitions for the five weight divisions 55kg, 60kg, 67kg, 82kg, and 130kg were held on the first day, and those of 63kg, 72kg, 77kg, 87 kg and 97kg will be held on the concluding day tomorrow. The Greco-Roman event is primarily supported by Wrestling Federation of India (WFI), Punjab Wrestling Association (PWA) and Jagjit Wrestling Academy (JWA). One of the most prestigious wrestling tournaments of the country, it is witnessing fierce fights of many nationally and internationally renowned wrestlers for coveted national titles in different categories. Many of the participants include Olympians, Commonwealth Games’ champions, Asian Medallists, national/state winners, including Ravinder Khatri, Hardeep Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Harpreet Singh, Arjun, Gyanender. The bouts of Punjab, Haryana, UP, Services, Railways were worth witnessing. The first day witnessed two phases, where in the morning hours the tournament was inaugurated by Lovely Group chairman Ramesh Mittal amid vedic mantra chanting and coconut offering as per Indian rituals. Mittal was accompanied by the WFI president and six-time MP of UP Brij Bhushan Sharan, Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee wrestler Kartar Singh, Jagjit Singh Saroya of JWA and other stalwarts of the game. The second phase was flagged off by the chairman, LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal and MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh. The chancellor congratulated the winners of the day and invoked them to continue bringing international glory to the country through their respective categories. Santokh applauded the energetic performances of the wrestlers. On this occasion, colourful march past by participating teams and melodious performances by LPU students provided soothing relief to the wrestlers. Some of the bouts in 82kg category were between Harpreet of Punjab and Haryana’s Rohit, in 60kg Saurabh of UP and Avinash of Jharkhand contetsted, also Punjab’s Akash and Lav Kumar from West Bengal; 55kg division saw Chandigarh’s Sharavan and West Bengal’s Deepak, Rohit of Himachal Pradesh and Ajmalia of Kerala, M Chandra Mauli of Andhra Pradesh and Arjun of SSGB in action. The competition is holding a strict implementation of the Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-day-65th-senior-wrestling-cship-commences-at-lpu-215531
21-02-2021||Ajay Joshi---||Govt aided schools’ association seeks exemption from submitting sports fund||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, February 20 While the Education Department has exempted government schools from submitting sports funds this year due to ‘Zero activity’ amid Covid-19 outbreak, in the academic year 2020-21, the district association of government-aided schools, too, has demanded a similar waiver. During every academic session, Rs20 is demanded from each student as sports fund, which eventually gets submitted with the Education Department. While 80 per cent of the fund is kept for the department, 20 per cent stays in school for development related works. With the help of this fund, the department officials conducts various sports activities in schools. However, as schools remained shut during Covid, no such activity was organised. Hence, no sports fund was accepted from government schools. Consequently, the association of aided schools said: “Aided schools once played an important role in spreading education in Punjab, but in most occasions, they are exempted from government policies. Similar to government schools, children in aided school also hail from humble background, yet they are excluded from several policies.” In this regard, a delegation of the association met the District Education Officer (DEO), recently, under the chairmanship of Manish Agarwal, the state press secretary of the association, to submit their letter of demands to the education secretary, but to no avail. Agarwal said: “Considering the relaxation provided to the government schools, the 80 per cent fund portion of the year 2019-2020 should not be demanded from aided schools. The additional fund would help the school heads in initiating development woks in their respective school. Aided schools also suffer huge economic crisis during the pandemic. Besides, facilities, including smartphones, grants for uniforms, computers and infrastructure, smart classrooms, development of science labs etc. should be provided to aided school students as well.” District Jalandhar unit of the aided school comprising president Pradeep Singh, state secretary Lal Das, secretary Jasveer Singh, Jugraj Singh, Chandar Shekhar demanded immediate consideration of their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-aided-schools-association-seeks-exemption-from-submitting-sports-fund-215532
21-02-2021||---||LPU student sets Asian record in Dubai||Jalandhar, February 20 Nishad Kumar, a physical education student at LPU, glorified India by setting a record in the 12th Fazza International Championships for World Para-Athletics Grand Prix, 2021, held in Dubai. Breaking the record, Nishad jumped to the best till now 2.06m for the gold, and set a new Asian record in the men’s high-jump category T46/47.  In this international tournament, the promising sports star of LPU, and India, was better than Thailand’s Chanaboon (1.93m) and Khasanov of Uzbekistan (1.90m). Nishad’s contributory winning efforts were the high points for India in ending its illustrious athletics campaign at the championships with a grand haul of medals. After a shining show from other Indian athletes, expectations were high from Nishad and he proved it. LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal congratulated Nishad for bringing laurels to the country and the university. Mittal shared, “All at LPU are delighted that our athlete delivered what was expected of him. We wish him all the best for his future illustrious performances in national/international competitions of utmost importance.”  Hailing from district Una of Himachal Pradesh, Nishad is pursuing his graduation in physical education at LPU on 100% sports scholarship. Seeing his talent, LPU has enabled the one-handed to follow both of his passions, studies and sports, in consonance and ardently. Nishad says, “Along with my national mentors, I am thankful to LPU and trainers here who chiselled me to be perfect in my field. I am indebted to LPU management as it offered me scholarship to continue with both studies and sports, which was otherwise very difficult for me to reach such a winning stage. I managed a very good performance at the championships, and I am feeling proud that I established a new record also. In fact, all of my hard work learnt at LPU paid off here.” He added: “Now, I want to win the gold again and set a record in (postponed) Tokyo 2020 Paralympics as well.” For this, the 21-year old has already booked a quota for India with his ranked (bronze medal) finish at the Dubai 2019 Worlds. Known after the popular name of the crown prince of Dubai (UAE), the ‘Fazza’ Championships for ‘people of determination’ have become an icon of global Paralympics sports. It is the focus of attention for all teams that aspire to reach the world through the Dubai gate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-student-sets-asian-record-in-dubai-215533
21-02-2021||Jalandhar||Aadhaar cards given to special children||Amarjit Singh Anand, social activist and expert member of the state advisory board for disabled, arranged several Aadhaar camps in Jalandhar. A two-day Aadhaar camp was held at Children’s Home for Girls at Gandhi Vanita Ashram, Kapurthala Road, Jalandhar, where over 25 such cards were made. This was his second camp in the district held on February 16 and 17 and the third camp was held at Unique Home on February 17 and 18 where 25 Aadhaar cards were uploaded. Anand thanked the district administration for their cooperation. The fourth Aadhaar camp was held at Mother Teresa Missionaries of Charity’’s shelter home at Model Town on February 18 and 19. Special children were given Aadhaar cards at the camp. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aadhaar-cards-given-to-special-children-215534
21-02-2021||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi---||Surinder Shinda, Parveen Saini front-runners for Mayoral post||Hoshiarpur, February 20 In Hoshiarpur city, Congress set a record by winning 41 of the 50 wards in the Municipal Corporation election. Congress has won a majority of the seats almost after four decades.  According to party sources, it will be Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora who will decide on the name of mayor from the city. Though Arora is yet to open his cards, they said.  The Minister said, “It’s the prerogative of the newly-elected councillors to elect their leader and we will follow the directions of high command.”  One of the front runners for the Mayoral post seems to be seniormost Congress councillor Surinder Shinda (ward number 18), who has been elected for the fourth time.  The other contender is five time councillor from ward number 1, Parveen Saini. She was first elected in 1998 on BJP ticket and then repeated her success as BJP councillor in 2003. Then she switched to Congress in 2009 and got elected again. In 2015, she became councillor for the fourth time and this was her fifth win. If the Mayoral post gets reserved for woman, she could be the only choice on the basis of seniority. Another name which is doing rounds is the first time councillor Vijay Aggarwal from ward number 34. He had promised the voters of his area that he was contesting the poll for Mayoral post. He is from sound financial background.   Kuldeep Nanda, president of the District Congress Committee, said, “We cannot decide anything at our end.  We will follow the high command orders. The final call will be taken after calling a meeting of all winning candidates”.  Party’s big leaders will be meeting in a day or two to consider the ‘suitability’ of the Mayoral candidate keeping in view the 2022 Assembly elections, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surinder-shinda-parveen-saini-front-runners-for-mayoral-post-215535
21-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||Maltreated by kin, ex-cop approaches SSP for help||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 20A month after the Kapurthala police issued a warning to the adopted family of an elderly person to treat him nicely, 91-year-old Sat Parkash, a retired constable living in Kapurthala, on Saturday again approached the Kapurthala SSP with the complaint that his (adopted) family was not giving him food.Parkash, who retired from the police department after putting in 38 years of service, again approached the Kapurthala police with the complaint that he was now being pressurised by his relatives to transfer ownership of his property to them. On January 17, he had approached the city police station where he served as a constable for many years.Earlier, his relatives had erected a wall between his and their room just to sideline him and keep him in a dirty room previously. After police intervention, they had promised that he would be taken care of and given proper food. However, a month later, he said he had now been shifted at a room on the roof of the house and was not being given anything to eat.A resident of Kesari Bagh in Kapurthala, Sat Parksah said, “I have not been given any food for a long time. I get food from acquaintances or eat outside at dhabas. I live in a room on the first floor. Chaubare vich peya rehnda haan. I had adopted this boy years ago. His father Phool Chand is from Jalandhar. His first wife left him. Now he and his second wife are pressuring me to transfer ownership of property to them. I don’t want to do that. I refused them plainly. They don’t even give me food.”When Parkash went to meet Kapurthala SSP Kanwardeep Kaur at her residence today, she was not present there as she had gone out of station. Surjit Singh, SHO, city police station, had also visited the former cop after his complaint last month and issued a warning to his family to treat him nicely otherwise action would be taken against them. The SSP said, “The complaint had been redressed last time with the SHO visiting his house. We would again look into the matter if he is facing any problem.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/maltreated-by-kin-ex-cop-approaches-ssp-for-help-215536
21-02-2021||---||Now, class monitors, teachers to check violation of Covid norms in govt schools||Jalandhar, February 20 A teacher as nodal officer and class monitors in government schools have been assigned the responsibility to raise awareness regarding Covid-19 protocols and keep a check over its violations.  The Department of School Education, Punjab Government, has recently issued instructions to raise awareness among students regarding Covid-19 precautions and has issued guidelines to ensure rules are strictly followed.  As all schools have reopened after a long period, instructions were issued to appoint a teacher in each school as a nodal officer and a student in each class as a monitor to raise awareness about the precautions to be taken to contain its spread. In schools, students sometimes ignore guidelines and indulge in actions such as not wearing the mask properly, maintaining social distance between each other and avoiding washing hands. Therefore, the nodal officer and class monitor would keep a tab on all such violations and report the action immediately to the authorities concerned.  The orders released by the Education Department reads: “Keeping in view the situation of Covid-19, SOPs have been issued by the Punjab Government to schools. Adherence to guidelines must be ensured. A teacher should be appointed as the nodal officer in the school to make students aware about the correct method or manner of wearing a mask. Similarly, one student in each class as a monitor must encourage the rest of the students to follow all guidelines.” These instructions would be applicable to all government, aided and private schools in the state of Punjab.  Education Secretary Krishan Kumar said the school heads would play an effective role in this awareness campaign and all District Education Officers (Secondary and Elementary Education) should monitor government schools as well as aided and private schools in their respective districts to ensure compliance of the instructions issued in the SOPs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-class-monitors-teachers-to-check-violation-of-covid-norms-in-govt-schools-215537
21-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||No eyesight, but a bright future was always in sight||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 20Dr Mona Goel has been a challenger in a true sense. Having remained a topper throughout during her studies at Apeejay School, she was in the final year of her BDS course when her life came to a sudden halt.Some doctors suggested that since I had suffered from malaria twice and it could be due to the side-effects of chloroquine but for me the question mark remains. But I had to go on. I completed my BDS even though I knew that this professional degree was of no use to me. What next? I could not just sit back. My brother, Dr Sameer Goel, who is a cardiac surgeon, and my sister-in-law Dr Vandana Goel, anesthetist, hunted for other career options for me. They counselled me to take up three-year LLB. So, I appeared for the entrance examination at PU, took the help of a reader and writer and got through.— Dr Mona GoelAt the age of 25, she lost her eyesight. Her two paternal uncles, brother, sister-in-law – all of whom were doctors – ensured she was taken to the best eye surgeons but the damage had already been done and it was incurable. She even spent five years in England, seeking treatment and trying to earth the cause but now calls it “a complete wastage of time”.“Some doctors suggested that since I had suffered from malaria twice and it could be due to the side-effects of chloroquine but for me the question mark remains. But I had to go on. I completed my BDS even though I knew that this professional degree was of no use to me. What next? I could not just sit back. My brother, Dr Sameer Goel, who is a cardiac surgeon, and my sister-in-law Dr Vandana Goel, anaesthetist, hunted for other career options for me. They counselled me to take up three-year LLB. So, I appeared for the entrance examination at PU, took the help of a reader and writer and got through,” she shared.From dentistry, she jumped to law and enjoyed this course so much that she even pursued LLM and PhD in Property Law at Guru Nanak Dev University, regional campus, Ladhewali. “I completed my doctorate in 2014. My research was based on the topic ‘educational rights for the disabled’ and I found that there was nothing much at the implementation level,” she said. Asked how she managed to learn so much of coursework, she revealed, “I was always attentive in class and understood all topics broadly. My friends and bhabhi were a great help as they would read out some topics for me whenever they had time.”She continued to share her journey, “As soon as I completed LLM, I took up part time job in teaching at the same campus and continued to complete by doctorate as well. In 2014, I got the regular job of assistant professor”. She qualified for the job in the general category. How she managed to teach? “Anyone, who listens to my lecture well, will get the complete gist of things. They keep taking notes of all what I speak out to them. I was pretty comfortable even in online teaching. I do not check answer sheets and the university authorities are aware of my problem.”Comfortably walking within the campus, she tells, “I have counted all my steps and generally don’t need help inside. But the moment I step out of here, I have my friends, family or my car driver to assist me. Despite the problem, I find that life is good and I am enjoying it as much as I can.”She was President Medal awardee on the Disability Day in 2018. “The same day I was also picked for the state award but I obviously went to Delhi to receive the bigger award,” she beamed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-eyesight-but-a-bright-future-was-always-in-sight-215538
21-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||‘Infected must isolate to save others’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 20He is the man in charge for vaccinating over 15,000 people who have received the Covid vaccination in the district so far. But months before the Covid vaccination process began, he himself tested had positive.I was posted inTarn Taran as DIO in the first week of November. It was there that I got my positive report on November 25. I stayed in quarantine for 24 days. The tricky part was when I started feeling breathlessness. At one point of time my oxygen saturation slipped below 90%. But with precautions, I got on road to healing.  — Dr Rakesh Chopra, District Immunisation OfficerAlmost two months after, District Immunisation Officer (DIO) Dr Rakesh Chopra is now responsible for ensuring the smooth inoculation of more than 15,000 frontline workers in the district. He himself has also received the jab. Among the first few people who got vaccinated, Dr Chopra believes prevention is the only and best way to fight the virus.“Those who still aren’t serious should ask people who lost their loved ones,” he says.Having tested positive on November 25, the brief two-month stay he had as District Immunisation Officer at Tarn Taran was marked with Covid.He says, “I was posted to Tarn Taran as DIO in the first week of November. It was there I got my positive report on November 25. Covid came with body aches and mild fever. I stayed in quarantine for 24 days. The tricky part was when I begin feeling breathlessness. I had isolated myself in my own house at Jalandhar. My wife had tested negative. At one point of time my oxygen saturation slipped below 90%. But with precautions, I got on the road to healing.”Before being transferred to tarn Taran, Dr Chopra was also responsible for shifting of countless bodies of the Covid deceased as Medical Officer Jalandhar, “I was in charge of shifting dead bodies from the Civil Hospital. We must have shifted 2,000 dead bodies during the peak of Covid. I was also posted as an emergency officer. So, it could be possible in contracted Covid from here.”Once back here, the doctor has now been at the helm of affairs for the Covid vaccination drive.Speaking on his fight against Covid, he says, “It feels great to be better. When you have breathlessness or other symptoms, it can be scary for some time for the best of us because severe Covid is incurable. But with precautions and care, you can avoid Covid. And the silver lining in the cloud is that there is a 98% recovery rate.”On rise in Covid cases, he says, “There is a nationwide rise in cases across many states. In Jalandhar cases had come down to 10 to 20 per day. But they have again risen from 40 to 50. Again I say there are people who tested positive who did not isolate themselves. Some give wrong numbers, travel and are found in other states when finally traced. These people are the root cause of the spread of the infection. They need to isolate themselves and don’t pose a hazard for others. Think about families who lost loved ones.”“It is great news that over 15,000 people in Jalandhar are already vaccinated. If 20 to 30% people are vaccinated and 20 to 30% general population has already been positive (some of them didn’t get tested) then we might inch closer to herd immunity. With 60 to 70% of the population covered – we’d have shot immunity. That way we can avoid a surge for the coming six months to a year.”(As told to Aparna Banerji||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/infected-must-isolate-to-save-others-215542
