22-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||People’s movement to save district from floods||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 21Amid kisan andolan (farmers’ protest) an alternate people’s movement is taking place on the Sutlej riverbed to save people and crops from floods.More than 30,000 acres of standing crop got inundated in 2019 in Shahkot, Lohian, Gidderpindi and Sultanpur Lodhi, which caused massive financial loss to farmers. Accumulation of silt at Gidderpindi (bridge) was termed as one of the prime reasons for widespread havoc caused by floods in 2019.Gidderpindi bridge and kisan andolanFarmers from the area led by environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal started to desilt Gidderpindi bridge, without any financial assistance from the government.Work on desilting the bridge had begun in September 2020, but was stalled due to rains and farmers’ stir. Now, the work has resumed again, with Seechewal starting second phase of karsewa.The administration watched as silt deposited under the bridge. First floods wreaked havoc in the area and now, agri laws pushed by the Centre are testing our nerves. Many are yet to recover from losses. Groundwater got polluted due to floods. Earlier, one could find potable water at 30 to 100 ft, but now borewells need to be dug up as deep as 400 ft. Desilting is the first step to prevent floods in future. —Salwinder Singh Jania, District chief, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh CommitteeSeechewal said, “Gidderpindi bridge is instrumental in ensuring smooth flow of river. Earlier, villagers used to desilt it regularly, but stopping the exercise led to collection of silt right up to the level of girders, which caused flooding in 2019. The work on desilting started last year, but was suspended due to unprecedented rains and farmers stir. Now, the work has resumed again. Tippers and earth movers have been pressed into service at Gidderpindi bridge.”While a bundh was also made on the river last year to strengthen banks and avoid flooding, the environmentalist said, “To strengthen bundhs on the river, there is no shortage of funds with the government, but these funds are never used properly. As a result, people residing along the rivers live under constant fear. Neither grants, nor amenities are provided to people.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/peoples-movement-to-save-district-from-floods-215993
22-02-2021||---||Farmers head to New Delhi in groups to strengthen stir||Jalandhar, February 21Support for farmers’ stir is increasing with each passing day. Villagers of Jalandhar district have been heading to Delhi in groups on rotational basis to ensure that they have enough protesters on the ground.Tarsem Singh of Uchha village said he would be going to Singhu on Monday along with his group. “Now, participation from villages will increase manifold. Everyone wants to make their presence felt in the farmers’ protest,” he said.He said they decided at the panchayat-level that farmers would head in groups to Delhi to infuse more energy in the stir.Stir in Nawanshahr on February 24Tarsem said, “We will spend four-five days and come back. Later, another group of farmers will leave. In this way, we can look after our fields and and strengthen the protest.”Sukhwant Singh from Karnana village said some adjoining villagers decided to move to Singhu and Tikri borders in groups.Another farmer, Sucha Singh, said he would be leaving for Delhi to show solidarity with farmers’ protest along with his counterparts.He said they would take essentials articles for farmers who had been staying there for the last three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-head-to-new-delhi-in-groups-to-strengthen-stir-215994
22-02-2021||---||Ayushman Bharat e-card services begin at 26 Sewa Kendras in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, February 21Accelerating the pace of the ongoing drive to cover all eligible beneficiaries under Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Sunday launched e-card generation services at all 26 type-2 Sewa Kendras of the district.While unveiling the e-card programme at the District Administrative Complex Sewa Kendra, the DC said as many as 2,62,520 families in the district were eligible to avail the benefit of cashless treatment up to Rs5 lakh under the scheme.He called upon people to get them enrolled under the scheme by visiting Sewa Kendras, CSCs, and government healthcare institutions along with their Aadhar cards. He said the e-card generation services have been launched in all 26 type-2 Sewa Kendras including one near BDPO office Adampur, near bus stand Alawalpur, backside Patwarkhana Phillaur, behind bus stand Nakodar, Bara Pind road Goraya, Basti Mithu, Bhogpur, Dasehra Ground Shahkot, EOCP Noormahal, Gonse Mohalla, Nakodar, Guru Amardass Colony, Kartarpur, Major Rohit Sharma Government School, Model Town, near tube well No. 2 Goraya, New Sabji Mandi, Maqsoodan, opposite Parminder Hospital Hoshiarpur Road, Phull Road Lohian, Primary Health Centre Mehatpur, Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences Garha Road, Suwidha Centre SDM office Nakodar, Suwidha Centre SDM Officer Phillaur, Sewa Kendra under ROB Domoria Bridge, Dhilwan village near elementary school, village Khurla Kingra road, opposite Government High School Kot Sadiq village and Ladhewali village.The DC said these e-card generation services would start at the remaining six Sewa Kendras of the type-3 category as well from February 26 onwards. He directed Sewa Kendra operators to put their maximum efforts to make this scheme a great success besides making Jalandhar a leading district in e-card generation. The DC also announced reward and honor for top performing operators generating the highest number of e-cards, adding he asked the officials of the governance reform department to develop a system to analyze the performance of every operator.Meanwhile, he also reviewed the pendency of Sewa Kendras and expressed satisfaction over the current pendency rate of 0.02 per cent, which is the lowest in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ayushman-bharat-e-card-services-begin-at-26-sewa-kendras-in-jalandhar-district-216014
22-02-2021||In the municipal council poll held recently||A homemaker, she now has plans to improve amenities in her area||Having passed BA and B Ed from a college in Ludhiana, Jyoti was a schoolteacher when she got married in Jamsher village of Jalandhar. As she was putting up in a village and got occupied with her family life, she said she did not think beyond home for over 12 years. She narrates her story: “Our lives changed for the better as my husband, who runs business in leather work, moved to Phillaur town. My two daughters aged 5 and 10 are also now much onto their own. So, it was time that I could think of socialising and building my own career. I had never thought I would step into politics till a few weeks ago, but it just happened. It was a bit strange for me going out, striding ahead of several men in town, getting garlanded, hearing slogans in my name and delivering a few speeches.” But slowly, she says, she has got a bit acclimatised. “Having won and got people’s mandate, I do not want to sit back now. I have plans to improve the civic amenities in my area, take along women for setting up some self-help groups and even raise awareness on schemes for my Dalit community,” she said, taking long pauses to think after uttering every word.When Cong rebel Ballu had his wayLalit Mohan Pathak Ballu (50), Independent, NawanshahrA rebel Congress leader, Lalit Mohan Pathak, more commonly known as Ballu, has made a record of sorts. Despite contesting Independently, he has won with a record margin of 1,162 votes. While a total of 1,352 votes were polled in his ward, the Congress candidate who came second polled only 165 votes. From a family of die-hard Congressmen, Ballu could not go along with local MLA Angad Saini and thus went to contest as a rebel and made it triumphantly. Four more candidates from the group that he formed won the poll and three winning Akali leaders also benefitted owing to the votes of Congress candidates getting dented. A fourth-time councillor and two-time president of the Nawanshahr Municipal Council, Ballu managed to generate a lot of support for himself. His voters had started chanting “Ballu ki challu” (meaning Ballu will have his way). A property dealer by occupation, he says: “Despite sitting in the Opposition this time, I will continue to serve the masses and provide them the best civic amenities that they rightfully need to have.”A civil engineer, he wants to ensure residents are safeSarabjit Sabi (28), AAP councillor, BangaA qualified civil engineer, Sarabjit Sabi has struggled to reach a level, where he could be recognised as a face for MC elections. “My father has worked as a labourer and we have really seen tough times. But ever since I completed my studies, I did not let him work. He now runs a general store and a salon that I got opened for him. After studies, I had started finance business which is doing good.” Sabi shares his story about his foray into politics: “My friends and I always felt that Banga town, despite its good location, has not developed to the potential it has. So, they all pushed me into politics. Just as elections got started, they asked me to contest and I agreed. We felt that going Independent won’t be easy, so they pushed me to join AAP. So, I joined this party just 20 days back and won by a margin of 52 votes.” He adds: “Luck has been on my side and four other party candidates here also got elected. So, we guess my party could be in power here and the only one in the entire state. If that happens and we are able to wield some power, my topmost agenda would be to upgrade the sewer system, have clean public toilets and install CCTV cameras for residents’ security.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-homemaker-she-now-has-plans-to-improve-amenities-in-her-area-216015
22-02-2021||OPEN HOUSE ||The system is neither effective nor helpful for people||A workable redress systemOfficials keep introducing newer ways to help people get benefits of the government system. Some of these systems actually are working pretty well. One such system is the MC’s complaint redress system, which was introduced by the previous BJP-led municipal corporation. During that period, people were made aware of the usefulness of this system and it proved quite successful. This is actually not surprising, for the contractors who look into repairs and other job works, get their payments only if they clear all the complaints within the stipulated time period, thus making it a workable redress problems. The present MC needs to create awareness among residents to popularise this system to extract the best out of it.Ajay ChopraWeb portal of civic body is of no useThe municipal corporation plays an indispensable role in the development of the city. The municipal corporation has introduced web portals to address people’s complaints, but these are not helpful. The complaints through emails are in vogue in western nations. However, in our country web portals are not advanced and landline numbers keep ringing. The municipal corporation web portal reminds me of that mechanic who said to his customer, “I could not fix your brakes but I have made the volume of your horn louder.” Actually, the MC needs to pull up its socks because people of the city want to see development, not fake promises. What they actually need to do is keep the websites updated so that people can easily access it. On the contrary, the MC should assign duties to its staff to take grievances calls regarding the problems encountered by people of the city.Saahil HansEfficient redress system neededThe municipalities in cities and towns meet the day-to-day needs of people in a sustainable manner such as roads, bridges, street lighting, water supply, sanitation, sewerage, solid waste management, town planning, land development and construction of buildings, parks, fire-fighting, cemeteries, promotion of a safe and healthy environment and other economic, social, health, educational and cultural issues. An efficient, responsive and transparent civic body provides for a complaint redressal system. In case it fails to perform its mandatory functions, residents can lodge their complaints by using landline, toll-free number, email and web portal, and give their feedback, voice their opinions and make suggestions for improving municipal functioning and efficiency. But a majority of people are either unaware of these innovative platforms or are illiterate to use them. Otherwise also, a considerable number of grievances go unattended or unresolved in a time-bound and transparent manner. The municipal authorities usually turn a blind eye towards multiple hardships the residents suffer. Apart from the oft-repeated excuses of staff crunch and paucity of funds, it is because of corruption, vicious politics, lack of political will and official apathy. With rapid growth in population and urbanisation, it is imperative to strengthen and streamline municipal bodies for adequate delivery of basic public services. A sufficient number of employees, adequate infrastructure, regular monitoring and supervision of the grievances redressal system will check inordinate delay in solving the problems. Active participation and support of all stakeholders including the civic authorities, state and central government officials, NGOs and citizens will help to advance the general well-being of society.DS KangGood platform for grievance redressalI believe that the tools used for complaint redressal are a great platform for addressing the grievances of the public. It is a good step to provide a one-stop arrangement for citizen grievances management making use of information technology optimally, ensuring faster delivery of civic services. I wish the authorities concerned will take prompt actions after receiving complaints to make Jalandhar a smart city.Raman DuttClose the case after complainant’s nodIn many cases, it has been noticed that MC officials conclude a grievance even without satisfying the complainant. The mechanism or internal control should be such that the complaint should be fixed without any delay. Accountability of officials should be fixed. Also getting satisfaction of the complainant should be made compulsory before closing the case. For this, there can be a window/link in the system where the complainant can write “I am satisfied”, “I am not satisfied” or “The following work is still pending”, etc.Surinder AnandReliable system to redress complaintsThe municipal corporation complaint redressal system was adopted a few years ago. It is a successful mode of system for the complainant to file his complaint regarding any problems he/she facing within the limits and under the jurisdiction of municipal corporation. As the complaint number comes on the mobile and he/she can verify the status of his complaint on the web portal. The Municipal Corporation should appoint new staff to carry out repairs on time as sometimes due to technical reasons repair work is delayed due to contractors. If the Municipal Corporation of Jalandhar has a particular appointed staff to help redress complaints, these can be solved at the earliest giving a relief to the complainant.Rajat Kumar MohindruIt’s neither effective nor helpfulThe public grievances redress system evolved and presently put on the website of MC is neither effective nor helpful. The facility of using toll free/ landline numbers is worse than using e-mail/ website as their efficacy and scope is restrained due to their limited and tardy operational value. However, in view of present digitalised working and vast internet reach, the system through website needs to be streamlined and encouraged for maximum use. Presently the same system available with MC is in a pathetic condition. No e-mail regarding any complaint is acknowledged and there is no time-bound redressal. The worst experience is that the problem is generally shown as solved without having even attended by anyone from the MC. This amounts to cheating and breach of trust with gullible public and urgently warrants criminal prosecution besides strict action under disciplinary rules against the delinquent staff. But nobody takes notice of theses malpractices even after having brought to the information of their top officers. The whole system needs to be streamlined with drastic changes to make it user friendly and fully efficacious in solving the grievances effectively and quickly.Jagdish ChanderNo official attends phone callsOnce I had tried to send a complaint, but nobody answered my phone calls be it landline or the toll-free number. But yes, there was an immediate response when an email was sent. I feel there should be a system where local councillors should be given powers to deal with complaints and they should be made answerable because most people are not well-versed with technology.Mandeep Singh SachdevFails to deliver quality serviceThe public complaint redressal system is one of the flagship schemes (aimed at fixing people’s civic problems) started by the administration. However, the system is very effective and meaningful. Landline toll-free numbers are there. Email id and web portal are there but all these things are of no use to public as landline numbers are always busy and not reachable. Emails are not checked for months. Customer dissatisfaction spoils the image of the system, grievances redressal procedure only gave assurances, not solutions. After months we get a message that the problem will be resolved without specifying in how much time. No answer or explanation is given. People often face difficulties in dealing with the system. Too many rules and regulations are there resulting in unnecessary delay. Now-a-days people are more enlightened and more demanding so a foolproof system is needed to help people and there should be regular check on complaints, check the seriousness of complaints and try to solve within 48 hours. We need capable, innovative and forward looking, result oriented staff, able to deliver quality public service to people in a hassle-free manner.Shashi KiranPeople have no faith in itThe system has proved to be of little help for people. Complaints are usually shown as solved, which, actually, remain unsolved for months. People have no faith in this system.RK BhallaMaking a fool of complainantsNo doubt there is a web portal for redressal of complaints against municipal authorities. But unfortunately in most of the cases what the authorities concerned are doing is that they are updating false reports showing compliance of the said complaint as attended and settled or fault removed and work done instead of actual redressal. Hence the authorities are making a fool of the complainants. Therefore, the government should ensure that all the complaints are attended in reality and strict action should be taken against the official for updating false reports in larger public interest.Surinder MittalRedressal system a big failureThe redressal system of the Municipal Corporation is a big failure and they are just making a mockery of the municipal law and are not serious with regard to the master plan of the city. The master plan of the ‘Smart City’ cannot be violated, as the state of Punjab has also submitted an affidavit to the Union of India that they will not violate the master plan of cities to be made ‘Smart’. The officials are not replying to complaints with full details and officials just reply to very few complaints and that too is not satisfactory. They are just making fool of complainants. They should make it necessary to give an ID proof with the complaint, which is also a violation of the constitutional right of the general public. There is no strict watch on the redressal system and on the replies filed by the inspector/ATP concerned at their own level. Socrates had said: “By far the greatest and most admirable form of wisdom is that needed to plan and beautify cities and human communities.”Simran Jit SinghLandline, toll-free numbers mostly offIt’s to the credit of The Tribune that it keeps raising the people-centric issues in its open house section of Jalandhar Tribune. This subject is very much in line with that. The MC has no doubt a complaint redressal system with many tools like landline, toll-free number, e-mail and web portal. But as is said, a system is as good as the people who run it. Regarding the landline and toll-free number, the person on the line either doesn’t respond or diverts the caller to another number, most of the time. The caller just remains in suspense as to whether his or her complaint will be registered or not. Adding to the woe of the caller, both the landline and toll-free number are switched off. Similar is the fate with e-mail and web portal. The staff handling those services is also not very eager and energetic in responding to the person who has called them about his or her problems. We need to learn from Europe and America how earnestly they respond and solve the problems of the public. The government and the bureaucracy need to mend and energies the complaint redressal system.Dr JS WadhwaMedium created, but is not monitoredIt’s always ‘one day’ situation when an action plan has to be put in place. Nonetheless, the MC deserves applause for moving forward to provide online facilities along with the retro call and complaint system, but that’s not enough. The world moves towards a more robust and secure online platform, especially when it falls under the public sector. The media are created, but they are not monitored. The website is not mobile-friendly and contains numerous bugs that are experienced while navigating through it. A resident complaining about a grievance in the locality will complain about the online complaint system itself. There should be a ticket generation system for every complaint. That ticket should be monitored while going through different phases so that the resident is informed duly about his complaint’s status. Online platforms are easy to build but become complicated when deployed, especially in public environments. Thus, proper monitoring, maintenance and upgrades are keys to a reliable complaint address system.Gurmanjot SinghQUESTIONAs the prices of LPG cylinder, petrol and diesel are sky-rocketing, how difficult it has become to sustain livelihood in such a situation for residents, especially during the pandemic?Plaints solved within given time frameWe have a dedicated cell for complaint redressal. Most grievances are related to blockage of drains or water supply. We ensure that complaints are solved within a given time frame. As sewer system is old at some places, blockages tend to reoccur. We also make random calls to complainants to ask them if their issues have been addressed or not. —Karnesh Kumar, MC CommissionerSuggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (February 25).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-system-is-neither-effective-nor-helpful-for-people-216018
22-02-2021||Jalandhar||Man dies as lift collapses||Two die, 38 test positive in districtWith two persons dying of Covid-19 on Saturday and two today, the toll increased to 696 on Sunday. The district recorded 38 new cases of Covid on Sunday taking the tally to 21,232 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-dies-as-lift-collapses-216019
