23-02-2021||Ajay Joshi||Just 19, Kuwar Amritbir Singh is creating waves through fitness||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 22Kuwar Amritbir Singh (19), a fitness influencer from Batala, believes that the best way one can make a difference in the life of others is to inspire them.Kuwar, who has social media following in lakhs, has made a mark in India Book of Records and World Records of India by following his passion for fitness.Though his list of achievements is unending, his one skill that stands him apart is his ability to do over 120 knuckle pushups in 60 seconds. When he was just 17, he made the record by doing 118 knuckle pushups in a minute.His last record for India Book of Records was 35 superman push-ups in 30 seconds. He has also been nominated for Karamveer Chakra award.As every teenager has a dream to achieve something big in life, Kuwar embarked upon his journey when he was 16. Strict schedule helped him sink deeper into his passion. Currently pursuing his bachelor’s degree in physical education, he aspires to make his mark in the fitness world.“Watching movies and content on stunts always thrilled me. Seeing my favourite actors doing callisthenics, I also wanted to try the same. Hence, I started with pushups. My day starts around 5.30 am, followed by two-hours workout. In the evening, I prefer to do cross fit workouts to keep my self agile,” he said.With a make-shift gym at his home at Umarwala village, he has made himself a master of his own. He learnt his skills on his own at the gym set up at his cattle shelter. Gunny bags full of sand and cemented plastic cans are his weights for building strength.Having born and brought up in a family of farmers, he actively supported ongoing farmers’ protest.A recipient of the Youth Icon award from his district, he, doesn’t aspire to settle abroad like most of his counterparts. “I want to encourage youth to do something different in life. I try to motivate people to take up healthy lifestyle. Become an ambassador for your own cause, as that’s the only way you can make a difference. Social media has opened various platforms for me. In future, I will vouch for TV reality shows for better reach. In the last segment of ‘Hunar Punjab Da’, I was among the top 10 contestants,” said Kuwar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/just-19-kuwar-amritbir-singh-is-creating-waves-through-fitness-216354
23-02-2021||---||10 from Jalandhar dist attending cricket camp in Mohali||Jalandhar, February 22 As many as 10 women players of the Jalandhar District Cricket Association (JDCA) have been selected for the senior women camp that is being organised by the Punjab Cricket Association. The camp started on February 14 and will culminate on February 28 at IS Bindra Cricket Stadium in Mohali. The staff, coach and players were also tested for Covid-19.  Surjit Rai Bitta, joint secretary of the Punjab Cricket Association, said of the 39 players, the selection of 10 players from the city was an achievement. He said this would motivate others and strengthen the JDCA. The selected girls are: Priyanka Malik, Mehak Kesar, Neetu Singh, Srishti Rajput, Muskan, Simran Gandhi, Nitika, Saloni, Pratibha and Karishma Rana. To encourage women participation in the sport, the women wing was started by the JDCA in 2017. Coach Ashutosh Sharma was selected as in-charge of the women’s cricket team. Ashutosh said in the first batch, there were 13 girls, who were given free of cost coaching, and in four years, the number of participation by girls had increased to 60. Officials of the JDCA said the players of women wing had represented the state in various tournaments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-from-jalandhar-dist-attending-cricket-camp-in-mohali-216355
23-02-2021||---||65th senior wrestling nationals ends at LPU||Phagwara, February 22 The two-day 65th Senior National Wrestling Championships concluded at Lovely Professional University campus where wrestlers of the Services Sports Control Board (SSCB) were declared as the ‘Best Team’ and awarded the overall championships trophy. With 111 points, Punjab team lifted the runners-up trophy with Gurpreet Singh (77kg) and Harpreet Singh (82kg) winning gold medals; Prabhpal Singh (87kg) silver, and Narender Cheema (97kg) bronze. With overall 190 Points, SSCB were podium toppers, Railway Sports Promotion Board (RSPB) were second with 170 points.  Punjab’s ace-wrestlers Gurpreet Singh won gold without yielding a point and Harpreet Singh defeated his opponent in just 48 seconds. Gurpreet and Harpreet of Punjab and Sunil of Railway Sports Promotion Board have continued their dominance in national wrestling scene, and have fuelled their chances for their participation in Italy for the prestigious ‘Matteo Pellicone Rome Rankings’. On the final day, gold medal winners in five weight categories of 63kg, 72kg, 77kg, 87kg and 97kg are Neeraj (Delhi), Kuldeep Malik (RSPB), Gurpreet Singh (Punjab), Sunil Kumar (Railway Sports Promotion Board) and Deepanshu (SSCB), respectively. On the inaugural day, Arjun of SSCB, Manish of RSPB, Gaurav of UP, Harpreet of Punjab and Naveen of SSCB had won gold in the weight categories of 55kg, 60kg, 67kg, 82kg and 130kg, respectively. Supported by Wrestling Federation of India (WFI), Punjab Wrestling Association (PWA) and Jagjit Wrestling Academy (JWA), the tournament witnessed nearly 400 wrestlers in action in 10 weight categories amid much admiration and applause. One of the most prestigious wrestling tournaments of the country, it saw aggressive competitions with full sportsmanship spirit for national titles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/65th-senior-wrestling-nationals-ends-at-lpu-216356
23-02-2021||---||128 students from Nawanshahr test +ve in 10 days||Jalandhar, February 22Nawanshahr has started witnessing a rise in the number of fresh cases of Covid-19. The number of students testing positive for the virus has crossed 250 in the past two weeks in the district. While on February 12, there were 122 students who tested positive, the number has crossed the 250 mark, which means that 128 more students have tested positive in just 10 days (from February 12 to 22).The vaccination of teachers has started in the district. Health officials said 70 students of Government Senior Secondary School, Karyam, tested positive. Until now, samples have been taken from 50 schools in the district.Also, the exams of Classes VI to XII are under way. The Education Department, the administration and the Health Department are already in a spot as there is no relief since last month.Meetings are being held almost every day between the departments to chalk out various plans to curb the spread of the virus.Officials of the district Education Department (Secondary) have come up with a ‘way’ to ensure that social distancing is maintained in the schools and students do not come in contact with each other.“We have been taking exams by making the students of board classes (VIII, X and XII) to appear in the morning and the students of rest of the classes come to their schools in the afternoon,” District Education Officer (Secondary) Jagjit Singh said.Those students who have tested positive are taking their exams from home.Officials of the Education Department said students were not following the social distancing norms and most of the times they could be seen without masks.A special checking drive has also started in the district.Civil Surgeon Gurdeep Singh Kapur confirmed that vaccination of teachers had also started. “We had collected the data. The vaccination started today. We have been giving instructions to the school staff to adopt every measure,” he said adding that contact tracing was also being done so that the spread of the virus could be stopped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/128-students-from-nawanshahr-test-ve-in-10-days-216358
23-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid can cause blood clots that can lead to stroke, says expert||Hoshiarpur, February 22Although typically considered a lung infection, Covid-19 has been found to cause blood clots that can lead to severe stroke. Experts say this can happen in any patient regardless of age and even in those with few or no symptoms. People with Covid-19 as young as 30 are experiencing strokes even when their symptoms were mild.Dr Swati Garg, consultant-neurology at Ivy Hospital, while addressing an online session, said a suspected stroke may be confirmed by scanning the brain with CT/MRI scanning. It can lead to severe disability, bed-ridden state and even death. Advanced care can be provided in hospitals with stroke-unit. If stroke is due to a clot in the brain, the clot can either be dissolved with injectable drugs (thrombolysis) within 4.5-hours or it can be removed using special micro-catheters (mechanical thrombectomy).If a stroke is due to brain-haemorrhage, then surgery can be done in specific cases. The strict control of sugar and blood pressure can prevent stroke, said Dr Swati.One should act ‘FAST’ to conquer disability due to stroke. FAST stands for face-drooping on one side, weakness in one arm or leg, difficulty in speech and time lost is brain lost, she said. Symptoms to watch out for include weakness or paralysis of the extremities on one side of the body, lack of sensation in extremities on one side of the body, facial droop on one side of the face and speech impairment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-can-cause-blood-clots-that-can-lead-to-stroke-says-expert-216359
23-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||Fresh surge in Covid cases; highest in 2 months||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 22After a gap of around two months, a big surge of 54 was seen in the number of fresh Covid cases in the district on Monday. This may be the highest single-day count reported in the district in the last two months.Jalandhar logs three deaths, 54 new cases It was on May 1 last year that the district crossed 100 cases. In the past nine months, the district tally has crossed 21,000 cases. With the fresh cases, it stands at 21,286 today. However, with a fresh surge in the number of Covid cases in the past week, concerns regarding the new strain of Covid reaching Punjab haunt health authorities.The surge is dramatic compared to the much in control Covid scenario in January. On certain days in January mere five to 10 cases were reported in Jalandhar. For example, on January 26, only five cases were reported in the district, on January 27, as many as 26 cases were reported and on January 29, 19 cases were reported. With per day averages dipping down to five to 10, in February the per day cases maintained an overall average of 20 to 30 cases per day. However, for the past one week, 40 to 45 (and on one occasion even 45 cases per day) were reported.However, the most bothersome part is that as per insiders the Health Department is not even tracking the NRIs returning home.While in the months of March and April last year (in the beginning of the Covid surge), ASHA workers and paramedical staff were deputed to track the returnees from abroad. However, at present no such tracking is taking place.Speaking to The Tribune, an ASHA worker said, “At present, we are not tracking NRI returnees. We had been deputed for verification regarding Ayushman cards for which we have been collecting information from door to door. A meeting with the Civil Surgeon has been fixed for tomorrow but so far we have not been given any instructions to track Covid among returnees from abroad or other states.”Meanwhile, most people of the district move without putting a mask in public places. Even many people at crowded places can be seen without any mask.Jalandhar Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said, “Though sampling in Jalandhar is very intensive, Covid cases are being reported. But we have not come across any case of NRI who returned from abroad and tested positive for Covid. As far as tracking is concerned, it is done at airports. So far, we do not believe the surge in Jalandhar is connected to the new strain.”The Civil Surgeon confirmed that a meeting with ASHA workers was due on Tuesday in which they would be asked to increase sampling and tracking of Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fresh-surge-in-covid-cases-highest-in-2-months-216360
23-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur dist’s Dhamai village declared micro-containment zone||Hoshiarpur, February 22The health authorities declared Dhamai village of Garhshankar sub-division a micro-containment zone after 11 persons tested positive in the last few days. Additional District Magistrate-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Amit Kumar Panchal issued an order under Section 144 of the CrPC in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.27 positive cases reportedWith health authorities reporting 27 Covid-19 positive cases in Hoshiarpur district on Monday, the total number of patients has increased to 8,323. The authorities reported two more deaths and the toll reached 358. The deceased have been identified as a 72-year-old patient from Dasmesh Nagar and a 59-year-old resident of Pandori Suleman village. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said at present, the district has 188 active cases and the recovery count reached 7,900. Out of today’s 27 patients, five were from Hoshiarpur city and remaining 22 were from different health blocks of the district. He said only medical emergency and essential services will be allowed in the micro-containment zone. He said teams of the Health Department will conduct door-to- door survey and contact tracing at Dhamai village.In addition, all positive cases will be shifted to health centres as per protocol.The Additional District Magistrate said the village has been declared micro-containment zone for 10 days.He said legal action under the Disaster Management Act- 2005 will be taken against violators.Staff vaccinatedStaff of the Civil Surgeon office was vaccinated at the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital today. Accounts officer Amandeep Singh and superintendent Mukhtiar Singh encouraged the entire staff to get vaccinated.The Civil Surgeon said the vaccine was safe and effective, thus one should get vaccinated without any hesitation. He said numerous officials of the Health Department have been administered the second dose as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-dists-dhamai-village-declared-micro-containment-zone-216362
23-02-2021||In order to provide better education to the students studying in government schools||Becoming smart, soon||A new developmentWhile the state government has dedicated the next financial year as the year of development under which several schemes related to development of villages would be launched in the next budget session, the developmental works under ‘Smart Village’ scheme has been commenced in the district. Addressing the villagers on the occasion of developmental works at villages Brahmapur, Miranpur, Madhopur and Ranipur Kambo, the local Congress MLA stated that overall development of the constituency was his duty and he was fully committed to it. The construction of parks, stadia, sewerage system and concrete streets in the villages of Phagwara constituency has already kicked off. Besides, ‘Har Ghar Pani, Har Ghar Safai’ project was also launched for the supply of drinking water to every household. The village panchayats, too, play the role of supervisor in maintaining the quality of works and their completion within the stipulated time.March to rememberPunjabi Kala and Sahitya Kendra, Sangeet Darpan, Punjabi Virsa Trust, Escape Sahitya Organisation and Artist and Writers organisation launched a protest march to pay tributes to the farmers who died in the farm stir at the Delhi and Haryana borders. The march was started with a blood donation camp. Taranjit Singh of Punjabi Kala and Sahitya Kendra and Amit Shukla of Punjabi Virsa Trust, said, “the march was organised on the occasion of ‘Punjabi Ma Boli Day’. The students, who participated in the march also supported the farmers’ protest and held posters displaying slogans related to rights”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/becoming-smart-soon-216381
23-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||Int’l mother tongue day at DAV||Know your mother tongue wellJalandhar: The NSS unit of Innocent Hearts College of Education celebrated ‘International Mother Tongue Day’ with the objective to promote and preserve the richness and beauty of Punjabi language and culture. The concept, importance and history of Punjabi language was explained in detail by well-renowned teacher educator Dr Tirath Singh. In his online talk, he guided the student-teachers to protect, preserve and transmit their mother tongue to the coming generations in its pure form by not mixing it with the other languages. Online slogan writing and poster-making competitions were also organised. Through their artistic posters the student-teachers depicted their love and respect for their mother tongue. A plethora of slogan writings highlighted the significance and present day relevance of Punjabi language. Principal Dr Arjinder Singh congratulated the winners and appreciated all participants for their brilliant demonstrations. E- certificates were given to all participants.Tribute to Nankana Sahib martyrsHomage was paid to martyrs of Nankana Sahib massacre by the department of history, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, at Virasati Ghar of the college campus. Baba Sunder Singh was a martyr in the massacre and his sword was used bravely in the saka. It’s worth mentioning that his pious sword was gifted to Principal Dr Navjot by his family. The centenary of Sri Nankana Sahib massacre, which is popularly known as Saka Nankana Sahib is being marked by paying the tribute. Dr Maninder Arora, Head, department of history, enlightened staff and students about the history of the day as she said that Nankana Sahib is the birth place of the first Sikh Guru, Guru Nanak Dev, and was also the site of the first big agitation by the SGPC to take back control of gurdwaras from mahants backed by the British.B Voc animation resultsThe students of B Voc Animation (Sem II, IV and VI) of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya have made their alma mater proud with their phenomenal result in the even-semester exams. Kamalpreet Kaur of semester VI stood first by scoring 84.5%, Ramanpreet Kaur stood second by scoring 82.2% and Arundhati Sharma stood third by scoring 81.7%. Babita Sharma from Sem IV bagged the first position by scoring 8.53 SGPA and Anjali Anand bagged the second position by scoring 7.96 SGPA. Saloni from Sem II bagged the first position by scoring 8.92 SGPA, Harjeet Kaur stood second by scoring 8.56 SGPA and Simranjit Kaur stood third by scoring 8.51 SGPA. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students on their outstanding performance and lauded the efforts of Dr Gopi Sharma, Director, Kaushal Kendra and all the faculty members of department of animation to constantly promote excellence in the students.‘An idea can change your life’The commerce club of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised, ‘Think Strategically – A Business Plan Competition’ with a tagline ‘An idea can change your life’. It was the first offline competition by the department post Covid-19, where students participated with full zeal. Binoo Gupta, in-charge Commerce Club, and in-charge Alumnae Association, Dr Seema Khanna, in-charge coaching in CA Foundation, Shefali Kashyap and Dr Jaspreet Kaur from the commerce department were a part of the organising team. The event was judged by Dr Kanwaldeep, officiating principal, head, department of commerce and management, Dean academics, and Meenu Kohli, co-dean Youth Welfare Committee. Binoo Gupta told three success stories of Bhavik Aggarwal-founder of Ola Cabs, BYJU’S –An online education platform, and of Phalguni Nayyar- founder of Nyka who all are aspiring entrepreneurs. Students presented their business plans. The first prize was won by Team Protection Electronic Network (PEN) headed by Nandika and Tarandeep, second prize- Book My Aunty by Vidhi and Lakshita, third prize by two teams- Braitters by Radhika and Namrata, and Trash It-Crash It by Jyot Sifat and Sonamdeep Kaur. All winners were given trophies and e- certificates. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the winners and the organisers of the event.Student sets up milestoneA Class VIII student of St Soldier Divine Public School, Rishav Sanghotra, has set a milestone by making his place in National Hockey Sub-Junior U-17 camp. School principal Gagandeep Singh and Coach Rajiv Bali said that Rishav is a student of Class VIII. He has done well in the trials conducted for selection of National Hockey Sub Junior U-17 team and got a place in the training camp. Student Rishav said that this camp is being organised in the Haryana, where he is getting hockey training for a month. Chairman Anil Chopra and vice-chairperson Sangeeta Chopra while congratulating Rishav and his parents, father Arundeep Sanghotra and mother Paramjit Kaur Sangotra, said that even before this, many students of St Soldier Group were selected for cricket and other sports in state and national level. They also inspired Rishav to move forward with such hard work and to brighten the name of the parents and the institute. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intl-mother-tongue-day-at-dav-216382
23-02-2021||A science graduate (BSc medical)||Highly qualified, she jumped into politics to help people||Mandeep Kaur (32) Independent councillor from Rahon Kaur said she was the first one in the family to join politics actively. Her family has an inclination towards the Congress party. “I got married 10 years ago and completed my studies after marriage. I was always into social services and had the zeal to help out those in need,” she said. “I never thought of joining politics. It was the result of a few disappointments that I decided to fight. I was upset with the way works were getting done around us. I want my ward to be developed. We must have a committee in which every member should be educated and have the requisite caliber. My focus will remain on education of children. Apart from it, I will do every work with full honesty…This is the reason why I decided to take a jump and come out of my comfort zone. In this way, my wish to do social service will also be fulfilled,” she said. She has a list of priorities for her ward clear. Kaur also threw light on her hobby — painting. She loves calling herself a ‘creative artist’. Mandeep said she used to organise free painting camp for children belonging to economically weaker sections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/highly-qualified-she-jumped-into-politics-to-help-people-216387
23-02-2021||Ajay Joshi||Collection suspended, layoff fears haunt staff at toll plazas||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 22With farmers protesting at the toll plazas for nearly 90 days now, the contractual workers working at the toll plazas are fearing job losses.After the imposition of the lockdown due to Covid-19, this was the second time, when the company is suffering losses. We thought of recovering from the Covid slump after the relaxations in the lockdown, but farmers’ agitation only added to it. — Rajeev Sharma, toll manager at Nakodar toll plazaWhile the suspension of toll collection across the state has already cost dear to the toll companies, the workers anticipate that if situation remains the same, they are likely to face layoffs.As the impact on collection at some toll plazas began from mid October, last year, the same had intensified to no fee collection with the free movement of vehicles at all toll plazas after various farm organisations moved to Delhi. The inability to collect toll has caused revenue loss in crores to the toll-collecting authorities.Farmers, up in arms against the three farm laws passed by the Centre, have been staging sit-ins at toll plazas in the district since October 1. Demanding repeal of these laws, the protesting farmers are not allowing toll collection authorities to charge toll from commuters. Farmers, however, are permitting vehicles to pass through without any payment at the plazas.Rajeev Sharma, toll manager at Nakodar toll plaza, said: “As farmers have blocked the toll plazas and are allowing vehicles to pass without any payment, our company is suffering huge losses. After the imposition of the lockdown due to Covid-19, this was the second time, when the company is suffering losses. We thought of recovering from the Covid slump after the relaxations in the lockdown, but farmers’ agitation only added to it. At present, the company has been paying salary to its workers on a regular basis, but if the situation persists, the company will not be able to sustain the loss and it will affect our jobs.”In this regard, workers of the Rohan Rajdeep Tollways, Toll Plaza Nakodar also submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner to press restoration of toll plazas. They demanded police protection for resumption of toll collection activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/collection-suspended-layoff-fears-haunt-staff-at-toll-plazas-216402
23-02-2021||---||Nakodar farmer dies in accident while returning from Delhi protest site||Jalandhar, February 22Sandeep Singh, a 28-year-old farmer from Talwandi Sanghera village at Nakodar, fell from his tractor and died at Wadda Rurka village today. He was returning from the Delhi protest site.Sandeep is the son of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee senior vice-president Kuldip Rai Talwandi. He had been in Delhi morcha border since February 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nakodar-farmer-dies-in-accident-while-returning-from-delhi-protest-site-216236
