24-02-2021||---||Meet the man behind famous Kulfi Wala Chowk||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 23Like most youngsters who migrate abroad in search of a better lifestyle, Harsh Batla (32) also took the same path and moved to Australia in 2008. He wanted to be a chef, hence took admission in a hospitality course. However, destiny had something else in store. From rebranding his inherited business to expanding it, Harsh has now become the man behind the popular ‘Kulfi Wala Chowk’ located in Rainak bazaar here.Life turned upside down after the sudden demise of his father in 2011. He had to return home, bidding adieu to his dreams in Australia. But this didn’t deter him. Carrying forward the legacy of his grandfather, he took over the dwindling business of selling kulfi.“I still remember the first day when I entered our shop located centrally at a corner on the intersection of four roads. Owing to the scrumptious kulfi, rabdi, fruit cream and milkshakes, my grandfather had already set a benchmark. After he started his venture in 1955, the area came to be known after his shop. I was 23 and completely naive, yet I had to maintain the standards. As I believe the taste was there in my hands, it was passed on to me by father and grandfather. I started following their recipe and developed the similar taste. The crowd started gathering again,” Harsh told.With the help of his younger brother, Gaurav Batla, he managed to revive the same old aura of the shop. Initially, from cooking to washing utensils, both had to do everything on own. “Subsequently, with the help of regained popularity, we hired workers for our business. While my brother now sits at our factory and takes care of the cooking part of the desserts, I take care of the customers and sale,” he said.Though starting from scratch was tough for Batla brothers, but they didn’t compromise with the taste of kulfi and rabdi that had been wooing their patrons for decades.The chowk is now named as Billa Kulfi Wala, which has become a landmark address. It could be seen as a landmark in many visiting cards. Apart from the original items that his grandfather and father used to sell, with time Harsh has also introduced more items in the menu. “My father was popularly known as Billa…so we took the name to do the rebranding of the shop. Earlier, the shop used to open on Sundays only, but now we keep it opened throughout the week. The home delivery services by food apps also helped us grow,” Harsh shared.As kulfi corner is still in existence, he has opened another shop, adjacent to it to sell more items. From stick kulfi to fruit cream, now ras malai, ghevar, rasgulla, Bengali chana murki are also served.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/meet-the-man-behind-famous-kulfi-wala-chowk-216670
24-02-2021||---||Play vanguard’s role in checking Covid spread, Jalandhar residents told||Jalandhar, February 23Keeping in view the surge in Covid cases, people must take utmost precaution in keeping the virus at bay, said Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar in a statement issued here on Tuesday.He said it was high time people exercised self-restraint for checking the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.Bhullar said the police would do its duty to enforce the mandatory Covid protocol, but people should voluntarily follow rules for winning war against Covid.The CP said people have to play a vanguard role for further checking the spread of Covid-19 and they should wear mask and follow social distancing at public places. He said residents of Jalandhar have already combated the virus successfully and now, when the threat was again looming large, the role of public has enhanced manifold.The CP said in the wake of fresh guidelines issued by the Punjab Government led by CM Capt Amarinder Singh, the Jalandhar Police Commissionerate was fully geared up for meeting the new challenge. He said the directions of the CM would be implemented in letter and spirit in the larger public interest. Bhullar said no stone would be left unturned by the Police Commissionerate to serve the people of the district and to save their precious lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/play-vanguards-role-in-checking-covid-spread-jalandhar-residents-told-216671
24-02-2021||---||Kusum to be honoured with National Bravery Award||Jalandhar, February 23 In recognition of her courage, 15-year-old Kusum, who last year gave snatchers a tough fight, has been selected by the Indian Council for Child Welfare (ICCW) for the prestigious National Bravery Award.  Congratulating Kusum for the award, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said: “Kusum’s act of bravery and valour has made the entire city proud, as she emerged as a source of inspiration for many.” Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, while commending her courage to foil the snatching, had offered a financial aid worth Rs1 lakh last year, which was provided to Kusum by the district administration.  Notably, Kusum, a student of Class VIII at Lala Jagat Narayan DAV Model School, on August 30, 2020, had courageously averted a snatching attempt, when two bike-borne youths tried to snatch her mobile phone, which was given to her by her brother to attend online classes. The snatchers had attacked her with a sharp weapon (datar) giving Kusum severe injuries on her wrist. Kusum despite having grave injuries managed to catch one of the snatchers. Police Commissioner Gurpreet Bhullar had also extended her a financial help worth Rs50,000 besides handing over a new mobile phone. The district administration had also dedicated a graffiti to Kusum under PAP flyover. She was also announced as the brand ambassador under Beti Bachao Beti Padhao mission.  The DC said the district administration had recommended her name for the National Bravery Award in September last year, which has now been approved by the ICCW. He said this prestigious award would be conferred on her next month at a national-level event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kusum-to-be-honoured-with-national-bravery-award-216672
24-02-2021||---||Will lock Jalandhar MC office if action taken against us: Officials||Jalandhar, February 23The differences between the mayor and officials in the Municipal Corporation of Jalandhar are an open secret now. On Friday, 19 MC officials under the Municipal Corporation Officers’ Association boycotted the general house meeting that was held at the Red Cross Bhawan.On Tuesday, the officials said they were firm on their stand and won’t attend any future meetings too.Mandeep Singh, superintendent of the advertisement department, who is the president of the association, said if any show cause notice was served on them, they would ‘lock’ the Municipal Corporation and won’t work.Unipole ‘scam’ claims & counter claimsIf any show cause notice is served, we will 'lock' the Municipal Corporation office and won't work. The house must listen to us. The councillors should behave in a proper manner and should not question us in front of everyone. — Mandeep Singh, Superintendent of the Advertisement DepartmentI had already announced that action will be taken against those who didn't maintain sanctity of the house. The officials whose involvement was proved in the scandal of tender of advertisement department, would also be punished and the MC Commissioner would take action. — Jagdish Raja, Mayor “The house must listen to us. The councillors should behave in a proper manner and should not question us in front of everyone,” he said.Notably, the officials had also submitted a memorandum to the MC Commissioner two days before the house meeting and had told him that they felt insulted in the previous held meetings and they couldn’t take it anymore.Mayor Jagdish Raja said, “I had already announced that action will be taken against those who didn’t maintain sanctity of the house.”He said the officials whose involvement was proved in the scandal of tender of advertisement department, would also be punished and the MC Commissioner would take action.Be it the boycotting of the ongoing general house meeting by the officials two years ago, or not showing any records on various matters despite various meetings and orders by the Mayor, the officials have shown that they care less about orders of the elected members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-lock-jalandhar-mc-office-if-action-taken-against-us-officials-216673
24-02-2021||---||Launched: Online refresher workshop for principals||Jalandhar, February 23Bharti Institute of Public Policy (BIPP) at the Indian School of Business launched an online refresher workshop for directly recruiting principals of senior secondary schools of Punjab School Education Department, selected through Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC).The goal The training has been designed with a special focus on critical roles of principals as decision-makers, team leaders and other functional areas.Senior faculty members from ISB and experts from the education sector are the experts for the training.As many as 150 participants would be trained during the refresher workshop. Principal Ritu Paul from Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Bajwa Kalan Jalandhar; Kamaljit Kaur from GSSS Baghela, Jalandhar; Suraj Gurung from GSSS Gumtala; and Vikramjit from GSSS Sohal Jahir Jalandhar among others were also the part of the workshop.Dr Aarushi Jain, associate director, Indian School of Business, who is also the course coordinator of this training, said: “The current pandemic has posed a huge challenge for every sector and education sector has been equally impacted. The workshop is a part of an overarching project titled Improving Quality of Education in Punjab that Indian School of Business (ISB) is undertaking with the Department of School Education, Punjab.”“The school-level initiatives taken by principals during this challenging time is commendable and exemplary,” she said.The idea is to orient and provide appropriate direction to principals, who are at the beginning of their careers. The training has been designed with a special focus on critical roles of principals as decision-makers, team leaders and other functional areas. The goal is to build capacities in government schools in the state and provide the newly recruited principals much-needed impetus and exposure on management concepts.Senior faculty members from ISB and experts from the education sector are the experts for the training.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/launched-online-refresher-workshop-for-principals-216674
24-02-2021||---||Law institute holds legal aid camp||Jalandhar, February 23The CT Institute of Law in association with the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Jalandhar, organised a legal aid-cum-assistance camp at Khera village, near Jamsher, to spread awareness among masses about the rights of vulnerable sections of society more specifically regarding getting free legal aid. This camp was an initiative to provide free legal aid to the locals as well.Jaapinder Singh, CJM-cum-Secretary DLSA, deputed a panel of two advocates and one para legal volunteer for awakening the residents of the village and about various schemes offered by the NLSA and DLSA, respectively. Local residents came forward for taking advice regarding their legal issues from the panel of the DLSA advocates. The panel included advocates KDS Randhawa and Harleen Kaur and paralegal volunteer Jagjit Singh.Also, the panel detailed about the various schemes on juveniles, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, compensation scheme for cases of acid attack and rape victims. They also detailed about rights of senior citizens and Good Samaritan laws. The DLSA team also focused on sorting legal issues through ADRs. In response the local residents came forward for taking advice regarding their legal issues from the panel of the DLSA advocates.Principal CT Institute of Law, Dr Yugdeep Kaur, said, “Students being a part of this programme were exposed to practical knowledge which is a must for budding lawyers. They assisted panel advocates during their interaction with general public which helped them to analyse the case studies to develop a critical thinking about the subject matter. This platform gave them an opportunity to boost their confidence level.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/law-institute-holds-legal-aid-camp-216675
24-02-2021||Kapurthala||Awareness vans flagged off for Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana||Spreading awareness among the masses to get enrolled under health insurance scheme through generation of e-cards, the department is taking vans to villages across the district. Through the health vans, messages are being spread to the residents to avail the cashless treatment facility up to Rs5 lakh to people in government and enlisted hospitals under the Aayushman Bharat Sarbat Health Insurance Scheme. Even camps are also being organised at designated places for making e-cards. The van sent by the Punjab government on Tuesday covered Arianwal, Saidowal, Bhanolanga, Jalowal, Sidhwan Dona etc areas of Kala Sanghia. On Wednesday, the van will cover Khanowal, Blairkhanpur, Bhetan, Dhapai, Ibn, Wadala Kalan and Kot Karar Khan villages of Kala Sanghian. Civil Surgeon Dr Seema and Deputy Medical Commissioner Sarika said that under the special drive launched by the government, e-Card Generation Week is being celebrated from February 22 to 28 with a target to generate e-cards for maximum number of beneficiaries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/awareness-vans-flagged-off-for-sarbat-sehat-bima-yojana-216676
24-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Cultural connection||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 23Like most senior Army officials, Major General Balwinder Singh also chose a top-notch job in an MNC in Gurugram post retirement. After a few months, he realised that he was actually not following his passion. So a few years ago, he quit and returned to his native place in Doaba.Returning home, he has been working on various interesting projects across the region. “My first work was compilation of a coffee table book on the holy place Sultanpur Lodhi. This book titled ‘Ek Onkar – One Supreme Reality’ got released just after the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev and focuses on the first Sikh guru’s spiritual journey leading to his enlightenment at Sultanpur Lodhi,” the ex-serviceman said, proudly discussing that he released this book in his capacity as the life member and convener of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH). The book carries some of the finest pictures and self-depicting paintings related to the guru’s life in the holy town, in addition to translation of some of his popular verses in gurbani into Punjabi and English.But Singh has decided to crank it up a bit by setting a big agenda for this year. Last week, he got appointed as the vice-chairperson of Virsa Vihar Society under which he has already begun organising social and cultural events like a musical evening on Monday.“Jalandhar is rich in art and culture and I am here just to promote it. I want Virsa Vihar to be a happening place where everyone should look forward to for spending their evenings. Other than holding open air theatre events, we will soon make a yearly calendar wherein we will organise contests for folk singing, painting, murals, dance, acting contests and group discussions. Citizens will get a chance to participate in flower shows, cooking contests, book fairs. We will have workshops for music, dance, art, cooking, etc in summer holidays,” he listed.That is not it. A native of Pandori village of Kapurthala, Singh is also tracing the historical importance of the city. Donning the cap of a historian, he has started digging out a lot of material. “I have come across Subedar Gurmeet Singh (retd) of 23 Punjab, who fought Longewala Battle in 1971 when he was 19. So, we will be soon inviting him for a talk. I also came across a plaque at Bhatnura village near Bhogpur. It read that as many as 85 soldiers from this village participated in the First World War and seven of them laid their lives. It is indeed a part of the big virsa of Jalandhar.”Interestingly, he is also the president of Guardians of Governance of Jalandhar. “A lot of it is going to happen on that front. Unfortunately, we could not put in our best amid the Covid days,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cultural-connection-216677
24-02-2021||---||DC visits Rail Coach Factory||Kapurthala, February 23Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, who also has the additional charge of DC Kapurthala, visited the Rail Coach Factory (RCF) on Tuesday to have a close look at the process of making rail coaches. He called on Ravinder Gupta, General Manager, RCF, to discuss issues pertaining to the industry in the district. While visiting the shell assembly branch and furnishing branch, he was briefed about the construction of railway coaches by Jatesh Kumar, an official of the company.Thori said the contribution made by RCF, Kapurthala, country's largest unit in the railway sector engaged in making state-of-the-art train carriages, to the development of the country was unparalleled and known across the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-visits-rail-coach-factory-216678
24-02-2021||In the municipal council poll held recently||She is ready to leave her teaching 
job for people in her area||Meenu, AAP councillor from Banga A 45-year-old schoolteacher Meenu from AAP has been elected as the councillor from Ward Number 5 in Banga. She has been teaching for the last 16 years. But now, Meenu has planned to resign from her job as she wants to give all her time to the people of her ward. Originally from Haryana, Meenu has a degree in Nursery Teacher Training (NTT). Meenu said she had never thought of joining politics, but when AAP was formed, she, along with her husband, were highly impressed with the new party. "He wanted me to get associated with a good party. So, it all happened suddenly and I started working as a party worker," Meenu said. "This was my first experience. I filed the nomination papers, met people, spoke to them regarding various issues and ultimately won. It has been a great time," she said. "The facilities that are provided by the government do not reach people and this is a major problem. The beneficiaries remain empty-handed and I am going to tackle this issue on a priority. I will learn a lot in this process," she says. Meenu said when she was meeting people before the elections, she made a promise to them that she would turn round everything for their good in the ward. "I think this is the reason they chose me," she said. With his father’s experience in hand, he wants to develop his ward nowJagjit Singh (48), Cong councillor, Lohian KhasA mechanic by profession, Jagjit Singh (48) was recently elected as the councillor of Ward Number 6, Lohian Khas Municipal Council. While his father has served as the councillor twice between 2005 and 2015, this is his first shot into politics. As a traditional supporter of the Congress party, he chose to fight on Cong ticket only.He says: "I'm aware of the internal functioning and have seen my father working day and night to initiate development in our ward. However, as the area was always ruled by the Shiromani Akali Dal leaders, it was tough for Independent councillors and Congress councillors to initiate development in their respective wards. This was the first time after 25 years when a Congress committee has formed and now we are hoping that development works would be initiated without any constraints. The anti-incumbency factor led to our win. My main motive of joining politics was to serve people at ground level. I will also be able to give a push to the projects, which my father couldn't fulfil during his tenure." As a councillor, his foremost priority is to reduce traffic chaos from his ward and get people rid of choked sewers and unavailability of medicines in government hospitals. Public dealing in making various documents and certificates will also be made fair and clear, he adds. He has also asked residents to approach him directly for any trouble.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/she-is-ready-to-leave-her-teaching-job-for-people-in-her-area-216680
24-02-2021||Jalandhar||JEE (Main) today||As the first attempt of JEE Main is to commence in the city from Wednesday, Class XII students (non-medical) are set to appear in the exam to be conducted by the National Testing Agency.Since the exam is to be held in online mode, centres have been set up at places where there are several computer terminals. In Jalandhar, Saffron Mall, which houses the testing centre for Tata Consultancy, is the only centre which has the capacity for seating 1,000 students. One centre each has been set up in Phagwara, Hoshiarpur and Amritsar.JEE coordinator in Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur, Principal Deepa Dogra of Cambridge School, said, “Since the JEE Main has been split into four chances, there will be lesser number of candidates which will be known only after the exam gets conducted. Exams will be held in two shifts for the next three days. We will be spacing them out properly. Today, candidates for B.Arch appeared for the entrance”.Deepak Sharma, a parent, said, “My son is to appear for the test day after. The exam is to start at 9 am but we have been called at 8:20 am so that students can be sent in maintaining proper social distancing.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jee-main-today-216681
24-02-2021||Jalandhar||Roller skating championship||Orientation programmeAn orientation programme for stream selection in Class XI was held at Tagore’s International Smart School. Chairman Abhay Kumar Jain, dean Vinod Shashi Jain and Principal Dr Rakesh Gupta addressed the students to help students in selecting a suitable stream of study and elective subjects for the senior secondary course. The orientation began with the Principal’s introductory session making the students aware of the objectives and purpose of the programme. Faculties of science, commerce and humanities made their presentation on various options throwing light on future prospects. In interaction session, the Principal and teachers answered students’ questions. Dean Vinod Shashi Jain also implored the students to make right choices so they don’t have to regret tomorrow. She wished them good luck for their future endeavours.Gyan manthan debateThe department of management Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised intra departmental event ‘Gyan Manthan’ debate, hard selling, picture description contest were organised with the objective to enhance communication skills and raise confidence level of students. The topic for the competition was “Budget 2021: Does it dampen the hopes of middle class families?’ Students participated with great zeal and enthusiasm. Ria Kaushik, BCom (IV) bagged the first position in debate competition, Rakesh Kumar (MBA I) got the second position while the third position was shared by Keshvi Aggarwal (BCom I) and Urvi (MBA I). Vishal (BCom IV) bagged the first position in hard selling competition while Disha (BBA IV) got the second position, and Rakesh Kumar (MBA I) got the third position. The first position was bagged by Rakesh Kumar (MBA I) in picture description competition whereas second position was shared by Prabhjot (BCom IV) and Vinay Pandey (BCom I) and Harshita (BCom VI) got the third position. The event was coordinated by Jaskamal Kaur and Mohaneet Bedi. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (director academic affairs) congratulated the winners and stated that these events are helpful in the development of overall personality of students. Dr SK Sood (Director, LKCTC) congratulated the winners and participants and stated that these events help in building confidence among students, improve their skills. Dr Inderpal Singh (HoD, Management), presented the vote of thanks and congratulated the coordinators and students.Musical presentationsPranav Naad Club of the department of performing arts from Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised various activities so that the budding and talented students should be given an able platform to showcase their talent and their devotion towards music and art. Pranav Naad Club organised a special programme during which the students of music gave musical presentations through different musical instruments. Hema, a student of MA Music (Instrumental) played Raag Nat Bhairav melodiously on sitar, whereas Harshpreet played Raag Bihaag very beautifully. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that music is the food of the soul and is a very important component of our lives. She further maintained that these kind of programmes aids in creating curiosity in the minds of the students. She lauded the efforts of Dr Poonam Sharma, Head, PG department of music, and other faculty members for successfully organising the event. Dr Madhumeet, dean, department of student welfare, was also present on the occasion.HMV students clear CA Inter ExamFour students of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya cleared CA Inter Exam. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated them and said that Sameeksha cleared her CA Inter with 263 marks out of 400. Alpana Aggarwal got 200/400. Deepika got 224/400 and Khushwant Kaur got 229/400. These three students cleared their CA Inter Exam Group-I. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated CA coaching in charge Dr Seema Khanna and other members.Indo-Pak Peace CalendarPhagwara: Students of Swami Sant Dass Public School brought laurels to the school by bagging maximum prizes in ‘Indo-Pak Peace Calendar Painting Competition’ organised by Aghaz-e-Dosti in India- an Indo-Pak friendship initiative that primarily works for peace and education activities in schools and colleges to enable the future leaders to forge the path to a better world,and dialogue as solution. A zoom meeting was conducted for the virtual launch of the ‘9th Indo-Pak Peace Calendar’ to have discussion on Sharing of hopes for a peaceful co-existence’ which was attended by the participants and the co-ordinator of the school along with the art teacher Jasvir Singh. Mahip Singh Saini of 7th Blue, Sachneet Kaur of 10th Pink and Arshdeep Kaur of 8th Red are declared as winners and their paintings are included in the calendar. Sirjan Kaur of 8th Blue and Taranpreet Kaur of 10th Blue are declared as runners up in this competition. Anju Mehta (Principal) congratulated the art teacher, the students and their proud parents for their commendable achievement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roller-skating-championship-216682
