25-02-2021||Sanjiv Bakshi||Transforming lives: 262 youth get bus permits in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, February 24Twentyseven-year-old Dinesh Kumar of Sahri village was extremely happy to get a mini-bus permit allotted by the Punjab Government on Wednesday. He said he was facing hardships due to unemployment but now, he could easily earn bread and butter for his family by running a bus from Dada Mara village to Hoshiarpur, covering nearly 10 villages.After receiving the mini-bus permit from Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora, under Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission, Dinesh said he got this permit on merit basis in a complete transparent manner, adding that the permit was for running bus service in those villages, where there was no bus service available earlier. He said he would ensure quality and safe travel for residents of villages on this particular route.A woman beneficiary Manpreet Kaur of Patti village in Chabbewal constituency expressed gratitude towards the Punjab Government for providing the permit saying it would certainly strengthen her family financially. She said her joy knew no bounds, when they had come to know about the permit from Hoshiarpur to Bahowal.Earlier, while handing over bus permits to 11 beneficiaries at the District Administrative Complex here, the Industries and Commerce Minister said this landmark initiative of the state government under CM Capt Amarinder Singh would create job opportunities for the unemployed youth on a large scale. The bus permits to rural youth would also ensure safe, secure and easy transport services for the rural population not only in the district, but across the state, said Arora, adding that Punjab Government was handing over as many as 262 permits in the district to eligible beneficiaries in the first phase, which would cover almost every part of the district.He said this project, to be implemented at a cost of Rs15.5 crore, would be a milestone in the transport sector. The location tracking device would be installed in all public sector buses by March 31 and all private buses would be covered by the end of August.Now, get dl, RC delivered at your homeJalandhar: With a symbolic release of five mini-bus permits to unemployed youths, MLA Sushil Rinku and Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori kick-started the distribution of 190 mini-bus permits to youths in a virtual launch event chaired by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday. MLA Sushil Rinku and the DC said 190 applicants from Jalandhar were selected for the permits, adding that grant letters to five youths of Jalandhar district were issued during today’s event. They said home delivery of driving licenses (DLs) and vehicle registration certificates (RCs) through postal system has also been launched by the CM, which would help more than 20,000 applicants across the district to receive their DLs and RCs at their home. He said 10,000 applicants of driving licence and equal number of applicants of vehicle registration certificates would receive their documents from the Transport Department at their home and now they need not visit any government office to collect these. Dakoha resident Kamna said she applied for the permit and got a grant letter for Musapur to Jalandhar city bus strand route. She said it was like a dream coming true as she would be able to run her own small business enterprise. Another beneficiary Jarnial Singh of Mohyal Nagar said he had never thought of getting a bus permit on his name. TNSPermits given to 70 youth in K’thalaKapurthala: As many as 70 youth across the district got mini-bus permits under the door-to-door Employment and Business Mission. During the main function held at the District Administrative Complex, Zila Parishad chairman Kamlesh Rani, ADC Rahul Chaba and others participated in the online inauguration of projects for Kapurthala by CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Apart from the administrative complex, people participated in the online programme from 63 places in the district, including 13 in urban areas and 50 in rural areas, where newly elected councillors of Kapurthala MC were also present. Rahul Chaba said the government was making all out efforts to provide employment opportunities to the youth. Kulwant Singh from Bhandal Bet village, who got the permit, said it came to him without any political recommendation and bribery, for which he was thankful to the government. Amarjit Singh Saidowal block Congress president, YC president Sourav Khullar, SDM Kapurthala Virender Pal Singh Bajwa, SDM Bhulath Balbir Raj, DDPO Lakhwinder Singh Randhawa were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/transforming-lives-262-youth-get-bus-permits-in-hoshiarpur-217252
25-02-2021||---||Infections on the rise, so are parents’ worries||Jalandhar, February 24A recent spike in Covid cases has become a cause for concern for parents sending their children to schools, especially after seven staffers of four different schools tested positive on Wednesday.With a total of 67 new cases, four tested positive at St Francis Convent School and one each at Government School Bhargo Camp, Sacred Heart Convent School, Gakhlan, and State Public School, Shahkot. Even on Tuesday, three new cases were teachers from Government School at Kalyanpur and two teachers from the Gakhlan School. The parents are wary as students are set to appear in offline examinations that are set to begin in many schools.Dr Narotam Singh, owner of State Public School, said, “A woman helper tested positive after samples were taken from the school by the health team. She has been told not to attend campus for 14 days. All preventive measures to check further spread have been taken and she did not have any contact with anyone for the last two days. She perhaps contracted the infection from outside as no one else on the campus reported positive.”Sarabjit Kaur, a parent of a Class III student of a private school, said, “Since both of us are working, we preferred sending our child to school for our convenience but the daily spike in the cases is worrisome. I shared my worries with other parents who are sending kids. We will see things for a few days and if condition worsens, we might resume online classes for our child again.”Manbir Singh of CT Institutions, said, “We are on wait and watch mode and are taking all necessary precautions for the safety of students.”Another micro-containment zone in HoshiarpurThe district administration has declared Alawalpur village of Garhshankar sub-division a micro-containment zone after eight persons tested positive here in the last few days. Additional District Magistrate-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Amit Kumar Panchal issued an order under Section 144 of the CrPC in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.He said only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the micro-containment zone. He said teams of the Health Department would conduct a door-to-door survey and contact tracing at Alawalpur village.In addition, all positive cases will be shifted to health centres as per protocol.The Additional District Magistrate said the village had been declared micro-containment zone for 10 days.He said a legal action under the Disaster Management Act- 2005 will be taken against violators. It is mentionable that two days ago, Dhamai village of Garhshankar sub-division was also declared a micro-containment zone.As many as 50 new Covid-19 positive patients have been traced and two Covid deaths have been reported in the district today. Civil Surgeon Dr. Tanjir Singh Ghotra said today’s 50 new patients include 10 cases from the city and the remaining 40 are from various health blocks of the district. The two deaths include a 53 years old corona patient from Alampur village and a 76 years old woman of Rajni village.Officials to check strict complianceCP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Wednesday again directed all officials to strictly enforce the Covid-19 protocols in the district. He directed them to launch a vigorous drive to check the violation of the mandates, including wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. He briefed all officials about the latest guidelines issued by the state government with respect to limitation on indoor and outdoor gatherings of 100 and 200 persons, respectively.Last day today for health workers to take phase-1 jabAs last date for the first phase of the vaccination of registered healthcare workers falls on February 25, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has appealed to all remaining healthcare workers to come forward in getting inoculated to protect their families. As many as 35,116 healthcare and frontline workers had been registered for the first phase. He said a total of 11,370 healthcare workers of the total registered 15,435 have been vaccinated by now. A total of 7,626 healthcare workers have received the first dose, while 3,744 others have received the second dose. Similarly, as many as 7,317 frontline workers have been vaccinated in the district so far and about 49,190 doses were issued to armed forces establishments in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/infections-on-the-rise-so-are-parents-worries-217257
25-02-2021||Our Correspondent||Time we call every student to school: Education Secretary||Hoshiarpur, February 24For the success of Education Department’s Mission Shat Pratishat, it is time to take care of every student in schools now, said Krishan Kumar, Secretary, School Education Department, Punjab, here on Wednesday.He was addressing a meeting of heads of government senior secondary and high schools, block nodal officers, Parho Punjab teams and education reform teams at the DAV College of Education auditorium in Hoshiarpur.He stressed on the need to ensure vigilance by school principals in preparing students for the upcoming board examinations. He said through the review of the results of domestic examinations, a plan should be prepared for preparing students for the annual examination in a proper manner.He emphasised that school principals should strengthen the academic side as well as the day to day administration. He said planning should be done to improve the infrastructure and facilities in educational institutions, which would send a positive message in society and give impetus to the enrollment drive. He had a discussion with school principals on data analysis and review, as well as planning and better approach to make the mission successful. He emphasised the need to ensure strict adherence to the guidelines issued for the prevention of Covid.He said now, after the opening of schools for students of all classes, annual examinations of students of all classes would be held in schools in an offline mode, so it was everyone’s duty to prepare students for these examinations.He said: “Teachers are working diligently for the success of the mission. Additional classes are being set up by teachers. For the success of Mission Shat Pratishat, the first thing to be done is to get students to school while following Covid norms. At the same time, students have to be made aware of the reduced syllabus and the question paper pattern.”Assistant director (training) Salinder Singh, while conducting a data-based review of district Hoshiarpur regarding Mission Shat Pratishat, discussed the important points with the school heads.Chandra Shekhar, state resource person English and social studies and Jasveer Singh, state resource person science, while sharing data on the performance of Class X XII students of the district in December examination, discussed the points of preparation of meritorious students and low performers as well. They stressed on the need to provide simple and easy reading material for better performance of such students.Gursharan Singh, District Education Officer (secondary) and Rakesh Kumar, Deputy District Education Officer (secondary) lauded the efforts being made by the school principals and teachers for the success of the mission and expressed confidence that the performance of students in the district would be better during the forthcoming annual examinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/time-we-call-every-student-to-school-education-secretary-217261
25-02-2021||---||Roadways staff to go on strike for three days next month||Jalandhar, February 24 Members of the Punbus/ Punjab Roadways Contractual Workers’ Union on Wednesday staged a protest against the state government for not taking into account their long pending demands.  The union workers have also planned to organise a strike throughout the state from March 11 to March 13.  They have decided to protest against the Transport Minister’s negligence to fulfil their demands. Secretary of the contractual workers’ union, Chanan Singh, said a protest rally would be conducted on March 12, in which workers from all districts would participate. The secretary said the main demands that needed immediate attention were implementation of Supreme Court’s guidelines of equal wages for equal work and the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s orders regarding the cancellation of driving permit of private buses and regularisation of contractual workers. Besides, the secretary said demands had also been made for covering workers under the Punjab Pension Scheme, loan waiver of Punbus and DA to be given to all drivers and conductors. Previously also, workers had organised a similar protest, confining buses to local depots and employees going to the residence of the Transport Minister. Gurpreet Singh, one of the members of the union, said considering the demands of the workers, the authorities should conduct a meeting to resolve their pending issues.  “Nearly 4,000 PUNBUS employees have been struggling against contractual system in the state for the last nine years. Despite the fact that the government has justified the demands of PUNBUS employees at various occasions, nothing has been done to implement the demands so far. As per law, a contractual worker has to be made permanent within 240 days of his/her job, however they have not been regularised even after nine years of their services. We have been working on meagre salaries. The other demands include putting an end to private operation of buses, complete total fleet of Roadways buses, action against the monopoly of private buses at bus stands and the implementation of pending hike in salaries,” Gurpreet said. The Roadways workers also extended their support to farmers against the agri laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roadways-staff-to-go-on-strike-for-three-days-next-month-217262
25-02-2021||---||Sessions Judge visits Kapurthala Central Jail||Kapurthala, February 24 Kapurthala District and Sessions Judge Kishore Kumar, Additional District and Sessions Judge Ram Kumar Singla, Additional District Magistrate and Sessions Judge Jaspal Verma and Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority Ajit Pal Singh paid a surprise visit to Central Jail. They directed the jail administration and the Kapurthala District Legal Services Authority to ensure provision of free lawyer to every needy detainee and prisoner. The Sessions Judge said prisoners serving sentences can take advantage of free legal aid and appeal to higher courts. He said orders have been issued to settle custody cases in the District Courts on priority basis. During the inspection, they also visited women’s barracks and listened to problems of women detainees, besides instructing the jail authorities to pay special attention to cleanliness of cooking area, keep food covered and provide clean drinking water. The District and Sessions Judge issued directions to the Kapurthala Central Jail Superintendent, Baljit Singh Ghuman, to take special care of cleanliness on jail premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sessions-judge-visits-kapurthala-central-jail-217263
25-02-2021||Jalandhar||VB nabs ASI, Head Constable for taking bribe||Nod for vehicle inspection centreKapurthala: The district got an approval to set up a driver training and a vehicle inspection centre worth Rs39.16 crore. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh laid the foundation stone online. The centres would be set up at Jhal Thikeiwala village. Institute of Driving and Traffic Research (IDTR) would be constructed at a cost of Rs 22.50 crore under mission ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar te Karobar’ , with a training capacity of 20,000 drivers annually to impart quality training to rural youth and generate employment avenues as skilled drivers within the country and abroad. It would include driving range, administrative complex, hostel block and workshop. The training institute would be equipped with camera-based Innovative Driving Testing System (IDTS) to assess driving skills of candidates. Besides, a Vehicle Inspection and Certification Centre would also come up at a cost of Rs17.16 crore. The centre with a capacity to inspect 72,000 vehicles annually would test the road worthiness of vehicles before driving. TNSStone laid for Ravidas centreJalandhar: Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku along with Swami Gurdeep Giri on Wednesday laid the foundation stone of Guru Ravidas Cultural and Educational Centre on 120 Feet Road. Rinku said that the centre would be raised at a cost of Rs 2.7 crore. He said the site had been allotted for the purpose during the tenure of former Local Bodies Minister Chaudhary Jagjit Singh. A community centre at the site was launched digitally by Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday. TNSGNA university holds CyclothonPhagwara: GNA University in collaboration with GNA Gears organised a cyclothon to follow the daily regime of healthy and fit body. The marathon covered the distance of 44 km. Members of the Punjab Bike Club, Fit Cycle Life Group, Phagwara Peddlers, Phagwara Bikers, Jalandhar Biking Club and Bike Store Hoshiarpur Cyclewale participated in this event. Around 100 cyclists, including cycling club members, students and faculty members were part of this marathon. The first position and a cash prize of Rs 10,000 was bagged by Navdeep Singh, while Ekampreet bagged the second position and a cash prize of Rs 5,000 and Tarlok Bhatia secured the third position with a cash prize of Rs 3,000. Paramjeet Singh, DSP, Phagwara was the chief guest. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro-Chancellor, GNA University, congratulated all the winners. TNSMan kills wife in NawanshahrJalandhar: Anil Kumar (33) murdered his wife Anupama on Tuesday on a suspicion that she was having an extra-marital affair. The incident happened in Banga, Nawanshahr. He choked Anupama to death and then burnt her body. Originally from Madhya Pradesh, Kumar had started working in Banga as a manager in a private firm. As per the information, Kumar, after the incident, went to his firm and took his three children along, where he confessed to one of his colleagues that he had murdered his wife. The police have registered a case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code and have started investigation to unravel the truth. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vb-nabs-asi-head-constable-for-taking-bribe-217265
25-02-2021||---||New lessons for teachers||Three mathematics teachers from government schools of Nawanshahr, including Jatinder Singh, state awardee (GSSS, Mallupota), Prem Pal Singh (GSSS, Mahil Gaila), Manpreet Kaur (GHS, Jassomazara) had participated in three-day national-level training workshop organised by HMV College in collaboration with Punjab State Council for Science and Technology (PSCST) from February 17 to 19.The theme of the workshop was ‘visual explanation of geometrical theorems’. As many as 30 teachers from different districts participated. The officials from PSCST, Chandigarh, Charanpreet Singh, Dr KS Bath, Dr Pawan Gupta presided over, resource person Gurmit Singh (National awardee) imparted tips to the participants for preparing math kit for ensuring easy and effective understanding of geometrical theorems.“We have learnt a lot at the workshop and prepared working models of different geometrical properties, which ultimately, would help in making teaching-learning process easy, interesting and effective,” said the teachers.Not up to the markUntil now, only 39.8 per cent of the health workers have got first dose of vaccine. Only 1,903 health workers have got themselves vaccinated, out of 4,769 while 15.8 per cent have received the second dose. Similarly, as many as 850 frontline workers have been vaccinated out of 2,907 and thus 29.2 per cent of the frontline workers have got inoculated. Civil Surgeon Gurdeep Singh Kapur (in pic) requested the health and frontline workers to get vaccinated at the earliest. Now, the teachers have also been included in the frontline workers and their vaccination has also started.Don’t let your guard downNawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal has asked the residents to follow Covid norms in a proper manner. She said in last four months, fewer Covid cases had made everyone relaxed, but since last some days the numbers are again increasing, which tells that the Covid has not gone. “The students in the district have got infected and it is a matter of concern, so, everyone should take care of themselves and take every precautionary measure,” she said.(contributed by Akanksha N Bhardwaj)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-lessons-for-teachers-217268
25-02-2021||Jalandhar||Farewell party||Central Excise Day celebratedEklavya School staff apprised the students of Central Excise Day every year.. The students were given an overview of direct and indirect taxes paid to the government. The event began with the impressive speech by Arshdeep of Class VIII on central excise duty in which she highlighted the importance of the day. The middle school students made beautiful mind map on fundamental rights. A fruitful video was shown to the students on the importance of this day. Students did slogan writing related to the topic. Chairperson of Eklavya School JK Gupta and Director of Eklavya School Seema Handa applauded the efforts done by the students and said that this message helps to understand the importance of paying taxes for all the items. Principal Arvinder Kaur appreciated the efforts done by the kids and said that we should obey all the rules and regulations imposed by the government to become a good citizen.Online Session on Start UpsInstitutional Innovation cell of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised another virtual innovative session on start-ups to acquaint the students with the know-how of the start-ups. Resource person Manish Sehgal was accorded a warm welcome by Navroop, faculty incharge humanities, and innovation ambassadors Alka and Lovleen Kaur. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen conveyed her best wishes and congratulated the Innovation Cell for its incessant efforts. Dr Anjana Bhatia, president, Institutional Innovation Cell, presented a warm welcome to the resource person and highlighted the features of innovative policies issued by Government of India. Manish Sehgal gave a comprehensive introduction to the National Innovation Policy and how to open a start-up venture. He emphasised on the uniqueness of the idea which is the backbone of a successful venture. He told that there are four incubator units in Punjab which provide all kind of support to the young entrants and ensure that deserving proposals gets seed funding at minimum interest rates.Honours Achievers’ DayTo celebrate the phenomenal accomplishments of students, the ceremony of honours, Achievers’ Day 2021 was celebrated at HMV Collegiate Sr Sec School. The event commenced with an invocation to the Almighty by kindling the lamp of knowledge and wisdom. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen and School Co-ordinator Meenakshi Syal accorded green welcome to the chief guest of the occasion Dr Varinder Bhatia, vice-chairman of Punjab School Education Board, and guest of honour Irwin Khanna, (member local committee). Principal Dr Ajay Sareen lauded the achievers for their remarkable achievements and motivated them to put their heart and soul in whatever they do and also have belief in themselves and their hardwork. Around 120 students were awarded for their prodigious achievement in scholastic and co-scholastic activities. Seven office-bearers and six class representatives were also honoured with trophies and certificate. Irwin Khanna, while addressing the students, told them about the responsibilities they are going to shoulder in coming future and inspired them to fulfil their duties and responsibilities wholeheartedly.Student excels in half marathonA student of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya Ram Kumari(BA Sem V) has won a gold medal in half marathon (open state championship). Ram Kumari was also awarded with a cash prize. Ram Kumari covered a distance of 21 km in time duration of 1:24:45. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated Ram Kumari on her achievement. She said that KMV will continue to provide sports facilities to the students who continue to prove their mettle in sports arena. Principal also lauded the efforts of Narinder Singh, athletic coach and Dr Davinder for this achievement.Online GK Quiz CompetitionShiv Jyoti Public School provided online platform to its students to take part in various activities. Online Inter-House GK Quiz competition for Classes III to V was held. It comprised of two rounds. Full class participated in first round and 21 students selected for the second round. The final judgement was made by Nidhi, Nalini and Vaishali (Quiz masters) and Kaveeta Sareen, Pratibha and Shallu Maggo were the scorekeepers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farewell-party-217272
25-02-2021||In the municipal council poll held recently||Know your councillor||Using husband’s experience, she plans to improve basic amenities in her area Rajwinder Kaur (43) is a first-time councillor from Ward Number 6 in Phillaur. While her husband's five-year tenure as a councillor ended last year, she wanted to use his experience to serve people in her area. With 547 votes of 859, she claimed her victory in the recently held municipal council elections. Besides development, enrolling each and every children of her ward in government schools is her prime concern. She herself is an educated leader as she is an MSc in mathematics, has done B Ed and PG diploma in information and technology. Before entering full time into politics, she was working in a private school. "People in our ward need basic amenities and considering that, I have planned to make all sewage lines underground, so that people don't have to walk on choked colonies. In addition, we will assist people in completing their documents related works," said Rajwinder, who contested the election on a Congress seat.An admirer of Arvind Kejriwal, he wants to emulate his working styleA businessman by profession, Narinder Rattu (31) from AAP has won from Ward Number 14, Banga, with 403 votes. Rattu, who has won for the first time, had fought the elections five years ago as an Independent but lost it. An admirer of AAP, Rattu said when the party came into being, he was highly impressed. "I liked Arvind Kejriwal's way of work and thoughts and that was the moment I decided to join the party and thus entered politics," he said. "When I had fought as an Independent, I couldn't win, but I definitely learnt a lot and was ready to fight this time with full preparation," Rattu said. "There is no park in my ward, I will make one for the residents here. Also, there are a lot of problems related to street lights, which will be resolved. Apart from that, cleanliness in the ward will remain my priority," he said, adding that when he was campaigning before the elections, he knew he would win this time. "I convinced everyone that I will work for my ward and thus people evinced their trust in me," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/know-your-councillor-217274
