26-02-2021||---||Class XII student commits suicide||Jalandhar, February 25 A 17-year-old girl allegedly committed suicide in the district on Thursday. She reportedly killed herself by jumping off the third floor of her school. She was studying in Class XII at a private school in Bhogpur. The deceased has been identified as Alpana, daughter of Charanjit Singh. While the father of the girl is abroad, she was living with her mother and brother at Palke village in Bhogpur.  The school management said although the student had jumped off the building, no blood stain was found from the spot. The girl had, however, received a deep injury in her head, after which she was taken to a private hospital. Seeing her critical condition, the doctors referred her to another hospital, where she was declared brought dead.  Further probe is underway, the police said. A team of cops, including ASI Navdeep Kaur, reached the school immediately after the incident. While it was hard to ascertain the exact reason of suicide, SHO Bhogpur said, as per teachers, the girl was in depression due to her studies. She sat for her English exam before taking the extreme step. Meanwhile, no suicide note was recovered from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/class-xii-student-commits-suicide-217686
26-02-2021||---||Child Rights Commission writes to DEOs||Jalandhar, February 25The number of Covid positive students in Nawanshahr district crossed the 300 mark this month. Now, total 331 students are Covid positive in the district. Not only this, as many as 47 teachers and staff members have also tested positive. Maximum students (73) have tested positive from Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS) Kariam, followed by GSSS Rahon, where 62 students were found positive. GSSS Usmanpur, GSSS Saloh, GSSS Nawanshahr are other schools, where a high number of students are Covid positive. Students are asymptomatic and are in home isolation. So far, there are as many as 688 active cases.Notably, the Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has also taken cognizance of the increasing number of cases and they have released a letter to the District Education Officers in the state, in which the commission has asked officers to ensure that all Covid norms released by the Central and state governments were followed.“We have been receiving complaints from worried parents. So, it is important that proper guidelines are followed,” the letter reads.It further says: “Appoint one teacher as a nodal officer and students and parents must be informed about it. In case of any problem, confusion or help, parents or students can approach the nodal officer without any hesitation. In this way, if they can share their doubts with their teacher, the scare of Covid among students will be reduced.”Rajwinder Singh Gill, from the commission, said: “We are well aware of the situation, which is why we have sent these instructions to the DEOs.”Two die of covid in NawanshahrA 62-year-old woman from Mukandpur block and 62-year-old man from Nawanshahr city died of Covid on Thursday. As per the information, they both were suffering from hypertension and diabetes mellitus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/child-rights-commission-writes-to-deos-217687
26-02-2021||Our Correspondent||No room for laxity amid rising Covid cases: SSP||Hoshiarpur, February 25Holding a meeting with police officials of the district, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said no laxity would be tolerated in adherence to Covid protocol in the district. Seeking full support and cooperation from the public to contain the spread in view of the rising numbers of cases in the district, Mahal said there was a need to follow health advisories to contain the contagion.Urging people not to step out of their homes without masks, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal stressed on the need to remain more vigilant amid rising Covid cases.He said under ‘Mission Fateh’, an awareness drive has been re-intensified to sensitise people to Covid-19. The district police had distributed more than 20,000 masks till now and more will be distributed with the help of social organisations. “As many as 813 cases were registered for violating curfew and the lockdown guidelines with 51,000 challans. Nearly Rs 2.60 crore was recovered as penalty from the challans,” said Mahal.Exhorting people not to violate the Covid guidelines, Mahal said it was need of the hour to ensure that preventive measures were followed in true spirit.4 Covid deaths, 35 new cases in HoshiarpurThe district on Thursday reported four deaths due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 365. Besides, the district also witnessed 35 new positive cases, taking the tally of positive cases to 8,426. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra informed that the number of active cases was 254, while the number of patients who had recovered was 7,959. Of the 35 fresh cases, 12 were found in Hoshiarpur city and the remaining 23 were reported from various health blocks of the district. Those who died were identified as a 46-year-old woman of Bihala who died at the PGI, Chandigarh; a 75-year-old resident of Fatehgarh locality, who died at a medical college, Patiala; a 70-year-old resident of Haveli village, who died at the Civil Hospital, Mahilpur; and a 72-year-old woman of Dimana village, who died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.Bhattan Mohalla new micro-containment zone The district administration has declared Bhattan Mohalla in Ward No.4 of Garhshankar town a micro-containment zone after six persons tested positive in the last couple of days. ADM-cum-ADC Amit Kumar Panchal issued an order under Section 144 of the CrPC in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Bhattan Mohalla is the third such zone in the district, while Dhamai and Alawalpur villages of Garhshankar subdivision were declared micro-containment zones earlier this week. He said only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the zone. He said health teams will conduct a door-to-door survey and contact tracing at Alawalpur village. In addition, all positive cases will be shifted to health centres. The ADM said Bhattan was declared micro-containment zone for 10 days. He said legal action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, would be taken against violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-room-for-laxity-amid-rising-covid-cases-ssp-217688
26-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||AAP to raise loan waiver, farmers’ suicide issues||Expressing grave concern over the tragic suicides of debt-ridden farmers in Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader Harpal Singh Cheema said people were fed up with the policies of Capt Amarinder Singh-led government, which were causing inconvenience and devastating their homes. Cheema visited the residence of the farmer father-son, who committed suicide in Dasuya five days ago, and expressed his condolences. The deceased in their suicide note had blamed Capt and his false promises of loan waiver as the reason for taking the extreme step. He said in the upcoming Budget session, AAP would be the voice of these grieving farmers. Cheema said AAP would raise the issue of farmer suicides and loan waiver in the session and fight for the rights of the farmers. “We will not let Capt Amarinder Singh just sit by and ruin the state and lives of the people, we will rise up and fight,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-to-raise-loan-waiver-farmers-suicide-issues-217689
26-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Their garden of dreams||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 25Even as the lawn grass, in most houses, dry up during the winter months, it is lush green at the house of veteran journalist Irwin Khanna in Lajpat Nagar here. Walk on it barefoot and it feels so soft and refreshing.“It is where our family spends maximum time during the winter months. Our guests, too, prefer enjoying most of their time in the front garden or in the backyard. So, we cannot let it to go patchy or yellowish. It is a Korean grass, which requires right amount of water for various seasons and we take care of it appropriately,” shares Irwin’s wife Veenu Khanna proudly, as she holds the charge of the entire garden area.Around the garden are some unique, big trees – Bismarckia Palm, Traveller’s Palm, Peepal, Plum, Kinnow, Chausa and Dusehri mango. Khannas say: “We came in this house in 1969. We had planted these trees around the same time and hence these are huge now. The volume of fruits that grow here is quite something and we do not let even a single piece go waste. We make chutneys and syrups and then enjoy these throughout the year.”Veenu shows earthen lanterns and designer lights that she has put up all around her garden. “The evening time is even more beautiful here,” she says. The garden furniture, swings, creepers hanging from pots, pots kept in designer stands, use of rocks, stones, statues, ceramic stuff, round pots, cages, used water bottles etc. has been arranged so aesthetically that any visitor is left mesmerised and awestruck.They say: “We do not use any urea or inorganic fertiliser in our house. Since we are producing some vegetables such as spinach, lettuce etc., we do not want any of these chemicals to move to our vegetables through water or otherwise. Instead, we have set up two huge compost pits, wherein we are making organic manure from our kitchen waste and using it for nutrition of our plants.”A mini-aviary to look up toIf Veenu has taken the charge of her garden area, her husband Irwin, too, has his own passion. A die-hard animal lover, he is raising six dogs and about 50-60 birds, largely pigeons. “I enjoy their company so much. I have been keeping pets since I was 10. One of my schoolteachers had gifted me my first dog,” he said.His entire terrace area is covered with huge cages, some of these 40 feet wide and 16 feet high. The cages have swings, rods for perching. “I provide them with all items including multiple holed pots, straws, dry leaves for building their warm nests. Some of them even lay eggs inside the boxes kept there. Every morning, I spend almost one-and-a-half hour with my animals and birds, training and feeding them. This is the best time of my day and I do not go anywhere in this time (between 9 am to 10:30 am). The birds and animals teach us so much. Since they have a short life, we see how they struggle with age-related problems. Their loss makes us understand that the cycle of life and death is inevitable. Love, passion, care, attachment — all such feelings get clear if we spend time with God’s beautiful creatures,” he explains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/their-garden-of-dreams-217691
26-02-2021||---||Collect documents from Sewa Kendras, beneficiaries told||Jalandhar, February 25 Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today appealed to the applicants of various citizen-centric services to immediately collect their 8,640 documents, which were lying with the Sewa Kendras since August last year. Participating in a review meeting with the officials of the department of governance reform, the DC said these documents were prepared by the Sewa Kendras based on various applications but the applicants didn’t turn up to collect their documents. He mentioned that since there was a space shortage in Sewa Kendras, it was impossible to keep these documents for a longer period of time. He further added that in case of non-collection of these documents, they would be disposed of as per the government’s guidelines. The DC also proposed to start an OTP-based document delivery system in the Sewa Kendras, which would further strengthen the smooth delivery of documents to the applicants. Under this system, a One Time Password (OTP) would be sent to the applicants’ mobile phone at the time of delivery, which they need to share at the delivery counter. Thori also asked to introduce a penalty system in case the applicants don’t collect their prepared documents from the Sewa Kendras after three months from the due date of delivery. Further, the applicants would be offered option of home delivery of the prepared documents, if they paid the postal charges at the time of submitting their application. The prepared documents pending for the delivery comprising 2,721 documents of affidavits, certified copies of revenue records, and income certificate. Similarly, 5,826 documents pertaining to birth and death registration services were pending for the delivery. As many as 37 documents for agriculture department related services, and 56 documents for counter signature related services were lying with the 33 Sewa Kendras of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/collect-documents-from-sewa-kendras-beneficiaries-told-217692
26-02-2021||---||Intensify drive against sale of illicit liquor, DC to officials||Jalandhar, February 25 Chairing a district-level meeting to review crackdown on the illicit liquor trade in the district on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori directed all the officials to further intensify the ongoing drive against this menace.  He said concerted efforts needed to be made by joint teams of the civil and police administrations and the Excise Department at the tehsil and Sub-Divisional levels. He said the teams should work collectively to ensure that liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illicit distillation of liquor, if any, in the district were checked efficiently. With 1,531 FIRs registered last year, the district had witnessed 64.99 per cent surge in police cases against bootleggers and smugglers in 2020. As many as 995 FIRs were registered by the police in the district in 2019, which meant an increase of 64.99 per cent with 1,531 FIRs lodged in 2020. The Deputy Commissioner (DC) said under the “Operation Red Rose”, as many as 1,536 FIRs had been registered under the Excise Act, besides nabbing 1,563 accused. Moreover, the authorities concerned in various departments also seized 103,832 bottles of liquor and 2,716 premises, including godowns, marriage palaces and rice shellers, were also checked. The DC said during the review meeting, the Excise and Police Departments were also directed to take stricter action against any sort of liquor smuggling and bootlegging in the district. Special checking should be further organised in the coming days to check the sale of illicit liquor in the district. He directed officers of the Excise Department to hold regular checking and take feedback from contractors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intensify-drive-against-sale-of-illicit-liquor-dc-to-officials-217693
26-02-2021||---||Will ensure that Dalit scheme benefits reach the masses, says Vijay Sampla||Jalandhar, February 25As BJP leader Vijay Sampla on Thursday returned to his hometown after taking charge as SC panel chairman, his supporters accorded him a warm welcome at the Circuit House here.The supporters arranged dholis and garlanded Sampla after his arrival here this afternoon. Interacting with the media here, he said, “My focus will be to ensure that the SC community does not face any atrocities. The Dalits are not getting benefits of various schemes of the government. I will direct the officials to ensure that the benefits reach the masses. I will also focus on the implementation of the SC Post Matric Scholarship Scheme. The commission has the power to take suo moto action on any reports appearing in the media or otherwise.”Sampla said the issues of denial of degrees to the Dalit students would also be dealt with strictly and any college indulging in such actions might have to face the consequences.As Sampla reached Circuit House, the members of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) too made it to the venue. They stood outside the gates and indulged in sloganeering against the BJP and Sampla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-ensure-that-dalit-scheme-benefits-reach-the-masses-says-vijay-sampla-217694
26-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||Sikander the great!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 25His sudden demise due to Covid is much of a personal loss for those who spent 80s and 90s charmed with his iconic songs. Noted for the mischief in his voice and unwavering humility in his persona, the music fraternity feels the departing of Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander on February 24 since an era of meaningful Punjabi music came to an end.Hailing from the Kheri Naudh Singh village at Fatehgarh Sahib, Sardool Sikander shot to fame with the iconic song “roadways di laari” in 1987. He was among the artistes credited with ushering in an era of tasteful Punjabi music for TV and AIR.He was a little-known singer in his brother’s Gamdoor Singh Aman’s group when he happened to be discovered by the doyens at the Doordarshan.Filmmaker, director, producer and author Dr Harjit Singh, who discovered Sikander and first recorded his iconic ‘roadways di laari’ for Doordarshan, says, “Sardool came from a traditional music family. Music wasn’t a means of livelihood…it was a way of life. He was among the singers of the era who were completely dedicated to music irrespective of the dividends. While working on a play, I chanced upon a recording of the artiste who emulated the likes of Ghulam, Gurdas Mann and Yamla Jatt with panache. His brother Gamdoor Singh was a B-high artist with AIR and Sikander sung with his brother’s troupe and Co. But in his pursuit, when I first happened to hear him live, I was moved to the core. I believe we were lucky to have found a talent like him.”Sikander first crooned ‘roadways di laari’ for Dr Harjit Singh’s famous programme ‘Raunak Mela’ – and a star was born.The iconic singer didn’t forget to call Singh to his wedding day with singer Amar Noori, he, unfortunately, wasn’t able to make it due to a personal crisis at the time.On the way back after attending the singer’s last rites, Dr Singh adds, “The loss can’t be explained in words. In those days there was a clamour for studios. So, we had to do recordings in a bind to clear it for the next producer or director. He would keep his costumes ready and would accomplish recordings in minutes. Due to a personal crisis at the time, I couldn’t attend his wedding. But he still kept a chair for me on the occasion. Later, every time he met me, he would say “bhaji tusi bande tan bare vadhiya ho, par tusi mere vyah te nahi aaye (brother, you are a diamond, but you didn’t come to my wedding).” At his last rites on Thursday, his words rung in my ears, with his demise an era of music is lost. It is a huge personal loss for me.”Dr Lakhwinder Johal, president Punjab Press Club Jalandhar and director and producer at DD, added, “We began our association with Sikander when he was yet to be popular and went on to become the most iconic of luminaries of Punjabi music. But, he had the same aura and same humility around him. He met with the same warmth and love. He was among the most talented musicians in the Punjabi music industry, and while famous for flawlessly mimicking Punjabi legends, he also caught us off guard on many occasions. He would often call impersonating another artiste and we would talk for minutes thinking it is someone else. He had faced many lows in life but his personal relations and warmth always remained the same.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sikander-the-great-217695
26-02-2021||---||After 2 years, residents of Mohalla Karar Khan are to get clean drinking waterEnjoy your drink!||Jalandhar, February 26  Residents of Mohalla Karar Khan have heaved a sigh of relief as they won’t have to drink contaminated water anymore. The work on direct pipeline towards the mohalla started on Wednesday, and thus the residents will get direct supply of water. The councillor along with the residents inaugurated the project.  Notably, for the last many years the residents of Mohalla Karar Khan, Ward No. 66, had been facing the problem. Around 25 houses were the worst affected and the residents were compelled to fetch water for their daily needs from a nearby gurdwara. Leaky old sewerage and water pipes had not been changed for years together and residents were unable to get out of the problem even after several complaints. Sonia, one of the residents, informed that since the last two years, she along with other women of the area had been going to the gurdwara for clean water. “Had the gurdwara been not there, what would we have done in that case? Nobody is listening to our problems,” she had earlier complaint to the MC officials. “I am now relieved that at least we will get clean drinking water,” she added.  Davinder Rony, Independent councillor from Ward no. 66, had been approaching both the Mayor and Commissioner but without success. He had estimated expenditure of around Rs1.50 lakh had been passed for the laying of new pipelines in the area. But even after facing several problems, he didn’t stop and kept on fighting for his ward residents.  “I feel that the efforts have finally paid off,” Rony said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-2-years-residents-of-mohalla-karar-khan-are-to-get-clean-drinking-waterenjoy-your-drink-217697
26-02-2021||In the municipal council poll held recently||Know Your Councillor||A mathematician, she’s now calculating all the problems in her ward Jaspreet Kaur Bakshi (33), Ind, NawanshahrA mathematician, she’s now calculating all the problems in her ward.A postgraduate in mathematics (MSc Mathematics), Jaspreet Kaur Bakshi (33) won the elections and was elected as the councillor from Ward Number 13 in Nawanshahr. Bakshi fought as an Independent and she polled 658 votes in her favour and won by a margin of 321 votes. She was a mathematics teacher before she got married in 2019. When Bakshi was campaigning before the elections, she went door to door convincing people to vote for her. And now that she has won, this newly elected councillor is again moving door to door to thank everyone who voted for her. “Now that I am again meeting people, I am also asking them about the problems they are facing,” she said. The main issues related to Ward Number 13 are garbage disposal, unavailability of clean water and limited water supply among others.A councillor by passion, not professionBrahm Shankar Jimpa (55), Independent, Ward No. 6, HoshiarpurA councillor by passion, not professionAn industrialist by profession and a social figure in the area, Pandit Brahm Shankar Jimpa has been elected for the fourth time in a row. He had been a Congressman since childhood. At the age of 55, he has had a long stint of 18 years as a Municipal Councillor (MC) and now, has been elected again. Jimpa is into the business of activated carbon and he’s also the vice-president of Carbon Manufacturers’ Association. He’s also taking care of the famous religious place Manvta Mandir in Hoshiarpur for around 20 years and is president of the Faqir Charitable Library Trust, which manages Manavta Mandir, the school and other institutions associated with it. Jimpa says he’s a councillor by passion, not profession. He was elected on a Congress ticket for the first time in 2003, then in 2008 and again in 2015. He was district NSUI general secretary in 1982, PPCC secretary from 2007 to 2017. In 2017, he was appointed as the DCC president and the party won six of seven Assembly seats in the district. He was appointed PSIDC director-cum-vice-chairman in June 2020 and this time, he is being considered as a Mayoral candidate on the basis of his seniority, but he was denied a Congress ticket. Before elections, he resigned from the post of PSIDC vice-chairmanship and from party membership and chose to contest as an Independent from Ward No. 6. Recalling his childhood association with the Congress, Jimpa says: “Our neighbour was a Congress leader and I was very impressed by his personality. In 1980, Giani Jail Singh contested the election. I was in Class X at that time and remained active even then and participated in canvassing, rallies and meetings. Since then, I became a devoted Congressman and still am one. Those claiming to expel me from the party can’t expel Congress from within me,’ said Jimpa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/know-your-councillor-217699
26-02-2021||Jalandhar||Vidyarthi Vigyan Manthan Exams||One minute advt contestChildren of Ivy World School acted on various advertisement scripts and ideas relevant to the theme— Sharing and caring — along with their family members in a contest organised for them. The idea behind conducting this competition was to provide a platform to the participants to explore their acting skills which require a lot of creativity. The participants were judged on the basis of advertisement’s content and message conveyed, language and expression. The children came up with some wonderful jingles and advertisements with good punch lines on the themes that had the fun quotient. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, congratulated the achievers and applauded the participants on their creativity.Badminton, kho-kho contestsHealth Club of MGN College of Education organised inter-house badminton and kho-kho competitions. The purpose of organising these competitions was to ensure physical fitness of the students. In girls doubles badminton competition, Sandhya Gautam and Poonam from BEd (Sem-III) got the first position, Arvinder Kaur and Aishwarya from BEd (Sem-I) bagged the second position and Pushpinder Kaur and Aakanksha Singh from BEd (Sem-I) bagged the third position. In boys (singles) category, Navneet Pansotra from BEd (Sem-III) stood first, Aashish Kumar from BEd (Sem-I) bagged the second position and Ayaz Rahil from BEd (Sem-III) bagged the third position. In inter -house kho-kho competition, team of BEd (Sem-I) led by Aakanksha got the first position, team of BEd (Sem-III) led by Poonam stood second and team of BEd (Sem-III) led by Navinder bagged the third position. On this occasion, Principal Neelu Jhanji congratulated the winners of both the events and motivated them to continue with their participation in sports activities for harmonious development of their personalities. Harkamaljit Singh was refree for the events. Both the events were organised by DrKiran Walia and Gaganpreet Kaur.Smart City ProjectThe NSS volunteers of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya participated in Smart City Project of Municipal Corporation. On this occasion, Chief Minister Punjab Capt. Amrinder Singh inaugurated various projects under Smart City for the development of Jalandhar. From HMV, Rashmi Sethi and students Ishpreet, Riya, Jagjeet Kaur, Rupinder, Manpreet and Kashika performed as anchor and motivated every citizen of the city to contribute enthusiastically to make Jalandhar a Smart City. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen appreciated the efforts of Programme Officer Dr Anjana Bhatia and said that Jalandhar will become a Smart City only with the contribution of every citizen of the city. She gave assurance for every kind of help and made an appeal to every citizen of the city to make Jalandhar clean and beautiful. Dr Anjana Bhatia also appreciated the efforts of NSS Volunteers and said that NSS unit of HMV will always be ready for the support of Municipal Corporation.Workshop on Healthy EatingA one-day workshop on the theme of ‘Healthy Eating’ was organised by St Soldier Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology. Teams of Chef Manish Gupta, Chef Sorab and Chef Akhil made different types of salads and explained the method to the students. Addressing the students and faculty members on the occasion, Principal Sandeep Lohani explained how one can lead a healthy life by taking balance food. He also informed about the benefits of vegetarian food and changing food habits. Teams of chefs and students prepared different dishes and salads.Managing Director Prof Manhar Arora suggested to update food habits according to time to time. Chairman Anil Chopra, vice chairperson Sangeeta Chopra appreciated the efforts of the institution and gave them best wishes.Photography trainingStudents of PG Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya are exploring well in the field of photography. The training on various techniques of photography such as multiple exposure photography, light painting photography, three point lighting photography, product photography, bokeh effect photography, macro and micro photography is being provided to the students in KMV. The photographs clicked by the students are also earning praises on many social media platforms and these photographs have also been exhibited at a city level exhibition organised by KMV. Moreover, the students of the department have also participated in many workshops which are addressed by many well known experts in the field of journalism. Milind Damle, FTII Pune, an expert in film production, taught the students the ropes of film production and film making in a four-day workshop and Ravi Davla, FTII, Pune trained the students about documentary filmmaking and its techniques over a 10-day workshop. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi emphasised on the importance of practical knowledge for the students for their growth. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vidyarthi-vigyan-manthan-exams-217701
26-02-2021||---||BJP leaders face protests in Amritsar, Jalandhar||Amritsar/ Jalandhar Feb 25A group of farmers raised anti-BJP slogans when Rajya Sabha MP and former BJP state president Shwait Malik visited the Regional Passport Office (RPO) here today.Protesters associated with left parties These protesters are associated with the Left parties. I will consider them farmers if they quit their political membership. They have been misguiding the farmers about the central agricultural laws. — Shwait Malik, BJP MP As Malik came out of the office, a farmers’ group, under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), blocked the exit gate and started raising slogans. A heavy contingent of the police, deployed there, facilitated the cavalcade of Malik to pass through and averted any untoward incident.Malik said the protesters were not “real” farmers, but a group of people with ulterior political motives. “They are associated with the Left parties. I will consider them farmers if they quit their political membership. They have been misguiding the farmers about the farm laws that were enacted for the benefit of farmers,” he said.It is not the first time that Malik and other senior leaders had to confront agitating farmers of the same farm organisation. On December 7 too, Malik faced protest during the foundation stone-laying ceremony of BJP’s new office in New Amritsar.Meanwhile in Jalandhar, as BJP leader Vijay Sampla today returned to his hometown after taking charge as National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairman, members of BKU (Rajewal) indulged in sloganeering against him and other leaders. BKU spokesperson Kashmir Singh and other union members were among protesters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-leaders-face-protests-in-amritsar-jalandhar-217565
26-02-2021||Chandigarh||Five Covid deaths in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur district reported five deaths, including 45 Covid cases, in the past 24 hours. As per the official health bulletin, the state reported 566 cases and 13 deaths in the past 24 hours. Among districts, Hoshiarpur reported five deaths, followed by SBS Nagar with three deaths, Jalandhar and Patiala two each and one death was reported in SAS Nagar.On Thursday, among districts, SBS Nagar remained the worst affected with 111 cases and three deaths, followed by Jalandhar with 65 cases, Amritsar 64, and Patiala 62. At present 82 patients are on oxygen and 11 are on ventilator. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-covid-deaths-in-hoshiarpur-217566
