27-02-2021||---||Police crackdown on drug menace||Jalandhar, February 26In its special drive launched against the drug menace a few days ago, the Commissionerate of Police has registered 25 FIRs and arrested 32 persons under the NDPS Act. This was stated by Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar here on Friday.The Commissioner of Police said the miscreants were held with a huge haul of drugs. The police recovered consignments of drugs such as 237 gm of heroin, 6.23 kg of opium, 4.50 of quintal poppy husk and 4.7 kg of ganja.Bhullar said a massive search operation was launched by the police department in drug-sensitive areas, which were cordoned off by special teams to carry out their search drive. Similarly, another operation was jointly initiated by the police and the Health Departments to check medical stores.The Commissioner of Police said the police had arrested as many as 12 proclaimed offenders wanted in cases registered under the NDPS Act.He said preventive action against drug suppliers were launched under Sections 107, 151 and 110 of the CrPC, besides preparing detention proposals against the eight habitual offenders. The department had started the process to seize properties of three drug suppliers under Section 68-F of the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-crackdown-on-drug-menace-218025
27-02-2021||Phagwara||Sattriya Nrityam fest held at LPU||In order to promote traditions and cultures, a one-day ‘Sattriya Nrityam’ fest was organised by department of cultural affairs at Lovely Professional University (LPU). Sattriya received the recognition in 2000 as a national classical dance and is among eight national ‘classical dance’ forms of India. Four solo classical dancers from Assam —Elizi Ojha, Priyanka Bayan, Nishita Parashar and Pragati Upadhyay — performed at the fest. “Dance is world to infinity and beyond,” said Elizi Ojha. This virtual showcasing for LPU students was to learn and further exhibit Assamese heritage. Artistes began their performances with Krishna Vandana and presented various episodes and sagas related with period of Krishna avtaar through dances. It was indeed a mesmerising event for all music and dance lovers of the university. It is pertinent to mention that Sattriya is a 500-year-old ritual, which evolved from the Bhakti Movement in Assam. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sattriya-nrityam-fest-held-at-lpu-218027
27-02-2021||Jalandhar||Man charred to death in city||Victim Sanjeet (27) (in pic) was reportedly working in a jewellery shop. When he did not reach for his work this morning, the shop owner went to his place and found Sanjeet’s body lying badly burnt. The doctor declared him dead. Cops said a burning cigarette butt might have led to an accidental fire in his room. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-charred-to-death-in-city-218028
27-02-2021||Jalandhar||Botanical garden at KMV to promote outdoor learning||In order to provide practical knowledge of plants and science to the students, Kanya Maha Vidyalaya (KMV) has developed a botanical garden in the college campus.The garden creates a one of a kind and site-specific garden that stands beautiful through all the seasons of the year and also helps study the diversity in living organisms, especially plants. The students learn about the various types of plant varieties like medicinal plants, ornamental plants, herbs, shrubs etc. while enjoying the beauty of botanical garden. The garden also houses a beautiful lotus pond, where the students can gather information about the importance of lotus plants and the protozoans.The botanical garden has a huge collection of succulent plants and herb garden. All plants are accurately labeled and the records are kept for the study of plant taxonomy.Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that KMV always aims for the holistic development of its students and this initiative is also one of the developments in that direction. She further maintained that the botanical garden will be beneficial for the students as plant’s growth habit, size and behaviour is important knowledge to make the right combination of species. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/botanical-garden-at-kmv-to-promote-outdoor-learning-218029
27-02-2021||Jalandhar||No impact of bandh in Jalandhar district||The bandh call given by the Confederation of All India Traders in protest against the rising fuel prices, Goods and Services Tax (GST) and e-bill remained completely ineffective in Jalandhar today.Even as the All India Transporters’ Welfare Association (AITWA) had extended support to bandh, the truck unions in Punjab did not joined the protest. Khel Udyog Sangh convener Ravinder Dhir said, “No market was closed due to the bandh. The movement in markets remained affected shobha yatra of Guru Ravidas.”Gursharan Singh, chief, Jalandhar Industrialists and Traders’ Association, said, “Our work did not suffered due to the bandh, but half of our labour did not came to work because of Guru Ravidas Jayanti.” Since it’s largely a call by traders, industrialists were completely unaffected. Narinder Saggoo, chief, Focal Point Extension Association, said, “Our factories remained operational. We did not got call from any association for support.” Happy Sandhu, president, All Punjab Truck Operators’ Union, said, “We did not support the bandh. We operated normally like any other day.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-impact-of-bandh-in-jalandhar-district-218030
27-02-2021||Jalandhar||Workers demand 100-day job guarantee||In protest against the disregard of the 100-day employment guarantee for MGNREGA workers by the BDO and block officials, a delegation of the activists of the Pendu Mazdoor Union on Thursday met ADC Vishesh Sarangal with their demands. Led by Baljit Kaur Mann and Sukhman, the delegation said that despite 100-day employment guarantee and repeated requests by MGNREGA workers, the block officials have failed to pay heed.They demanded that the labourers denied employment be given employment allowance and action be taken again erring officers. Union leader Baksho Rani said MNREGA workers from Beer Baloki, Baloki, Baloki Khurd, Khurshaidpur and Madiala villages had been holding dharna outside and gheraoing the BDO block Mehatpur for the past two months.They said the officials of the block had not been able to provide employment to the workers even for 10 days in the past two months. They also raised questions on the local cattle shed project. They said if the employment was not provided soon, they would hold dharna at the district headquarters for an indefinite period. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workers-demand-100-day-job-guarantee-218031
27-02-2021||---||Shobha yatra taken out on eve of Ravidas Jayanti||Jalandhar, February 26On the eve of Guru Ravidas Jayanti, a shobha yatra was taken out in the city on Friday afternoon. It was attended by a large number of devotees and several political leaders from the city and outside.The procession, which started from Guru Ravidas Dham in Bootan Mandi, passed through various parts of the city, including Nakodar Chowk, Valmiki Chowk, Mahavir Marg and Ram Chowk. Shabad Bani composed by Guru Ravidas was played using DJ systems all through the journey.Leader of Opposition and Aam Aadmi Party leader Harpal Cheema said Guru Ravidas had raised his voice to uplift the downtrodden. He said there was need for raising voice against the oppression of the downtrodden.Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary also attended a function held at Sri Guru Ravidass Senior Secondary School.Addressing a gathering, he said it was the ideas and principles of Guru Ravidas on which the Constitution, drafted by Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar, is founded. “It is Guru Ravidas’ thoughts on equality and welfare that can guide us in realising the dream of an ideal society,” said the MP.Later, accompanied by Sant Nirmal Dass Jaure Wale, Sant Nirmal Dass Abadan Wale, MLA Rajinder Beri, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, he led the nagar kirtan.Phagwara: The shobha yatra at Phagwara also received a very huge response. It had a special attraction this time — a tableau by farmers which depicted the use of farm animals in the fields. Residents of the city said they saw this trend for the first time as never before had members of the Ravidasia community bothered about the interests of the zamindars.Activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Doaba) led by Satnam Singh Sahni, general secretary, also organised a langar of kinnows and mineral water bottles at the site. The youngsters present at the stall said, “The Ravidassia community had stood with us during our protests. They had participated in large numbers in our agitations at Delhi borders and in our tractor rallies taken out in the city. So definitely, it was time for us to reciprocate with our gesture.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shobha-yatra-taken-out-on-eve-of-ravidas-jayanti-218032
27-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Rs 30 cr to be spent on 3-laning of PAP flyover||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 26Commuters heading towards Amritsar or Pathankot from the city are likely to face traffic snarls for another one year.The tender related to three-laning of PAP flyover has been cleared after financial and technical bids were opened by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The work has been allotted to a private firm (KRC) for an amount of Rs 30 crore. It would take around one-and-a-half-month to commence the work as the administration first needs to get the electricity lines removed from outside the office of the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB). No land would be acquired for the purpose of three-laning of the flyover.At present, commuters heading from city to Amritsar/Pathankot need to take a treacherous detour of 3.5 km via Rama Mandi. Those coming from Ludhiana need to take a U-turn, which gets risky due to heavy movement of traffic throughout the day.Inaugurated in Feb 2019The PAP flyover was inaugurated in February 2019, but it had to be closed within a day as four accidents had taken place on the first day itself.It was witnessed that three lanes of traffic, including one from Jalandhar and two from Ludhiana were merging into two (towards Amritsar). This was the point where vehicles were colliding.The technical defect could not be visualised by experts of the NHAI before its launch and discussion went on during meetings and the site visits by experts and the district administration.Various alternate methods were planned, but three-laning of the flyover from the site where Jalandhar lane merged seemed to be the only workable option.Yashpal, Project Director, NHAI, “The work is expected to be completed within a year. There is a section where the Indian Railways come into the play and slowing down of railway traffic is expected. Thus, it will take a little longer.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-30-cr-to-be-spent-on-3-laning-of-pap-flyover-218035
27-02-2021||---||Over 40 students hospitalised after ‘food poisoning’||Jalandhar, February 26As many as 42 students of Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala, were admitted to Civil Hospital here late last night after they were taken ill due to suspected food poisoning. All of them were discharged by this evening. They were rushed to the Kapurthala Civil Hospital after they reported abdominal cramps and discomfort. Health authorities said four more students were reported to the Kapurthala Civil Hospital this morning; they were all discharged by today evening. Health teams also visited the PTU mess as well as premises today and took food and water samples.The students were pursuing studies in various disciplines of technical education.Civil Surgeon, Kapurthala, Dr Seema said, “Students reportedly had karhi and mixed vegetable in the hostel mess on Thursday morning. As many as 42 students were reported to us with abdominal cramps last night. Many also had dehydration and bouts of vomiting and diarrhoea. Abdominal cramps was the most common symptom reported by the students. They were under observation until this evening. All the students were discharged by late evening after they started feeling better.”“We have taken five water and five food samples from the PTU which have been sent to the state laboratory for testing. The actual cause of infection will be clear only after we receive the sample report. During inspection, the kitchen was also found to be in poor hygienic condition,” she added.Sandeep Kumar Kazal, Registrar, PTU, said: “The Incident is very unfortunate. We had some students complaining of stomachache last night after which they were given the first aid at the campus dispensary. But, when the problem still persisted, they were then rushed to Civil Hospital, Kapurthala. The hostel authorities also accompanied them and extended full cooperation. Almost all of them got discharged later. The cause of the infection has not been ascertained. A committee has been constituted which will examine the cause of the incident. It might even be possible that the students had their meals from outside. It would be too early to say anything. While the PTU hostel has 400 to 500 student residents – the discomfort was reported among 42 students.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-40-students-hospitalised-after-food-poisoning-218037
27-02-2021||Hoshiarpur||4th micro-containment zone declared in Hoshiarpur||The district administration on Friday declared Ward No.1 of Garhshankar town a micro-containment zone after eight persons tested positive in the last few days. Additional District Magistrate-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Amit Kumar Panchal issued an order under Section 144 of the CrPC in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.He said only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the micro-containment zone. He said teams of the Health Department would conduct a door-to-door survey and contact tracing in Ward No.1.In addition, all positive cases will be shifted to health centres as per the protocol.The Additional District Magistrate said the area had been declared a micro-containment zone for 10 days. He said legal action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, would be taken against violators. Earlier this week, Dhamai and Alawalpur villages in Garhshankar subdivision and Bhattan Mohalla in Garhshankar were too declared a micro-containment zone.The district reported the deaths of two persons, pushing the total to 366 on Friday. Besides, as many as 66 more persons tested positive for the virus, taking the tally to 8,492. Civil Surgeon Dr Tanjir Singh Ghotra said today’s 66 new patients included 10 cases from the city and the remaining 56 are from various health blocks of the district.Of the two deceased, one has been identified as a 72-year-old person of Alampur village and the other as a 76-year-old woman of Bassi Kalan village, who died at a private hospital in Ludhiana.There are 244 active cases while 7,928 have recovered. At Soli village in Posi block, six patients are from the same household; two teachers of Govt Middle School, Tahliwal; one teacher of Government Middle School, Bagpur; and one teacher of MR International School, Panam. Besides, four children of Government Senior Secondary School, Garhshankar, tested positive. — OCJal Covid UpdateNew cases: 63Total cases: 21,519New deaths: 1Total deaths: 703Result awaited: 3,169Total discharged: 20,359Active 457Helpline numbers for Covid patientsHelpline number of Ambulance: 108Emergency helpline: 104Jalandhar Helpline for Covid or other medical queries: 0181-2224848Dist Immunisation Officer contact: 94171-64164Website for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4th-micro-containment-zone-declared-in-hoshiarpur-218040
27-02-2021||In the municipal council poll held recently||She is running a boutique for past two decades and ready to serve people||Having graduated from Delhi University, Ekta Jain has been passionately running her boutique in Nakodar for the last two decades. Alongside, she is actively involved in the activities undertaken by her husband, Gaurav Jain, over issues of sewage and dumping of garbage in the town. As Gaurav would visit Chandigarh and New Delhi to appear for his Public Interest Litigations in the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the National Green Tribunal, Ekta would also accompany him to assist him in legal matters. The Congress picked me for the civic body election and made me contest from Ward No.15. As my kids are grown up, I felt that it was time that I can use my social links to pursue my political dreams," she said. Jain said: “Owing to the fact that the Congress had spent Rs61 lakh recently on the development works, it helped me to win with a margin of over 500 votes.”Donning many hats: A mechanical engineer, bizman and now a councillorWard No. 13, Chandan Nagar, KartarpurIt's been six years since Surinder Pal Singh started his journey into politics. Before joining the Congress in 2017, he was a member of the Aam Aadmi Party. However, unable to project the issues according to his ideas, he decided to contest elections as an Independent this time. To his surprise, in the recently concluded municipal council elections, he made his mark by polling maximum votes. After polling 511/1027 votes, he was elected the councillor of Ward No. 13, Chandan Nagar, Kartarpur. The 42-year-old councillor presented a 13-point manifesto to the people in his ward. He said: "I contested the elections on basic issues such as education, jobs, development work, health and public utilities. I have assured residents that they wouldn''t be facing any corruption in government departments while getting their works done. Based on the qualification of the youth, they will be told about self-employment schemes. Before entering into politics, I was already engaged in social service and being a councillor, residents will be able to approach me directly. A ward-level committee will also be formed to help people in need, weather it is health, education or marriage of daughters." While Surinder is a mechanical engineer and also handling his family business, his wife is a government schoolteacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/she-is-running-a-boutique-for-past-two-decades-and-ready-to-serve-people-218041
27-02-2021||An organic farming school was held on Friday at the organic farm of farmer Mahinder Singh at the Khanewal village under the (Agricultural Technology Management Agency) ATMA scheme. The school was held under the regular series of farmer welfare initiatives to keep farmers well-versed with the know-how of organic farming. The initiative led by Chief Agricultural Officer-cum-Project Director ATMA Kapurthala Dr Sushil Kumar||Organic farming — The Need of the hour||Checking drug abuse among youthA government camp was held at Madhopur village today to apprise youth of the harmful effects of drugs under the DAPO campaign. SDM Kapurthala Varinderpal Singh Bajwa said the state government was devising new programmes to put a full stop on the menace of drugs. He asked parents to be alert and ensure that their kids do not fall prey to bad company. A medical camp was also held under Kala Sanghian. A social security camp was also held under the nutrition campaign. District Programme Officer Snehlata among prominent village personalities from neighbouring villages participated in the camp. A painting contest was also held for the participants.3,969 get the COVID jabSo far, a total of 3,969 persons have been vaccinated in the district, of whom today 170 people were vaccinated today. As many as 153 people received the first dose while 17 received the second dose. While the total positive cases of Kapurthala reached 5,433 today, there are 272 active cases, 4,950 people have been recovered and 18 were discharged today. As many as 65 new cases were reported in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/organic-farming-%E2%80%94-the-need-of-the-hour-218042
27-02-2021||Jalandhar||Appeal for Covid vaccine||Dr Navjot Dahiya, vice-president, Indian Medical Association, has appealed to the masses to not to fall in prey to the rumours over the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccination. He appealed to everyone especially the frontline workers and senior citizens to get them enrolled for the vaccination. He said that vaccination was the only way to protect the residents from the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/appeal-for-covid-vaccine-218044
27-02-2021||Phagwara||NCC training camp||FIN-QUIZ ORGANISEDJalandhar: The Finance Club of Apeejay Institute of Management and Engineering, Technical Campus, organised ‘Fin-Quiz’ to give a platform to the students for analysing their knowledge and to know their potential. The quiz was organised under the guidance of Dr Anu Sahi (Convenor-Finance club) and was well- coordinated by members of Finance Club Xhitiz, Manisha, Manoj and Jiya. A total of six teams participated in the quiz. The participants had to clear four rounds. These rounds were related to economy, share market, budget and famous personalities. After each round team with lowest scores was eliminated. After four rounds the winners of the quiz were announced. Ruchi Bedi and Shriya Maini of MBA-1 stood first, Dhawal Jain of BBA-1 stood second and the third position was secured by Jai Puri and Arihant Jain of (MBA-1). Dr Rajesh Bagga, Director AIMETC encouraged and motivated the students to take part in further such events.Talent hunt competitionTo explore the talent of youth, a ‘Talent Hunt Programme’ was organised on the premises of MGN College of Education. Under this programme, various competition were held under Fine Arts category (rangoli, landscape, still life painting, slogan writing, collage making, phulkari, clay modelling, poster- making, cartooning and sketching), literary category (poetical symposium, elocution and debate) and cultural category (singing, dancing, skit and fancy dress). Around 50 students participated in various categories with full enthusiasm. Principal Neelu Jhanji said that as a teacher we need to ensure the overall development of the personality of our students and for this along with academic excellence, having skills in other fields as well is needed. She motivated all the students to participate in co-curricular activities for the harmonious development of their personality. At the end of the event, she gave away prizes to all the winners. The judgement of competitions was done by Dr Meharban Singh, Dr Ravjeet Kaur and Sharan. The event was coordinated by Dr Pooja Bhardwaj, Dr Pooja Arora and Maninder Pal Singh. Dr Pooja Bhardwaj along with students Tania, Arwinder Kaur, Navinder Kaur and Sunali conducted the stage.Consultancy WorkTo conduct of survey in Bulandpur village, Surjit Ram, Sarpanch and gram panchayat approached the Department of Civil Engineering of School of Engineering of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, Jalandhar. Surjit Ram discussed the purpose of work and its importance for the village and requested for the conduct of survey work in the village so that appropriate path of the civil line shall be determined and construction shall be planned in smooth way. A team comprising Tarundeep Singh, HoD, Civil Engineering, and Abhishek Sachdeva, HoD, Diploma along with the lab technicians and students of BTech CE (Sem V) visited the village for site inspection. Eminent personalities of village, along with the sarpanch showed the purposed area/path of the village which was under consideration for the project and requested for the survey of same. As per their requirement survey work was initiated to locate levels throughout the village.Webinar on Art Integrated LearningA capacity building webinar on ‘Art Integrated Learning’ was organised by Police DAV Public School for the teachers and principals of DAV Schools of Jalandhar Zone. The resource person was Dr Rashmi Vij, ARO Jalandhar Zone. She spoke at length on the difference between Art Education and Art Integrated Learning, how it should be interdisciplinary and linked with outcomes. Samples of Art Integrated Learning related to different subjects were also shared. It was coordinated by Yogesh Gambhir, Cluster Head and Cinny Malhotra. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ncc-training-camp-218045
27-02-2021||---||Enjoy your drink!||Jalandhar, February 26Residents of Mohalla Karar Khan have heaved a sigh of relief as they won’t have to drink contaminated water anymore. The work on direct pipeline towards the mohalla started on Wednesday, and thus the residents will get direct supply of water. The councillor along with the residents inaugurated the project.Notably, for the last many years the residents of Mohalla Karar Khan, Ward No. 66, had been facing the problem. Around 25 houses were the worst affected and the residents were compelled to fetch water for their daily needs from a nearby gurdwara. Leaky old sewerage and water pipes had not been changed for years together and residents were unable to get out of the problem even after several complaints.Sonia, one of the residents, informed that since the last two years, she along with other women of the area had been going to the gurdwara for clean water. “Had the gurdwara been not there, what would we have done in that case? Nobody is listening to our problems,” she had earlier complaint to the MC officials. “I am now relieved that at least we will get clean drinking water,” she added.Davinder Rony, Independent councillor from Ward no. 66, had been approaching both the Mayor and Commissioner but without success. He had estimated expenditure of around Rs1.50 lakh had been passed for the laying of new pipelines in the area. But even after facing several problems, he didn’t stop and kept on fighting for his ward residents.“I feel that the efforts have finally paid off,” Rony said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/enjoy-your-drink-218046
