28-02-2021||Aparna Banerji||Larger than life||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 27His poignant love story is the talk of the town. His students swear by him and he considers himself lucky for having immensely supportive parents.While Pavel Pasla believes he is blessed to have the life, which he is currently leading, it is through insurmountable support of his loved ones and his sheer grit and determination, that the 40-year-old is setting benchmarks for those around him.Teacher and disability activist Pavel Pasla is an example for his peers.“Telling stories, sharing your experience and preparing people for their life ahead is a liberating experience. It feels great when you know you can prevent others from going through the suffering you went through,” Pavel says.A teacher at the Police DAV Pubic School, Pavel has been in the profession for the last eight years. Fifteen years ago, he was paralysed in an accident, which left his limbs immobile. Spending the first few years in extreme disappointment, it was his job, his parents support and serendipity in the form of finding a loving life partner, which turned his life around. The accident woke him up to the lack of awareness regarding issues of disability and he has been working ever since to help others like him.Pavel Pasla says: “I was driving my bike, when I was hit by a trolley. Friends put me in a gypsy, after which I went through some doctors before finally reaching DMC Ludhiana. One of the initial doctors made me sit up despite my injury, which aggravated my injury. I know now he was just trying his best to help. But due to lack of awareness, he didn’t know it would rather cause problems. After the accident, my lower body was paralysed. For five to seven years, I was extremely heartbroken. My life changed, freedom was curbed. I couldn’t go out and do things like before. I needed help.”However, an encounter with his father Comrade Mangat Ram Pasla changed his perspective.Pasla says: “All through my ordeals, my parents have been very supportive. My father never skips his meetings. He’s very particular about it. One day, I was sad, crying and saying I don’t want to live. Seeing me, he skipped his meeting and he started crying too. From that day, I thought I have no right to ruin my parents’ plans and commitments. Since then, I haven’t let my father shed a tear over me. I started taking online jobs and started keeping myself busy.”Life took a pretty bright turn after he got his job.“I am extremely thankful to Dr Rashmi Vij, Principal, Police DAV Public school, who gave me a job and placed trust in me. I developed a social circle with teachers and friends and with students I got a slice of childhood back. I got married because I had this job. I was earlier apprehensive about even going out, shy of being seen in a wheelchair, but the love and trust I got at school, turned things around.”Pavel is one of the founding members of the Spinal Cord Injury Association, which has been reaching out to people with spinal injuries. The organisation has helped countless people to cope with spinal damage and disability in the state. Pavel met his wife through a common friend and now with a 9-month-old son, he loves his wife even more, as she has been a huge support system.“My wife liked me for my thoughts. She has given her life to me. I consider myself very lucky. I am doing things I could never imagine and do in my life. I’ve met all kinds of people but a majority of them have extended a helping hand and reached out to help when I took one step towards them. Our endeavour and attitude really turns life around.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/larger-than-life-218554
28-02-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Work on Ladhewali flyover begins, rail crossing shut||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 27Work on the Chugitti-Ladhewali flyover has begun with the authorities concerned closing the railway crossing and starting road digging work. As a result, residents were an inconvenienced lot with the closure of the road.Since the flyover work will continue for almost 18 months, residents will have to take diversions to reach their destinations on either side of the crossing. There are at least 20 colonies in the Ladhewali area, which also has schools and colleges. The Guru Nanak Dev University Regional Campus, where hundreds of engineering, law and journalism students are studying, also falls in this area.One of the nearest new diversion towards Ladhewali for residents is from near Lawrence International School, where commuters will cross a similar railway track. “It is not a good passage if someone is riding in an SUV. The passage is narrow and the volume of traffic on this side has increased. Also, since there are 70 trains plying on this track every day, the rush of vehicles on the closing of the track every time increases too much,” said Mandeep Sharma, a resident of New Defence Colony.The second option for residents is to follow the route — the PAP Chowk-Rama Mandi-Hoshiarpur Road-Nangal Shama gate-Ladhewali. Most residents feel that though the railway track can be avoided on this route, it is a very long detour. Bachan Lal, a resident of Gulmarg Colony of Ladhewali area, said, “We have started going down this route for the reason that we do not have to wait for the trains to pass and there is already a flyover on this route.”Guntas Singh, a collegiate, however, says he would prefer the first option, “Ever since the lockdown started, there are fewer trains passing and hence going from the new track will be a better option. I do not mind waiting for 10-15 minutes for trains to pass but I surely do not want to take the longer detour via highways. It is really treacherous and painstaking.” Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri maintains, “Though residents would be affected owing to alternate routes, but the construction of a flyover here will be a great boon for them in the years to come.” The foundation stone for the work was laid on December 30. The work is to be carried out at a cost of Rs 23.5 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/work-on-ladhewali-flyover-begins-rail-crossing-shut-218555
28-02-2021||---||Businessman duped of Rs13 lakh||Jalandhar, February 27 Love for settling abroad cost dear to a city-based businessman. Victim Ranjit Singh was reportedly duped of Rs13 lakh.  The incident came to light after accused Jagtar Singh, demanded Rs18 lakh on the pretext of sending him to Spain. While Ranjit is running his business of selling and buying of used cars, accused Jagtar Singh, a resident of Kapurthala, met him around five years ago through a common friend.  The accused after befriending him reportedly convinced him to shift his business to Spain and demanded Rs18 lakh for arranging his visa and tickets. A resident of Krishna Nagar, Basti Bawa Khel, Ranjit subsequently agreed to pay him the money. In his FIR at Basti Bawa Khel police station, he said he paid Rs13 lakh to the accused in two instalments. The accused, however, after receiving the money, fled and told him that he won’t return him the money. A case under Section 420 of the IPC was registered against Jagtar Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/businessman-duped-of-rs13-lakh-218556
28-02-2021||---||Good Samaritans come to accident victim’s aid||Jalandhar, February 27 Showing a big heart for accident victim 18-year-old girl from Nangal Lubana village near here, city residents extended all possible help so that her mother could pay hospital bills. The help came after Pooja Sharma, a member of a very popular FB page ‘NoticeBoard- Jalandhar by Tinu Luthra’ posted about her condition along with her picture. Pooja shared, “I had gone to Joshi Hospital for the treatment of my husband. We were in the general ward where one girl Sukhwinder Kaur was lying on the next bed and her mother was weeping. I asked her about her problem and she narrated that she was unable to foot the hospital bill.” Sukhwinder, who is fatherless, worked in a shop to make her ends meet. Three weeks ago, she met with an accident while returning to her place after work on her Activa scooter. Both thigh bones of the girl got fractured in the incident. Jaswinder Kaur, mother of the victim, said, “The village panchayat has been of great help. They pooled Rs 3.5 lakh for us. A sum of Rs 2 lakh saved by me has already been spent by me. Since the treatment is long and her fever is not going, we have to spend some more days in the hospital. After a patient put our details on FB page, some Good Samaritans called me and told me that they would put money in my account in a few days. Since I am in the hospital with her, I could not check if there has been any money transfer.” This FB page with 86,000 Jalandharites as members has helped residents in dire need on several earlier occasions. “This time too, members are coming out in support of the poor girl,” said Luthra, who runs the page.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/good-samaritans-come-to-accident-victims-aid-218557
28-02-2021||---||All under one roof: Disabled to get e-cards at mega camps||Jalandhar, February 27To ensure that no specially-abled is left without Unique Disability Identity Cards (UDID), the district administration, Jalandhar, is going to hold mega camps in March across the district.Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Ghanshyam Thori said the mega camps would provide one-stop solutions to all eligible beneficiaries with facilities such as on-spot medical examination by expert physicians besides others. The Deputy Commissioner said the first mega-camp would be held at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, on March 1 and 2, followed by similar camps at Phillaur community health centre (CHC) on March 4, CHC Barapind on March 5, Apra on March 10, Noormahal on March 12, Nakodar on March 18, Mehatpur on March 19, Jamsher on March 25, Kartarpur on March 26, and at Lohian Khas CHC on April 1, 2021.He further added that a panel of doctors comprising medical specialists and eye-specialists would also be available at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, where the physical examination of the disability of applicants of UDID cards would take place every Tuesday, i.e. March 9, 16, 23, and 30. He said any person could visit the Civil Hospital on these dates for their disability assessment and UDID card enrollment.Thori said specially-abled persons were an integral part of our society and no stone would be left unturned to serve them as it was the administration’s duty to provide them with the equal job and social security opportunities. He further called upon the specially-abled persons to carry their Aadhar card, Voter’s ID card, or any other age proof along with their passport size photo to get themselves registered for UDIC cards.The DC said by using the UDID cards, visually-impaired persons could avail the benefit of the free bus traveling besides employment opportunities, and other necessary facilities. Pointing out further, Nodal Officer of the scheme Dr Anu said during these camps, all eligible beneficiaries would get the requisite facilities under one roof and expert panels to conduct the physical examination of applicants would also remain present in the camps.She said so far, 15,817 UDID cards have been generated in the district and with such massive E-cards generation, Jalandhar has emerged as a leading district under this scheme. She said as per the directions given by Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, the district administration was roping-in the key departments to facilitate beneficiaries during the camps.She said a slew of measures, including bus facility for the referred patients, audiometry test and other tests for MR patients at other healthcare establishments, and organisation of camps at Pingla Ghars were being taken by the administration to ensure hassle-free services to the beneficiaries. The Nodal Officer further said the UDID cards would be bearing a quick response (QR) code that helps in verifying the credentials of the card-holder.Know about UDIDBy using the UDID cards, the visually-impaired can also avail the benefits of the free bus traveling, besides other employment opportunities and other necessary facilities. Pointing out further, Nodal Officer of the scheme Dr Anu said during these camps, all eligible beneficiaries would get the requisite facilities under one roof and expert panels to conduct the physical examination of applicants would also remain present in the camps.The first mega-camp would be held at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, on March 1 and 2, followed by similar camps at Phillaur CHC on March 4, CHC Barapind on March 5, Apra on March 10, Noormahal on March 12, Nakodar on March 18, Mehatpur on March 19, Jamsher on March 25, Kartarpur on March 26, and at Lohian Khas CHC on April 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/all-under-one-roof-disabled-to-get-e-cards-at-mega-camps-218558
28-02-2021||In the municipal council poll held recently||Know your Councillor||Joined politics to reach out to massesKaran Mahajan (35), Ward No. 30., JalandharA social worker, Karan Mahajan (35), won election as a councillor in his very first go. Elected from Ward No. 30 in his maiden attempt, he had been the urban Youth Congress President twice before. Jubilant at having won the elections, Mahajan also expressed his happiness over the fact that his son saw him becoming a councillor just as he turned 1. He started working for veteran politician and Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh in 2007. Backed by Rana, he first became Kapurthala Youth Congress president of the city in 2007 and then again in 2014-15. "I was reluctant at first as I did not like politics much. But then I thought of reaching out to more people through politics," Karan says. Having extended his services during the Covid-19 lockdown and working across hospitals helping patients, he finally contested the elections as councillor of Ward No. 30. He now plans a slew of development projects for his ward. "Dilapidated roads, sanitation, sewerage, reduced water pressure in taps, streetlights etc. are the major issues which I plan to resolve. I would like to provide better facilities in my ward," says Karan.Standing tall even in her dark hours Sandeep Kaur (40), Ward No. 1, SAD, Sultanpur LodhiFor Ward No.1 councillor Sandeep Kaur, politics is nothing new. She was brought up in such an atmosphere at Ahli Kalan village of Sultanpur Lodhi. Her father and grandfather have been sarpanches for years. The family she married into in 1996 also remained active in SGPC. Her husband Dilbagh Singh, who has dealership of Mahindra Tractors and owns huge property in the town, has supported several politicians in the past. So, when Sandeep Kaur was picked as the Akali face for councillor's election for her first tenure in 2016, she did not have to be trained in anything. "I stood out for everyone. Even when our party was no longer in power. We did not have to wait for grants to get the civic works done in our area. Since my ward encompasses the holy Gurdwara Ber Sahib, Gurdwara Sant Ghat and Gurdwara Sehra Sahib, my husband was always ready to contribute for such works from his own pocket. This helped us win for the second time," she said. But despite victory by a margin of over 300 votes, Sandeep says she could not celebrate it. "On the day of polling, my husband and his supporters were standing near the polling station as they had apprehensions of some unfair means. As 40-50 men tried to barge in around 4 pm, a clash took place and my husband was booked under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/know-your-councillor-218561
28-02-2021||Sajjan Singh Cheema (64)||‘Recovery from virus was like a rebirth’||'Recovery from virus felt like rebirth'An Arjuna Awardee, a former Indian Basketball team captain and a retired SSP from Punjab Police, Sajjan Singh Cheema was detected with Covid-19 on October 12. Though he was tested negative 14 days later, the post-Covid effects began to show up again. He says that these were so bad that he now feels that the recovery from the virus has been a rebirth for him. Excerpts:“Recovering from Covid-19 was still better but I will never forget my post-Covid phase. I was detected negative on October 26, but I still had mild cough. I started moving out with mask and used to daily take steam before going to bed. The cough persisted for a long period of time and I began to feel uneasy. I went to a private hospital in Jalandhar. I was told that I had a serious lung infection and had to be admitted. They treated me for some days but my condition kept on worsening.At this point, my family decided to take me to Ludhiana for better treatment. An ambulance was arranged and by the time I reached Hero Heart DMC, I was told that I suffered two heart attacks in a quick succession. The doctors told me that my heart had almost collapsed but we managed to reach hospital just in the nick of time. The doctors there immediately tried to revive me by giving me electric shocks.I remained admitted in the ICU there for weeks, completely cut off from my family. My son, who used to take care of me, would sleep in his car in the parking daily. My wife was allowed to meet me just for two days. I remained unconscious during that span of time.The whole episode made me so weak that I had to take help to even change sides while lying on the bed. I lost more than 15-kg of weight and was very frail. But I immediately started improving when I reached home. Fruits, juices, soups, milk, porridge and lentils were my diet for many days. But it really worked on me and I again started feeling energetic.It is just a few weeks ago that I started venturing out again. Being an Akali leader, I had to support my candidates in the recent Sultanpur Lodhi MC polls, which I did. It was only after I began to mingle with people again that I started feeling better and normal. I still recall each day what doctors told me. They said it was only my physical strength that that helped me recover from the shock. They told me that only 1 per cent of the patients, whom they try to revive post cardiac attacks, were able to recover. Hence I consider myself fortunate enough.I learnt my lessons after recovery –one must not take Covid lightly and God always has the last word.(As told to Deepkamal Kaur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/recovery-from-virus-was-like-a-rebirth-218564
28-02-2021||Phagwara||MOU signed with Indian Red Cross||Online session in HMVJalandhar: Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya hosted an online session on Process of Innovation Development under the initiative of Institutional Innovation Council. The session began with the recital of ‘Gayatri Mantra’. President IIC Dr Anjana Bhatia gave a formal welcome to the resource person Leena Chhabra. Leena introduced the concept of innovation. She described innovation as the backbone of the market and the innovation process is the path of translating new or existing knowledge into marketable solutions. Innovation begins with an idea. An important link between idea and innovation is the evaluation of opportunity. The process will begin only if there is demand of that idea in the market or we come with a solution to some problem. Idea generation is facilitated by passion, curiosity, mastering the environment, divergent thinking and creative energy. In order to evaluate the opportunity one need to do SWOT analysis and risk assessment along with studying market viability and improvements. Above all innovations go unnoticed if proper marketing is not done. It needs to be promoted. The students attended the session with great zeal and cleared their doubts regarding innovation development. Rishav presented the vote of thanks and Navneeta moderated the session.Scienceia 2021Scienceia 2021 was organised by Bachelor of Physiotherapy Department of St Soldier College (Co-Ed) wherein Dr Suresh Mani (HoD of Physiotherapy Department LPU) was the chief guest. He was welcomed by the college director, Veena Dada, and the HoD of BPT Department, Dr Varun Kalia. The chief guest Dr Suresh Mani firstly inaugurated the exhibition organised by the students of physiotherapy and told them physiotherapy is the only way which can heal the problem without any medicines and there is good career opportunities in this field. The students put an exhibition on heart problems, kidney problems, lung prosthesis and told symptoms and treatment. Chairman Anil Chopra appreciated the efforts of the institution and said that St Soldier always pays special attention for best education as well as practical training for students. Law College Director Dr Subhash Sharma, Principal Manjeet Kaur, Dr Navreet Kaur, Dr Kiran Rai and all the Principals of the campus were present on the occasion.Health Club at KMVKanya Maha Vidyalaya established a hi-tech health club. A state-of-the-art health club fitted with various devices like top-of-the-line multi-gym, magnetic bike, motorised treadmill, jogger, twister, vibrator, massager etc. has been set up to cater to the physical fitness of the students. In order to provide expert fitness guidance to the students, a trainer also works in the gym to train the students in their physical fitness, exercise and regime. Proper focus is given to the nutrition and diet of the students. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi said the health club is a part of the hi-tech infrastructure provided on the campus for the development of successful empowered young students of the college. She further maintained that a healthy, active and fit body can provide a good intellectual and academic growth to the students.Idea Pitching CompetitionInnovation cell of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar organised Idea Pitching Competition-2021 under the able guidance of Principal Dr Ajay Sareen. The students of SSC II Commerce participated in this competition. Lisha Juneja, Khushi and Khushi Angural ranked first position. They presented their business plan based on the idea ‘Mini Pharmacy’. Gagandeep Kaur and Ramandeep Kaur presented their business idea on the clothing brand ‘Vastar’ and stood second. Business plan ‘Restaurant’ (Green city with amazed world) was presented by Sakshi Badola and Monika and ‘Detecting Chip’ was presented by Kriti and Prachi Sharma. They won consolation prize. Dr Ajay Sareen appreciated the students and said that today’s generation thinks out of the box and represents their innovative, feasible and executable ideas. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen and Meenakshi Sayal, school coordinator also congratulated all the winners. The principal encouraged them to keep participating in such competitions to gain more knowledge and information.TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mou-signed-with-indian-red-cross-218565
28-02-2021||Our Corrrespondent||Khuralgarh Sahib to get funds for projects: Aruna||Garhshankar, February 27Paying obeisance to Guru Ravidas on his 644th parkash utsav, Punjab Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary on Saturday announced that the state government would release adequate funds after March 31 to complete various projects at Sri Khuralgarh Sahib.While joining the sangat at Sri Guru Ravidas Dharam Asthan, Sri Khuralgarh Sahib, during state-level function, the minister said the remaining project of Minar-e-Begampura would be accomplished as per the deadline fixed by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh as budgetary provisions had already been made in this regard. The minister also announced that Punjab Government would get the water tubewell and a reservoir installed at a cost of Rs 85 lakh to ensure the 24X7 supply of potable water for sangat and the gurdwara.The minister said it was a humble tribute to this historical region to ensure completion of ongoing projects which got a bit delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. She said the Punjab Government was committed to carry forward the rich religious legacy and heritage of our great gurus, saints, prophets and social reformers, which would ever remain a lighting tower for the entire humanity.She also announced that the state government would also release funds to the tune of Rs 1.74 crore for construction of retaining wall alongside the premises of this historical gurdwara, where exponent of Bhakti movement Guru Ravidas spent four years, two months and 11 days. The minister also announced that the Punjab Mandi Board would further widen and strengthen two link roads leading to Sri Khuralgarh Sahib at the cost of Rs 46 lakh as the technical assessment of this project had already been completed.In another major announcement, Aruna Chaudhary said the construction at Minar-e-Bagampura project was going in full swing with the completion of nearly 60 percent work. The Punjab Government will release the remaining Rs 45 crore under this prestigious project shortly while Rs 58 crore, of total 103 crore project, had already been incurred. Acceding to a demand put forth by former MLA Lov Kumar Goldy, She announced that a Rs 5 lakh grant for the development of village stadium would be given from her discretionary funds.In his address, MLA from Chabbewal Dr Raj Kumar extended greetings to people across the globe on the Prakash Utsav of Guru Ravidas. He said Guru Ravidas was a great social reformer, who disseminated the message of humanity and equality. He also assured the management of Sri Guru Ravidas Itehasak Dharam Asthan, Sri Khuralgarh Sahib that the Punjab Government had undertaken all the projects at top priority, which would be accomplished in few months.Link roads to be widenedAruna Chaudhary announced that the state government will release funds to the tune of Rs 1.74 crore for construction of retaining wall alongside the premises of this historical gurdwara, where exponent of Bhakti movement Guru Ravidas spent four years, two months and 11 days. The minister also announced that the Punjab Mandi Board would further widen and strengthen two link roads leading to Sri Khuralgarh Sahib at the cost of Rs 46 lakh as the technical assessment of this project had already been completed. She also said the construction at Minar-e-Bagampura project was going in full swing with the completion of nearly 60 percent work. The government will release the remaining Rs 45 cr under this project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/khuralgarh-sahib-to-get-funds-for-projects-aruna-218566
28-02-2021||Ajay Joshi||Shobha yatra: Farmers, Dalits leave for Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, February 27A day after celebrating here on the occasion of Ravidas Jayanti, a large number of farmers and locals moved to Singhu border to participate in the shobha yatra there to lend support to the farmers protesting against the contentious farm laws.As per farm leaders, the cavalcade of farmers along with the members of the Dalit community started for the protest sites on the outskirts of the national capital on Friday evening.The United Farmers’ Front has dedicated the Ravidas Jayanti this year to the rights of farmers and minorities. On Friday also, farmers from various districts under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha reached in large numbers to participate in the religious processions in Phagwara.Notably, a sea of devotees from Ravidasia community join the shobha yatra every year and organisers had ensured the farm outfits that the devotees and the community members would participate in the shobha yatra at Singhu border as well. Satnam Singh Sahni, general secretary of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, Doaba, said apart from joining the shobha yatra in Phagwara, they also distributed fruits and cartons of packed water among devotees.“For the supporters of farmers' protest, who could not go back home, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha had announced to celebrate the 645th Prakash Purb of Guru Ravidas on the Singhu, Tikri and Gazipur borders. Guru Ravidas had propagated the message of carving out an egalitarian society and it was the need of the hour to follow the message. Besides, we need to stand up against safeguarding our rights,” Sahni said.To gather more support for the protest, peasants and labours under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Doaba, also joined the religious processions to mark the occasion.“Farmers who couldn't go to the protest sites were requested to join the celebrations in large numbers. The communities of farmers and Dalits in the villages have always been a strong driving force, hence they were also appealed to join the protest. Martyrdom of Chandra Shekhar Azad was also celebrated on the same day,” said Gurpreet Singh Atwal, a leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee.Therefore, since morning, farmers and locals from various districts in Punjab started reaching the protest sites, said Gogi Sandhawa, another farmer.Shahni said: “Through the shobha yatra of farmers' stir, the farm leaders are trying to carry forward a message of unity, as written in sacred books. The Bharatiya Janata Party, the ruling party at the Centre, is trying to break the communal harmony in Punjab. It is adopting all means to divide farmers and Dalits in Punjab, but fortunately, the Dalit community acted wisely and didn't allow the government to bring gaps between them. Though, the BJP's IT cell is constantly trying to divide farmers and Dalits, we will not let it happen at any cost. Therefore, locals as well farmers are appealed to join the protest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shobha-yatra-farmers-dalits-leave-for-singhu-border-218567
28-02-2021||Jalandhar||Two held with 3 gm of heroin||Steady rise: 70 new infectionsJalandhar: The district recorded 70 new cases of Covid on Saturday with which the tally reached 21,589. No new Covid death was reported, so the toll remained at 703. The number of active cases in district rose to 478. As many as 20,408 people have been discharged, while as many as 292 people are under home isolation in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, Kapurthala district saw 55 persons testing positive for Covid on Saturday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-3-gm-of-heroin-218568
