01-11-2021||---||Surjewala dares Haryana CM, DGP, IGs to take constable recruitment exam||Chandigarh, November 1Congress General Secretary Randeep Surjewala on Monday challenged Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, DGP PK Agrawal and IGs to take the police constable recruitment exam and get at least 30 per cent marks.He claimed that the questions of the level of MA or PhD of Botany, Zoology, Sociology, International History, International General Knowledge, MSc Mathematics were asked instead of IPC or human rights or constitutional rights or state-related General Knowledge.“Are you recruiting International, national-level social scientists, botanists, zoologists, sociologists, etc, or constable for Haryana Police?” he asked.Giving examples, he pointed out that questions like "what is canthrophily", one related to “body with pores and canals in walls” and another about Red Blood Cells in frogs were asked for constable recruitment.He was referring to the recruitment exam for the 5,500 posts of police constables (Male), for which 8.39 lakh youth have applied, and for which examinations were being held in the morning and evening shifts on October 31 and November 1. Some candidates will take the exam on November 2 too. At a press conference, he alleged, “This is a conspiratorial method so that the eligible youth for police constables can be excluded from the selection process and the favourite ones could be recruited through the back door.”“The Khattar government and HSSC (Haryana Staff Selection Commission) have once again made a mockery of the competence, ability, and potential of the Haryana youth.”He questioned how “can the eligibility of candidates be tested based on eight different papers for the same post of police constable held on a single day?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surjewala-dares-haryana-cm-dgp-igs-to-take-constable-recruitment-exam-332882
01-11-2021||New Delhi||52-year-old Gurugram businessman shot dead in Delhi||A 52-year-old businessman was shot dead in southwest Delhi's Mahipalpur area, police said on Monday.Krishan Pal Sehrawat, a resident of Gurugram, sustained a gunshot injury near his left temple, they said.Police said Sehrawat has a hotel in Mahipalpur which he had given on lease to Roshan Mishra around 10 months ago. The victim had a dispute with Mishra over non-payment of lease amount and pending electricity bills, they said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Gaurav Sharma said Mishra and his associates are the prime suspects in the case and efforts are on to trace them.According to Sharma, the Vasant Kunj North Police Station received the call about Sehrawat being shot at on Sunday.The injured was taken to a hospital but declared brought dead by doctors, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/52-year-old-gurugram-businessman-shot-dead-in-delhi-332816
01-11-2021||---||If evicted, Diwali outside PM house: BKU||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 31Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni today warned the state government of dire consequences if farmers were removed from the Delhi borders. He threatened to celebrate Diwali outside the residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi if farmers were removed forcibly.Will Stay putFarmers are protesting peacefully. If the government tries to evict them from borders, we will reach the PM’s residence and celebrate Diwali there. They are determined to stay put for long. — Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU Leader“The government is trying to open the borders. There are reports that the borders can be vacated before Diwali. We warn the government against doing so. Farmers are determined to stay put for long,” said Charuni, who was at the residence of BKU leader Amandeep Singh in Nissing after having attended a programme in a gurdwara.The Delhi Police have removed barricades to allow the movement of two-wheelers and ambulances following a Supreme Court order.Farmers have been staging dharna at the Delhi borders for 11 months against the three controversial farm laws passed by the Centre.While interacting with the media, Charuni appealed to farmers to be ready for the Delhi march. “Farmers are protesting peacefully and not harming anyone. If the government tries to remove them from borders, we reach the PM’s residence and celebrate Diwali there. I appeal to farmers to be ready,” he said.The BKU chief added, “Farmers should remain alert as the message to march to Delhi can be delivered anytime, even at night. Reach in large number whenever the message is received.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/if-evicted-diwali-outside-pm-house-bku-332686
01-11-2021||Deepender Deswal||Ellenabad bypoll: Om Prakash Chautala sure of INLD’s win||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 31Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) supremo Om Prakash Chautala, who campaigned for the party actively in the Ellenabad byelection, is confident that party candidate Abhay Chautala would win hands down.In a relaxed mood after wrapping up the campaign, the 86-year-old leader claimed that the byelection result would have an impact on the the Haryana politics. “The INLD is working on the formation of the Third Front at the national level,” he told The Tribune.He was, however, harsh on the BJP, saying the party had changed a lot from the days of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Recalling the INLD’s alliance with the BJP in Haryana, Chautala noted that Vajpayee was a good man. “The INLD had supported the Vajpayee government. We had an offer to join the government at the Centre, but I opted to back the government from outside.”The INLD supremo stated he had visited several countries and realised that India was unique in the sense that people of diverse faiths were living peacefully, but added that of late, the pluralistic culture of India was under threat. “When I came out of the jail after having spent 10 years behind the bars, I observed that the social fabric of the country is under threat due to the divisive agenda of the BJP.”On his experience during the campaign, he said: “I know almost every person in the constituency. Earlier, my elder brother represented it. Subsequently, I did so and now Abhay is the representative.”The INLD supremo sporting a green “pagri” was nostalgic about his debut in politics inspired by his late father Chaudhary Devi Lal. “I had contested the first Assembly elections in 1968 on the Congress candidate from Ellenabad. The election, however, was declared void by the SC due to corrupt practices of the rival candidate,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ellenabad-bypoll-om-prakash-chautala-sure-of-inlds-win-332687
01-11-2021||---||Dengue on rise in Fatehabad, tally 679||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 31With the rising number of dengue cases, the situation is getting critical in the district which has so far reported 429 cases this season.There is a rush for beds in the hospital as patients are complaining that hospitals are packed to capacity in the town. Dengue has also gripped districts of Fatehabad, Sirsa, Jind, Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri as well.Fatehabad has highest number of 679 dengue patients in the region. While Sirsa district reported 498 cases, Jind and Bhiwani have 241 and 130 cases respectively. Charkhi Dadri district has nearly 200 cases.Officials of private hospitals maintained that given the rush of patients with dengue-like symptoms, the actual figure of dengue patients seems to be much higher in the district.“The situation is getting critical and we are offering all assistance and medical care to the patients visiting hospitals,” said a doctor in a private hospital.Hisar Health Department’s medical bulletin revealed that 36 more cases of dengue were confirmed today. “Out of the total 429 cases, 225 patients had recovered and had been discharged from hospitals. As many as 203 patients are active cases and under treatment, stated the report which showed one death due to dengue in Hisar.Though reports estimated that the deaths due to dengue were more, Medical Officer Dr Subhash Khaterja confirmed only one death due to dengue.“The Civil Surgeon had a meeting with the Indian Medical Association yesterday to review the arrangements in private hospitals. There is no rush in hospitals,” he said, adding that due to change in weather, there are reports of different kinds of viral infection. “We cannot term all viral fevers as dengue,” he said.Meanwhile, in Sirsa district, 15 more dengue-positive cases were detected today, taking the total dengue cases to 498. Health officials denied any death due to dengue in Sirsa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dengue-on-rise-in-fatehabad-tally-679-332688
01-11-2021||---||Faridabad stands at 242 with 8 new cases||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 31The surge in dengue cases in the district continues with eight new cases registered today. The tally has now reached 242.It is the highest number of cases reported in the past five years.Sources in the health department claimed that the steep rise in cases has led to a shortage of beds in majority of private hospitals. The number of patients complaining of fever and symptoms of dengue has risen by several times in the OPD of civil and government hospitals.Claiming that the demand of blood platelets has also shot up, Umesh Arora from an NGO Mahavir International, working in the health sector, said over 500 platelets donations had been made through various NGOs in the past three weeks. Huge gap in the demand and supply of platelets had put a strain on the availability of platelets donors and infrastructure, including beds in the ICU of various hospitals, he added.“Patients have been turned away by many hospitals in the past two weeks owing to a shortage in platelets,” said an employee of the district Health Department.Many who had been admitted in hospitals, have been found to be a victim of platelet loss even though their report is not dengue positive, sources in the Health Department claimed.Officially, the figure of dengue positive cases was 242 on Sunday, but unofficial sources put the figure at more than 2,000 so far.However, claiming that no complaint of bed shortage has surfaced, Dr Ram Bhagat, Deputy CMO and in charge of malaria department, admitted that patients complaining fever had risen sharply. With only nine cases of malaria, he said more than 5,000 notices have been issued for the presence of mosquito larvae in around 2.25 lakh households searched to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-stands-at-242-with-8-new-cases-332689
01-11-2021||Nitish Sharma||Ambala: Diesel price rise worries bus operators||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, October 31A continuous increase in the prices of fuel has private bus operators worried in the district and have demanded from the state government to hike fares.Hard to run busesDiesel prices have been continuously increasing and it is very hard to keep the buses running as there has been no hike in the fare. — Surender Raju Sharma, Pvt bus operator, Ambala CanttThere are around 69 private buses of cooperative societies in the district. They have started introducing CNG buses in the district to keep the business afloat.Surender Raju Sharma, a private bus operator in Ambala Cantonment, said: “Diesel prices have been continuously increasing and it is very hard to keep running the buses as there has been no increase in the fare. To deal with the situation, cooperative societies have started introducing CNG buses, considering the rate difference between the two fuels.”“CNG costs around Rs 65 per kg. Several other operators want to get CNG kits fitted in their buses, but due to the lower availability of CNG pumps in the district, CNG buses can’t be introduced on all routes. The government should increase the fare and also get more pumps opened so that more CNG buses could be introduced,” he added.Another bus operator said: “Earlier Covid hit the business and now diesel prices. There are several operators who have new buses and they need to pay their monthly instalments besides taxes and salaries of the employees. Besides, illegal taxies being run on different routes, including the national highways, have also been causing loss to the business. The government should either increase the fare or provide relief to cooperative societies.”Ram Nath Rana, district president, Haryana Sehkari Parivahan Committee Kalyan Sangh, Ambala, said: “The bus fares were last increased in May 2020 and the diesel prices were increased to 100 paisa per km. It should increase the prices further by at least 20-25 paisa per km. So far, eight CNG buses have been bought by cooperative societies in Ambala. Many other societies want to get the buses converted, but the shortage of CNG pumps has been a major issue in the district. We have decided to approach the Transport Commissioner and the Transport Minister after Diwali and request them to chalk out a strategy to help cooperative societies.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-diesel-price-rise-worries-bus-operators-332690
01-11-2021||Gurugram||Govardhan Puja at Gurugram namaz site||Communal tension in Gurugram intensified as Hindu groups announced to organise a Govardhan Puja and ‘bhandara’ at the ‘namaz’ site in Sector 12-A.For a month, the groups have been demanding a ban on ‘namaz’ on public grounds and open spaces. Last Friday, 30 protesters were detained when they tried to disrupt the ‘namaz’.“This is our way to protest peacefully. In all, 37 public places are being used every week for ‘namaz’ against norms. This is not against Muslims, but public spaces should not be misused for religious congregation,” said the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti.“We are no criminals and hence, won’t bow down. Get an official order to stop and we will,” said a cleric. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govardhan-puja-at-gurugram-namaz-site-332692
01-11-2021||Rohtak||2 iron rods removed from youth’s chest at Rohtak PGIMS||A team of doctors led by cardiac surgeon Dr SS Lohchab gave a new lease of life to an 18-year-old youth of Gannaur town (Sonepat) by performing a complex surgery at the PGIMS here today to remove two iron rods that pierced the right side of his chest.The patient is, as per doctors, responding well.“The youth’s scooter had collided with a cart loaded with iron roads on Friday, resulting in two rods of about 40-feet long ramming into his body. A major part of the rods were cut by locals and the youth was taken to BPM Medical College, Khanpur, from where he was referred to the trauma centre of PGIMS. The patient was conscious when he was brought in. No X-ray or CT scan was feasible as the patient could not lie down with iron rods, forcing us to do an emergency surgery,” said Dr Lohchab.He said the patient was doing well without any respiratory distress and chest X-ray showed normal lung fields. Dr Sandeep Singh, Dr Frankleena, Prof Naveen Malhotra and Dr Indra Malik were the other members of the team who performed the surgery. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-iron-rods-removed-from-youths-chest-at-rohtak-pgims-332693
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Kumari Selja: Fuel rates doubled in 5 yrs||President of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee Kumari Selja today said the Centre and state governments had continuously been increasing the prices of cooking gas, diesel and petrol.In a statement issued here today, Selja said within five years, the prices of diesel and petrol had doubled in the state, while the price of cooking gas had increased by 35 per cent within a year. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kumari-selja-fuel-rates-doubled-in-5-yrs-332694
01-11-2021||---||Fuel tanker catches fire, Ellenabad driver dead||Karnal, October 31A fuel tanker driver was burnt alive when the tanker collided head on with a dumper near Gangatehri village on Assandh-Jind NH-709A. The tanker was going to Ellenabad after taking fuel from refinery. The driver has been identified as Gurdeep Singh (62) of Ellenabad.The impact of the collision was so severe that it triggered a fire in the tanker resulting in the driver’s death. The driver was stuck inside the tanker and could not get out.Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia confirmed the death of the driver and said the fire was under control.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fuel-tanker-catches-fire-ellenabad-driver-dead-332695
01-11-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC to undertake immediate repair of damaged roads||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, October 31The Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) will undertake repair work of damaged roads in twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri on a war footing.Direction given to authorities concernedI have directed the MC officials to repair the damaged roads on a war footing. Ajay Singh Tomar, MC commissionerShoddy upkeep of stretchesA number of roads remain undulated and ridden with potholes due to shoddy upkeep. Anil Kumar, Resident, Professor’s colonyTenders floatedSeveral roads have been damaged during the rainy season. We have floated tenders for repair work of such roads. — Madan Chauhan, MayorThe MC authorities have recently floated tenders worth Rs 20.47 lakh and decided to complete the repair work (patch work) of roads within a month.The tenders were floated soon after Municipal Commissioner Ajay Singh Tomar had held a meeting with the officers of the MCYJ to review the condition of roads falling under the MC limit here.“I have directed the MC officials to repair the damaged roads on a war footing for the safety of road users. The MC authorities have floated Rs 20.47 lakh worth tenders to undertake repair work,” said Tomar.According to information, the public anger is mounting against the Municipal Corporation as the road users are not able to use the road properly.The delay in repairing these roads has made the potholes bigger, causing accidents and traffic snarls in the twin cities.Anil Kumar, a resident of Professor Colony said a number of roads remained undulated and ridden with potholes due to shoddy upkeep.“Potholes on several roads are becoming bigger and causing accidents,” said Anil Kumar.According to information, a number of roads including Tejli Road, Gadhauli Road, Workshop Road, some roads of Sector 17 and Jagadhri and Kansapur Road have been badly damaged during the rainy season. Madan Chauhan, Mayor, said the repair work of roads would be started soon after the allotment of tenders. He said the area of the MCYJ had been divided into two zones and separate tenders were floated for each zone.“Several roads have been damaged during the rainy season. We have floated tenders to undertake repair work of such roads,” saidChauhan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-mc-to-undertake-immediate-repair-of-damaged-roads-332696
01-11-2021||---||Now, ‘diyas’ made of cow dung in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, October 31‘Diyas’ made from cow dung (gobar) will be put up for sale by the People for Animals Trust (PFT) an NGO here, involved in taking care of abandoned and injured stray animals in the city.Ravi Dubey, Managing Trustee of the PFT, said the ‘diyas’ made from cow dung have been made available for sale for the first time by the NGO in the city. The price of each ‘diya’ is Rs 12 he said around 1,400 ‘diyas’ have already been sold so far. A total of 5,000 ‘diyas’ have been prepared from the cow dung this year. Around 350 cows are lodged at present in the animal shelter known as the Dewashrey located near Tigaon village.Claiming that such ‘diyas’ were not only environment friendly, but could also prove helpful in protecting the users from harmful impact of radiation of the modern gadgets like the mobile phone. He said the ‘diyas’ made from cow dung are not only pollution free but also recyclable. The ‘diyas’ have been made available for sale at various places, including near some prominent hospitals, it is learnt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-diyas-made-of-cow-dung-in-faridabad-332697
01-11-2021||---||Work to install Ashoka pillar replica begins in Karnal sectt||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 31With an aim to enhance cultural values, the Karnal Smart City Ltd (KSCL), a company looking after the Smart City project, has started the work of installing a30-ft-tall replica of the Ashoka pillar. However, earlier, the planning was to install 100-feet tall replica, but due to several reasons, including hurdles in clearance from various departments, it is now going to be installing 30-feet tall replica.Last year in December, the board of directors had given a nod to this project and a site of the Tourism Department near Uchana village was finalised, but the site was later rejected. Now, the park of the Mini-Secretariat has been finalised, where the work has been started. As per the authorities, it will add to the beauty of the city.Besides, a welcome gate of the Mini-Secretariat is being constructed for the beautification of the secretariat. A sum of Rs 25 lakh will be incurred on both projects, including installing of the pillar and construction of the gate.“The Mini-Secretariat witnesses high footfall because it houses several government offices, which have public dealing on day-to-day basis. The KSCL has undertaken several initiatives to enhance the aesthetics of the Mini-Secretariat building with thematic façade lighting, erecting the Ashok stambh and constructing the new gate. The installation of 30-feet high stambh is initiated at the entrance park of the Mini-Secretariat complex,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is the CEO of the KSCL.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-to-install-ashoka-pillar-replica-begins-in-karnal-sectt-332698
01-11-2021||---||17-year-old Palwal girl dies by suicide||Palwal, October 31A 17-year-old girl student, who was allegedly harassed by a youth living in the neighbourhood, hanged herself at her house here last night, the police have said.She was a student of Class XII at a private school here.On the complaint of her father, a case has been registered against the accused, identified as Vinod, under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC. The complainant alleged Deepak harassed her daughter, as a result of which she was under stress. “On September 29, Deepak accompanied by three of his friends came to our house and threatened to make some video of my daughter viral,” he said in the complainant. The girl’s father said Deepak was warned, but he did not mend his ways. “Deepak threat my family after my daughter had resisted the attempt of molestation and harassment,” he added. Hari Singh, SHO, City police station, said a search was on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17-year-old-palwal-girl-dies-by-suicide-332705
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Girdawari ordered in waterlogged Sonepat villages||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today ordered the Sonepat DC to start girdawari (revenue survey) within 24 hours regarding the problem of waterlogging in villages of the Kharkhoda area in Sonepat district.He assured farmers that the girdawari would be completed in three days. Subsequently, compensation will be released to farmers. The development came after farmers of about 20 villages of Kharkhoda area met Khattar at his residence here.While handing over the memorandum, they urged the CM to inspect the areas affected by waterlogging. Khattar said, “The work is going on continuously to resolve the problem.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girdawari-ordered-in-waterlogged-sonepat-villages-332707
01-11-2021||Hisar||Haryana Diary: Mystery of former MLA Bharat Singh Beniwal’s one-day campaign||Delay in road repair cause of embarrassmentFaridabad: Unusual delay for the repair of potholed city roads for the past several months has also emerged as a cause of embarrassment for the ruling party politicians. While some of the leaders are seen skipping the reply to such queries, a senior BJP leader faced embarrassment when someone from the crowd quipped that “Do mahine to ho gaye, do aur dekh lenge (two months have passed already, will wait for another two), in response to a reply of the leader who announced that roads will be fixed in the next two months. The leader was asked by an attendee about when the broken roads would be repaired during the inauguration of the newly built bridge. Similarly, a top leader of the party got offended recently when a scribe asked him if the roads in the city would be repaired in the remaining tenure of the present government.BJP old-timer joins AAPRohtak: It is rightly stated that there are no permanent friends or enemies in politics. Loveleen Tuteja alias Lovely, who has remained associated with the BJP for nearly two decades, has already started slamming the Chief Minister and other BJP leaders after parting ways with the saffron party. Lovely, who was state media co-in charge of the BJP, recently joined the Aam Aadmi Party as its state spokesman. “The ideology of the BJP is not what it used to be. The ideals set by our leader Dr Mangal Sen have been forgotten by the party’s present leadership,” said Lovely, who holds the ruling party responsible for dividing the residents and pushing the state towards arson and anarchy.DAP shortage troubling ruling party MLAsRewari: The acute shortage of DAP fertiliser not only is troubling farmers but also MLAs of the ruling BJP and ministers of the state government as they were facing the wrath of farmers. It forced Co-operative Minister Banwari Lal and Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Om Prakash Yadav to raise the issue before the Chief Minister with the intention to pacify farmers. “It was for the first time when the ministers seemed helpless in resolving the issue as it pertained to the Centre, but farmers of their area were troubled,” reacted a local leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-diary-mystery-of-former-mla-bharat-singh-beniwals-one-day-campaign-332708
01-11-2021||---||Haryana Agricultural University offers training to youth for self-employed ventures||Tribune News ServiceHisar, October 31Urging the youth to set up self-employment ventures, Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University Vice-Chancellor Dr BR Kamboj said the university had been providing various types of training to unemployed youth and farmers to help them establish their own occupations.Addressing a press conference here today, the Vice-Chancellor stated that the Saina Nehwal Agricultural Technology Training and Education Institute of the university has organised 46 training sessions where 2,075 trainees have benefited this year. A total of 77 training camps will be organised by March 2022, he said.The VC said the youth and farmers would be encouraged to become self-reliant and new training would also be started so that they could establish themselves in every field. “After getting training from here, the youth have been self-employed in various fields and are also generating employment for others. He said that Saina Nehwal Institute was playing an important role by preparing unemployed youth for self-employment. “Every year, hundreds of young men and women get training from the institute, many of whom are setting up their own businesses and running well”, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-agricultural-university-offers-training-to-youth-for-self-employed-ventures-332709
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Sahitya Akademi awards announced||Literary writers have been selected by the Haryana Sahitya Akademi for various awards for 2020 under Sahityakar Samman Yojna.Additional Principal Secretary to Chief Minister and Director General, Information, Public Relations and Languages Department Amit Kumar Agrawal said Gyanprakash Vivek of Bahadurgarh had been selected for Lifetime Sahitya Sadhna Samman given by the academy at the national level for overall writing. Mahakavi Surdas Lifelong Sahitya Sadhna Sammanwill be given to Subhash Rastogi. Harikrishna Dwivedi has been selected for Pandit Madhav Prasad Mishra Award. Babu Balmukund Gupta Samman will be awarded to poet Amarjeet Amar. Rajkumar Singh has been selected for Lala Deshbandhu Gupta Samman (Rs 2 lakh) given for Hindi journalism. Saroj Dahiya from Sonepat has been selected for Janakavi Mehr Singh Samman. The Haryana Gaurav Samman has been given to Savita Chadda from Delhi. Kamlesh Choudhary from Kurukshetra has been selected for the Best Female Creator Award. Nandini from Rewari has been selected for Swami Vivekananda Swarna Jayanti Young Writers Award. The Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Award for Swarn Jayanti Young Writers Award will be awarded to Pankaj Soni from Bhiwani. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-sahitya-akademi-awards-announced-332710
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB award for Haryana||The Haryana Fingerprint Bureau team secured third place at the 22nd All-India Fingerprint Bureau Directors Conference held at National Crime Records Bureau, New Delhi, on October 28-29. The conference organised by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) was held online at New Delhi — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ncrb-award-for-haryana-332711
01-11-2021||Karnal||National training programme by NDRI||Awareness on HIV/AIDSKarnal: The red ribbon club of DAV (PG) College, Karnal, organised various activities in the college campus to spread awareness on HIV/AIDS and the precautions to avoid it. More than 30 students participated in the poster making, slogan writing and essay-writing competition. Shubham of B Com first year came first in easy-writing competition, while Khushi of B Com first year came second and Nancy of BSc medical third year came third. In the slogan-writing completion, Vishakha of B SC (non medical), Muskan of B COM first year, Karn verma of B.COM first year, bagged first, second and third positions respectively. In the poster-making competition, Tamanna of M SC (maths), Garima of B A second, and Disha of B COM first year got first, second and third position. Principal, Dr Ram Pal Saini appreciated the efforts of Dr Rekha Chaudhary, convener, red ribbon club for organising such competitions.Diwali utsav celebratedKaithal: The Diwali fest 'Utsav' was organised by the computer science department of RKSD College, Kaithal, under which various activities like rangoli, cooking without fire, resume making, debate and others were conducted. Principal Sanjay Goyal inaugurated the programme and said it was necessary to preserve the culture along with technical knowledge.National online workshopRewari: The seven-day national online workshop on "Applied econometrics and machine learning" organised by the department of economics at Indira Gandhi University (IGU) here concluded on Sunday. Prof Kamlesh Gakhar (Retd) from the MDU, Rohtak, in her presidential address elaborated on the importance of data and econometrics and described the role of statistical test, hypothesis etc. Prof Shakti Kumar from JNU, New Delhi, in his key note address described the precautions to be taken by framing the econometrics models and discuss various tests in time series data.CUH to introduce new courseMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) has got the approval to conduct postgraduate diploma in rehabilitation psychology (PGDRP) course from the rehabilitation Council of India (RCI), New Delhi. Prof Tankeswar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, said the course with 10 seats would be introduced from the current academic session and it would not only cater to the demand of specialists and professionals in the field of psychology but also increase employment opportunities for students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-training-programme-by-ndri-332713
01-11-2021||Potholes on the main road passing under the City Metro Station in Bahadurgarh town in Jhajjar district are posing threat to commuters. The situation gets worse at night as many people fail to spot the potholes resulting in injuries. Not only these road||Bahadurgarh main road full of potholes, a threat to commuters||Parveen Kumar, BahadurgarhCarrying iron spikes on roads dangerousIn Sector 52, Gurugram, a self-designed motorcycle carrier carrying colossal numbers of iron spikes, openly can be seen plying on the road, which can prove fatal for anyone. The young bikers generally who are in a haste can become the victims. So the traffic police should take cognisance of such issue and should not allow unless it has a red color bunting tide to its end and manned by another person other than the driver for cautioning. We hope it will be taken seriously and set the things right in all parts of the state.Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityCheck must on spurious foodThe festive season is here and it is a known fact that the rate of adulteration increases during this time. Milk alone is the most adulterated product as the demand for milk increases manifold but the supply can't be met with. The manufactures don't even pay attention to unhygienic conditions while preparing sweets. The government should pay some attention towards the situation and ensure that only good quality sweets enter the market.Ramesh , Ambala CitySeparate state capital, HC still a dreamThe 56th Haryana Day is being celebrated across the state with full enthusiasm. We all know and believe that all political parties who ruled the state for these 55 years and their Chief Ministers have made efforts for the progress and development of the state, as a result of which Haryana has established new dimensions in many fields. But it is a matter of regret that so far, no government or Chief Minister has been able to set up a separate capital and High Court of Haryana in the state. We expect Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Manohar Lal that both would make a separate capital and High Court of Haryana at a suitable place in the state at the earliest.Shakti Singh, KarnalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bahadurgarh-main-road-full-of-potholes-a-threat-to-commuters-332714
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana bans crackers in 14 NCR districts||The Haryana Government today imposed a ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in 14 districts in the National Capital Region while restrictions were imposed in other parts.The districts where the ban has been imposed are Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mahendragarh, Nuh, Palwal, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonepat.An official spokesperson said the directive would also apply to all cities and towns in the state where average ambient air quality during November (as per the last year’s data) fell in the “poor” and above categories.The cities and towns in which air quality was in the “moderate” or below categories, only green crackers would be sold, said the order, adding that the bursting of crackers during Diwali and other festivals would be allowed only from 8 pm to 10 pm. While the crackers will be allowed from 6 am to 8 am on Chhath festival, these will be allowed from 11.55 pm till 12.30 am on Christmas and New Year’s eve.The spokespersons said the Haryana State Pollution Control Board would issue a list of the cities and towns seperately and make these available online on its website.Bursting of firecrackers in communities would be promoted in areas where there was no ban, he said, adding that the sale of crackers would only be through licensed traders. No e-commerce websites will accept any online orders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-bans-crackers-in-14-ncr-districts-332591
01-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana government bans firecrackers in 14 NCR districts||The Haryana government on Sunday imposed a ban with immediate effect on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in 14 of its districts in the National Capital Region while restrictions were imposed in other parts.“There will be a total ban against sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in all 14 NCR districts namely Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mahendergarh, Nuh, Palwal, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonepat,” as per the order issued by the State Disaster Management Authority on regulation of sale and use of firecrackers in the state.Altogether, there are 22 districts in Haryana.The directive will also apply to all cities and towns in the state where the average of ambient air quality during November (as per available data of last year) is in “poor” and above categories.The cities and towns in which air quality is in the “moderate” or below categories, only green crackers shall be sold, said the order.Only green crackers shall be sold in cities and towns where the air quality is in the “moderate” or below category, the order said, adding that the bursting of crackers during Diwali and other festivals such as Gurupurab will be allowed only from 8 pm to 10 pm.For Chhath festival, the same will be allowed from 6 am to 8 am, it said.Fireworks will be permitted from 11.55 pm on December 24 to 12.30 am on December 25 and from 11.55 pm on December 31 to 12.30 am on January 1, for Christmas and New Year, it pointed out.The Haryana State Pollution Control Board will separately issue a list of these cities and towns and make it available on its website.Bursting of firecrackers in communities will be promoted in areas where there is no ban, it said, adding that designated areas will be pre-identified by the authorities concerned.Only green crackers shall be allowed even for marriages and other occasions, the noted.The sale of crackers shall only be through licensed traders and e-commerce portals, including Flipkart and Amazon, will not be permitted to sell crackers, it said.The decision was taken after considering the Covid pandemic and the approaching winter season during which the elderly, children, and people with comorbidities may develop respiratory problems, said the guidelines.“During Diwali, Gurupurab and Kartik Purnima, Christmas, and New Year, people usually burst crackers which can adversely affect the respiratory health of vulnerable groups, besides, aggravating health condition of COVID-19 positive people in home isolation,” it said.The state pollution board shall carryout short-term monitoring in the cities for 14 days, commencing immediately, for the parameters namely aluminium, barium, iron apart from regulatory parameters against the short-term Ambient Air Quality Criteria Values (AAQCVs) proposed by the Central Pollution Control Board with regard to bursting of firecrackers.“This will help in generation of data on pollution caused by the bursting of firecrackers and would be helpful for regulation and control of quality of aluminium, barium and iron used in the manufacture of firecrackers,” said the authority.All deputy commissioners have been directed to constitute joint inspection teams for enforcing the directions and shall ensure extensive checking and action against violators who shall be punishable under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and other provisions of the law as applicable, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-bans-firecrackers-in-14-ncr-districts-332422
