02-11-2021||Sirsa||Bypoll: All set for vote counting in Sirsa today||Congress legislator reviews security in marketJhajjar: Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal visited the market on Monday to review security arrangements to prevent any untoward incident in view of the festivities. She also inquired how many CCTV cameras were in working condition at the market. TNSModule for monitoring of stubble burning readyChandigarh: The state has prepared ‘Online Data Collection Module’ for daily monitoring of stubble burning cases. A spokesperson said machines had been installed for the management of crop residues, adding that the module would be updated daily by officials concerned. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bypoll-all-set-for-vote-counting-in-sirsa-today-333242
02-11-2021||---||On Haryana Day, CM Khattar announces welfare measures||Chandigarh, November 1Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today made 11 public welfare announcements to mark the 56th Haryana Day.From announcing the release of electricity connections located in old colonies, setting up new cyber police stations, biennial medical check-up for policemen, launching the panchayat guardian scheme, release of prisoners and giving power of land registrations to SDMs and city magistrates, Khattar reiterated his commitment “to serving the last person first in the spirit of Antodaya”.“From now onwards, the benefits of 456 services of government departments will made available only through Parivar Pechan Patra (PPP) IDs,” Khattar asserted.He announced that 250 prisoners in various jails having less than six-month jail term left would be released.Giving a big relief to the residents in releasing electricity connections located in old colonies developed by private builders, the CM announced that now the plot holders or residents, having deficient electrical infrastructure, would not be deprived of electricity connections.He said from today cyber helpdesks would be set up at all FIR-registering police stations for registering the complaints of cyber crime.He further said that along with this, the state government had decided to set up cyber crime police stations in all districts of Haryana in a phased manner.While launching the biennial health check-up scheme for the employees of the Police Department, the CM said this mandatory biennial health check-up would come into force from January 1, 2022.From today, all SDMs and city magistrates would be designated as sub-registrars and joint sub-registrars for the purposes of the registration of the instruments of transfer of properties. Tehsildars and naib tehsildars shall also continue to be joint sub-registrars.The CM said the Haryana Panchayat Guardian Scheme-2021 was being launched in the state today with the objective of creating a system of rapid and holistic development under gram panchayats. In this, senior officers will be given the role of the guardian of the village panchayat.Khattar, while launching the portal of Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam, said the nigam had been created to streamline the requirement process of employees being appointed on a contract basis in government departments and undertakings.He said, under the Jal Jeevan Mission, tap water had been supplied to every household in 18 districts and the remaining four districts would be covered by the end of this year.‘Capt welcome to resolve farm issues’Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said there was no harm if anybody, even former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, helped in resolving the deadlock between the agitating farmers and the Central Government over the three agricultural laws||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-haryana-day-cm-khattar-announces-welfare-measures-333174
02-11-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Haryana's Ballabgarh most polluted in country: Central board||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 1Ballabgarh has emerged as a pollution hotspot with the air quality index declining to touch the level of 360 today. It is for the second time in the past 10 days, when this sub-divisional town has attained the top slot.With concentration of particulate matter (PM) at 2.5, the air quality index level continues to be over 340 for the past four days, which is categorised as ‘very poor’.As per the data on ‘Sameer’, the app of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Ballabgarh was the most polluted place in the country.Faridabad, which recorded the level of 303 in morning, worsened to attain the level of 329 in evening. Sonepat and Kaithal were among other cities, which also pegged a level above 300 today, indicating that air quality has deteriorated in the region. In the NCR, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida recorded levels as 354 and 310, respectively.‘’With Diwali round the corner and dust remaining uncurbed due to damaged roads, the air quality is expected to further worsen, as the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) measures are yet to be implemented fully,” said sources in the district administration.Describing dust generated by damaged roads as a major cause of air pollution, Dinesh Kumar, Regional Officer, Pollution Control Board, Ballabgarh, said the civic authorities had been asked to ensure regular sprinkling of water on roads, repair the damaged patches and keep a watch on burning of waste. An AQI level of 60 or less is considered ‘good’. It turns ‘satisfactory’ between 60 and 100, ‘moderate’ between 100 and 200 and ‘poor’ between 200 and 300. The level between 300 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and it becomes ‘severe’ above 400.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-ballabgarh-most-polluted-in-country-central-board-333175
02-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Follow police recruitment norms on physical standards, HC tells Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1In a judgment that will change the way police recruitment is carried out, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it mandatory for the State of Haryana to follow the guidelines issued by it in one of its earlier judgments on height measurement.The HC, in Sonu Singh’s case, had made it clear that chest and height measurement through scientific instruments was required to be carried out publicly. The stamped copy of dimensions was also required to be handed over to the candidates seeking recruitment. The Bench had added that a man’s height was a “pure question of fact”, provided it was measured scientifically by a stadiometer.Justice Arun Monga, in Raghvir Singh’s case, had, subsequently, made it clear that the guidelines in the case of “Sonu Singh versus the State of Haryana and others” would be followed in every recruitment to be carried out in the Punjab Police and other departments, where height was one of the criteria for selection.Justice Monga disposed of the petition with a direction to the respondents to re-measure the petitioner’s height in terms of the directions issued in Sonu Singh’s case.Justice Monga asserted that it was also expected of the respondents to implement the directions issued in the case of “Raghvir Singh and others versus the State of Punjab and others” decided on July 5.Constable’s postThe direction by Justice Arun Monga came on a petition filed by a candidate for police constable’s post. The petitioner, Aman, was seeking directions to the State of Haryana and other respondents to re-examine height in accordance with the directions given by the HC in the case of “Sonu Singh versus the State of Haryana and others respondents” in November 2016||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/follow-police-recruitment-norms-on-physical-standards-hc-tells-haryana-333176
02-11-2021||Deepender Deswal||Cotton prices at record high in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 1As the overall cotton yield is likely to come down due to pink bollworm and unseasonal rains, farmers are getting record cotton prices in the open market this year. The estimated cotton prices are hovering around Rs 8,600 to Rs 9,000 per quintal.Buoyed by the spurt in the prices, the farmers are stocking cotton yield, expecting the prices would go even higher. The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), Sirsa, which is the government’s procurement agency for cotton, stated that it all depended on demand and supply and the prices were higher due to low production this year.Bollworm, untimely rains, less area reasonsPink bollworm and untimely rains damaged the cotton, which has resulted in a spurt in demand in the open market. —An agriculture expertMohit Sharma, an official of the CCI, said the minimum support price (MSP) for the cotton was Rs 5,929 per quintal, but the traders were offering much higher rates to the farmers in the open market. “Thus the CCI doesn’t need to intervene to purchase the cotton from farmers on the MSP. We purchased it when the open market did not offer the MSP. The previous year, the CCI procured the yield on the MSP as the market rate was even below the MSP due to a good yield,” he stated.Haryana has about 6.85 lakh hectares under cotton this year. The area under the crop came down this year compared to last year when 7.29 lakh hectares had cotton. Pink bollworm and untimely rains further damaged the cotton which has resulted in a spurt in demand in the open market, an agriculture expert stated.Sirsa is leading producer of the cotton which has about 5 lakh acres under cotton followed by Hisar (3 lakh acres), Bhiwani and Fatehabad.Though a large number of farmers have suffered damage and are counting their losses due to the rains and bugs that destroyed cotton, those farmers who managed to take yield, are a happy lot.Rammehar, a farmer of Surpura village in Bhiwani district, has got a yield of about 20 quintals in 3 acres. “The trader is offering Rs 8,600 per quintal and also offered to pick up the produce from my field, but I have decided to hold it back for some more time. I predict that the price will go up to around Rs 12,000 per quintal,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cotton-prices-at-record-high-in-haryana-333177
02-11-2021||Karnal||DAP distributed in Kaithal in police presence||Amid farmers’ protest over the shortage of DAP in Kaithal, the Agriculture Department distributed 300 bags of the fertiliser among farmers in the presence of police in Kaithal grain market today.Farmers blocked Pehowa Chowk in Kaithal over the shortage of DAP today. They informed the Agriculture Department that a truck carrying 300 bags of DAP and 110 bags of urea was coming to Kaithal from Karnal and demanded the distribution of the same among farmers in the grain market.“The truck was carrying DAP and urea of two dealers of Kaithal city and one dealer of Kalayat. We called the dealers at the spot and distributed the fertilisers among farmers in the grain market,” said Karam Chand, Deputy Director Agriculture, Kaithal.He assured farmers that there was no need to panic as a supply of around 10,000 bags would arrive on Tuesday, which would be distributed through cooperative societies. Another supply of around 8,000 bags will arrive on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Around 60,000 bags will arrive on November 6 and 7. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dap-distributed-in-kaithal-in-police-presence-333178
02-11-2021||---||Randeep Surjewala challenges Haryana CM Khattar to take constable exam||Chandigarh, November 1Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala today challenged Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, DGP PK Agrawal and IGs to take the police constable recruitment exam and get at least 30 per cent marks.He claimed that the questions of the level of MA or PhD of botany, zoology, sociology, international history, international general knowledge (GK), MSc mathematics were asked instead of the IPC.“Are you recruiting international, national-level social scientists, botanists, zoologists, sociologistsetc or constables for the state police?” he asked.He was referring to the exam for the 5,500 posts of police constable (male), for which 8.39 lakh youths applied. Some candidates will take the exam on November 2 too.Holding a press conference, he said, “This is a conspiratorial method so the eligible youths for constables can be excluded from the selection process and the favourite ones could be recruited through the backdoor.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/randeep-surjewala-challenges-haryana-cm-khattar-to-take-constable-exam-333179
02-11-2021||Parveen Arora||Mahatma Gandhi park in Karnal to depict Dandi March||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 1With an aim to showcasing India’s struggle for Independence and also to make the young generation aware of the Salt Satyagraha march of 1930, a Gandhi park is being developed near the Mahatma Gandhi Chowk in the city. The Dandi March or Salt Satyagraha will also be depicted in this park which will be developed in 2 kanal. The land belongs to Custodian Department.This initiative is being taken under the Smart City project. A sum of Rs 25 lakh will be spent on the project. The condemned building at this site has already been demolished and the land-levelling work has been completed. The Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), a company looking after the Karnal Smart City project, has floated tender for the project. The dipiction will be adjacent to a ‘Jharokha wall’, showcasing the architecture of Rajasthan and erected by the Karnal Municipal Corporation.Work to begin by DecemberWe have floated tender and hopefully the work will start in December. The park will have LED lights to highlight the depiction at night also. —Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-Cum-CEO of  KSCLThe Dandi March was a landmark in the history of the Indian freedom struggle, which is considered as a part of the Civil Disobedience Movement against the British rule, under which freedom fighters led by Mahatma Gandhi marched from Sabarmati Ashram, Ahmedabad to the coastal village of Dandi and broke the salt law imposed by the British. “To highlight the freedom struggle, we are going to beautify the Mahatma Gandhi Chowk, where a park named after the Father of Nation will be developed. The depiction of Dandi March will made to educate young people about the freedom struggle of the country,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is also the CEO of the KSCL.In the proposed depiction, the Father of Nation will be seen leading the group of satyagrahis in a bid to violate the colonial salt laws in a landmark event in the Independence movement, the CEO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mahatma-gandhi-park-in-karnal-to-depict-dandi-march-333180
02-11-2021||---||Air quality ‘poor’, cracker ban imposed  in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, November 1As air quality continues to remain ‘poor’ with index level at 262 and particulate matter (PM) at 2.5 on Monday evening, the local administration has imposed a ban on sale and bursting of crackers in Kurukshetra.DC Mukul Kumar said the elderly and children could face breathing-related issues due to pollution. In view of the increasing level of air pollution, sale, purchase and bursting of crackers had been banned in the district, he said. No temporary cracker-selling licenses will be issued.As per the report of the Pollution Control Board, the average air quality in October remained in ‘moderate’ category on most of the days due to rainfall, and ‘poor’ from October 21 to 23. It is likely to stay in ‘poor’ category or deteriorate to ‘very poor’ in the coming days due to stubble burning and climatic conditions. The order came into force on Monday evening and will remain applicable on Diwali, Gurpurb, Christmas and New Year eve.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/air-quality-poor-cracker-ban-imposed-in-kurukshetra-333184
02-11-2021||---||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar interacts with students abroad||Chandigarh, November 1Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today interacted with students of Haryana who are studying overseas under the ‘Berkeley India Speaker Series Event’ programme here today in Chandigarh through video-conferencing.Khattar said Haryana was the only state which had a dedicated Foreign Cooperation Department which was exploring the opportunities globally that could accelerate the growth of Haryana. He added that many good universities were expanding their campuses in Haryana and many foreign universities had signed MoUs and started other semester exchange programmes with the government universities which had enhanced the global exposure of Haryana students and promoted cultural diversity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-interacts-with-students-abroad-333186
02-11-2021||---||18 more dengue cases in Hisar||Hisar, November 1The district has reported 18 new cases of dengue today.Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Subhash Khatraja said a total of 447 people have been tested dengue positive in the district so far.A total of 226 persons have recovered from dengue and at present, the district has 220 active patients with one death reported.He urged the residents to get themselves immediately tested if they experience any symptoms of dengue, adding that at-home treatment could prove fatal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-more-dengue-cases-in-hisar-333189
02-11-2021||Rohtak ||Cultural events at Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak||Haryana Day in Shemford schoolAmbala: Shemford Futuristic School, Barara, celebrated Haryana Day on the school campus in the presence of Brahmakumaris Savita Didi ,Chetna Didi, Pushpa Devi, former sarpanch of village Adhoya, chairman Inderjeet Singh and principal Ruby Sharma. Folk dance of Haryana and Telangana was presented under the 'Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat' theme. Tanveer Kaur and Khushi Chauhan students of Class IX gave information about both states in Haryanvi and Telugu language. Jasnoor and Vanshika of Class XII students played a special role while handling the entire programme on stage. In the end, the chairman and principal addressed all guests present there.Quiz competition heldPanipat: Social Science Department of Dyal Singh Public School, Panipat organised a inter house quiz competition 'Know our Haryana' on Haryana Day. The competition was inaugurated by the Principal, Vinita Kumar Tomar. Students of all four houses participated in the competition. There were six rounds in this quiz and many questions related to geography, culture, great personalities of Haryana, district formation of Haryana and current general knowledge of the state were asked. Hitakashi, Akshara Thakur, Pushpender, Yashika of Aravalli house bagged first position, Hiteshi, Gooni, Yash Phour, Shivansh of Himalaya house bagged second position, and Niharika, Amrita, Yugank Girdhar, and Riya Sharma of Nilgiri house remained at third place. The principal awarded certificates to the winners of the quiz.Diwali celebratedKarnal: Pratap Public School, Jarnailly Colony, Karnal, celebrated the festival of lights -Diwali. The festive vibes were on the zenith as the school also observed National Unity Day and Haryana Day along with Diwali. Vibrant 'diyas', candles, rangolis and posters made by enthusiastic students added to the beauty of the programme. The celebrations commenced with the welcoming the members of the management by director-principal Poonam Navet.Sports Day organisedKurukshetra: A sports extravaganza was organised at the Gita Niketan Awasiya Vidyalaya, in which students from Classes VI to X participated. Chief guest Malkhan Singh, prant khel pramukh, highlighted the importance of physical fitness. 100 meter race, lemon-spoon race, and tug-of-war, were among the games in which students participated. Pawan Gupta, manager and Narayan Singh, principal motivated the students to play with the right spirit.Investiture ceremonyKurukshetra:The investiture ceremony for academic year 2021-22 was organised with enthusiasm at Mata Rukmani Rai Arya Senior Secondary School, Kharindwa, Shahabad Markanda. Manager Ram Lal Bansal, president Vishnu Bhagwan Gupta, treasurer Kuldeep Gupta and school member Mohinder Kansal, presided over the programme and presented badges to the newly elected council members. The school council is headed by master Nitin as the head boy and Amandeep as the head girl. The newly elected members pledged to perform their duties best to their potential. Principal Bibandeep congratulated the newly introduced council members.Awareness on breast cancerGurugram: To mark World Breast Cancer 2021 and spread awareness, the SGT University organised a health camp following "Nukkar Natak" at the community centre at Dhankot. The Pflege Association under obstetrics and gynecological nursing with collaboration of community medicine department, SGT University organised a health camp also. Under the theme "Raising awareness and know more about breast cancer", the initiative was to sensitise and encourage the community for early detection and screening of breast cancer as many women were not aware of the cancer screenings and early treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cultural-events-at-maharshi-dayanand-university-rohtak-333199
02-11-2021||Residents of the Bari Mohalla in Bhiwani are being supplied water mixed with sewage despite repeated complaints to the higher authorities. We have complained to the MP||Bhiwani residents being supplied dirty water||What our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhiwani-residents-being-supplied-dirty-water-333238
02-11-2021||Panipat||Gang of vehicle thieves busted, five arrested||The Panipat police today busted an interstate vehicle thieves gang and arrested five members.The arrested gang members have been identified as Parwez, Manoj Nehra, Afzal, Amit Chandna and Amit, all residents of Uttar Pradesh.The police have recovered a laptop, five cars, fake Aadhaar cards and a special dye machine used in manufacturing of fake number plates and other materials used in stealing cars.Upon interrogation, Parwez revealed the name of the kingpin of the gang, Manoj Nehra and three other associates, the police said.Parwez said Manoj and Afzal were responsible for stealing cars, and Amit Chandna and Amit used to provide the gang with fake number plates of UP while he sold them. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gang-of-vehicle-thieves-busted-five-arrested-333240
