06-11-2021||New Delhi||Haryana local jobs quota: India Inc calls for re-look, says it will lead to companies moving out of state||With the Haryana government notifying the law providing 75 per cent reservation to locals in private jobs, India Inc on Saturday called for a re-look at the legislation saying it will lead to multinational firms moving out of the state.Industry bodies argued that reservation hurts competitiveness and said the state government can give a 25 per cent subsidy to the industry as an incentive for each local hired.In a strongly worded response, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said, “At a time when it is important to attract investments at the state level, governments should not impose restrictions on the industry. Reservation affects productivity and industry competitiveness.”“We hope the government re-looks the legislation or at least ensures the rules are fair. As one country, there should be no imposition or restriction,” it added.The industry body emphasised that with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’, which focuses on strengthening the unity and integrity of India, “we should not see such restrictive practices”.Another body PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) said it is of the view that any Indian should be allowed to work in any state of India without any restrictions.“The 75 per cent reservation will result in moving out of tech companies, automotive companies, especially MNCs (multinational companies) as these are highly skilled manpower-based companies.PHDCCI president Pradeep Multani said, “The state government can give 25 per cent subsidy to industry and trade for each local hired. Let this be an incentive to hire locals. There should be no compulsion.”The Haryana government on Saturday said the Employment of Local Candidates Act,  2020, which provides a quota for local people in private sector jobs that offer a salary of less than Rs 50,000 a month, will be implemented in the state from January 15, 2022.The Act covers private companies, societies, trusts and partnership firms in the state. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-local-jobs-quota-india-inc-calls-for-re-look-says-it-will-lead-to-companies-moving-out-of-state-334774
06-11-2021||Deepender Deswal||BJP MP Ram Chander Jangra’s car attacked in Hisar district over remark against farmers||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 5Farmers today smashed the windshield of a car belonging to BJP Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra in Narnaund town over his remark on farmers’ agitation. They also raised slogans and showed black flags to him.Farmers meet today Farmer leader Vikash Sisar said a meeting had been called at the Narnaund police station on Saturday at 11 am to chalk out the next course of action on the farmers’ agitation. He said a farmer had sustained serious injury and demanded registration of a case against under Section 307 of the IPC against the assailants.Turn of eventsThe police have booked over 50 protesters under the IPC. Three of them have been identified as Harshdeep Gill, Kailash and Sudhir.Meanwhile, farmers have started an indefinite dharna outside the Narnaund police station demanding release of the arrested farmers and to bear the cost of treatment of those injured. BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni has also joined the dharna.The incident occurred when the BJP MP arrived in Narnaund to lay the foundation stone of a dharamshala. The farmers were angry with him for allegedly terming farmers in Meham town of Rohtak as “bad elements, worthless, jobless and alcoholics”. Jangra had made similar remarks in March.On getting information of Jangra’s arrival, farmers blocked the street to restrict his entry to the designation spot in Narnaund. However, the police took the MP to the spot via an alternative route and erected barricades adjoining the venue. The farmer tried to cross the barricades, which resulted in a minor clash between them and the police.When the BJP MP was on his way back after attending the event, he faced protest and someone reportedly smashed the windshield of his car even as the police tried to control the situation.The farmers said one of the farmer activists, Kuldeep Satrod, suffered injury during police action and he had been hospitalised. The police detained two other protesters.Enraged over the police action, the farmers started a dharna outside the police station. Charuni said the dharna would continue till the government fulfilled their demand for the release of the detained farmers and bear the cost of medical treatment of the injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-mp-ram-chander-jangras-car-attacked-in-hisar-district-over-remark-against-farmers-334520
06-11-2021||---||Karnal sees surge in dengue cases||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 5Karnal district has witnessed an alarming increase in the number of dengue cases in the recent days. With 30 positive cases reported in the last week, the district has recorded a total of 123 cases so far.‘Report all cases’Directions have been issued to all hospitals in the district to report each and every dengue case to the department. — Dr Yogesh Sharma, Cvil urgeonShortage of kitsThere are four platelets separation machines in the city and the demand for fresh platelets units has increased manifold. We are facing shortage of kits to prepare fresh platelet units.An employee, Blood BankThese are those cases which have been reported by the department, while there are lots of unreported cases getting treatment at private hospitals, which is an alarming situation for the department also. However, the department has not reported any causality due to dengue, but there are reports of death of a number of people died who were suspected to have symptoms of dengue.One of the senior doctors of the city said patients had high fever, suffered from vomiting and headache were coming to hospitals with less number of platelets which required ventilator support, but almost all ventilators were full in the hospitals of the city.Meanwhile, the rising number of dengue cases has increased the demand of platelets units in blood banks. “There are four platelets separation machines in the city, and the demand for fresh platelets units has increased manifold due to dengue, but we are facing shortage of kits to prepare fresh platelets units,” said an employee of a blood bank.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, said directions had been issued to all hospitals in the district to report each and every dengue case to the department. “The department has reported 123 cases in the district and no death has been reported due to dengue. Only the Elisa test confirms the dengue positive case,” said the Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-sees-surge-in-dengue-cases-334522
06-11-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Govardhan Puja at namaz site in Gurugram||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, November 5The Muslim community in Gurugram abstained from offering namaz at three public sites today as Hindu outfits celebrated Govardhan Puja there to protest against namaz in the open.Editorial: Gurugram namaz: Govt must be even-handed in dealing with public nuisancePrayers held in Sector 29The group that used to offer namaz at Sector 12 A did not do so on Friday and shifted to Sector 29.Demand for ban at public placesThe Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti was to demand complete ban on namaz at public places in the city.The Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti was to demand complete ban on namaz at public places and highlight what would happen if Hindus began using these sites for their pujas.“Pray in mosques. The Waqf boards own maximum land in the country. Namaz should be arranged there. Don’t block roads for religion or politics as it will yield nothing. Take a cue from Shaheen Bagh. They got nothing out of it,” said BJP leader Kapil Mishra who was in the city today to chair Govardhan Puja held in Sector 12 A namaz site.The group that used to offer namaz there did not do so today and shifted to Sector 29. Hailing the local Hindu outfits, united under the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, Mishra said this was their true fight for ‘azadi’.“Do not use roads for politics. We had seen it in ShaheenB. Everyone has equal rights in the Indian Constitution. Blocking of roads cannot be a part of anyone’s religion. This is a way to stop and disrupt the economy of the country. If the Hindus start praying in the open then these sites will be blocked for an entire week.” he added.“We will not be oppressed anymore,” said senior VHP leader Surender Jain.Meanwhile, the local muslim community issued a press statement saying, “There are three sites — Sector 12, 47 & 18— where ‘juma namaz’ did not take place. The namaz took place peacefully at the other sites. There was a lot of fear and caution exercised by the Muslims not to have any sort of confrontation with the vigilante groups. On the above mentioned three sites, Govardhan Puja took place, so we voluntarily stepped back as the same was advised by police forces on the ground”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govardhan-puja-at-namaz-site-in-gurugram-334523
06-11-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Ban up in smoke, 10 cities see ‘severe’ AQI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5Out of the 22 cities recording “severe” air quality index (AQI) in the country post Diwali, 10 were located in Haryana. The “severe” AQI implies that the air quality affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.In danger zoneHaryana has been witnessing continued ‘severe’ and ‘very poor’ AQI for some days. ‘Severe’ AQI implies that the air quality affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.Out of the eight most polluted cities in the country, four were from the state. This has happened despite a cracker ban in 14 NCR districts, as per the NGT order. In the remaining districts also except Panchkula, the ban was imposed based on the last year’s November air quality data.As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), from 4 pm of November 4 to 4 pm of November 5 (24-hour average), which included the period of the bursting of crackers, Noida recorded the worst AQI at 475, followed by Gurugram (472), Ghaziabad (470), Faridabad (469), Greater Noida (464), Jind (462), Ballabgarh (462) and Delhi (462).The AQI in 0-50 falls in “good”, 51-100 in “satisfactory”, 101-200 in “moderate” and 201-300 in “poor” categories. If the AQI is between 301-400, it is “very poor” and causes respiratory illness. If it is above 401, it falls in the “severe” category and has respiratory effects even on healthy people.Other places in Haryana which had “severe” AQI included Manesar (458), Bhiwani (437), Rohtak (437), Charkhi Dadri (424), Panipat (413) and Hisar (405).Besides, 10 places in the state recorded “very poor” AQI, which included Sonepat (400), Dharuhera (383), Narnaul (377), Kaithal (377), Kurukshetra (354), Mandikhera (336), Fatehabad (330), Karnal (329), Palwal (314) and Ambala (301).“It has largely happened due to the flouting of the ban on the bursting of firecrackers. The local administration must have taken action on the flouting of the ban. The winter season is also contributing to a rise in the level of pollution,” said S Narayanan, Member Secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB).There were 228 and 331 stubble burning events in the state on November 4 and November 5, respectively, according to the HSPCB. Till today, there were 3,997 events since September 15 compared to 6,815 last year. There is a fall of 41.3 per cent.Haryana has, however, been witnessing continued “severe” and “very poor” AQI for some days.“Stubble burning is not the sole reason for continued “severe” and “very poor” AQI in Haryana. The bursting of crackers will give you a peak for a day or two. During winter, the atmospheric boundary comes down significantly. So, even with same emissions, pollution level rises. The air becomes stagnant. Cloudy weather also contributes to the formation of secondary particles,” said Additional Professor Ravindra Khaiwal, from the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, Chandigarh.He added, “In Haryana, the rise in vehicular density and the burning of municipal solid waste had also contributed to pollution in small cities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ban-up-in-smoke-10-cities-see-severe-aqi-334524
06-11-2021||---||5 youths killed in Kurukshetra mishap||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, November 5Five youths were killed on the spot after the car they were travelling in rammed into a tree on the Nalvi-Thol road of Shahabad in the wee hours on Friday.The deceased were identified as Goldy (21), a resident of Jainpur village, Gurmeet (22) of Gori Pur village, Ankit (20) and Brijpal (21) of Basantpur and Vishal (22) of Nalvi village in Shahabad.The impact of the collision was very high and it took nearly two hours to retrieve the bodies from the debris of the car. The bodies were taken to LNJP Hospital in Kurukshetra for postmortem. Sources said all victims were unmarried and were reportedly returning after celebrating a birthday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-youths-killed-in-kurukshetra-mishap-334525
06-11-2021||---||After VAT cut, diesel at Rs 86.51 per litre in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5After the Centre reduced excise duty on petrol and diesel, Haryana Government has also decided to reduce the rates of value-added tax (VAT) on fuel in the state.As per an official statement, CM Manohar Lal Khattar said that due to the reduction in VAT rates, prices of petrol and diesel have been reduced by Rs 12 per litre in the state. Khattar also tweeted about it.A day before Diwali, the Centre had slashed excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 10 per litre respectively.While issuing a video statement, Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said that it was a fraud with the people of the state. “The BJP-JJP government tried to befool people by reducing Rs 1.12 per litre on petrol and increasing the tax on diesel by Rs 1.78 per litre.”He attached the notification of Excise and Taxation Department with his video statement on twitter.Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja said that the reduction in prices was not sufficient. She claimed that the Centre had reduced the prices by Rs 5 and Rs 10 for petrol and diesel respectively, but the fuel prices had risen by that much in October alone.After reduction in VAT, the price of petrol has come down from Rs 106.94 to Rs 95.27 per litre in Haryana. The diesel price has come down from Rs 98.60 to Rs 86.51 per litre.Petrol and diesel prices are higher in other states. In Punjab, petrol is Rs 105.02 per litre and in Delhi, it is Rs 103.97. Similarly, the price in Himachal Pradesh is Rs 96.06 per litre and in Rajasthan, it is Rs 111.10 per litre.The diesel price in Punjab is Rs 88.76 per litre, in Delhi, it is Rs 86.67 per litre and in Rajasthan, the cost is Rs 95.71 per litre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-vat-cut-diesel-at-rs-86-51-per-litre-in-haryana-334526
06-11-2021||Yamunanagar||Four killed in 4 road accidents in Yamunanagar district||Four persons were killed in four road accidents in Yamunanagar district. On the complaints of the kin of the victims, four separate cases were registered against the accused.Vishal Dutta of Ghilaur village, in his police complaint, said his father Praveen Dutta had gone to Radaur town for some work on October 28.He alleged that when his father reached near Chhota Bans village, the shuttering material from the tractor-trailer of Ranjit Singh of Chhotta Bans village fell on his father.He said his father sustained serious injuries and he was taken to a private hospital in Mohali, Punjab, where he died. On the complaint of Vishal Dutta, a case was registered against Ranjit Singh under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC at the Radaur police station on November 4. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-killed-in-4-road-accidents-in-yamunanagar-district-334527
06-11-2021||Sonepat||Farmers remember ‘martyrs’ on Diwali, Bandi Chhor Diwas||Following the call of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), protesting farmers observed Diwali and Bandi Chhor Diwas at numerous places, including Delhi borders, by paying homage to the farmers who died during the farmers’ movement.In a joint statement, SKM leaders said the farmers lit diyas in the memory of protesters at all demonstration sites. As many as 653 farmers have died in the farmers’ movement so far, they said. The protesting farmers resolved they “would not let the sacrifices of the martyrs go to waste and will end the agitation only after their demands are fulfilled by the government”. The SKM leaders said they would announce the plan to mark the first anniversary of the farmers’ movement, which is on November 26, after a meeting of the morcha at the Singhu border on November 9.Meanwhile, singer Babbu Mann celebrated Diwali with farmers at protest sites. Singers Manmohan Warris and Kamaal Heer also reached Singhu and Tikri to meet farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-remember-martyrs-on-diwali-bandi-chhor-diwas-334528
06-11-2021||---||Mobile shop, godown of gunny bags gutted in Ambala City||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 5Fire incidents were reported at several locations in Ambala City and Ambala Cantonment on Diwali night. A mobile shop, a godown of gunny bags, and a hardware shop were gutted. Fortunately, no injuries or causalities were reported in the incidents. As per the information, at 12 mid night, fire broke out at a godown of gunny bags at Dhurkhara village on Hisar road in Ambala City. Five fire tenders were pressed into service and it took nearly 15 hours to completely douse the flames. Gunny bags worth lakhs of rupees were destroyed in the fire. Shyam Giri, owner of the godown, said “I got information around 12 mid night that a fire had broken out. Besides the gunny bags, the building has also got badly damaged in the fire.” Another fire incident was reported at a hardware store in Ambala City. Three fire tenders were pressed into service. The exact loss was yet to be ascertained.On the other hand in the Ambala Cantonment, a fire broke out at Dua Communication in Kabari Bazaar. A hotel as well on the first floor of the shop also caught fire.Owner Jatin Dua, said he was running a mobile and accessory shop there. The entire shop has gutted. The exact loss was yet to be ascertained.  After getting information, Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij also visited the mobile shop and directed the Deputy Commissioner to get an inquiry conducted to know about the reason behind the incident. He assured all possible help to the owner after the inquiry. Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) general secretary Chitra Sarwara also reached the spot.A fire incident was also reported at the Kashyap Dharmashala in Shahabad where a DJ shop was gutted. The reason behind the fire was unknown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mobile-shop-godown-of-gunny-bags-gutted-in-ambala-city-334529
06-11-2021||---||Crushing season to begin soon, previous dues pending||Ambala, November 5The cane crushing season of the Naraingarh sugar mill will begin in November, but it is yet to clear the farmers’ dues of around Rs 63 crore (including post-dated cheques) for the previous crushing season that ended in April.The mill crushed around 50 lakh quintal of sugarcane in November, last year. As per the norms, payments are to be cleared within 14 days of the purchase of sugarcane. Unhappy with the situation, farmers are now planning to hold a meeting before the commencement of the new crushing season to decide the future course of action. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) spokesperson Rajiv Sharma said, “During the last season, the mill had crushed sugarcane worth over Rs 172 crore, and payment of around Rs 109.25 crore has been cleared. Payment of around Rs 63.07 crore (Rs 35.48 crore in the form of post-dated cheques given to farmers, and around Rs 27.59 crore cash payment) is pending. The mill authorities said they will start operations for the next season around November 20.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crushing-season-to-begin-soon-previous-dues-pending-334530
06-11-2021||Chandigarh||Bhupinder Hooda: Govt insensitive to farmers’ needs||Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said that the farmers faced simultaneous onslaught from weather, inflation and government neglect during the BJP-JJP government.He said farmers were not getting compensation for the damage caused by the weather or MSP of crops and fertilisers for sowing as the government was adopting an insensitive and irresponsible attitude towards them despite their repeated demands. Hooda once again drew the attention of the government to the plight of the farmers and said that in the past few days, many villages of Sonepat district, including Jharothi, Bhadana, Kakroi, Khanda, Jharoth, Anandpur, Kanwali, Rohat, Bhoapur, Khedi Dahiya and Nakloi, had seen unseasonal rains, hailstorms and waterlogging, which caused huge losses to the farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-govt-insensitive-to-farmers-needs-334531
06-11-2021||Karnal||In Karnal, farmers struggle for DAP||Farmers had to return empty handed from the IFFCO farmer service centre in the Karnal grain market today where they had gone to get DAP, but after waiting for long, they did not get it.Farmers alleged that they had been coming here for the past four days, but had to return empty handed at the time of wheat sowing.“I have been coming here in the morning for the past four days, but after waiting for hours, I had to return without DAP, due to which I am not able to sow wheat,” said Rajpal, a farmer. Balbir Singh, another farmer, said, “The authorities’ claims of having sufficient supply, but here we are facing shortage of DAP. We are not getting it even after several rounds at this centre.” Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA), said they had received around 36,000 bags of DAP today and now there was no shortage of DAP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-farmers-struggle-for-dap-334532
06-11-2021||Gurugram||Assailants shoot down two of Gurugram family||A group of assailants barged into a house at Kasan village on Diwali night and fired at the family members. Two persons were killed.Four others were critically injured in the attack by bike-borne assailants on the family of a former sarpanch and liquor trader. An FIR has been registered at IMT Manesar police station.According to the police, the deceased have been identified as Vikas (21) and Sohan Lal alias Sonu (35), residents of Kasan village.The injured have been identified as Praveen, a resident of Bhiwani, Rajesh Raghav, Balram and eight-year-old Yash, son of Balram, a resident of Kasan.While the condition of Praveen is critical, the three others are stable and under treatment. According to the police, the attack is the outcome of an old enmity. Rinku alias Yogender, the main accused, planned the attack.At 8.15 pm on Thursday, six armed assailants came on bikes to the house of late Gopal Raghav, former sarpanch of the village.A woman was attacked first but the pet dog shielded her. Then, they barged into the house, opened fire and fled away. On getting information, Veer Singh, ACP, Pataudi, and Yashwant Yadav, SHO of IMT Manesar police station, reached the spot with a huge police force.The injured were rushed to Gurugram hospital where Vikas succumbed late last night. Sohan Lal died in the morning today.Following the complaint by injured Rajesh, an FIR has been registered against Rinku alias Yogender, Manish alias Rana, Deepak alias Bholu and others under various Sections of the IPC including Section 302 (murder) and the Arms Act.The enmity dates back to 2007 when a brawl broke out between Manoj, brother of Rinku, and Sohan Lal alias Sonu near a liquor vend in the village. Sonu called up his friends and Manoj was gunned down.Sonu and his friends were sentenced to jail but were out on parole. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/assailants-shoot-down-two-of-gurugram-family-334533
06-11-2021||Sonepat||Youth stabbed to death in Sonepat over bursting of crackers||A 21-years-old youth was stabbed to death in the Saini Pura area of Sonepat town on Wednesday night.The Civil Lines police have registered a case and arrested three persons, a man and his two sons, in this regard.The deceased was identified as Gaurav. Shyam Singh, father of the deceased, in his police statement, said his son Sachin was bursting crackers at the gate of their house on Wednesday late night. Meanwhile, their neighbours Mohit, alias Lima, and Manish, along with two other youths, came there and started quarrelling with Sachin. As they heard the noise, he, along with his two sons Gaurav and Sumit, came out and tried to save Sachin. But they caught them and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons, he alleged.Meanwhile, their other neighbours intervened in the matter and rushed them to hospital, where doctors declared Gaurav brought dead. The police arrested the three accused, Jaswant along with his two sons Mohit and Manish. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-stabbed-to-death-in-sonepat-over-bursting-of-crackers-334534
06-11-2021||Yamunanagar||In Yamunanagar, five FIRs registered against unidentified persons for bursting crackers||The Yamunanagar district police have registered five FIRs against unidentified persons for bursting crackers. Following orders of Parth Gupta, District Magistrate-cum-chairperson of the District Disaster Management Authority, Yamunanagar, on November 1, the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers was prohibited in the district.The raiding teams found unidentified persons bursting firecrackers near Vishnu Nagar Chungi, Camp area and Old Fountain Chowk in Yamunanagar, and Sharma Tent and Sector 17 market in Jagadhri. The violators managed to escape. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-yamunanagar-five-firs-registered-against-unidentified-persons-for-bursting-crackers-334535
06-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Notice under NDPS Act should specify rights of accused: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that merely informing an accused that he has rights under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was not enough. The rights the accused had were also required to be specified for compliance with the mandatory requirements of search under Section 50 of the Act, it said.“To my mind, merely informing the petitioner that he has rights under the NDPS Act without specifying what these are would not constitute compliance with the mandatory requirement under Section 50 sub-section (1) of the NDPS Act,” Justice BS Walia asserted.The ruling came on a petition filed by an accused for grant of regular bail in a drugs case registered on January 22 under the provisions of the NDPS Act at the Kundli police station in Sonepat district.Justice Walia said the notice under Section 50 in the case mentioned the petitioner was apprised of his rights. But the notice was absolutely silent as to what rights were apprised to the petitioner. It was not known if petitioner was apprised of his right under Section 50 to be searched in the presence of a magistrate or gazetted officer.The notice merely mentioned the petitioner was informed of his rights and also the option to get his search conducted by a magistrate or gazetted officer, if he so desired. “The mandatory requirement under Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act not having been complied with and the punishment provided for an offence under the NDPS Act being very stringent, the failure to comply with Section 50 NDPS Act renders the recovery of the illicit article suspect,” Justice Walia ruled.Before parting with the order, Justice Walia said it was not the prosecution’s stand that the petitioner was a person with criminal antecedents or was involved in similar offences earlier. The requirement under Section 50 was not merely a technical breach. The petitioner was not involved in any other case under the NDPS and it could safely be recorded that the court was satisfied with the existence of reasonable grounds to believe that the petitioner was not guilty of an offence and was unlikely to commit any such offence while on bail. The petition for regular bail was allowed after taking into account the existing position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-under-ndps-act-should-specify-rights-of-accused-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-334536
06-11-2021||Karnal||Govardhan puja at NDRI||Students’ induction programmeHisar: A three-week student induction programme (SIP) for newly admitted B Tech first year students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar (GJUST), was inaugurated online by Prof BR Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor of GJUST, Hisar, and Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar. Registrar Prof Avnesh Verma, dean faculty of engineering Prof Saroj and coordinator of this programme Prof Vishal Gulati, Dr. Mohit Verma and Dr. Sandeep Jindal addressed the new entrants on the occasion. The purpose of this training is to help new students to feel comfortable in new environment.Science quiz competitionKarnal: Students of the science department of RKSD College, Kaithal, have secured second position in the district-level science quiz held at BR Ambedkar College, Kaithal. This competition is sponsored by the Science and Technology Council, Panchkula, Government of Haryana. In this event, 10 teams of Kaithal district participated and this quiz lasted for five rounds. In this quiz based on questions related to physics, chemistry, biology and environment, the team of Manvi and Simran of BSc medical final year and Abhishek of BSc non-medical final year secured second position. Now this team will also participate in state level competition.Webinar organisedYamunanagar: Guru Nanak Khalsa group of Educational Institutions, Yamunanagar, organised a webinar on "Determination for success" by the training and employment cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College. The principal of the college, Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said such career counselling sessions helped in the overall development of students. Dr Rajinder Singh Vohra, head of training and employment cell presented the theme of the webinar.Change in farming must: VCKarnal: Dr Samar Singh, VC, Maharana Pratap Horticulture University (MHU), on Friday emphasised on the need of change in agriculture and said Horticulture University would provide good quality nursery of vegetables and flowers to farmers. The research centre of the university in Murthal has already provided nursery of around 4-lakh plants to the farmers, so that the farmers will get better income with high-yielding varieties of vegetables and flowers. The VC was addressing a programme in the administrative block of the university in Uchani. He said the university gave degree of horticulture to the students of B Sc, M Sc and P hD, so that they could make career in horticulture.Diwali celebrated in schoolKarnal: Anand Public School, Nigdhu,celebrated Diwali festival. On this occasion, a competition was organised between various groups in the classes. Students made colourful rangolis. President of the Anand Educational Society, Subhash Doda encouraged the students to take part in the competition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govardhan-puja-at-ndri-334537
06-11-2021||Roads in Ambala Cantt are in a pathetic condition. These roads are full of patches and pits dug out to lay sewerage lines. Works on the roads is going on for the past five years and the authorities do not care to speed up the work. The post office||Ambala Cantt roads still in a shambles||Overflowing sewage a nuisance for residentsIt has been more than a month since the sewage has been overflowing at many places in Sector 21-A of Ward 19, Faridabad. But the sewerage is not being cleaned by the MCF. This has led to inconvenience among residents here. There is a foul smell in front of the Maitri block opposite Angels Public School. The affected area is prone to infectious diseases. We have filed complaints in the Municipal Corporation through email and Faridabad 311 app many times, but in vain. It seems officials of the MCF are looking the other way.Yugal Kishore Sharma, faridabadWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-cantt-roads-still-in-a-shambles-334538
06-11-2021||Sunit Dhawan||BJP leaders held hostage in Rohtak, let off after ‘apology’||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 5Former Haryana minister Manish Grover and several other BJP leaders were allegedly held hostage for several hours by farmers inside a temple at Kiloi village here this evening. The leaders were there to watch the live telecast of PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Kedarnath.Grover had also faced the farmers’ wrath in Hisar earlier July after he allegedly made an obscene gesture towards them. On learning of Grover’s visit to the village, a number of farmers assembled at the temple, deflated the tyres of cars and parked tractors-trailers to block the way. They placed thorny bushes at the entrance.The farmers demanded an apology from Grover and other leaders visiting the village. Top administrative and police officials rushed to the spot and a huge police force was deployed. The leaders were released hours later after Grover and district BJP chief Ajay Bansal reportedly apologised to the farmers from the temple’s balcony.Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar claimed the matter was resolved amicably. Grover also claimed he had not apologised to anyone as he had done nothing wrong.In another incident, farmers allegedly smashed the windshield of BJP Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra's car in Narnaund. They were protesting his alleged remark against farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-leaders-held-hostage-in-rohtak-let-off-after-apology-334472
06-11-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Ex-Haryana Minister, other BJP leaders held captive in Rohtak temple, released||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 5Former Haryana Minister of State for Cooperatives Manish Grover and several other BJP leaders who were held hostage by villagers at Shiv Temple in Kiloi village of Rohtak district since this afternoon have been released.”Yes, the leaders have been released after the matter was resolved amicably by holding talks with the villagers,” Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar told The Tribune.The BJP leaders had gone to the temple to watch the live telecast of the Prime Minister’s programme from the Kedarnath shrine.On getting to know about Grover’s visit, a number of villagers assembled at the temple and blocked the main entrance while the former minister and other leaders of the ruling party were inside.Rohtak Deputy Commissioner, besides the local SP and SDM, rushed to the spot on getting to know about the matter.Shortly, the SPs of several other adjoining districts were also called to the spot.A tense situation prevailed at the village for hours with hundreds of villagers gathering at the temple.Senior administrative and police officers held talks with the villagers to get the BJP leaders released and eventually got the matter resolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-haryana-minister-other-bjp-leaders-held-captive-in-rohtak-temple-released-334294
06-11-2021||---||5 killed as car rams into tree in Haryana’s Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, November 5Five people were killed as the car they were travelling in rammed into a tree near Nalvi village of Shahabad in the wee hours of Friday.The deceased were identified as Goldi, Gurmit, Ankit, Brijpal and Vishal of Shahabad.At around 6.15 am a passerby sounded the police following which the police and local NGOs reached the spot.The bodies were taken to LNJP Hospital in Kurukshetra for post-mortem.The cause of the accident is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-killed-as-car-rams-into-tree-in-haryanas-kurukshetra-334242
