07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Everyone should hold religious events inside places of worship: Anil Vij on namaz row||Amid protests by right-wing groups in Gurugram against offering of ‘namaz’ in the open, Haryana’s Home Minister Anil Vij said on Sunday that everyone should hold religious events inside places of worship.Such events should be avoided on the roads without the permission of the administration, Vij told reporters in Ambala.“Everyone should hold religious events inside their religious places,” he said.On Friday, BJP leader Kapil Mishra attended Govardhan puja held at a site in Gurgaon’s Sector 12A, where Muslims used to offer ‘namaz’ every week.The puja was organised by Samyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti.A Gurugram police official had earlier said that no namaz was scheduled to be offered at the site on Friday.Objecting to anyone occupying a public place to offer prayers, Mishra had said, “If people from different religions, faiths and sects keep occupying open public spaces on one day every week, it will result in blockade of all the roads and parks.”Around 30 people were briefly detained by police on October 29 for allegedly gathering to disrupt Friday namaz offered by Muslims in Sector 12 area in Gurugram.Three years ago, the district administration had designated 37 sites in the city for Muslims to offer Friday namaz after which there were protests by some Hindu groups.A few months ago, a group started protests against the prayers offered in the open following which there have been demonstrations on Fridays for the past one month.Meanwhile, when Vij was asked to comment on BKU leader Rakesh Tikait’s statement that farmers’ protest will be intensified if the farm laws are not repealed till November 26, he said it is the farmer union leaders who do not want a solution to this issue.“The central government called farm union leaders for talks on numerous occasions. In democracy, all issues are resolved through dialogue. But for unknown reasons, they do not want to participate in the dialogue,” the state home minister claimed.“Only they know the politics behind their agitation. They do not want a solution to this issue,” he said.Replying to a question, Vij said the number of development works that have been completed during the seven-year tenure of the Modi government at the Centre were not done since Independence till now.“But if (Congress leader) Rahul Gandhi cannot see that, then nothing can be done about it,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/everyone-should-hold-religious-events-inside-places-of-worship-anil-vij-on-namaz-row-335189
07-11-2021||Karnal||3 of family killed in collision of two mobikes||Three members of a family, including a woman, were killed in a head-on collision between two mobikes near Pandla village in Kaithal district on Saturday morning.The deceased have been identified as Gobind (32), his son Lovejot (12), and his mother Phoolwati (50), all residents of Seonsar village of Pehowa Tehsil in Kurukshetra district.The incident took place at 11 am when Gobind with his son and mother was returning to his village on a bike after meeting his sister Jawala in Sulhera village, said Prithvi, younger brother of the deceased. He informed the police that he with his uncle also went to his sister’s residence on a separate bike. He was just behind his brother bike. When they reached near Pandla village, a bike coming from the opposite direction hit his brother’s bike. Prithvi said he took them to the hospital, where his mother and nephew were declared dead. His brother died on the way to the PGI, Chandigarh. “We have registered a case against Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Rahra village ,” said Birbhan, SHO Sadar, Kaithal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-of-family-killed-in-collision-of-two-mobikes-335014
07-11-2021||Gurugram||Four accused identified in Kasan village murder case||Four out of the six accused in the Kasan village shooting on Diwali night have been identified from CCTV footages.The accused had entered a house and opened fire indiscriminately. The identification of the accused has stamped the theory of personal enmity being the motive of the attack.The accused have been identified as Rinku alias Yogender, a resident of Kasan village, Manish alias Rana, a resident of Kairu village in Bhiwani district, Amit, a resident of Lath village in Sonepat district, and Deepak alias Bholu, a resident of Tarori village in Aligarh district of Uttar Pradesh.Rinku have an old enmity with the family of former sarpanch late Gopal Raghav. So he attacked Gopal’s family. Three attackers had reached by bike, two came on foot while one was already there.Six people were injured in the firing. Two died and the remaining four, including an eight-year-old boy, are being treated at a private hospital, said the police.Dr Deepak Mathur, who conducted the post-mortem examination, said that Vikas and Sohan Lal died due to excessive bleeding. “Vikas had received 20 bullet shots and Sohan Lal was hit by two bullets,” he said. “The crime was committed due to enmity. Four accused have been identified from CCTV footage,” said inspector Yashwant Yadav, SHO of IMT, Manesar police station.The deceased were identified as Vikas (21) and Sohan Lal alias Sonu (35), residents of Kasan. The injured have been identified as Praveen, a resident of Bhiwani, Rajesh Raghav, Balram and eight-year-old Yash, son of Balram, a resident of Kasan. The condition of Praveen continues to be critical.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-accused-identified-in-kasan-village-murder-case-335012
07-11-2021||---||Panchkula residents complain of disparity in parking fee||Panchkula, November 6Citizens here have complained about disparity in charges for different parking lots in the city.In a letter to Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, Citizens’ Welfare Association, an apex body of Panchkula citizens, has highlighted the disparity in parking charges for Sector 8, 9 and 10, and newly introduced paid parking in Sector 14 and 20.“The parking fee for a four-wheeler in Sector 8, 9 and 10 is Rs10, while Rs12 are being charged in Sector 14 and 20,” claimed the association.The citizens’ body urged the DC to maintain uniformity in parking charges in the larger public interest.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta’s intervention has also been sought in the matter.The paid parking in Sector 8, 9 and 10 had begun in February last year, while the paid parking at Sector 14 and 20 has started recently.Charges vary in sectorsIn a letter to Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, Citizens’ Welfare Association, an apex body of Panchkula citizens, has highlighted the disparity in parking charges for Sector 8, 9 and 10, and newly introduced paid parking in Sector 14 and 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-residents-complain-of-disparity-in-parking-fee-335011
07-11-2021||---||13 districts in Haryana Covid-free||Chandigarh, November 6As many as 13 districts in Haryana are Covid-free now, with just 89 active cases left in the state.These districts included Hisar, Sonipat, Ambala, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra, Mahendragarh, Jind, Jhajjar, Fatehabad, Kaithal, Charkhi Dadri and Nuh. With 14 fresh cases being recorded today, the overall Covid tally touched 7.71 lakh. The maximum cases came from Gurugram at seven.No case was recorded from 15 districts. No death was recorded too. So far, 10,050 people succumbed to the Covid in the state. On vaccination front, 2.61 crore doses have been administered in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13-districts-in-haryana-covid-free-335010
07-11-2021||---||Haryana CM releases book for civil service aspirants||Chandigarh, November 6Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today released a book titled “Modern India” by Poonam Dalal Dahiya, Additional Superintendent of Police, Rewari. The book is meant for civil service aspirants.The Chief Minister appreciated the information given in the book.Dalal, a native of Chhara village in Jhajjar district, said: “The book will be help the aspiring candidates to crack the civil service examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission.”Rewari ASP is the author“Modern India” has been written by Poonam Dalal Dahiya, Additional Superintendent of Police, Rewari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-releases-book-for-civil-service-aspirants-335009
07-11-2021||Our Correspondent||In Gurugram, 30 places allocated for Chhath Puja||Gurugram, November 6The Gurugram administration has allocated 30 places for Chhath Puja. The police have stepped up security as the CM is expected to attend the celebrations.DC Dr Yash Garg today visited the Chhath Puja venue at Shakti Park area to take stock of the preparations.Last year, owing to Covid, people of Purvanchal held Chhath Pooja symbolically by making ponds on the roofs of their houses.On November 10, CM Manohar Lal Khattar will participate in the puja at Shakti Park. Meanwhile, the police have also prepared the security blueprint for Chhath Puja.For the event, the MC, Gurugram, has made arrangements by making ghats at 14 places including Kanhai village, Labour Chowk Sector-5, Panjiri Plant, Om Vihar, Shakti Park, Devilal Colony, Sector-15 Part-II, New Palam Vihar, Community Hall Kadipur, Sabzi Mandi near Bhimgarh Khedi, Basai Talab, Saraswati Enclave, Surat Nagar Talab and Surat Nagar. The MCG will arrange water tankers, mobile toilets as well as streetlights at these ghats.The MCG Commissioner has urged the organisers to follow the guidelines for Covid prevention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-gurugram-30-places-allocated-for-chhath-puja-335008
07-11-2021||Parveen Arora||Recharge structures improve water table of affected Kaithal villages||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 6The water recharge structures, designed, developed and installed by the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI), Karnal, in villages of Kaithal district which had highly sodic water-affected soil, has helped in improving the water quality and groundwater table.As per farmers and scientists, the groundwater table rose upto 2-3 metres beneath the structures during the period of intense rain. Besides, these structures also improved the water quality by reducing the residual sodium carbonate (RSC) in the underground aquifers from 4.5-5.5 to 3.5-4.0 milli equivalent/liter. The improvement in groundwater quality has also been observed in the surrounding areas, the scientists claimed. These structures were installed in 2016 under the CSSRI led ‘Farmer Farm, Innovation, Resources, Science, and Technology’ (Farmer FIRST) project.Sodic soils one of the limiting factors}The low infiltration capacity of sodic soils and poor quality groundwater are the main limiting factors for sustaining crop production in these areas, so the CSSRI took this initiative and installed water recharging systems. Dr PC Sharma, Director, CSSRIThe groundwater data indicates that the indiscriminate use of groundwater resources led to fast depletion of water table at an alarming rate of almost 1.3 metres per year during the last 10 years in the Kaithal block. Dr PC Sharma, Director, CSSRI, said the scientists of the institute — Dr Parvender Sheoran, Principal Scientist and project incharge, Dr Satyendra Kumar, Principal Scientist, along with their team of scientists — installed these six recharge structures in low lying areas of adopted villages, including Mundri, Kathwar, Sampli Kheri and Geong in Kaithal district, where nearly 40 per cent of cultivable lands were sodic and 90 per cent groundwater was of poor quality. “The low infiltration capacity of sodic soils and poor quality groundwater are the main limiting factors for sustaining crop production in these areas, so the CSSRI took this initiative and installed water recharging systems, which contributed in improving the water table and its quality,” the Director said. Dr Sheoran said the field assessments at recharge structure sites (2016-20) revealed rise in groundwater table beneath the structure to the extent of 2-3 metres. Besides, the water quality also improved considerably in the surrounding areas due to dilution effects as observed by the reduction in RSC. Dr Sheoran said the installed structures were quite effective in saving the submerged crops, particularly during the period of intense rainfall.Seeing the benefits of the recharge structures, the nearby village panchayats have also taken initiative to install a few structures at different locations. Under the ‘Mera Pani Meri Virasat’ scheme of the Haryana government, over 1,000 structures will also be installed across the state to save crops in low-lying areas, he added. Dr Satyendra Kumar said the total cost of the structure remains Rs 1,000-1,200/ft depending on the quality of material used and the lithology of the area. “We are thankful to the scientists of the CSSRI who chose our village under this initiative. We had to re-transplant the crops due to heavy rainfall that led to water stagnation, but now, the structure has helped us in eradicating the water stagnation problem,” said Chandi Ram, a farmer.1,000 structures to be installed in state||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/recharge-structures-improve-water-table-of-affected-kaithal-villages-335007
07-11-2021||---||Karnal night market all set to start tomorrow||Karnal, November 6The Night market project, “Taste of Karnal”, which is being developed in an attempt to attract people towards the market at night, is all set to start from Monday as most vendors have established their vends there. The market has witnessed a good response from vendors where 48 of them have applied for setting up their vends.Good response from vendors}We have received a good response from vendors who have applied. We have finalised 40 vends, of them, some kiosks have already been erected. We will start it from Monday. Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, KSCLBeckons food loversIt will be a major attraction for food lovers as a large variety of food will be made available in one place. It is a good opportunity for vendors to sell their food. Sahil, vendorOf them, 40 vendors have been finalised by Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), a company looking after the Karnal Smart City project. The market will have vends of fast food, veg and non-veg foods. The timing of the market will be from 6 pm to midnight. Most of the vendors have already set up their kiosks there and the KSCL has also erected a gate welcoming the people. Two selfie points have also been set up there to attract people.Seating arrangements for visitors have also been made along with the facility of music and LED lightsToilets for both men and women are being set up there. A water ATM is also being installed.“We have received a good response from the vendors who have applied. We have finalised 40 vends, of them, some kiosks have already been erected. We will start it from Monday,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner,-cum-CEO, KSCL.The design of carts is uniform and the vendors will have to pay monthly rent, he said. Sahil, a vendor, said it would be a major attraction for food loversas a large variety of food would be available at one place. “It is a good opportunity for vendors to sell their food,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-night-market-all-set-to-start-tomorrow-335006
07-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram woman robbed on way to Metro station||Gurugram, November 6A woman employed with an MNC was robbed while she was on her way to the Metro station last evening.Taken at knife-point, she was forced to transfer over Rs 2 lakh through Google Pay, Phone Pay and Paytm to the accused.The police had so far got CCTV footage from nearby points and started investigation after registering an FIR at Sushant Lok police station.According to the complaint filed by Nitish Rana, a resident of Shahadra, Delhi, who is working as quality head at a flower and gifts retailer company in Sector 44, the incident happened on November 3.After finishing office work, she was walking towards HUDA City Centre at 6.15 pm. At the service road of Apparel House, 7-8 boys came from behind her.“Three of them stopped. Four boys came and caught me. One of them told me to hand over all the money I had. I just had Rs 500. After that, the miscreants snatched my laptop and asked me about transferring money through the phone. Another one snatched my phone and put a knife on my neck. He asked for the password of Google Pay, Phone Pay and Paytm. After that, he transferred Rs 2.13 lakh to different numbers. Finally, they fled away after returning my mobile phone. I was very scared and reached HUDA City Centre and blocked all my accounts,” the woman told the police.An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons under Section 395 (dacoity) of the IPC at Sushant Lok police station. When contacted, the complainant refused to share any information about the incident.“We are exploring CCTV footage of the area where the incident happened,” said inspector Jasveer Singh, SHO of Sushant Lok police station.At knife-point, forced to transfer Rs2 lakhTaken at knife-point, she was forced to transfer over Rs 2 lakh through Google Pay, Phone Pay and Paytm to the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-woman-robbed-on-way-to-metro-station-335005
07-11-2021||Bhiwani||Duhan khap felicitates Indian hockey player||Udita Duhan, a member of the Indian hockey team, which secured fourth place in the Tokyo Olympics, and her coach Azad Singh Malik were honoured today by the Duhan khap in a civic reception at Tosham town of Bhiwani district.The event was organised by a group of villages representing Duhan khap, including Kawari, Sangwan, Baganwala, Dhani Mahu and Tosham.Speaking on the occasion, Olympian Udita Duhan said khap panchayats were making best efforts to uplift daughters. “The initiatives taken by the khap panchayats for the empowerment of women and availing the opportunities of growth in the fields of sports and education to girls has been paying rich dividends”, she said.Lauding the efforts and contribution of the khap panchayats in resolving social problems, Duhan khap pradhan Atar Singh Duhan said daughters were making families proud by their hard work. General secretary and former District Horticulture Officer Dr Bhupender Singh Duhan said Udita had made India and their khap proud. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/duhan-khap-felicitates-indian-hockey-player-334982
07-11-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||India’s tallest ‘chhatra’ set up over Dharma Chakra in Yamunanagar||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, November 6The Buddhist Forum, an NGO, and Topra Kalan’s gram panchayat have recently set up ‘Ashtamangala Chhatravali’ over the Dharma Chakra at Ashoka Edicts Park in Topra Kalan village of Yamunanagar district.The weight of the chhatravali (chhatra) is around 2.5 tonnes. It is 61 ft high and is made of mild steel. The monument has three discs of diameters 30 ft, 20 ft and 10 ft.The Buddhist Forum had set up India’s tallest Dharma Chakra (popularly known as Ashoka Chakra) at Ashoka Edicts Park in Topra Kalan village in 2019.Sidhartha Gauri, general secretary of the Buddhist Forum, said that the Ashtamangala Chhatravali is a sacred combination of eight auspicious symbols in Buddhism — knot, lotus, flag, wheel, ‘kalash’, two fishes, parasol and conch.“It is India’s tallest ‘Asthamangala’ over Ashoka Chakra,” said Sidhartha Gauri. He said that an ancient statue of Buddha now placed at Sarnath Museum, Varanasi, has a Asthamangala Chhatra over it.He added that in India, chhatra is the symbol of honour and is generally placed over God-like figures and over Emperor or Kings in ancient times.About 2,300 years ago, Emperor Ashoka established a monolithic pillar of sandstone with seven inscriptions in Topra Kalan village with his last edict on it.However, that pillar was uprooted by ruler Feroze Shah Tughlaq in the 14th century AD and got it erected at its present location — Old Fort at Feroze Shah Kotla in New Delhi.Anil Kumar Gaddh from Kamal Encon Industries limited, Yamunanagar, said that it took one year to prepare engineering drawings for this monument and 50 people worked on it.Dr Satyadeep Neil Gauri, a dentist from Australia who is actively associated with Buddhist Forum, said that it is the tallest ‘Ashtamangala Chhatravali’ of India and they would apply for it in the ‘Limca Book of Records 2021’.Sitting sarpanch of Topra Kalan village, Manish Kumar, said that the Dharma Chakra of Topra Kalan village, being India’s biggest Dharma Chakra, was registered in ‘Limca Book of Records’ in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/indias-tallest-chhatra-set-up-over-dharma-chakra-in-yamunanagar-334970
07-11-2021||---||Relief for crop loss to be hiked: Haryana CM||Sonepat, November 6Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced that the government would give appropriate compensation to farmers in all those villages where crops were damaged due to the recent hailstorm.This compensation would be more than the present compensation of Rs 12,000 per acre and it would be announced in the upcoming Cabinet meeting.Chief Minister Khattar was addressing farmers at a programme organised by farmers at Jharoti village of the district after taking stock of the loss of crop due to waterlogging in the fields due to the recent hailstorm.Meanwhile, the district administration had made elaborate arrangements to maintain law and order situation at the programme site.The CM said that he has conducted an aerial survey of the crop loss in Gohana, Julana and Kharkhoda areas and the decision about it would be taken in the upcoming Cabinet meeting.Taking a dig at previous governments, the Chief Minister said that they had given cheques of Rs 2, 4 and 10 for crop damage. But when we came to power, it was decided that cheque of less than Rs 500 would not be given to any farmer.Relief of Rs 5,700 per acre for crop damage was given to farmers during the previous governments. It was later increased to Rs 7,500. But the BJP government has fixed the compensation at Rs 12,000 per acre, the CM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/relief-for-crop-loss-to-be-hiked-haryana-cm-334969
07-11-2021||---||Kumari Selja slams govt over DAP crunch, lathicharge on farmers in Narnaund||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja today slammed the state government over shortage of DAP fertilisers in state and the lathicharge on farmers in Narnaund, Hisar.Selja said this government was hell bent on ruining the farmers at every level.In a statement issued today, Selja said Haryana had been struggling for DAP fertilisers for one-and-a-half-month.She said amid conspiracy in the mandis, the government procurement of paddy was not taking place and fertilisers were not being made available for sowing the crop further.On the other hand, the fertiliser was being sold on the black market.She added that the way farmers were brutally lathicharged in Narnaund, it was shameful. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kumari-selja-slams-govt-over-dap-crunch-lathicharge-on-farmers-in-narnaund-334968
07-11-2021||---||BKU: Stop selling sulphur with urea or face protest||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, November 6The BKU (Charuni) has threatened to launch an agitation if the alleged forced selling of sulphur along with urea is not stopped.The BKU has written to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, expressing resentment and seeking immediate action. The union said farmers were already being forced to buy sulphur and other products with diammonium phosphate (DAP) and, now, the condition of forcible buying of sulphur had been imposed on urea.Unethical business practicesWith every four bags of urea, which costs Rs250 a bag, dealers forcibly sell a bag of sulphur, which costs Rs250. Rakesh Bains, BKU (Charuni) spokesmanBKU (Charuni) spokesman Rakesh Bains said, “Fertiliser companies and dealers have started adopting unethical business practices. This is unacceptable. With every four bags of urea, which costs Rs 250 a bag, dealers forcibly sell a bag of sulphur, which costs Rs 250.”He further said, “When the matter was flagged, the Agriculture Department simply asked farmers to refuse to buy suplhur from shopkeepers. This is easier said than done. Shopkeepers don’t sell urea without sulphur.”The BKU (Charuni) has requested the Union Minister to provide adequate stock of the DAP and urea, direct the companies to stop forcing farmers to buy additional products, and take action against such firms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-stop-selling-sulphur-with-urea-or-face-protest-334967
07-11-2021||---||DAP shortage in Hisar, Sirsa; farmers allege laxity||Hisar, November 6Farmers today blocked a road in Ratia town of Fatehabad district in protest against the shortage of diammonium phosphate (DAP).The situation in neighbouring districts is no different. Farmers in Sirsa and Hisar districts are finding it hard to procure the fertiliser for sowing wheat and mustard.At a local grain market here, a long queue of farmers outside a fertiliser shop has become a routine affair. They make several rounds of the shop, hoping against hope to buy the DAP, but return empty-handed.“I came at 5 am. After having waited for several hours, the shopkeeper said he had run out of stock. This has been the norm for the past several days. I have to return empty-handed,” said Sukhdev, a farmer of Hisar’s Juglan village.A farmer from Kaimari village said he needed 10 bags of DAP for his 10 acres of land. “If I do not get the DAP, I will not be able to sow the seeds as the land will dry up. The authorities are least concerned.”Several women were also queued up outside the fertiliser shop today. As the shop was closed at 2 pm, they returned empty-handed. A group of four women from Rawalwas village said they did not know whom to contact for registering their grievances.Hisar DC Priyanka Soni said: “I have issued instructions to officials and fertiliser inspectors to conduct surprise inspections of warehouses of vendors. If any laxity is detected in the distribution, storage and sale, action should be taken immediately.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dap-shortage-in-hisar-sirsa-farmers-allege-laxity-334966
07-11-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram air poor, breaks 4-year record||Gurugram, November 6Despite all efforts by the authorities concerned, the cracker ban went up in smoke in Gurugram. The poor AQI broke the record of the past four years.On Saturday, the city’s air was nine times more polluted than normal. The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Gurugram was recorded at 456 (critical category).The air of Millennium City was more polluted than neighbouring Delhi. The national capital’s AQI stood at 437, while Faridabad’s AQI was 439, Ghaziabad’s was 466 and Noida’s was 461.Ghaziabad was the most polluted in Delhi-NCR. The air in Gurugram has been in the critical category for the past two days. In such a situation, even breathing in this air can make people sick.The residents have been on a cracker-bursting spree for the past two days and it continued even today.There has been increase in the number of patients with breathing issues and the Health Department has issued ‘stay indoors’ directive. “People with breathing trouble or having any irritation should not step out. Senior citizens may have to stall their walks and children too need to be cautious,” said CMO Dr Virender Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-air-poor-breaks-4-year-record-334965
07-11-2021||---||Book BJP MP Ram Chander Jangra, aides for murder bid, says SKM||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 6The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today demanded registration of an attempt-to-murder case against BJP Rajya Sabha member Ram Chander Jangra and his aides, who, it alleged, assaulted farmers during a protest in Narnaund yesterday.It threatened to gherao the office of the Superintendent of Police on November 8.The SKM also demand cancellation of a criminal case registered against farmers, who were booked for allegedly throwing “lathis” on Jangra’s car yesterday, as a result of which the windshield of the vehicle was damaged. The farmers’ body said the dharna outside the police station would continue till the administration agreed to its demands.On Friday, farmers attacked Jangra’s car in protest against his alleged anti-farmer remark. When the police intervened, there was a confrontation between them and the protesters. About 15 farmers were booked.The SKM claimed Jangra’s aides attacked farmers and one of them, Kuldeep Rana, was injured. He was admitted to a private hospital in a critical condition.“Doctors operated upon Rana last night. We hope for his speedy recovery,” SKM leader Suresh Koth said, adding if the administration failed to fulfil the SKM’s demands, it would take a stern decision on November 8.Hansi Superintendent of Police (SP) Nitika Gahlot denied that farmer activist Rana was injured in police action. “He has no external injuries. He was suffering from some ailment and suffered a sudden stroke,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/book-bjp-mp-ram-chander-jangra-aides-for-murder-bid-says-skm-334964
07-11-2021||---||Will gouge out eyes and chop off hands, warns BJP MP Arvind Sharma day later||Rohtak, November 6Attacking the Congress over some of his party leaders being held up in Rohtak, BJP MP Arvind Sharma today threatened that “eye will be gouged out and hand chopped off” if anybody tries to target former Haryana minister Manish Grover.Sharma’s remark came a day after Grover and some other BJP leaders were held up for hours inside a temple complex in Rohtak’s Kiloi as several villagers and farmers staged a protest outside.The BJP today held a protest in Rohtak against the Congress, blaming it for the Friday incident. Addressing the gathering of protesters, BJP MP Sharma attacked the Congress and party leaders Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his son Deepender, and said Grover was targeted as Deepender Hooda lost the Lok Sabha polls because of him.“There is no doubt that the Rohtak Lok Sabha seat was won because of Grover,” said Sharma, who is the MP from Rohtak. Warning the Congress and party leader Deepender Hooda, Sharma said, “If any eye is raised against Grover, that eye will be gouged out. If any hand is raised, that hand will be chopped off. (We) will not spare.”After Grover and some BJP leaders were held up on Friday, it took the Rohtak district administration and police officials hours to pacify the protesters before the standoff came to an end and the leaders left the premise.Hooda’s effigy burntBJP workers burnt an effigy of former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda in Rohtak on Saturday in protest against the Friday incident at a temple in Kiloi village. Party leaders said those who resorted to hooliganism on the premises of Shiv Temple were supporters of the Congress. “Their shameful conduct has brought a bad name to the village and the temple. Such acts will not be tolerated. The episode indicates that Congress leaders are desperate for power,” one of the leaders said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-gouge-out-eyes-and-chop-off-hands-warns-bjp-mp-arvind-sharma-day-later-334832
07-11-2021||---||In Haryana, 75 per cent job quota for locals from Januray||Chandigarh, November 6The Haryana Government will implement from January 15 next year its law ensuring 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs for local candidates. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, was passed on March 2, but the decision on its implementation was announced today.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, in a statement, said another notification was issued today, which reduced the upper limit of gross monthly salary for the posts under the Act from Rs 50,000 to Rs 30,000.The Act will be applicable to employers of private sector companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms and any person who employs 10 or more persons on salary, wages or other remuneration for the purpose of manufacturing, carrying on business or rendering any service in Haryana.Under Section 3 of the Act, it will be mandatory for all employers to register their employees drawing a gross monthly salary or wages not more than Rs 30,000 on the designated portal available on the official website of the Haryana Labour Department. Under Section 4 of the Act, the employers have to hire 75 per cent of local candidates in all new recruitments.The employer may claim exemption where adequate number of local candidates of the desired skill, qualification or proficiency is not available. The violation of any provision of this Act will be a punishable offence.CM Manohar Lal Khattar said the need of the hour was to create a harmonious environment for the industry as well as generate employment for local candidates.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said the allinace government had fulfilled their promise of reserving 75 per cent jobs in private sector for the local youth.Exemption clauseIndia Inc: Relook||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-haryana-75-per-cent-job-quota-for-locals-from-januray-334808
07-11-2021||---||Haryana notifies Act for 75 per cent reservation to local youth in private sector||Chandigarh, November 6The Haryana government on Saturday notified the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, which will be made applicable from January 15, 2022.The Act was passed on March 2 this year for ensuring 75 per cent reservation for the local youth in employment in the private sector.While issuing a statement, CM Manohar Lal Khattar said another notification was issued today, specifying the upper limit of gross monthly salary under the Act, where it has been reduced from Rs 50,000 to Rs 30,000.The Act will be applicable to employers of private sector companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms and any person who employs 10 or more persons on salary, wages, or other remuneration for the purpose of manufacturing, carrying on business, or rendering any service in Haryana.The CM said that it would be mandatory for all these employers to register all their employees drawing a gross monthly salary or wages not more than Rs. 30,000 on the designated portal available on the official website of the Labour Department, Haryana.They have to hire 75 percent of local candidates in all-new recruitments for posts where the gross monthly salary or wages does not exceed Rs 30,000. The employer may claim exemption where the adequate number of local candidates of the desired skill, qualification, or proficiency is not available by applying to the Designated Officer.The violation of any provision of this Act will be a punishable offence.Khattar said that the need of the hour is to create a harmonious environment for the industry in the state, especially for the youth of the state, along with creating the right balance between the progress of industries and the economy.Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said they had promised that they would ensure 75 per cent employment opportunities for local candidates in the private sector, which has been accomplished.The CM added that with all these efforts, the Haryana government aims to make state ‘Berozgar Mukt-Rozgar Yukt’ by 2024.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-notifies-act-for-75-per-cent-reservation-to-local-youth-in-private-sector-334757
07-11-2021||Chandigarh||Eye will be gouged out & hand chopped off, threatens Haryana BJP MP after former minister held up||Attacking the Congress over some of his party leaders being held up in Rohtak, Bharatiya Janata Party Member of Parliament Arvind Sharma on Saturday threatened that “eye will be gouged out and hand chopped off” if anybody tries to target former Haryana minister Manish Grover.Sharma’s remark came a day after Grover and some other BJP leaders were held up for hours inside a temple complex in Rohtak’s Kiloi as several villagers and farmers staged a protest outside.The BJP on Saturday held a protest in Rohtak against the Congress, blaming it for the Friday incident.Addressing the gathering of protesters, BJP MP Sharma attacked the Congress and party leaders Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his son Deepender Hooda, and said that Grover was targeted as Deepender Hooda lost the Lok Sabha polls because of him.“There is no doubt that the Rohtak Lok Sabha seat was won because of Manish Grover,” said Sharma, who is the MP from Rohtak.Warning the Congress and party leader Deepender Hooda, Sharma said: “If any eye is raised against Manish Grover then that eye will be gouged out and if any hand is raised then that hand will be chopped off. (We) will not spare”.After Grover and some BJP leaders were held up on Friday, it took the Rohtak district administration and police officials’ hours to pacify the protesters before the standoff came to an end and the leaders left the premise. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eye-will-be-gouged-out-hand-chopped-off-threatens-haryana-bjp-mp-after-former-minister-held-up-334756
