08-11-2021||Chandigarh||FIR lodged against 200 people for confining former Haryana minister Manish Grover in temple||Rohtak police have registered a case against around 200 unnamed people for confining former Haryana Minister Manish Grover and some other BJP leaders from the district inside a temple complex for several hours, officials said on Monday.The incident took place on Friday in Kiloi when a group of villagers and farmers had staged a dharna outside the temple complex.Nearly 200 people have been booked and further investigations are on, a DSP rank official of Rohtak police said on Monday.The BJP on Saturday held a protest in Rohtak against the Congress, blaming it for the Friday incident.While addressing the gathering of protesters, BJP MP Arvind Sharma said that Grover was targeted as Deepender Hooda lost the Lok Sabha polls because of him.He allegedly threatened that “eye will be gouged out and hand chopped off” if anybody tried to target Grover.While talking to reporters in Karnal on Monday, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar referred to an incident of lynching near Singhu border, when asked to comment on Sharma’s remarks. “…better it will be if one speaks against those who have cut hands and feet”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fir-lodged-against-200-people-for-confining-former-haryana-minister-manish-grover-in-temple-335619
08-11-2021||---||Glasgow summit a watershed event for electric vehicles industry, says eWheelers CEO||Chandigarh, November 8Vasu Deva Reddy Beerala, Founder and CEO, eWheelers, one of India’s largest electric vehicles marketplace eWheelers Mobility Solutions, has termed the Glasgow Climate Summit a watershed event for the electric vehicles (EVs) industry.“COP26 climate summit which is presently going on in Glasgow has put the spotlight on the importance of EVs in the present context. I am happy that senior Indian motor industry representatives have spoken about India’s vision regarding EVs at Glasgow. A plan of nearly two-thirds of new vehicles to be electric by 2030 has been promulgated and this will present a huge opportunity for all those connected with the EV industry,” said Beerala, who company has operations in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/glasgow-summit-a-watershed-event-for-electric-vehicles-industry-says-ewheelers-ceo-335590
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Will not hesitate from resigning again over farm laws: Abhay Chautala||Shortly after driving to the Haryana Vidhan Sabha on a tractor to take oath as an MLA, INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala said he will not hesitate from resigning again if farm unions say they want him to take the step.The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary had won the Ellenabad Assembly seat in the bypolls necessitated by his own resignation over the Centre's farm laws.Reacting to his statement, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala described him as a "non-serious politician".The INLD leader termed his win in the Ellenabad bypolls as a victory of farmers and said he won't hesitate from resigning again over the laws.Replying to a question, the MLA said he will be going to Delhi's Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Shahjahanpur borders to meet the protesting farmers."I will meet farmers. If farm unions tell me that such a step is needed for the repeal of black farm laws, then I will not hesitate from resigning again," he said.Chautala, who is the son of the INLD president and former chief minister O P Chautala, drove a green-coloured tractor to the Vidhan Sabha building from his Sector 9 residence here.The MLA was accompanied by some of his family members, INLD state unit president Nafe Singh Rathi and former Haryana DGP M S Malik.Abhay Chautala alleged that the state government blatantly misused official machinery in the bypolls and the powers that be lured the voters with money."We made 15 complaints to the Election Commission regarding the violation of the model code of conduct and also gave proof, including videos, in this regard but we did not get any response," he alleged."We demand an inquiry by a sitting judge into blatant misuse of official machinery," the MLA said.He said in a peaceful constituency, heavy deployment of police and paramilitary forces defied logic."They made it look like this bypoll was being held in Kashmir Valley. BJP candidate and those campaigning in his favour used to be accompanied by 20 vehicles of police and paramilitary forces," said Chautala.Replying to a question on his victory margin narrowing this time as against the 2019 Assembly polls when he had won by nearly 12,000 votes, Chautala said last time only 57,000 votes were polled in his favour in comparison to nearly 65,000 this time."This is despite the fact that the BJP, JJP and the Haryana Lokhit Party were fighting the polls together against me and even the Congress had joined hands with them to see that I lose, but their hopes were dashed," said Chautala.Abhay said JJP chief Ajay Singh Chautala, who is his elder brother, the latter's MLA wife Naina Chautala and their sons Dushyant Chautala and Digvijay Chautala tried their best to see that he loses the bypolls."Ajay Singh, his both sons, bhabhi (sister-in-law Naina) used to campaign door-to-door until late in the night. More than Gobind, it was they who were fighting polls,” he said.Abhay Chautala said the Congress candidate had got 35,000 votes in the 2019 Assembly polls from the constituency but he lost security deposits this time.He said the poor show by the Congress resulted in some votes being transferred to the BJP candidate.Meanwhile, Haryana's Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said Abhay was a "non-serious politician".  Dushyant said BJP-JJP candidate Gobind Kanda secured nearly 60,000 votes and gave a tough fight to Abhay, which in itself was a victory for BJP-JJP workers.Making a reference to Abhay, Dushyant said those who used to claim that they will win with a margin of over 30,000 votes have been shown the mirror by the people of Ellenabad.When asked that Abhay has said if farmers again ask him to resign he will not hesitate, Dushyant said, "He has made resignation thing a joke. Does an elected representative have no responsibility towards those who chose him. This is why I often say he is a non-serious politician." The INLD leader had defeated his nearest rival JJP-backed BJP candidate Gobind Kanda by a margin of 6,739 votes.Pawan Beniwal of the Congress came a distant third.Gobind Kanda, the brother of Haryana Lokhit Party chief and MLA Gopal Kanda, joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) last month.Beniwal, who had unsuccessfully contested the previous Assembly polls against Chautala, recently switched over from the BJP to the Congress. --- PTINNNN||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-not-hesitate-from-resigning-again-over-farm-laws-abhay-chautala-335583
08-11-2021||Deepender Deswal||Police make elaborate security arrangements as farmers set to gherao SP office in Hisar’s Hansi||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 8The mini-secretariat in Hansi town of the district has turned into a fortress with massive buildup of the police around the building as the farmers have given a call to gherao the office of the superintendent of police.Also read: Farmers to gherao SP office in Hansi todayThe farmers have demanded registration of a criminal case against BJP Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra and his aides while urging the police to cancel the criminal case registered against 15 farmers during the confrontation between the farmers, and the police and security aides of the BJP MP during his visit to Narnaund on November 5.The farmers have been staging dharna at the Narnaund police station in support of their demands. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has decided to gherao the SP office in Hansi to press for their demands on Monday.Sources said SKM leader Rakesh Tikait is likely to join the gherao.Police sources maintained that they expected a large number of farmers and had called for reinforcements from neighbouring districts of Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind and Bhiwani.The farmers were upset with Jangra, alleging that he had made objectionable remarks about the farmers sitting on dharna at the Delhi borders for the past one year in support of their demand for repeal of the three farm laws.During his visit to Narnaund on November 5, the farmers' protest had turned sour as the windshield of the MP’s car was smashed by the protesters. One of the farmer activists, Kuldeep Rana, allegedly suffered injuries during the confrontation with police and the security of the BJP MP. Rana was admitted to a Hisar hospital in a critical condition.Jangra had also made similar remarks about the farmers earlier this year. But he had apologised after he was stopped by the farmers at the Ramayan toll plaza during his visit to Hisar. The farmers had let him off only after he expressed regret over his remarks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-make-elaborate-security-arrangements-as-farmers-set-to-gherao-sp-office-in-hisars-hansi-335539
08-11-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Poorly maintained park in Ambala sector||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Poorly maintained park in Ambala sectorThe park in front of lane 1183- 1196 vice versa in Sector 9, Ambala, is poorly constructed and badly maintained. The apparatus are rusted and nobody has ever come here for inspection. Cracks have developed in less than two years. The reason for such poor maintenance is lack of surprise checks and monitoring. I hope the authorities will take cognizance of all complaints and take action at once. Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityDumped garbage poses health hazardThe garbage dumped in the backyard of Hanuman Temple close to the Sector 13 market in Kurukshetra has become a breeding ground of diseases. Similar situation exists in Sector 7 also. The garbage is spread in an area of 2,000 sq metres, posing a serious threat of dengue. Urgent attention and action is required. Chander Prakash, KurukshetraVehicles being parked on road in RohtakVehicles being parked on the road connecting Prem Nagar Chowk to Radio Station in the city have become a major cause of traffic jam over there. Owners of nearby shops andpeople visiting them park their vehicles on both sides of the road. The jam on the road also disrupts traffic on Subhash Road. Many times the authorities have been apprised of the issue but to no avail. The municipal authorities should find an amicable solution to it. Deepak Rathi, Rohtak||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poorly-maintained-park-in-ambala-sector-335418
08-11-2021||Hisar||Diwali celebrated at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, Hisar||National-level online mock testFatehabad: The department of English of the Manohar Memorial Post-Graduate College, Fatehabad organised a national-level online mock test in collaboration with Pearson India for the aspirants of National Eligibility Test (NET) and Junior Research Fellowship (JRF). The test was based on the latest trend, pattern and syllabus of NTA UGC NET/JRF. More than 100 aspirants from various institutions, including University of Delhi, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Ambedkar University (Delhi), Ettumanoorappan College (Kerala); Tezpur University (Central University in Tezpur, Assam), Ravenshaw University (State University in Odisha); University of Madras (Public University in Chennai, Tamil Nadu); Nar Bahadur Bhandari Degree College (NBBDC), Gangtok (Sikkim); Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, Allahabad (Uttar Pradesh), NMKRV PU College (Bengaluru, Karnataka); Chaudhary Devi Lal University (Sirsa), Maharshi Dayanand University (Rohtak), Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra and the affiliated colleges of these universities took part in this test by submitting their "Google forms" during the scheduled time-period.Farmers, scientists interactKarnal: The Livestock Production Management Division of ICAR-NDRI, Karnal, organised a farmers-scientists interaction programme in Pinjauri, Mustafabad, Yamunagar under the guidance of Dr Manmohan Singh Chauhan, Director in the SCSP project entitled livestock-crop based technological interventions for the empowerment of scheduled caste farmers in selected districts of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana. Dr Arun Kumar Misra, head and project investigator explained the advancement in scientific dairying and its role in enhancing the socio-economic status of scheduled caste farmers. Dr K Ponnusomy highlighted the importance of integrated farming and entrepreneurship development activities taken under the project for enhancing the livelihood of the poor people. Dr Jitender Rand, ACTO, explained about the importance of improved varieties of wheat, oat and berseem and their package of practices to the participating farmers. Improved seed of wheat (30 quintal) varieties: DW 187 and HD 3226, Oat: Kent (3 quintal) and Berseem BL 42 (30 kg) and vegetable kits (50) were distributed to 105 scheduled caste farmers/farm women for sowing during the rabi season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/diwali-celebrated-at-chaudhary-charan-singh-haryana-agriculture-university-hisar-335414
08-11-2021||---||Better power supply sought in Alipur-Barwala industrial area||Chandigarh, November 7Industrialists intending to set up units in the Alipur-Barwala industrial area in Panchkula district have demanded better power supply.Baldev Goel, executive member of the Beopar Prakoshth of the BJP, in a representation to the Haryana Chief Minister, said a number of industrialists in the pharmaceutical industry wanted to set up their units in this industrial area. However, there were a lot of problems due to regular power cuts here. The installation of a new power grid in the Barwala/Raipur Rani area could solve the problem of erratic power supply in the area, he said.Meanwhile, he demanded the setting up of an office of the HSIIDC in Barwala to take care of the routine problems of the industrialists, besides an early decision on the industrialist plots resumed by the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/better-power-supply-sought-in-alipur-barwala-industrial-area-335394
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||Envoys discuss trade, education with Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given powers to Indian states with regard to promotion of foreign trade, commerce, education, tourism, art and culture.This was stated today by the Governor of Haryana, Bandaru Dattatreya, while interacting with the ambassadors, high commissioners and representatives of seven countries who came to meet him at Raj Bhawan here.In this group of foreign delegations, High Commissioner of Fiji Kamlesh Shashi Prakash, High Commissioner of Papua New Guinea Paulias Carni Obe, General Councilor of the Union of Kormos KL Ganjoo, Burkina Faso’s Head of Consular Affairs Collibelli D Herbe, Principato D Seborga (West Attica) Representative HV Jain, Egyptian Embassy representative Mustafa F Sekhon and Nigeria’s Mustafa Ebobkar Diori and more than a dozen representatives of Global Trade and Technology Council of India were present. Bandaru Dattatreya welcomed the delegates and said that with visits and meetings on such a large scale, the relations between our country as well as of the states with foreign countries would be enhanced. It would lead to progress in trade, agriculture, art, culture, education and environment between other states and countries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/envoys-discuss-trade-education-with-haryana-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-335393
08-11-2021||---||Miraculous escape for nine from Gujarat as mini-bus catches fire in Samalkha||Sonepat, November 7Nine members of two families from Gujarat had a miraculous escape when the mini-bus they were travelling in caught fire on a flyover on the NH-44 in Samalkha today.The mishap occurred at 2.15 pm when the families were on their way to Shimla from Delhi. As they reached the flyover, the driver of the vehicle, Latif, noticed smoke coming out from the engine of the bus. He immediately stopped the bus.Meanwhile, the bus caught fire and all passengers immediately alighted from it with their luggage. The bus started rolling back and it stopped after colliding with a divider at a distance of 200m.The vehicle was completely burnt till a fire tender reached the spot and controlled the flames.Rajender Patel, a passenger from Gujarat, said the reason behind the fire was a short-circuit in the AC fitting of the bus. He, along with his family members, saved their lives after jumping out of the bus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/miraculous-escape-for-nine-from-gujarat-as-mini-bus-catches-fire-in-samalkha-335392
08-11-2021||Panipat||Dengue cases on the rise in Panipat, Sonepat||Dengue cases are surging in Panipat and Sonepat. As many as 618 cases were reported from Sonepat district and 154 cases have been reported from Panipat so far.As per the sources in the Health Department, Sonepat district has witnessed an alarming increase in the number of dengue cases in the recent days.Only 93 cases were reported in Sonepat till October 14 and a spike in cases was reported after October 15. With the increase of 525 cases within 22 days, the district has recorded 618 cases so far. Admitting to the surge in dengue cases in the district, Dr Anvita Kaushik, Nodal Officer for Malaria and Dengue, said some sensitive areas had been identified from where more cases have been reported in the district.In Panipat, dengue cases are rising in the district. As per the Health Department’s data, 154 dengue-positive cases have been reported so far in the district. Dr Sunil Sanduja, Nodal Officer for Dengue and Malaria, said that maximum cases in the district have been reported from Samalkha block. On the number rising in the city, Dr Sanduja said that private doctors were conducting tests through card tests which were not acceptable. We conduct confirmatory tests in our own laboratory by Eliza test, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dengue-cases-on-the-rise-in-panipat-sonepat-335390
08-11-2021||Nitish Sharma||Air quality continues to remain ‘very poor’ in Kurukshetra||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, November 7Air quality in Kurukshetra continued to be ‘very poor’, with the air quality index (AQI) recording average particulate matter (PM) 2.5 at 355 on Sunday Evening.In the morning the average particulate matter (PM) 2.5 was recorded to be 325 and as the day progressed, the air quality worsened further.Garbage burning also culpritOnly farm fires and cracker burning can’t be blamed for the poor air quality, but burning of garbage is also deteriorating the air quality. Naresh Bhardwaj, member of green earth NGODirections issued not to burn waste in openDirections have already been issued to all concerned to ensure that garbage or other waste material is not burnt in the open. Mukul Kumar, DC, K’shetraNaresh Bhardwaj, member of Green Earth NGO, said “Air pollution is one of the biggest problems that we have been facing. Only farm fires and cracker burning can’t be blamed for the poor air quality, but burning of garbage is also deteriorating the air quality. There are several points, including Pipli, new bus stand, Brahmanand chowk, Near Maharana Pratap chowk, old bus stand, near Civil hospital, and third gate in the city where the garbage burning can be noticed on a regular basis but no action is being taken.”“The garbage and waste are dumped at open sites and then the same are set on fire late in the evening or early in the morning. Shopkeepers and residents have also been setting garbage on fire. The NGO has taken up the issue several times but to no avail. The Thanesar Municipal Council has not been able to control the burning of waste in the open. The municipal council must issue challans to people who set the garbage on fire. There is a need for collective effort to improve the situation”, the NGO member said.On the other hand, going tough on farmers who had set paddy straw ablaze, the district administration has recovered over Rs 7 lakh as ECC (environment compensation charge) in 335 cases in the district in this season so far. As per the information, the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) had reported total 485 active fire locations of which stubble burning was confirmed on 381 locations during inspections. Of the total confirmed cases, the fine has been recovered in 335 cases.The DC, Kurukshetra, Mukul Kumar, said “The air quality has been on the very poor side, but efforts are being made to improve the situation. Farmers are being educated and made aware of the ill-effects of burning paddy residue. Fines are also being imposed. Directions have already been issued to all concerned to ensure that garbage or other waste material is not burnt in the open.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/air-quality-continues-to-remain-very-poor-in-kurukshetra-335388
08-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||Traffic violations continue in Rohtak; 5,358 challans issued||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 7Despite awareness programmes and adopting of tough stance against violators by the district authorities, people continue to throw traffic rules to the wind by driving vehicles either on the wrong side or beyond the speed limit.Ensuring compliance of traffic rulesEfforts are being made to ensure the compliance of traffic rules by all commuters to prevent the possibility of road mishaps. Mahendra Pal, Additional Deputy CommissionerThe authorities issued a total of 5,358 challans in the district in September and around 28 per cent among these were for overspeeding and wrong driving.As per official information, 896 challans for wrong-side driving and 592 challans for overspeeding were issued in the time span. Similarly, 247 persons were fined for driving without helmets, 183 for wrong parking and 96 for not wearing seat belts. Besides, the remaining 2,997 challans were issued for drunken driving, use of mobile phones while driving etc.Sources said driving licenses of 251 violators were recommended for suspension while many violators were given counselling to make them aware of traffic rules so that they could follow these in future. The Regional Transport Authorities (RTA) also fined 347 heavy vehicles for overloading in September.“Wrong-side driving and overspeeding are two major causes responsible for road mishaps hence focus is on to put a complete check on these wrong practices. Generally, people drive on the wrong side in an attempt to save time and fuel but they put their own as well as other commuters’ lives at risk. People are now becoming aware of it as the number of challan in this category is going down,” said a police official.He maintained special teams had been deployed on all national and state highways passing through the district to curb the practice of overspeeding by penalising the violators. Since traffic cops are on duty at every nook and corner, hence a majority of people now wear helmets while driving, he added.“All efforts are being made to ensure the compliance of traffic rules by all commuters to prevent the possibility of road mishaps. Besides challaning the violators, other steps like ensuring proper light at sensitive points, signboards, blocking of unauthorised cuts and speed-breakers at approach roads are being taken,” said Mahendra Pal, Additional Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traffic-violations-continue-in-rohtak-5-358-challans-issued-335386
08-11-2021||Jhajjar||Haryana Diary: Police cop out, MLA Geeta Bhukkal calls up SP||Unfazed in face of protestAmbala: A spokesperson for an Opposition leader was cornered in one of the local markets in the run-up to Diwali when he questioned shopkeepers for allegedly taking money from small vendors, who had set up kiosks on pavements. The shopkeepers, in turn, accused the spokesperson of having disturbed the festive fervour by defaming the ruling party. Later, the Opposition leader said supporters of the ruling party got frustrated when his aide “exposed” the shopkeepers. The spokesperson gave a different spin to the incident. He said he must be doing the right thing, for shopkeepers raised slogans against him.Bypoll lost, yet BJP upbeatHisar: The INLD’s win in the Ellenabad byelection notwithstanding, the BJP claims to have gained some ground in the Chautalas’ pocket borough. The ruling party is happy to have added about nine percentage points to its vote share as compared with the previous election. As for its candidate, Gobind Kanda, he is content with the fact that he polled the highest-ever votes (59,253) for the BJP in spite of the farmers’ protest, bringing down Abhay Chautala’s victory margin to 6,739 votes. On the other hand, Abhay, who polled 65,992 votes, said he had improved his vote percentage by 5.6 points compared with the previous poll.Third Front? Chautala hopefulYamunanagar: Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala’s victory in the Ellenabad Assembly bypoll has boosted the morale of his father, Om Prakash Chautala, who is striving for a Third Front. “I will continue to make efforts for the Third Front and present a political alternative before the nation ahead of the 2024 General Election,” he told the media here on Sunday, sounding confident of stitching an alliance of like-minded parties.Contributed by Ravinder Saini, Nitish Sharma, Deepender Deswal and Shiv Kumar Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-diary-police-cop-out-mla-geeta-bhukkal-calls-up-sp-335383
08-11-2021||---||Diwali shooting in Gurugram village: Toll rises to three||Gurugram, November 7Three days after the Kasan village shooting, one more victim, Parveen Kumar (42) of Bhiwani, succumbed to injuries. On Diwali night, the family of a former sarpanch was attacked over some enmity.Three persons have died so far, two are in hospital and the eight-year-old victim was discharged today.According to the police, Parveen had suffered gunshot injuries in the liver and intestine.The police have formed four teams from IMT Manesar police station to trace the group of 10 people of a rival gang allegedly behind the attack.The police have identified Yogender alias Rinku, the kingpin of the rival gang, as the mastermind and one of the attackers involved in the shooting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/diwali-shooting-in-gurugram-village-toll-rises-to-three-335382
08-11-2021||Yamunanagar||Staffer raped at health centre in Yamunanagar village||A woman employee (outsourced employee) posted as ward servant at a primary health centre (PHC) in Chhachhrauli block of Yamunanagar district was allegedly raped by a multipurpose health worker (MPHW) in the store room of the PHC.On the complaint of the victim, a case was registered against MPHW Ajit, who lives in the quarters of the PHC, under Sections 376-E and 506 of the IPC at the women’s police station on November 5.The complainant said that she belongs to a colony of Yamunanagar and posted at a PHC of a village in Yamunanagar district as a ward servant. She said Ajit also works in the PHC.“I was working in the medical store of the PHC. Around 1.20 pm on November 3, Ajit came there. He caught hold of my hand and dragged me inside the store room. He bolted the room and raped me,” alleged the victim in her police complaint.She said he threatened her that he would kill her if she told anyone about the incident. The accused was arrested yesterday and sent to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/staffer-raped-at-health-centre-in-yamunanagar-village-335381
08-11-2021||Chandigarh||18 new Covid cases in Haryana||The state recorded 18 fresh Covid cases, pushing the infection tally to 7,71,326 on Sunday, a health bulletin said. The death toll remained at 10,050 as no new fatality was reported.Of the new cases, eight were reported from Gurugram and six from Rohtak. There are 89 active cases, while 7,61,164 people have recuperated from the infection. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/18-new-covid-cases-in-haryana-335380
08-11-2021||Hisar||3 youths killed in Narwana road accident||Three youths were killed and three others suffered injuries when a car collided with a tractor-trailer near the railway overbridge in Narwana of Jind district on the Hisar-Chandigarh road today.A group of five youths was returning after a trip to Himachal. When they reached near Narwana, their car collided with a tractor-trailer. The deceased have been identified as Sonu (20), a resident of Mirchpur village in Hisar district; Deepak (21) of Bhaini village in Hisar district; and Saijal, who was on the tractor.The police said three other youths suffered multiple injuries and were referred to the medical college, Agroha. Tractor driver Kurban said the car came from behind and rammed into the tractor. The police have registered a case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-youths-killed-in-narwana-road-accident-335379
08-11-2021||---||Life story of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose to be displayed in Ambala park||Ambala, November 7The history and life story of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose will be displayed at the park named after him in Ambala Cantonment.The park, constructed at a cost of Rs 29 crore, was inaugurated in April this year in Ambala Cantonment. On Saturday, actor and writer Atul Tiwari, who reached Ambala Cantonment with his team, and officials of the district administration, visited the park to chalk out a plan in this context.Light and sound show proposedDiscussions have been held on options and means of display. There could be a light and sound show or a walkway to depict the life story of Netaji. Atul Tiwari, writerThe administrator of the Municipal Council Sadar Zone and Additional Deputy Commissioner Sachin Gupta said, “We have visited the park and there are plans to present the history and life story of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Discussions have been held on several options and means of display. There could be a light and sound show or a walkway to depict the story. We are exploring all possibilities. Atul Tiwari will prepare and present a presentation.”Earlier, Atul Tiwari met Home Minister Anil Vij at his residence and showed his presentation regarding the plans to display the artwork which will be carried out to show the revolt of 1857, the first struggle for freedom, at the under-construction Shaheed Smarak in Ambala Cantonment.SDO PWD (B&R) Ritesh Aggarwal, said “The construction work is going at a good pace and now the artwork will also be started. The historic events and contents will be displayed. There will be statues, murals and paintings, besides a short film. The executing agency has engaged a team of professionals for this work. Atul Tiwari has visited the site and showed his presentation to the minister. Tiwari has been asked to make some changes, and he will make another presentation after incorporating the required changes.”The Shaheed Smarak is being constructed at a cost of Rs 300 crore on 22 acres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/life-story-of-netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-to-be-displayed-in-ambala-park-335378
08-11-2021||---||Karnal sugar mill to start operation today||Karnal, November 7After a trial of over one month, the new Karnal Cooperative Sugar Mill is all set to start operation from Monday. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will inaugurate the mill and also the crushing season on Monday, besides opening the power generation plant of the mill.With the starting of the new mill, its crushing capacity will be 3,500 tonnes crushed per day (TCD) from 2,200 TCD, which was the capacity of the old mill, which had been working since 1977.A total of Rs 263 crore has been spent on the new mill and it will also generate 18 MW power. With the increase in the capacity, around 8 to 10 lakh tonnes of surplus sugarcane of the allocated area, which was earlier allotted to other sugar mills due to the less capacity of the mill, would now be crushed here.“We conducted a trial between April 8 and May 16, which was successful,” said Aditi, MD, Karnal Cooperative Sugar Mill, adding that the capacity of the mill would be expanded to 5,000 TCD.The old mill used to develop snags in the crushing season every year, causing resentment among farmers. CM Khattar had laid the foundation stone of the new sugar mill on January 20, 2018. The work was allotted on November 18, 2019, and the deadline was fixed as October 25, 2020, but due to the Covid lockdown, the project failed to meet the deadline and started the trial on April 8.To generate power also||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-sugar-mill-to-start-operation-today-335377
08-11-2021||---||Anil Vij: Hold prayers at religious places only||Ambala, November 7Amid the row over namaz in Gurugram, Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today said that such events should be held at the respective religious places only.Speaking to mediapersons here, the minister said, “Everybody should hold prayers inside religious places only. Without the administration’s permission, such events on the road should be avoided.”District admn’s permission mustEverybody should hold prayers inside religious places only. Without the district admn’s permission, such events on the road should be avoided. Anil Vij, Home MinisterOn Friday, BJP leader Kapil Mishra attended Govardhan puja held at a site in Gurugram’s Sector 12A, where Muslims offered namaz every week. The puja was organised by the Samyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti.A Gurugram police official had earlier said no namaz was scheduled to be offered at the site on Friday.On the farmers’ protest, Vij said the farmers had been avoiding dialogue with the government due to some unknown reasons. “The government has invited farmers repeatedly for discussions. In a democracy, issues are resolved through dialogue, but due to some unknown reasons, farmers don’t want to talk it out,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-hold-prayers-at-religious-places-only-335376
08-11-2021||---||Apologise for controversial remarks: Cong to Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma||Rohtak, November 7Congress Legislature Party chief whip and local MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra has sought a public apology from Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma for his “controversial” remarks over the recent Kiloi temple episode.Irresponsible remarks condemnableIrresponsible statements by the BJP MP are condemnable. Such derogatory language should not be used in public life. People understand the intentions behind these remarks. Deepender Hooda, Cong MPHe said the BJP leaders are intoxicated with power and crossing all limits of democracy.The Congress leader said it is wrong to use temples for conducting political programmes, but BJP leaders deliberately went to the temple for a political event despite resistance from farmers.The BJP leaders who were held up in the temple for hours were attempting to hold the Congress responsible for the incident by using lies, he alleged.Sharma had on Saturday threatened that “eyes will be gouged out and hands chopped off” if anybody tried to target former minister Manish Grover, who was held up inside a Rohtak temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/apologise-for-controversial-remarks-cong-to-rohtak-mp-arvind-sharma-335375
08-11-2021||Deepender Deswal||Farmers to gherao SP office in Hansi today||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 7Farmers today decided to gherao the office of the Superintendent of Police in Hansi tomorrow after the talks between the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the police remained inconclusive.Cops ‘biased’BJP MP Ram Chander Jangra and his aides had assaulted one of the activists, who suffered injuries. The police have booked 15 farmers for assault, but no case has been registered against the MP and his aides. Suresh Koth, SKM leaderThe SKM stuck to its demand that BJP MP Ram Chander Jangra and his aides be booked for attempt to murder, for they had allegedly assaulted farmers during a protest against the MP in Narnaund on Friday, but the police did not concede ground.The farmers also demand withdrawal of an FIR filed against two farmers.The windshield of Jangra’s car was smashed after some miscreants allegedly threw lathis on the vehicle during a protest over his visit to Hisar on Friday.A group of protesters carrying black flags blocked Jangra’s route in Narnaund, according to the police.Suresh Koth, an SKM leader, said: “The DSP was not forthcoming on the SKM’s demand. Jangra and his aides had assaulted an activist, Kuldeep Rana, who suffered severe injuries. He is in a critical condition. The police have booked 15 farmers on the charges of assault, but no case has been filed against the MP and his aides.”The dharna outside the Narnaund police station would continue until the SKM’s demand was met, he said, adding farmers would reach SP office at 10 am tomorrow.To brace up for the protest, a police spokesperson said reinforcements from Sirsa, Hisar, Jind and Fatehabad had been called, besides a contingent of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) would be deployed.Bajrang Das Garg, president of the Haryana Vyapar Mandal, supported the protest call by farmers. “The state government is registering false cases against the farmers. They are not alone in their struggle. The whole country is with them,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-to-gherao-sp-office-in-hansi-today-335313
08-11-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||Upset over quota, Haryana industry mulls moving court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 7Unhappy with the Haryana Government’s decision to implement 75 per cent reservation for local candidates in the industrial sector in the up to Rs 30,000 salary bracket from January 15 next year, industrialists of the state maintain that legal recourse remains their only option.While they are still consolidating and putting their heads together, president of the NCR Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Gurugram, HP Yadav said, “A number of chambers are getting together and joining hands to contest this reservation. The state is ill-equipped to provide the skilled hands required by the industry. We have no choice but to move court.”continued on page 9Various industrial organisations will meet shortly and prepare a blueprint on how to proceed, he added. Industrial production would fall and indiscipline would increase if the industry was forced to compromise on its workforce, said president of the Faridabad Small Industries association GS Tyagi. On condition of anonymity, the president of one of the industrial associations said the caste factor would negatively impact the work culture after reservation. “Some of the presidents in our associations owe allegiance to the ruling party, and cannot speak up,” he added.Opposed to such a law, the CII believes it will be detrimental to the industry and will be emulated by other states, thereby setting boundaries for the workforce.It is likely to holda meeting with all its members in the coming week to deliberate on the government order. Gurgaon Industrial Association president Jagan Nath Mangla claimed the industry was perturbed by the government decision.“Most of the industry is already employing locals wherever it is possible. That clause exists and is accepted when land is bought. However, there is no industry culture in Haryana and it hasn’t got enough skilled and semi-skilled labour. There is only agriculture. So to expect locals to meet the demands of the industry or to impose reservation is in nobody’s interest,” he added. Sources said top leaders of the industry even met the central leadership of the BJP to shelve the quota plan. “With no political or administrative recourse left, exploring the legal option is our only bet,” said Integrated Association of MSME chairman Rajiv Chawla.CII to discuss order||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/upset-over-quota-haryana-industry-mulls-moving-court-335283
