11-11-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid death in Haryana, 20 fresh cases recorded||Haryana reported no Covid-related death, while it added 20 new infections on Thursday, pushing the total case count in the state to 7,71,388, a government bulletin stated.According to the health department’s daily bulletin, the death toll remained unchanged at 10,050.Among the districts, 12 cases were reported from Gurugram.The total active cases in the state were 107 while the overall recoveries was 7,61,208.The recovery rate stood at 98.68 per cent, the bulletin said. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-covid-death-in-haryana-20-fresh-cases-recorded-336846
11-11-2021||---||Farm fires down by 64% in Haryana in 4 yrs: Agriculture Secy||Hisar, November 10Urging farmers to resort to crop residue management, the Additional Secretary, Union Agriculture Ministry, Dr Abhilaksh Likhi, said there was a significant reduction of 64 per cent in the number of incidents of burning of paddy residue in Haryana in the year 2020 compared to the year 2016.Interacting with farmers during his visit to the Northern Region Farm Machinery Training and Testing Institute (FMTTI) in Hisar today, Dr Likhi called upon the farmers to adopt the management of their crop residue which helps bring down air pollution further. He also took farmers’ feedback while inspecting the machines and equipment used for in-situ and ex-situ crop residue management at Northern Zone Farm Machinery Training and Testing Institute.Need to introduce drones in agricultureDrones and robots should be used in agriculture. In developed countries, robots are used for inter-cropping and spraying the fields. There is need for replacing traditional techniques with modern ones. —Abhilaksh Likhi, Additional secretaryThe official stated that the incidents of paddy straw burning had also come down by 52 per cent and 23 per cent in UP and Punjab, respectively.He informed the farmers that the Agriculture Department had introduced a Central scheme on crop residue management in Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi in 2018-19 to addressing the problem of air pollution in Delhi and National Capital Region due to stubble burning.He said under this scheme, financial assistance for the purchase of crop residue management machines was provided at 50% of the cost to individual farmers and at 80% of the project cost to cooperative societies of farmers, registered farmers societies, FPOs and panchayats for establishment of custom hiring centres of crop residue management machines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-fires-down-by-64-in-haryana-in-4-yrs-agriculture-secy-336667
11-11-2021||---||Bastara lathicharge: Panel gets 3 months more to submit report||Karnal, November 10Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni today appeared before the one-man commission constituted by the state government to inquire into the sequence of events that led to police lathicharge on protesting farmers at the Bastara toll plaza on August 28.Meanwhile, the commission has been given three more months to submit its report. Earlier, the commission had been given one more month. Now, it has four months to submit its report.Besides having recorded his statement, Charuni produced a list of 27 farmers, who had not been summoned by the commission.He had appeared before the commission last week, but his statement could not be completely recorded then.Today, Charuni submitted videos and photograph of the August 28 incident. IAS officer Ayush Sinha, who, as then Karnal SDM, was caught on tape for his controversial “break the heads” remark.Apart from the BKU leader, two doctors also recorded their statements.On the SKM’s plan of action, Charuni reiterated that a group of 500 farmers would march towards Parliament on November 29, when the winter session would begin. The BKU chief refuted reports of a rift among SKM leaders and claimed that all was well.Meanwhile, Justice Somnath Aggarwal (retd) of the Punjab and Haryana High Court said, “We will summon the SP, the then SDM, injured police personnel and media persons. We are collecting medico-legal reports from doctors.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bastara-lathicharge-panel-gets-3-months-more-to-submit-report-336669
11-11-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar sugar mill to begin crushing on Nov 16||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, November 10The management of the Saraswati Sugar Mills (SSM), Yamunanagar, has decided to start its crushing operation on November 16.Last year, the mill had started its operation on November 24. Farmers of 672 villages associated with the mill are happy with the decision as they will be able to sow the wheat crop timely on 25,000 acres after harvesting the sugarcane crop.With a crushing capacity of 1lakh quintal per day, it is one of the largest sugar mills of the country. The command area of the mill is about 90,000 acres (comprising Yamunanagar and parts of Ambala and Kurukshetra).“This year, we are starting the crushing operation a week earlier as compared to the last year. At the time of cane planting, we assured the farmers of an early start of crushing during 2021-22 season,” said DP Singh, senior vice president, Saraswati Sugar Mills.He said the mill had crushed 162 lakh quintals of sugarcane last year. This year, they had set a target of 175 lakh quintal, he said.“In the last crushing season, we paid Rs 565 crore to sugarcane farmers and there is no payment pending,” said DP Singh. He said the management of the mill would ensure farmers had a trouble-free cane crushing season.Satpal Kaushik, a progressive farmer, said the decision to start the crushing operation a week earlier as compared to the last year was good, but in future, all mills of the state should start crushing on November 1.Ops to begin a week in advanceThis year, crushing will begin a week earlier as compared to the last year. Farmers are happy as they will be able to sow the wheat crop timely after harvesting the sugarcane crop||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-sugar-mill-to-begin-crushing-on-nov-16-336671
11-11-2021||Karnal||Arhtiyas seek gate passes for Karnal paddy farmers||Scores of arhtiyas of the Karnal grain market today met the DC, demanding the restart of the process to issue gate passes to those farmers of the district who had yet to sell their produce.They said the administration could get it checked whether the paddy belonged to the farmers of Karnal or not.The arhtiyas association said the government had stopped procurement from November 3 and assured them to start it from November 8, but still no procurement had started.“A large number of farmers are waiting outside grain markets to get their produce sold as they are not being given gate passes,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said he would take up the issue with the higher authorities and act accordingly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arhtiyas-seek-gate-passes-for-karnal-paddy-farmers-336673
11-11-2021||---||Illegal sale of biodiesel: Haryana Petroleum Dealers Association calls for strike on Nov 15||Hisar, November 10The Haryana Petroleum Dealers Association has given a call for strike on November 15 in protest against the illegal sale of spurious biodiesel at cheaper rates.Spurious biodiesel is being sold in the district at Rs 30 per litre cheaper than diesel, causing losses to fuel stations.Sources say there are illegal sale points of biodiesel in the interiors of the district. A warehouse in Adampur supplies biodiesel to various parts of the district, they add.The association said illegal sale points existed across the state and the government should launch a crackdown.It said biodiesel was sourced from Mundra Port in Gujarat and supplied in Haryana via Rajasthan.All-Haryana Petroleum Dealers Association president Rajkumar Salemgarh said, “Spurious biodiesel is prepared by mixing base oil and white oil. It is being sold in the name of bio fuel to industries and vehicle owners. Since it is cheaper by 30 to 40 rupees per litre than diesel, people are falling in the trap.” The sources say even some fuel station operators are procuring biodiesel and selling it by mixing diesel in it.District Food and Supply Controller Ashok Sharma said, “If anyone gives information about the illegal sale of biodiesel, the authorities will take action immediately.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-sale-of-biodiesel-haryana-petroleum-dealers-association-calls-for-strike-on-nov-15-336674
11-11-2021||Gurugram||Chatt Puja to be restricted holiday: Haryana CM||Out to woo Purvanchalis in the state, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced Chhat Puja to be a restricted holiday from next year.Khattar was in the city today and participated in the puja celebrations at Sector10-A. He also announced the construction of a permanent ghat for puja in the city.Find a place with water source and we will make a dedicated ghat for this pooja there, he said.Claiming that people from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Purvanchal who migrated to city were part of Haryanavi population, he announced that the state government was providing domicile to all those who had been living in the state for at least five years now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chatt-puja-to-be-restricted-holiday-haryana-cm-336675
11-11-2021||New Delhi||Haryana to get  1.5 lakh bags  of DAP per day||The Centre will provide a minimum of 1.5 lakh bags of the DAP fertiliser to Haryana per day next week.This was stated by Haryana Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal after his meeting with Union Chemical and Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya.“The Union Minister assured to provide between 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh bags of the DAP fertiliser per day next week,” Dalal said.Dalal said that the Centre had sanctioned 10 percent more of the fertiliser over the last year. But the supply was affected due to the holidays relating to Diwali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-get-1-5-lakh-bags-of-dap-per-day-336676
11-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||UHS committee questions varsity recruitment via HSSC||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 10A four-member committee formed by the Vice Chancellor, Pt BD Sharma University of Health Science (UHS), is in disagreement with the Chief Secretary’s instructions, according to which Group C and D posts should be filled through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and the Common Entrance Test (CET).The committee says that if the instructions are followed, the power delegated to the university would be compromised and that will impact the institution in the long run.The purpose of establishing the university as an autonomous body will be defeated, say sources.Autonomy at stakeThe university has been conducting written tests for various posts since its inception in 2008. Hence, it will not be right to fill Group C and D posts sanctioned for the university through the HSSC and CET. —UHS committee’s reportIn its report submitted to the UHS, the committee led by Dr SS Lohchab, Dean (Academic Affairs), has urged the state government to reconsider its decision and allow the university to fill up sanctioned posts.The report, a copy of which is with The Tribune, would be put forward before the UHS executive council’s meeting scheduled tomorrow to take a call in the matter.Sources say the UHS had, on February 17, received instructions from the Chief Secretary for making recruitment to the Group C and D posts through the HSSC and CET in universities of the state.“The university has been conducting written tests for various posts since its inception in 2008. Hence, it will not be right to fill Group C and D posts sanctioned for the university through the HSSC and CET. If this is done, there may be delay in filling up Group D posts which have been pending with the Directorate of Medical Education Research (DMER) since 2018,” reads the committee’s report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uhs-committee-questions-varsity-recruitment-via-hssc-336678
11-11-2021||---||VB to investigate ‘bungling’ in Panchkula, Faridabad civic bodies||Chandigarh, November 10Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij has said that the State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) will conduct investigation into the alleged scams worth crores of rupees in the municipal corporations of Panchkula and Faridabad.He said here today that officials of the SVB would inquire into the payments made without any work done by the Accounts Department of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad.Officials in cahoots with contractorsOfficials, in connivance with contractors, prepared fake vouchers, made false entries in record books and did not present the record book at the time of inspection. —Anil Vij, local bodies ministerHe said according to information, crores of rupees were paid without getting any work done in many wards of the MC Faridabad.It was found that payments had been made for 388 works amounting to Rs 23.79 crore, Vij stated.Similarly, in the alleged multi-crore scam pertaining to bio-remediation of legacy waste in the Panchkula MC, the probe had been handed over to the SVB. A demand was made by the councillor of the Ward No. 2 and others demanding inquiry into the alleged irregularities. It has been alleged that for the same work at different places, the same person, in connivance with officials, indulged in irregularities worth crores of rupees in the names of different firms.As per allegations, only two firms were involved in Panchkula and both firms were owned by the same person. Similarly, the tender was allotted by the agency without submitting the performance guarantee worth Rs 2 crore. Neither CCTV cameras were installed nor provision was made to store the backup. Similarly, no quality control lab had been set up and no records were maintained regarding waste and huge irregularities had been found in weighing garbage, Vij alleged.He alleged IND Solutions and Parvati Enterprises, both companies which had stake in the tender, belong to the same family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vb-to-investigate-bungling-in-panchkula-faridabad-civic-bodies-336681
11-11-2021||Parveen Arora||Demand for blood platelets in Karnal doubles in fortnight||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 10Amid the rapid spread of dengue cases in the district, the demand for blood platelets has doubled in the past fortnight.Moreover, the blood banks are facing shortage of disposable kit, used in the machine for preparing single-donor apheresis platelets, also known as jumbo pack, which is further transfused into patients to increase the platelets. The attendants are also travelling to other cities for platelets. Moreover, the attendants of the patients are calling their relatives from other places for random donor platelets. Several blood donors of the district also formed groups of volunteers to donate plasma.As per the data of the Health Department, the district reported 159 positive cases of dengue till Tuesday evening, while contrary to this data there are several patients having symptoms of dengue are getting treatment at different hospitals of the district.Jumbo pack in high demandThe jumbo pack increases the platelets very fast in patients, so the attendants demand the jumbo pack, the kits of which are in short in supply. —Attendant, Blood bank1k random donor platelets given in 1 mthWe have given around 1,000 random donor platelets in the past one month. The demand for the platelets has increased in the past 15-20 days. —Dr Sanjay Verma, regional blood transfusion officer, RBTC, Civil hospitalNotices served on 6,000 personsPrivate hospitals have been instructed to report each and every case. We have issued notices to around 6,000 persons after finding larvae in their households. —Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil surgeon“The jumbo pack increases the platelets very fast in patients, so the attendants demand the jumbo pack, the kits of which are in short in supply,” said a blood bank attendant, adding that the mini pack, known as random donor platelets, also helps in boosting the platelets, but the number is less in comparison to the jumbo pack.“We have given around 1,000 random donor platelets in the past one month. The demand for the platelets has increased in the past 15-20 days,” said Dr Sanjay Verma, Regional Blood Transfusion Officer of the Regional Blood Transfusion Centre (RBTC) in the Civil Hospital.Dr Sachin Garg, incharge, blood bank of the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, said the demand for the platelets was coming from not only from government hospitals but also from the private ones. “We are giving 70-80 units of platelets daily. In the current month, they have already given around 800 units,” said Dr Garg, adding that people are also coming forward to donate blood.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, said their teams were in the field to check the origin of the dengue mosquito. “Awareness is being spread among People on how to curtail the spread of dengue,” said Dr Sharma, adding that the private hospitals have been instructed to report each and every case of dengue. “We have issued notices to around 6,000 persons after finding larvae in their households and establishments,” said the Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demand-for-blood-platelets-in-karnal-doubles-in-fortnight-336683
11-11-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||6 illegal RO plants sealed in 24 hours in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 10In a drive, the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) has sealed six illegal RO private plants in the past 24 hours in the city. With more than 200 such plants identified so far, the unauthorised water plants are claimed to be responsible for the short supply of drinking water and loss of revenue to the civic body.Revealing that the drive launched on Tuesday has resulted in sealing of six such plants, a senior official of the MCF said while four of the plants are located in Subhash Colony, one each had been functional in Adarsh Nagar and Vishnu Colony. He said the drive had been taken up after a detailed survey carried out recently found a total of 208 illegal plants operating in the five divisions of Old Faridabad, NIT and Ballabgarh zones.These have been functional without permission from the MCF for the past many years resulting in loss of revenue worth several crores, it is claimed. A similar drive carried out by the MCF in May last year had led to the sealing or disconnection of 34 such plants. But according to sources, while many of these resumed work soon after, the civic authorities have failed to curb such an activity on a permanent basis. These suppliers charge an amount between Rs 10 to 50 for a 20 litre bottle, according to sources.Blaming the water mafia for the problem of short supply of drinking water in many localities, sources claim that this also causes the civic body to lose an annual revenue of several crores.With a total of about 5.5 lakh households and other units availing the water and sewer connections, it is reported that only 2.85 lakh units are authorised. It is claimed that tanker and private water supply mafia enjoying political patronage have also been exploiting the water supply sources and piped water supply network, resulting in inequitable distribution. Against a demand of 310 MLD daily, the MCF is supplying about 250 MLD. An annual revenue upto Rs 12 crore is collected.The drive against the illegal and unauthorised connections will continue indefinitely, said Yash Pal Yadav, Commissioner, MCF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-illegal-ro-plants-sealed-in-24-hours-in-faridabad-336685
11-11-2021||Faridabad||Faridabad: 26 more commercial units closed for not paying tax||Continuing its drive against property tax defaulters, the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) authorities have sealed another 26 commercial units for not paying their property tax to the tune of Rs 26.32 lakhs on Wednesday. The number of units sealed in the city has crossed the figure of 400 so far.Revealing the details of the sealing action carried out today, an official of the civic body said 20 units in the NIT zone here owing property tax dues to the tune of Rs 21 lakh were sealed. However, the officials spared four units which deposited their pending payment on the spot, it is claimed. Similarly, five units located in the Ballabgarh zone, owing a tax of Rs 5.32 lakh were sealed today. Two units cleared their pending tax as soon as the sealing action was completed, it is reported.According to officials concerned, while the total target of the drive was to recover around Rs 125 crore pending for the past several years, around 100 units have cleared their pending dues since the drive launched one and half months ago. The officials concerned have been instructed to execute the proceedings against the defaulters, who fail to pay their property tax dues by March 31, 2022, it is added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-26-more-commercial-units-closed-for-not-paying-tax-336686
11-11-2021||---||MLA Geeta Bhukkal raises Rs 5 cr development grant issue||Jhajjar, November 10Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal, at a meeting of the District Development and Monitoring Committee held here today, raised the issue of Rs 5 crore as grant announced by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for every Assembly constituency in the state for development works and asked the status of the announcement from Social Justice and Empowerment Minister, Om Prakash Yadav, who was presiding over the meeting.Bhukkal also registered her protest over the “lethargic” attitude of the authorities towards the Chhuchhakwas bypass project and poor condition of the roads in the district.Long wait for aidShaheed samaraks are lying incomplete, while no fund has been released to various dharamshalas in Jhajjar for the completion of construction works. —Geeta Bhukkal, Cong MLA“As per the CM’s announcement, we had sent proposals for various development works worth Rs 5 crore to the government over one and a half year, but the proposals are still lying unapproved. Shaheed samaraks are lying incomplete, while no fund has been released to various dharamshalas in Jhajjar for the completion of the construction work after the Congress government,” said Bhukkal while interacting with media after the meeting. The MLA maintained that she would not tolerate “injustice” with Jhajjar district in terms of development and would raise the issue in the Assembly if the proposals for development works were not executed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mla-geeta-bhukkal-raises-rs-5-cr-development-grant-issue-336687
11-11-2021||Rohtak||Students’ body seeks probe into Maharshi Dayanand University VC’s qualifications||The Indian National Students Organisation (INSO), the student wing of the Jan-nayak Janta Party (JJP), a coalition partner in the Haryana government, has opposed the state government’s decision to make the recruitment of teaching and non-teaching staff in the state universities through the HPSC/HSSC.Addressing a press conference at Rothak on Wednesday, INSO national president Pradeep Deswal stated that the decision was an attempt to undermine the autonomy of the universities.“The INSO will not let the government to weaken the autonomy of universities. We oppose this order and will soon launch an agitation against the government if it is not withdrawn,” he maintained. The INSO president alleged that Prof Rajbir Singh, the VC of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, was unqualified for the post. Raising questions on Prof Rajbir’s educational qualification and PhD degree, the student-leader stated that he had obtained the degrees through dubious means and by showing false experience certificates. Showing documents pertaining to the education record of Prof Rajbir, Deswal pointed out that he pursued his master’s degree (MA) in the year 2000, while surprisingly, he had done PhD in 1999. “Apart from this, the educational experience certificates furnished by him for his appointment as a professor are also wrong and apparently fake,” he alleged. Deswal said the VC had mentioned that he had worked as a teacher at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) in Hisar, while at that time he was serving as a District Public Relations Officer (DPRO).“How is it possible for a government official to work as a teacher at a university simultaneously?” he questioned. Alleging that the educational qualifications of Prof Rajbir Singh seemed to have been obtained in a dubious way, he sought an inquiry against him. Prof Rajbir Singh could not be contacted for his comments despite repeated attempts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-body-seeks-probe-into-maharshi-dayanand-university-vcs-qualifications-336689
11-11-2021||Karnal||Pupils of Pratap Public School, Karnal, bring laurels in NEET, JEE||e-campus placement driveHisar: Five students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science & Technology, Hisar, have been selected in Bangalore-based Quinbay Technologies through e-campus placement drive, organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor, and Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university congratulated the selected students Amit Kumar, Bhumika Jain, Rashmi Garg, Mrigank Tandon from BTech CSE 2022 and Yogesh from MCA 2022 passed out batch. Pratap Singh Malik, director, placement and Dr Aditya Vir Singh, assistant director, also congratulated them.Two students shineKaithal: Saloni and Himanshu of B Sc medical of the RKSD College, Kaithal secured seventh and ninth positions respectively in the third semester examination results released by Kurukshetra University. Saloni has got 353/370 marks and Himanshu secured 350/370 marks. President Saket Mangal, advocate, announced to give Rs 2,100 to both students for the achievement. Principal Sanjay Goyal wished them for their bright future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pupils-of-pratap-public-school-karnal-bring-laurels-in-neet-jee-336691
11-11-2021||---||Divyanshu Buddhiraja gets max votes for Haryana Youth Cong president post||Chandigarh, November 10Divyanshu Buddhiraja got the maximum votes for the president’s post in the Haryana Youth Congress elections whose results were declared today.Supported by the Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda’s camp, he got 4.91 lakh votes, while his nearest rival Krishan Satrod got 2.94 lakh votes.There is a third candidate Mayank Chaudhary, who got 40,862 votes.Top 3 candidates to be interviewedAll top three candidates will be interviewed by Congress president before being declared president of the state unit of the Youth Cong. —Manoj Saharan, PRO, ElectionsBuddhiraja had earlier won Haryana NSUI president’s post in 2017 and also he was president of the Panjab University Campus Students’ Council in 2014.“I thank both former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Deepender Hooda for the victory,” said Buddhiraja.“I congratulate the new team. I hope they will raise the voice of Haryana youth and would work for their future,” said Deepender Hooda. According to PRO elections Manoj Saharan, all top three candidates will be interviewed by Congress president before being declared president of the state unit of the Youth Congress.One of them will be the state president, while the rest of the two will be vice-presidents. “There were about 15 lakh members. Over 9 lakh votes were found valid,” said Saharan.Krishan Yadav, with 17,507 votes, was declared vice-president (OBC), Parag Sharma with 15,933 votes is new VP (Woman) and Amandeep Singh Belarkha has been declared VP (SC).For the post of general secretary, Mohit Sharma received the maximum votes at 87,000 and was declared winner. Thirteen more candidates were elected as general secretaries in the open category. Besides, candidates were elected as general secretary reserved for minority, OBC, SC and Woman SC, while eight women were elected for seats reserved for women in the open category too.President, vice-president and general secretaries have been elected at the district-level and assembly constituency-level too. Former CPS Ram Kishan Fauji’s son Vikas Kumar has been declared president of Bhiwani with 43,691 votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/divyanshu-buddhiraja-gets-max-votes-for-haryana-youth-cong-president-post-336692
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Court dismisses plea against Haryana CM Khattar||A petition questioning the continuation of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for allegedly violating the solemn oath to uphold the Constitution and the rule of law following “dangerous speech” was today dismissed as withdrawn.As the petition filed against the Union of India and other respondents came up for hearing before Justice Raj Mohan Singh, the counsel for Chander Shekhar and other petitioners expressed wish to withdraw the present petition with liberty to file fresh plea with better particulars. The counsel for the Union of India and the State told the Bench that they had no objection to the same. “Dismissed as withdrawn with the liberty aforesaid,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh concluded.ContentionFarmers have the right to protest guaranteed under the Constitution. Khattar’s video amounts to crushing the agitation so that he is able to please political bosses in New Delhi. —PetitionersThe petitioners had earlier contended: “The farmers’ agitation is the right to protest guaranteed under the Constitution and Khattar’s video amounts to crushing the agitation by force so that he is able to please the political bosses sitting in New Delhi. His action shows that he considers him above the law and under the wrong impression that he is a ruling emperor of the state of Haryana. The said speech takes away the constitutional authority vested in Khattar to continue as CM.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-dismisses-plea-against-haryana-cm-khattar-336694
11-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rs15K relief for damaged crops, says Agri Minister||Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal met Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar and Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Parshottam Rupala at New Delhi last evening, and discussed various schemes.Dalal told the Union Agriculture Minister that the Haryana Government had increased the compensation amount for damaged crops from Rs 12,000 to Rs 15,000.While meeting Rupala, Dalal apprised him of the developments in milk production, animal husbandry and fisheries in the state.Rupala said the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana aimed at helping farmers increase income by adopting fish rearing. Under this scheme, 40 per cent financial assistance was provided to the general category beneficiaries and 60 per cent to the Scheduled Caste beneficiaries, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs15k-relief-for-damaged-crops-says-agri-minister-336695
11-11-2021||---||Para-swimmer issued resident certificate fraudulently: RTI||Karnal, November 10International para-swimmer Swapnil Sanjay Patil, who won bronze in the Asian Para Games 2018, got Haryana resident certificate ‘fraudulently’. Neither he nor his family members have been residents of Karnal for 15 or more years, which is a mandatory requirement for this certificate.Moreover, he had applied for grant of cash award under the policy of the Sports and Youth Affairs Department after winning the medal. This was revealed in response to an RTI application filed by RTI activist PP Kapoor, who has now complained to IGP, Karnal Range and SP, Karnal, demanding action against the officials involved in issuance of fake documents.DC seeks ReportThe issue has come to my notice. I will seek a report from the SP and get it inquired by an independent officer. —Nishant Kumar Yadav, Karnal DCThe reply also revealed the swimmer managed to get a birth certificate issued from Karnal and a ration card from the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department Karnal. As per the record provided in the RTI, the ration card was issued while he was not born. His birth certificate was issued on February 22, 1998, showing his date of birth as January 6, 1998, while his ration card was issued on July 6, 1995. Moreover, he has a passport, in which his address is of Kolhapur in Maharashtra.“I have sought information from different departments regarding issuance of Haryana resident certificate to Swapnil Sanjay Patil,” said Kapoor.Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “The issue has come to my notice. I will seek a report from the SP and get it inquired by an independent officer.”Swapnil could not be contacted for his comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/para-swimmer-issued-resident-certificate-fraudulently-rti-336697
11-11-2021||New Delhi||Padma Shri awardee ‘Goonga Pehlwan’ wants Haryana CM to hear him out||Wrestler Virender Singh Yadav, who is among the Padma Shri awardees this year, has urged Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar to recognise the state’s deaf sportspersons like him as para athletes.Yadav, who was born in Sasroli near Jhajjar, cannot speak or hear. On Wednesday, he posted a picture of himself sitting on the footpath outside the Haryana Bhawan here with his Padma Shri, Arjuna Award and other international medals.No cash awardFor 4 years, I have been running from pillar to post. I am a junior coach and have not got any cash award. On Tuesday, I spoke about this with the PM. Now, the decision is in your hand. —Virender Singh Yadav“Honourable CM ML Khattar, I am sitting on the footpath of your residence Delhi Haryana Bhawan and I will not move from here till you don’t give equal rights to deaf players like the para athletes. When the Centre gives us equal rights, why not you?” Yadav tweeted.There are no Paralympic categories for athletes who are only deaf and the International Committee of Sports for the Deaf (ICSD) is the body which conducts sports events specifically for them.The Deaflympics is recognised by the International Paralympic Committee, but deaf athletes are not a part of the more celebrated Paralympic Games.Yadav received the Padma Shri from President Ram Nath Kovind at a ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan here on Tuesday, a photo of which was tweeted by Khattar, congratulating the celebrated grappler who inspired an acclaimed documentary on his life titled “Goonga Pehelwan”.Singh, who has won a bronze and three gold medals in the Deaflympics while competing in the 74-kg weight division, reiterated that he wants same rights, prize money and accolades as para athletes, adding that he has also spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the same.“Chief Minister, if you consider me a para athlete, why don’t you give me the rights that come with the para title. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/padma-shri-awardee-goonga-pehlwan-wants-haryana-cm-to-hear-him-out-336698
11-11-2021||Our correspondent||3 brothers nabbed for murdering a friend in Gurugram||Gurugram, November 10The police nabbed three brothers for allegedly murdering a friend, following of a feud. The victim has been identified as Hitesh Yadav, alias Baccha (22), a resident of Rampura village.The accused, identified as Mahipal, Vikram and Dinesh were produced in a city court today, and the police took them on two-day remand. ACP Preet Pal Singh Sangwan said the weapon and the vehicle used in the crime would be recovered soon.The victim’s body was found in a sack on October 16. On October 9, he and his three friends were consuming liquor together and a brawl broke between them.An FIR was registered and the case was assigned with crime unit sector 10.As per the police, Hitesh slapped one of the brothers, but the matter was resolved. The next night, they again sat together to have liquor and the brothers attacked Hitesh with sticks and an iron rod. When he died, they dumped his body in a sack and threw it near the hilly area of Pandala.Mahipal and Vikram already have cases of rape, murder, robbery and brawl registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-brothers-nabbed-for-murdering-a-friend-in-gurugram-336699
11-11-2021||Faridabad||Man killed in Faridabad firing||A man was killed and another injured in firing that took place in NIT here today. Nobody has been arrested.Two unidentified armed persons opened fire on two men, identified as Mustaq and Mubarak. An old enmity is reported to be the reason behind the incident. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-killed-in-faridabad-firing-336700
11-11-2021||---||OP Singh made Haryana police CVO||Chandigarh, November 10The Haryana Government has appointed OP Singh, ADGP (Crime) as the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) for the Police Department, in addition to his present duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/op-singh-made-haryana-police-cvo-336701
11-11-2021||It's extremely frustrating to observe that both sides of the entry gate to the Civil Dispensary in Sector 8||Cleanliness goes for a toss in Panchkula||Polythene, plastic waste pollute environmentMost of the sewer lines and nullahs in Kaithal town remain chocked with waste plastic bottles and polythene. Public Health Engineering Department staff members face an uphill task cleaning up these choked sewers. The public apathy and lack of awareness and inaction by the government has aggravated the problem. The waste polythene and plastic bottles extracted from sewer lines is dumped at garbage dump sites thus posing a serious threat to environment. The NGT and state government should take immediate steps to tackle this problem. —Satish Seth, KaithalWaterlogging a nuisance for Jind residentsWaterlogging has become a major problem for residents in Jind, due to which people have to face a lot of inconvenience. The officials concerned should take note of it and act at once. —Novesh Sharma, JindWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cleanliness-goes-for-a-toss-in-panchkula-336703
11-11-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Builders must keep word on fixed returns: HRERA||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, November 10In a landmark judgment, the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority, Gurugram, today held that builders and promoters were liable to pay the assured returns mentioned in the builder-buyer agreement.Coming down hard on errant builders and promoters, the Bench headed by HRERA chairman KK Khandelwal, while deciding 26 similar cases, said a promoter couldn’t wriggle out of the promise of assured returns to an allottee merely by taking the plea that the assurance was made before the enforcement of RERA Act, 2016, or any other law for that matter.The judgment will help realise crores of rupees due against errant promoters, who have mischievously refrained from paying the assured returns on the deposits collected from allottees by floating various assured return schemes.Most of the cases taken up by the Bench involved a prominent developer, Vatika Limited. This decision shall go a long way in curbing the malpractice of raising funds by floating dubious deposit schemes, the Bench said. It said a large number of cases were being filed before the HRERA, Gurugram, wherein aggrieved allottees alleged that the promoter lured them to invest in its real estate project by promising a monthly return on the money deposited as consideration against the price for the unit.The assured return schemes often appears lucrative to buyers as they are not only promised an assured rate of interest but also the possession of the property on the agreed date of completion.By floating assured return schemes, promoters collect almost 100 per cent of the payment from the allottees at the onset. Falling victim to such schemes, buyers fail to get the assured returns as well as the property, and end up struggling to recover their money from the builders.Check on dubious real estate schemesJudgment will help realise crores of rupees due against errant promoters, who have refrained from paying the assured returns promised to allottees||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/builders-must-keep-word-on-fixed-returns-hrera-336602
11-11-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Wrestler, brother shot dead in Sonepat, mother seriously hurt||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 10Nisha Dahiya, a 21-year-old woman wrestler, and her 18-year-old brother Suraj were shot dead at Sushil Kumar Wrestling Academy in Sonepat’s Halalpur village in broad daylight on Wednesday. The siblings’ mother was critically injured. Their father is with the CRPF and is posted in Srinagar.Sources said a coach at the academy and his relatives, believed to be behind the murders, fled. Enraged, villagers set the academy on fire later in the evening.Pawan Kumar of Baland village in Rohtak had been running the academy named after Olympian Sushil Kumar in Halalpur for the past five years. His wife too was a coach there. Nisha had been attending the academy for the past three years. Her brother Suraj dropped her at the academy at 1.30 pm on Wednesday.The sources said Pawan and his accomplices shot Nisha and then called the family. Suraj and his mother Dhanpati rushed to the academy where they too were attacked. Injured, Dhanpati fell unconcious. Suraj tried to run away but was chased by the assailants and shot. Kharkhoda SHO Karamjeet rushed the victims to the Civil Hospital where Nisha and Suraj were declared “dead”. Their mother was admitted to the PGIMS-Rohtak.Mistaken for bronze medallistThere was confusion on social media regarding the identity of deceased Nisha. She was mistaken for wrestler Nisha Dahiya of Rohtak, who won the bronze at the U-23 World C’ship in Belgrade on Nov 5. The wrestler, in a video on the SAI Twitter handle, cleared the air, saying she was fine. Coach Kuldeep Singh said: “Nisha, the U-23 World C’ship bronze medallist, is in Gonda, UP, for senior nationals.”Coach, wife, her 2 brothers bookedCoach Pawan, his wife & her 2 brothers have been booked under Sections 354 & 302 of the IPC and Arms Act on the mother’s statement. She alleged Pawan had been molesting Nisha for 2 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrestler-brother-shot-dead-in-sonepat-mother-seriously-hurt-336604
11-11-2021||Sonepat/Gonda||Wrestler Nisha Dahiya calls reports of her being shot dead fake; namesake killed in Sonepat||A wrestler named Nisha Dahiya and her brother were shot dead by unknown assailants at an academy here on Wednesday, the murdered woman’s identity becoming a cause of confusion as several reports mistook her for under-23 world championship bronze-medallist of the same name.The killed siblings’ mother also sustained injuries as assailants opened fire at them and has been admitted at the PGIMS hospital in Rohtak, the police said.Sonipat Assistant Superintendent of Police Mayank Gupta confirmed the death of Dahiya and her brother Suraj.The incident took place at the Sushil Kumar Wrestling Academy in Sonepat’s Halalpur.But there was chaos online as several reports identified Dahiya as the world medallist, who had been congratulated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi just this morning for her performance in Belgrade some days back.The Wrestling Federation of India shared a video in which the fast-rising wrestler can be seen stating that she is in Gonda for the National Championships and fine.Sitting next to her in the video is 2016 Olympic bronze-medallist Sakshi Malik.“The girl who died was a newcomer hailing from Halalpur village in Sonepat. She is also Nisha Dahiya but not the one who went to the U-23 World championship,” coach Randhir Malik, who travelled with the Indian women’s team to Belgrade, told PTI.“That Nisha is safe. It’s fake news that she has died,” he added.In Sonepat, the police suspect that a coach of the academy could be behind the gruesome incident.The police said five to six rounds of bullets were fired and added that an investigation was underway.The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrestler-nisha-dahiya-calls-reports-of-her-being-shot-dead-fake-namesake-killed-in-sonepat-336452
