12-11-2021||Chandigarh||7 IAS, 17 HCS transferred in Haryana||The Haryana government on Friday transferred seven IAS and 17 HCS officers.  Commissioner Gurugram Division, Rajeev Ranjan, has been given the additional charge of Chairman and MD Haryana Minerals Ltd, New Delhi, while Commissioner Rohtak Division Pankaj Yadav will also hold the charge of Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi. Secretary Haryana Grievances Department and MD Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) PC Meena will now hold the charge of MD of DHBVN as well of UHBVN.  Director Urban Local Bodies, DK Behera, will also hold the charge of MD Haryana State Warehousing Corporation Ltd while CEO Haryana Samajik Suraksha Trust and Secretary Haryana Human Rights Commission, Pankaj, will also hold the charge of Secretary Finance Department.  MD Haryana Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections Kalyan Nigam and Secretary Home-II, Mani Ram Sharma, will also hold the charge of Director Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare, while Rahul Hooda, who was awaiting posting orders, will be the new ADC of Sirsa. Among HCS officers, Dr Munish Nagpal will be the new ADC of Charkhi Dadri, Tilak Raj is transferred as Additional Registrar Cooperative Societies, Haryana, and Sushil Kumar is posted as CEO Zila Parishad, Sirsa.  Secretary, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board, Kamal Preet Kaur, will also hold the charge of CEO Zila Parishad, Panchkula. Nishu Singhal will now hold the charge of SDO-cum-Additional Collector, Ambala Cantonment; Estate Officer for Management of Government Land in Excised Area in Ambala Cantonment and Administrator, Municipal Council, Ambala Sadar.  Dalbir Singh has been transferred as MD, Cooperative Sugar Mills, Meham, and GM Haryana Roadways, Rohtak. Narender Pal Malik is posted as SDO-cum-Additional Collector, Thanesar, Ekta Chopra is new GM Haryana Roadways, Nuh, and Ved Prakash is now SDO, Jind.  Shambhu is new SDO Ellenabad, Mandeep Kumar is transferred as GM, Hafed Sugar Mill, Assandh, Rahul Mittal is now GM, Haryana Roadways, Hisar and Sanjay Kumar has been transferred as SDO, Badhra.  Dilbag Singh has got the charge of SDO Kaithal and Estate Officer Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Kaithal, Braham Parkash will be holding the charge of Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Manesar, Darshan Yadav will be holding the charge of Deputy Secretary, Finance Department, and Ramit Yadav is new City Magistrate Jind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-ias-17-hcs-transferred-in-haryana-337255
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Cases against Haryana MPs, MLAs: Pace of investigations not satisfactory, says HC||Just about eight months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court made clear its intent to fast lane the cases involving sitting and erstwhile parliamentarians and legislators of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, the Bench on Friday made it clear that the pace of investigations in Haryana was not satisfactory.Referring to a report submitted by the state, the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Sandeep Moudgil asserted its perusal indicated “some progress” in the investigation.The Bench added affidavit dated September 14 filed by Haryana Inspector-General of Police, Administration and Law & Order, stated final reports had been submitted in 30 out of 44 cases after completion of the investigation since May 26. Challans had been submitted before the trial court in seven cases out of these.In another seven cases, cancellation reports had been submitted. Besides this, untraced reports had been “written” and the final report would be submitted to the competent court of law in 16 cases, the Bench was told.“It has further been pointed out that there are 17 more cases of sitting/former MPs/MLAs in total, in which investigation is still in progress. A perusal of the said affidavit would indicate that the speed at which the progress of the investigation is going on is not satisfactory,” the Bench added.Before parting with the case, the Bench asserted it would not further delve into the details in the matter as of now and would wait for further report. The observation came after State Additional Advocate-General Ankur Mittal submitted that an Inspector-General of Police was personally monitoring the investigations. Mittal also assured the Court that further efforts would be made to conclude the same at the earliest. “Sincere endeavour would be made to conclude the investigations within six weeks and submit the report in this regard,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cases-against-haryana-mps-mlas-pace-of-investigations-not-satisfactory-says-hc-337251
12-11-2021||Deepender Deswal||Farm fires down 38% in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 11A total of 5,063 incidents of crop residue burning have been detected in the state till today with Kaithal district recording the highest number of 1,095 fire spots.An official of the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), Hisar, which detects the active fire locations and reports the incidents to the respective district administration revealed that residue-burning incidents in the state have come down by 38 per cent as compared to the previous year when 8,286 fire incidents were reported during the corresponding period.Today, Fatehabad district recorded the highest (37) crop residue burning spots. As many as 126 farm fire locations were detected in Haryana today.“Though the trend of paddy straw burning has shown a decline as compared to the previous year, there is still a long way to go to control this phenomenon which is not only causing massive air pollution but also adversely affecting the health of the soil,” said Dr Ram Kumar, an agriculture scientist.Agriculture officials said that they were finding it difficult to persuade the farmers not to burn stubble in a certain belt in Fatehabad district comprising blocks of Fatehabad, Ratia, Tohana and Jakhal, which is a paddy belt adjoining Punjab.In Hijrawan village of Fatehabad, agriculture officials detected four cases of straw burning today. Similarly, Alikan village of Ratia block in Fatehabad also reported four incidents of paddy straw burning today.Subhash Chander, panchayat member in Alikan village, said that almost 90 per cent of the 5,000-acre agriculture land is under paddy in the village. “The farmers are still in the habit of burning the straw instead of disposing it with the help of agriculture equipment available at the custom hiring centre,” he admitted.Pollution Control Board scientist Sunil Sheoran informed that they have not filed any case in the environment court this year. As many as 12 cases are pending from last year in the environment court in Kurukshetra. “We file cases against the farmers who are caught indulging in straw burning the second time. But there is no such case till today this year,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-fires-down-38-in-haryana-336974
12-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC: Let extension lecturers continue if workload enough||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 11In a major reprieve for extension lecturers who filed appeals before the Punjab and Haryana High Court after being held ineligible, a Division Bench has allowed them to deliver lectures in case of sufficient workload and satisfactory work.Regular appointments can waitThe High Court made it clear that the arrangement would continue till the state made appointments of regular lecturers possessing NET/PhD qualification.“Since there are no newly appointed lecturers, the State of Haryana and other respondents are directed to allow the appellants to work continuously on the post they were holding on the date of the judgment by the Single Judge,” the High Court ruled.The Bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi made it clear that the arrangement would continue till the State made appointments of regular lecturers possessing NET/ PhD qualification.The matter was placed before the Bench after a bunch of appeals was filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents by Amrit Kaur and other appellants through counsel Suresh Kumar Kaushik, Arvinder Arora and Rakesh Nagpal. They had, among other things, challenged the dismissal of their initial petition by a Single Judge.The Bench was told a large number of posts of lecturers/ assistant professors were lying vacant in the government colleges in the state. As such, the government took a policy decision to engage extension lecturers on a temporary/contractual basis to strike a balance between the teacher-student ratio.The counsel for one of the appellants added the reason for the disengagement of the appellant was she was not fulfilling the eligibility criterion as per the norms adopted by the department subsequently vide instructions dated March 4, 2020Taking up the matter, the Bench issued notice of motion before staying the operation of the impugned order passed by the Single Judge. The Bench asserted that the Single Judge did not apparently notice that a clause in the policy dated March 4, 2020, issued by Haryana Director-General, Higher Education, permitted the continuance of persons like appellants if there was adequate workload and their work was satisfactory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-let-extension-lecturers-continue-if-workload-enough-336976
12-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||Fertiliser crisis: Haryana farmers reach sale counters in wee hours||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 11After mustard sowing, farmers in Jhajjar, Rewari, Mahendragarh and Bhiwani districts are now struggling to get DAP fertiliser to cultivate wheat crop. They are compelled to reach the sale counters in the wee hours, resulting in long queues to get hold of the fertiliser.Only two bags per person being givenOnly two bags of DAP are being sold to a person, but we need at least eight. We will have to come tomorrow to get more bags as sowing cannot be delayed. — Vedpal, farmer from kot village, JhajjarFarmers Sowing wheat without DAPI had to sow wheat in six acres without DAP. Several other farmers did the same owing to non-availability of the fertiliser as delay in sowing adversely affects land fertility. — Naresh, Farmer from Balambh village, Rohtak.Enough sowing time, no need to panicEvery person lined up at the sales counter in the district is getting two bags of DAP fertiliser. Farmers do not need to panic as there is still enough time to sow wheat crop. — Deepak, SDO (Agri), RewariThe fertiliser is now being distributed in the presence of police to manage the crowd.“My brother and I have been standing in the queue for six hours, but our turn is yet to come. There is a heavy rush at the sale counter since morning. Only two bags of DAP are being sold to a person, but we need at least eight bags. We will have to come tomorrow to get more bags as sowing cannot be delayed,” said Vedpal of Kot village (Jhajjar).Maha Singh of Rewari said the shortage of DAP fertiliser had forced farmers to come to the sale counter in the wee hours to secure a bag or two. “Women and children are also being roped in to get the fertiliser,” he added.The crisis of DAP has also affected sowing of wheat crop. Many farmers in Rohtak cultivated wheat without the fertiliser, while many others got late from their routine time.“I had to sow wheat in six acres without DAP. Several other farmers did the same owing to non-availability of the fertiliser as delay in sowing adversely affects land fertility,” said Naresh of Balambh village (Rohtak).Deepak, SDO (Agriculture), Rewari, said the district had the requirement of 5,000 MT of the fertiliser for wheat, of which 1,100 MT had already been distributed while more supply was likely to arrive.“Every person lined up at the sales counter is getting two bags of DAP. Farmers need not to be panicked as there is still enough time to sow wheat crop,” he claimed.A similar situation was witnessed in Mahendragarh and Bhiwani districts, where the demand is much higher than the supply.“A total of 4,000 MT DAP is needed for wheat crop in Mahendragarh, of which 1,000 MT has already been distributed. Long queues will continue at the sale counter at the end of sowing season on November 30 as the remaining supply will come in phases,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fertiliser-crisis-haryana-farmers-reach-sale-counters-in-wee-hours-336978
12-11-2021||Parveen Arora||In Karnal, paddy procurement exceeds target by 2 lakh MT||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 11Over 2 lakh metric tonnes extra PR paddy has been purchased in the different grain markets from the expected production of the district, indicating the procurement from other states had been done in this season also even after the ban by the government.The PR variety is procured by the government for custom milling of rice (CMR). As per the data collected by The Tribune, all three procurement agencies have procured 10.50 lakh metric tonnes of paddy, while the expected production of the district is around 8.40 lakh metric tonnes. However, last year till November 10, the procurement was of 12.40 lakh metric tonnes and the total procurement of the last season was 13 lakh metric tonnes. Officials of the Agriculture Department said the area under basmati varieties had also been decreased by 5-7 per cent in comparison to last year.Karnal has 4.25 lakh acres of land where paddy is cultivated. Of it, around 3 lakh acres have been cultivated under non-basmati varieties, PR varieties which are procured by the government, while the remaining area has been covered by the basmati varieties.As per the data, Assandh, Ballah, Biana, Nilokheri, Nigdhu and Jundla grain markets witnessed comparatively more procurement last year.Gagandeep Singh, zonal administrator, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board, said they kept a vigil on different grain markets along with border areas with Uttar Pradesh.At the start of the procurement season, three secretaries of different market committees in Karnal district were also suspended for not complying with the directions of the chief administrator Vinay Singh Yadav.DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said last year the procurement was done for more than 13 lakh MT, and this time, there is a shortfall of around 20 per cent mainly due to the strict vigil by officials and the registration on “Meri Fasal Mera Byora” portal. “In the last few days, paddy was coming to Haryana from neighbouring states due to which we have increased scrutiny of the paddy,” said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-paddy-procurement-exceeds-target-by-2-lakh-mt-336980
12-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||Indira Gandhi University uploads degrees on portal before printing||Tribune News ServiceRewari, November 11Taking a new initiative in the interest of students, the Indira Gandhi University (IGU) authorities have uploaded degree of 15,661 undergraduate and postgraduate students on its portal before getting these printed.2,200 degrees for postgraduatesGakhar maintained 2,200 degrees belonged to postgraduate students enrolled at the university teaching departments while remaining 13,461 degrees were of undergraduate students studying in 149 degree and education colleges located in Rewari and Mahendragarh districts.Initiative evokes good responseThe new initiative has evoked a good response as the students have started approaching us to get the mistakes in their degrees corrected. — Suresh Dhanerwal, Controller of examinationThe initiative aims at providing the students error-free degree so that they do not have to make rounds of the university to get their degree corrected in case of any mistake. The authorities claim to become the first university across the state to adopt this practice.“The idea of uploading the degree on the students’ portal before publication came to mind after students were seen running from pillar to post in the university to get the mistakes in their detailed marks certificates corrected. I called a meeting of the university officials and shared the idea. Thereafter, the process of uploading the degree was initiated and now raw copies of 15,661 degrees have been uploaded so that students can check their particulars,” said Prof Surendra Kumar Gakhar, Vice-Chancellor.Gakhar maintained 2,200 degrees belonged to postgraduate students enrolled at the university teaching departments while remaining 13,461 degrees were of undergraduate students studying in 149 degree and education colleges located in Rewari and Mahendragarh districts. Students have been given a week’s time to get their degree corrected on finding any mistake while principals of all colleges have also been apprised of it. Even, students had been informed personally through SMS, he added.Suresh Dhanerwal, Controller of Examination, said it was for the first time when the IGU was giving away degrees to its students. Actually, the colleges were affiliated to the IGU in 2017 and their first batch of UG students passed out in 2020. The new initiative has evoked a good response as the students have started approaching us to get the mistekes in the degrees corrected, he said.“This initiative is unique of its kind and also fastens the process of printing the degrees. Students will be able to get their degree well in time and without any error. Even, it will also save their time too,” said Dhanerwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/indira-gandhi-university-uploads-degrees-on-portal-before-printing-336984
12-11-2021||---||Dengue on the rise in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 11It is a cause of concern for the health authorities in the region, as the number of positive dengue cases continues to rise in Fatehabad, Sirsa, Hisar and Jind districts. A collective of 2,929 persons have tested positive for dengue.Samples taken from Anchra Kalan villageThe Health Department team had visited Anchra Kalan village and collected samples of some ailing persons. We have sent them for testing and are waiting for the report. — Dr TS Bagri, medical officer, JindFogging drive intensifiedThe health authorities claimed that they had intensified the fogging drive in the suspected areas in the region.Cases this season (till Nov 11)Fatehabad 880Hisar 730Sirsa 698Jind 388Bhiwani 233Health Department officials informed that most of the dengue patients had recovered while they were working in tandem with the private hospitals to contain the spread of the virus.Hisar district today recorded 46 cases of dengue putting the total number of dengue patients to 730. Fatehabad district recorded 19 dengue cases today which has taken the total number of cases to 880. Sirsa reported 18 cases today with a total of 698 cases. The health authorities claimed that they had intensified the fogging drive in the suspected areas in the region.In Jind, the district health authorities have detected 388 cases so far. The medical officer, Dr TS Bagri, said the Health Department team had visited Anchra Kalan village and collected samples of some ailing persons. “We have sent them for testing and are waiting for the report”, he said.The villagers in Anchra Kalan village have reported the death of 12 persons in one month due to flu-like disease.The Senior Medical Officer in Hisar, Dr Subhash Khatreja, said the patients were advised to undergo Igg Elisa test for the detection of dengue infections or the NS1 (dengue virus antigen detection along with rapid test. “We have also asked the private hospitals to take samples of patients and test them for dengue, malaria and Covid 19 so that the health authorities can take proper measures and precautions”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dengue-on-the-rise-in-haryana-336987
12-11-2021||Parveen Arora||30 institutes in India use advanced IVF technique to produce elite bulls||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 11After witnessing the success of Ovum Pick-Up (OPU)-in vitro-fertilization (IVF) technique in the past couple of years at National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) here, the technique is now being used in around 30 animal institutes of the country for the multiplication of good quality bulls to meet the shortage of around 80 million doses of semen of livestock in India.Will produce good germplasmThe OPU-IVF is an advanced technique of reproduction. With the help of this advance technology, we will produce good germplasm to meet the demand of semen. — Dr BN Tripathi, Dy Director-General (animal science), ICAR, New DelhiAt present, the country has around 80 million doses of semen, while the requirement is of around 160 million doses for animals.With the help of this technique, a cow can produce more than 50-80 calves in comparison to five to eight normally in her lifetime.“The OPU-IVF is an advanced technique of reproduction. Presently, farmers are using artificial insemination in the field, but its success rate is around 35 per cent. With the help of this advance technology, we will produce good germplasm to meet the demand of semen,” said Dr BN Tripathi, Deputy Director-General (animal science), Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi.“NDRI is at the forefront of the research and developmental activities in advanced reproductive biotechnology and is a premier research organisation having a high-quality infrastructure and experienced faculties. After its success in the technique, the Union Government has funded Rs 1.5-2 crore to each institute working on this project across the country for strengthen the OPU-IVF technique,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/30-institutes-in-india-use-advanced-ivf-technique-to-produce-elite-bulls-336989
12-11-2021||---||Karnal: Two migrants drown during Chhath Puja||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 11Two migrant labourers drowned in Western Yamuna Canal during Chhat Puja this morning.The drowned persons were identified as Vashisht Sharma (38) and Dukhan Sahani (35) of Rajiv Puram, said the police. They were living in a rented accommodation.The incident took place at around 6.30 am when the two, along with their family members, went to Western Yamuna Canal to perform Chhath Puja. In just a few minutes, they drowned and people at the site tried to save them, but failed. After getting information, the police started the rescue operation and divers were pressed into service.“My husband went to offer prayers inside the canal, but did not come out,” said Orila, wife of Dukhan. The police said the rescue operation was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-two-migrants-drown-during-chhath-puja-336990
12-11-2021||---||Seven shops sealed in Yamunanagar for not paying rent||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, November 11The authorities of the Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation sealed seven shops today for not paying rent to the tune of Rs 24.14 lakh.A team headed by MC’s Zonal Taxation Officer Ajay Walia sealed shops on Workshop Road in Yamunanagar.Ajay Singh Tomar, Municipal Commissioner of the MC said 63 more shops would also be sealed soon as the owners of the shops failed to pay the rent despite being given final notices.“The owners of the 63 shops owe rent to the tune of Rs 1.60 crore. They have been issued final notices to clear the dues, but have failed to respond to the notices of the Municipal Corporation. Therefore, these shops will be sealed soon,” said Tomar, adding: “Shopkeepers should deposit their monthly rent timely to the Municipal Corporation to avoid the action of sealing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seven-shops-sealed-in-yamunanagar-for-not-paying-rent-336992
12-11-2021||---||Worker dies while cleaning sewage tank in Gurugram||Our CorrespondentGurugram, November 11A worker cleaning a sewage tank near the Sheetla Mata temple was suffocated to death inside it. The brother of the deceased accused the contractor company of the MCG of negligence and an FIR has been registered against the company at the Sector 5 police station.Mohammad Mokim, a native of west Bengal, but living in Delhi, filed the complaint which said his brother Yakub Ali (19) was working as a fitter with GMK Company which had contract of sewage cleaning through the MCG in Gurugram village.“It was on Tuesday when my brother was asked to enter the sewage tank for cleaning without any safety equipment. He was suffocated to death inside the tank. It was negligence on the part of the company because had there been any safety equipment, my brother would not have died”, Mokim said in his complaint. Following the complaint, the police lodged an FIR of negligence against the contractor company and handed over the body to the kin after the postmortem. The police said they were verifying facts and action would be taken accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/worker-dies-while-cleaning-sewage-tank-in-gurugram-336993
12-11-2021||Chandigarh||Rs 65 lakh given to martyred cop’s family||Haryana Director General of Police (DGP) PK Agrawal today presented cheques of Rs 65 lakh to family members of late constable Sandeep Narwal, who attained martyrdom during an encounter with miscreants in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, recently.Under the accidental death insurance cover, a cheque of Rs 55 lakh was received by Neelam, wife of martyr Sandeep, and Rs 5 lakh each by his mother Sona Devi and his father Krishan.The brave police personnel had attained martyrdom in an encounter with miscreants during a raid conducted by the crime branch in Haridwar on September 30. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-65-lakh-given-to-martyred-cops-family-336994
12-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram woman injured in acid attack by cousin||A 20-year-old woman was injured after her cousin allegedly threw an acid-like chemical at her face late last evening while she was talking on phone at the gate of her PG in Farrukhnagar.Refused marriageThe accused, 25-year-old son of her maternal uncle, was reportedly upset as the woman was opposing his advances and refusing to marry him.The victim is being treated at a private hospital and her eyes are in danger. Following the victim’s complaint, an FIR was lodged and police nabbed the accused, identified as Ravinder Kumar, a native of Rajpura village in Hisar district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-woman-injured-in-acid-attack-by-cousin-336995
12-11-2021||---||BJP MLA’s daughter-in-law electrocuted in Fatehabad||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 11Fatehabad BJP MLA Dura Ram’s daughter-in-law Shweta, 32, was electrocuted when she was taking bath in washroom at their residence in Fatehabad town today.Shweta was married to Dura Ram’s son Sandeep Bishnoi eight years ago and the couple have a four-year-old son. Family sources said the family members were busy in preparations for the marriage function of son of MLA’s brother Ugrasen, scheduled days later in the family. Shweta went to the bathroom, but did not come out for long. The family got concerned and knocked on the door, but when there was no response from inside, the door was broken open. Shweta was found dead inside the bathroom.According to information, there was a short-circuit in the geyser installed inside the bathroom which resulted in the mishap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-mlas-daughter-in-law-electrocuted-in-fatehabad-336996
12-11-2021||Rohtak||Ex-dons oppose move to recruit university staff by Haryana Govt||The Maharshi Dayanand University Retired Teachers’ Forum has condemned the Haryana Government’s decision to recruit teaching and non-teaching staff at state universities.“The decision of the Haryana Government is in complete contravention of the National Education Policy 2020, UGC regulations, SC verdicts and Acts and Statutes of the state universities,” said Prof Neelima Dahiya, president of the forum.Terming the move “a clear onslaught on the autonomy of the state universities”, the forum has urged the Governor, who is also the Chancellor of the state universities, to direct the state government to withdraw the decision.Meanwhile, the INLD has also termed the decision against the UGC rules.In a statement, Ellenabad MLA Abhay Chautala said the decision to entrust the responsibility of the appointments to the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and Haryana State Selection Commission (HSSC) was a direct attack on the autonomy of the universities. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-dons-oppose-move-to-recruit-university-staff-by-haryana-govt-336997
12-11-2021||---||1857 uprising began in Ambala: Haryana CM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 11Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, while speaking at a programme held here today as a part of ongoing series of celebrations of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ across the state, said that the state’s contribution in the First War of Independence in 1857 is unforgettable.Unforgettable contributionThe Revolt of 1857 is among the renowned incidents and Haryana made an unforgettable contribution in it. This could be gauged from the fact that the uprising started from Ambala Cantonment. — Manohar Lal Khattar, CM“During the period of slavery, many brave heroes made supreme sacrifices to ensure the freedom of the country as a result of which we are today able to breathe freely,” said the Chief Minister.Power Minister Ranjit Singh, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and MLA Sohana Sanjay Singh were also present on the occasion.The Chief Minister said that in the freedom struggle, the Revolt of 1857 is among the renowned incidents and Haryana made an unforgettable contribution in it. This could be gauged from the fact that the uprising started from Ambala Cantonment, the Chief Minister added.“Today, while celebrating the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, staging the play ‘1857 ka sangram Haryana ke veeron ke naam’ is a commendable effort,” he said.The Chief Minister said that be it the First or Second World War, Indo-Pak Wars of 1965 or 1971, Rezangala war with China in 1962 or ‘Operation Vijay’ of Kargil, the soldiers of Haryana always wrote history with their blood. Despite being only 2 per cent of the country’s population, every 10th soldier in the Army is from Haryana, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1857-uprising-began-in-ambala-haryana-cm-336998
12-11-2021||Karnal||Peace march conducted in Karnal||KU cultural assn appointmentsYamunanagar: A meeting of the cultural association of Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, was conducted under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Dr Somnath Sachdeva. At the meeting, the principal of Maharaja Agrasen College, Jagadhri, Dr Pramod Kumar Bajpai was appointed president of the cultural association of Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. Other members of the Cultural Association were also appointed unanimously. According to the election in-charge, Dr DS Rana, Dr Ramniwas of Arya College, Panipat, was elected as the vice -president and the other posts work conferred upon Dr Rampal Singh from DAV College, Sadhaura, Sriprakash from MLN College, Yamunanagar, Dr RP Saini from DAV College, Karnal, Dr Vivek Kohli from SL DAV College, Ambala City, Dr Prem Singh and Dr Ashok Kumar from SD College, Ambala Cantonment.Drug de-addiction awareness campKarnal: A one-day drug de-addiction awareness programme was organised at DAV Senior Secondary School under the guidance of Shrikant Jadhav, ADGP, Haryana State Narcotics Control Bureau, under the drug-free India campaign. Sub-inspector Ashok Kumar Verma, convener member of Prayas Sanstha, as the chief speaker, spread awareness among students how to stay away from drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/peace-march-conducted-in-karnal-337000
12-11-2021||There hasbeen an unprecedented increase in the number of stray dogs in Jagadhri town for the past several years. Packs of stray dogs can be easily seen in streets of any colony and open areas of the town. They pose a direct threat to the public||No end to Stray dog menace in Jagadhri||Costly palm trees dry up due to Poor upkeep in FaridabadSeveral grown up palm trees were planted on the dividing road of Sectors 12 and 15 here a few years ago, have either dried up or are on the verge of drying up, perhaps due to the poor upkeep by the authorities concerned. While each of the plant had reportedly been procured at a cost of Rs 10,000, the total cost was borne by a leading Industrial Association under a special plantation drive by a former minister. Though the organisers of the drive managed to corner all the glitz and glory, at that time, no one from the authorities or the NGOs came forward to ensure the care and look after of these trees leading to drying up in an unfortunate manner and wastage of funds and efforts. Plantation drives should be taken up only after the assurance or guarantee of the upkeep and not just for the publicity campaigns done normally.Yogesh Sharma, FaridabadPotholed road a threat to life of commutersA stretch of the Najafgarh road in Badli town here is in a deplorable condition. Deep potholes developed on the road are posing a serious threat to the life of commuters who have no other option except to go to Delhi following the closure of Tikri border. A considerable number of people from nearby areas daily commute to Delhi due to their jobs and business purposes. Some minor mishaps have taken place on the road due to the potholes. The authorities concerned are aware of the issue but are turning a blind eyes to it.Krishan Kumar, BadliWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-end-to-stray-dog-menace-in-jagadhri-337001
12-11-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Coach’s wife, brother-in-law held  in Sonepat double murder case||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 11The police today arrested two persons allegedly involved in the murder of wrestler Nisha Dahiya (21) and her brother Sooraj (18) in Halalpur village of the district.Coach misled Nisha on Olympics: FatherSP Rahul Sharma said wrestling coach Pawan’s wife Sujata and her brother Amit were arrested from the Dighal toll plaza in Rohtak district on Thursday evening.The two accused would be produced in the court on Friday, he added. Besides, the police have announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh each for providing information on the two main accused — coach Pawan and his second brother-in-law Sachin.Nisha was shot dead at Sushil Kumar Wrestling Academy on the outskirts of the village while her brother Sooraj Dahiya (18) was shot near the village canal. Their mother Dhanpati, who was shot at, is admitted to the PGIMS, Rohtak. Dhanpati, in her statement to the police, has alleged that Pawan had been molesting her daughter for the past two years. She claimed that Pawan and his associates opened fire on them.Following her statement, the police registered a case against Pawan, Sujata, Sachin and Amit under Sections 148, 149, 302, 307, 354 (D), 506, 34 of the IPC and the Arms Act.Dayanand, the father of the deceased siblings who is serving as Inspector in the CRPF, said Pawan used to misguide her, telling her that he would manage a direct entry for her in the Olympics, and had taken over Rs 5 lakh from him.Earlier, Nisha was practising in another academy, but Pawan brought her to his academy three years ago.Enraged over the incident, Halalpur villagers organised a mahapanchayat today. The villagers demanded the arrest of Pawan, refusing to cremate the dead till the accused were arrested.They also insisted that the academy should not be opened again.The villagers agreed to cremate the siblings after the SP assured that all the accused would be arrested soon. The siblings were cremated in the evening in the presence of heavy police force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coachs-wife-brother-in-law-held-in-sonepat-double-murder-case-336901
12-11-2021||Sonepat||Wrestler’s killing: Coach’s wife, brother-in-law arrested from Rohtak||The Haryana Police on Thursday arrested the wife and brother-in-law of a coach-cum-owner of an academy here in connection with the killing of a young wrestler and her brother. The police also announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh for information on coach Pawan and another absconding person, Sachin.University-level wrestler Nisha Dahiya and her brother were killed and their mother suffered injuries as some assailants opened fire on them at a wrestling academy in Haryana’s Sonepat district on Wednesday. The police suspected that the coach-cum-owner of the academy in Sonepat’s Halalpur area was behind the firing incident.Pawan’s wife Sujata and brother-in-law Amit were arrested from Rohtak as they were present when wrestler Nisha and her brother Suraj were shot dead at the academy, the police said.The police announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh for information providing clue about absconding Pawan and Sachin. Photos of the two have been uploaded on social media, the police said.They said Pawan used to misbehave with Nisha at the academy during her practice hours.The murdered wrestler’s identity had created confusion as several reports initially mistook her for her more famous namesake who recently won a bronze medal at the Under-23 World Wrestling Championship in Belgrade. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrestlers-killing-coachs-wife-brother-in-law-arrested-from-rohtak-336833
