14-11-2021||Deepender Deswal||‘Severe’ pollution in Haryana's Hisar, Jind; children advised to stay indoor||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 13Multiple factors, including the burning of paddy residue by farmers coupled with vehicular traffic, municipal solid waste and other activities such as smoke from brick kilns and industries among others, have resulted in the consistent worsening air quality in the region for about a week.Cases of eye allergy on the rise tooWe advise patients with respiratory issues and kids to stay indoor... Even the cases of eye allergies in the OPD has gone up by four times as compared to normal days. Dr Gulshan Mehta, medical officer, hisar civil hospitalThe national air quality index (AQI) of the Central Pollution Control Board indicated that Hisar reported above 400 points on the PM 2.5 and PM 10 for the past three days. Earlier too, barring November 8 and 9 when the air quality was in the ‘very poor’ category, the AQI on other days was recorded above 400 points since November 4.On Saturday, the AQI in Hisar was 408 at 8 am, which came down to 344 points by 7 pm for the first time in three days. The situation was worse in Jind, where the AQI continued to hover over 400 for about a week. Bhiwani too recorded 451 points on the AQI at 8 am on Friday though it came down to 334 by Saturday evening.Prof NR Bishnoi from the department of environment and biosciences in the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology said various factors contributed to the deterioration of air quality during this time every year.“Besides farm fires, there are around 3,000 brick kilns in Haryana and nearly 90 lakh vehicles. Moreover, Hisar produces about 200 tonnes of solid municipal waste every day,” he said, adding that these factors cause pollution and temperature inversion leads to the formation of smog, which contains various toxic gases that were extremely harmful for human beings.Meanwhile, Dr Gulshan Mehta, Medical Officer at the Hisar Civil Hospital, said the AQI in the “very poor” and “severe” categories was dangerous, especially for patients with respiratory problems. “We advise them and children to stay indoors during these days. Even the morning walk should be avoided as the pollution is severe during those hours too,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/severe-pollution-in-haryanas-hisar-jind-children-advised-to-stay-indoor-337833
14-11-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||As harvest nears end, farm fires see sharp rise in Haryana's Palwal||Tribune News ServicePalwal, November 13With the paddy harvesting season almost over, a total of 71 incidents of stubble burning have surfaced in the district so far.The stubble-burning incidents in the district have seen a drop of around 32% this season. The authorities have issued challans (penalty) to the tune of Rs 1.85 lakh against the violations.Claiming that increased awareness and the measures taken to curb the menace led to a visible decrease in the stubble-burning incidents, official sources, however, revealed that the three-fourth of the total cases were reported in the past 15 days.Till October 25, around 16 stubble-burning incidents were reported, which shot up sharply to 71 on November 12, which is around 4.5 times. This surge led to a downfall in the air quality index (AQI) in comparison to last year. It is claimed that the surge in farm fires this season had been of a shorter period, while such incidents were spread over a larger duration last year. “Factors, including the dust generated from the broken roads and violation of the GRAP (Graded Response Action Plan), has adversely affected the AQI,” claimed an official on the condition of anonymity.Around 105 cases of farm fires had surfaced till November 12 in 2020 and over 210 in 2019.Kuldeep Singh, SDO, Agriculture Department, said the environmental compensation fine had been imposed on violators, leading to a recovery of Rs 1.85 lakh penalty so far.Against the average of the PM-2.5 level (particulate matter of 2.5 micrograms hanging in air) of 211 between November 6 and 12 last year, it has been recorded at 262.4 in the corresponding period this year. The air quality is moderate i.e. between 100 and 200, while above 200 it is poor. As the safe (good) level of PM- 2.5 is 60 or less, the level between 300 and 400 is very poor and above 400 is severe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/as-harvest-nears-end-farm-fires-see-sharp-rise-in-haryanas-palwal-337834
14-11-2021||---||Haryana government to distribute fogging machines across state||Tribune News ServicePanipat, November 13Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday said the government would distribute fogging machines across the state to curb the spread of the dengue in rural and urban areas.The Deputy CM launched the fogging machine distribution programme at the mini secretariat here today.As many as 23 machines have been distributed in Panipat in the first phase, and about 95 machines will be given in villages in the next few days. He said through collective efforts, all villages would be covered in four to five days.Dushyant said fogging machines would be provided even in urban areas, whether it was a colony or a sector. He said after preparing a plan for this, they would appoint an administrative officer to regularly monitor the campaign in the district.He said such machines were fully automatic and should be put to immediate use. The youth of the villages should be associated with the work. The village secretary and BDPO should also keep a check, he said. The Deputy CM said Haryana was the first state in the country, where fogging machines were being distributed. Earlier, as an MP, he had distributed 350 fogging machines in Hisar from the MP quota, he said. MLAs Mahipal Dhanda, Pramod Vij, Mayor Avneet Kaur, JJP leader Devender Kadian, DC Sushil Kumar Sarwan and SP Shashank Kumar Sawan, along with other officials, were also present during the programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-to-distribute-fogging-machines-across-state-337835
14-11-2021||---||Haryana farmers protest ‘scant’ relief for acquired land||Sanjay YadavGurugram, November 13Farmers gathered at the mahapanchayat in Patli village today to protest against the government for providing ‘low’ compensation for the land acquirement in 2013.Government dismissed pleaThey have taken our land at throwaway prices and are now selling to it to a corporate giant at a huge profit. We moved a local court, but the government ensured that our plea was dismissed. Sombir Sangwan, Dadri MLAThe panchayat chaired by Dadri Independent MLA Sombir Sangwan said their lands were taken at around Rs 50-70 lakh per acre, and reportedly sold to Flipkart for over Rs 3 crore per acre.“They have taken our land at throwaway prices and now selling to it to a corporate giant at a huge profit. We moved a local court, but the government ensured that our plea was dismissed. We have no choice, but to start an aggressive protest,” said Sangwan.Farmers will gather at the Rajiv Chowk on November 26 and march to the DC’s office. If the government did not consider their demands, they would start a dharna, he said.The farmers claimed 285 acres were acquired in 2013. While Patli village land owners reportedly got Rs 55 lakh per acre as compensation and Bawda villagers got Rs 73 lakh, 140 acres were sold to Flipkart at Rs 3.22 crore per acre.“This is our land and the government has acquired it and making profits. We will stake everything to save our land,” said Satbir Dhankar, a farmer.Krishan Pandit, Jai Prakash Dagar, Sunil Yadav, Ushav Siroha, Rahul and other farmers also took part in the mahapanchayat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-protest-scant-relief-for-acquired-land-337836
14-11-2021||Karnal/Panipat||Haryana fuel stations to go on strike tomorrow||The All-Haryana Petroleum Dealers Association (AHPDA) has given a call for a 24-hour strike from 6 am on November 15.Meanwhile, in Panipat, Haryana Petroleum Dealers’ Welfare Association (HPDWA) gave a call for 12-hour strike on Monday from 6 am to 6 pm. The association has decided that if any petrol pump is found open on Monday, a fine of Rs 50,000 would be imposed upon it and the operator would be boycotted socially, Sanjeev Chaudhary, state president, HPWDA, said.Ram Kumar Kalyan, district president, Karnal Petroleum Dealers Association, said that on the call of AHPDA, fuel stations in the district would remain closed for 24 hours due to financial losses to them owing to the sudden decision of reducing central excise duty on fuel by the Centre. They alleged that adulterated fuel is being sold in the name of bio-diesel to industries.“We have raised the issue of adulterated diesel with government officials,” Kalyan said, adding that due to VAT disparity in states, the dealers are facing losses.On November 3, the Centre reduced excise duty on petrol by Rs 5 and on diesel by Rs 10. Later, the state reduced VAT on petrol and diesel by Rs 12 per litre. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-fuel-stations-to-go-on-strike-tomorrow-337837
14-11-2021||Sonepat||Woman boxer from UP found dead in Sonepat||A 21-year-old woman boxer — Bhawna of Mavi Kalan in UP’s Baghpat — was found dead in the bathroom of her rented accommodation at Kharkhoda here yesterday.She was practising at the KS Boxing Academy, Kharkhoda, and was living in on rent with some other girls.Bhawna reportedly went to take a bath last evening. When she did not come out of the bathroom for a long time, other girls knocked at the door, but there was no reply.The house owner was informed and the boxer was taken out after breaking open the bathroom door. She was then taken to a hospital, where doctors declared her “brought dead”.Kharkhoda SHO Karamjeet Singh said the body was handed over to her kin after an autopsy today. The actual reason behind her death would be known only from the autopsy report was received, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-boxer-from-up-found-dead-in-sonepat-337838
14-11-2021||Ambala||INLD lodges plaint against Kangana over freedom remark||Activists of the INLD, led by party spokesperson Onkar Singh, today submitted a complaint to the Ambala police, seeking an FIR against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for her recent remarks on India’s freedom and Independence.Onkar said, “Kangana’s statement that India attained freedom in 2014 and the Independence in 1947 was a ‘bheek’, has not only hurt the sentiments of people, but also disrespected the martyrs. The BJP should condemn her statement and take action. We have submitted a complaint to the Ambala Cantt police station and demanded that a case should be registered against her.”SHO Naresh Kumar, said, “A complaint has been received against Kangana. Appropriate legal action will be taken after probe.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inld-lodges-plaint-against-kangana-over-freedom-remark-337839
14-11-2021||Yamunanagar||Kapal Mochan Mela in Yamunanagar from tomorrow, 8 lakh expected||About eight lakh pilgrims are expected to visit the Kapal Mochan Mela to be held in Kapal Mochan near Bilaspur town of Yamunanagar from November 15 to 19.1,700 policemen, Drones to keep vigilSanjeev Kaushal, Financial Commissioner, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, is the chief guest and will open the mela on November 15. The annual mela could not be held last year due to Covid.The Police Department has decided to depute 1,700 personnel for the smooth conduct of the mela. There will be nine entry points for the entry of pilgrims in the mela.The administration is installing CCTV cameras in the premises and drones will also be used to keep vigil on anti-social elements.DC Parth Gupta said the mela premises had been divided into four sectors, for which duty magistrates and supervisors were appointed, adding that every pilgrim would have to follow Covid guidelines. Pilgrims from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh among other states will visit the mela. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kapal-mochan-mela-in-yamunanagar-from-tomorrow-8-lakh-expected-337840
14-11-2021||Palwal||Youth dies in Palwal mishap, villagers protest||A 20-year-old youth was killed and another grievously injured when their bike was hit by a speeding truck near Alhapur flyover on NH-19 in the district this morning.Traffic movement on the highway remained disrupted for four hours today due to a blockade by villagers, who demanded a curb on rash driving, adequate relief and a job to the kin of the deceased.According to the police, the accident took place at around 10.30 am leading to the death of Pawan Kumar, a student, and injuries to Vikas, both residents of Ferozepur village.The accident took place due to sudden applying of brakes by the truck driver after the police signalled it to stop.A case has been registered against the truck driver, who is absconding. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-dies-in-palwal-mishap-villagers-protest-337841
14-11-2021||Gurugram||Maruti gets nod for Sonepat plant||CM Manohar Lal Khattar said clearance had been given for setting Maruti plant in Kharkhoda during the meeting of Haryana Enterprises Promotion Centre (HEPC) held in Gurugram.Chairing the meeting, he said the clearance had been given to set up a new Maruti plant on about 900 acres at Kharkhoda in Sonepat district. “This will help the company increase production, giving a boost to the automobile sector in the state.”“If the company deposits the entire amount within 45 days, it will be given 10% discount, as per the policy. The company has been given SGST reimbursement for 15 years,” Khattar added.Meanwhile, Grasim Paints, which was earlier holding talks with the state for setting up a plant in Rohtak, will now establish it in Panipat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maruti-gets-nod-for-sonepat-plant-337842
14-11-2021||Mahendragarh||Mahendragarh youth posing as UPSC qualifier nabbed||A youth, identified as Pradeep Kumar Yadav of Khatotda village here, has been arrested on the charges of cheating by impersonating as a UPSC exam qualifier.Significantly, he was also honoured by various social outfits in the district when he publicised of attaining the 343rd rank in the UPSC exam, the results of which was declared recently. His success story was also highlighted in the local media.The reality came to the fore when the police probed the matter after receiving a complaint against Pradeep. During the investigation, it was found that Pradeep used the name of one Pradeep of Tamil Nadu, who actually got the 343rd rank in the exam.Ashwani Kumar, SHO, Mahendragarh City police station, said a case under Section 419 and 420 was registered against Pradeep, who had been arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mahendragarh-youth-posing-as-upsc-qualifier-nabbed-337843
14-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC raps lower court for ‘hastily’ deciding plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 13The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped a subordinate court for undue haste to dispose of a matter rather than intending to do justice to the parties. The Bench asserted this was not the purpose of law and the process of dispensation of justice.Purpose of law defeatedThe court below was in an undue haste to dispose of the matter rather than intending to do justice to the parties, which is not the purpose of law and the process of dispensation of justice. — Justice Fateh Deep Singh, Punjab and Haryana HCThe admonition by Justice Fateh Deep Singh came on a petition by Keshav Kumar against Piccadilly Agro Industries Ltd and another respondent. Appearing before the Bench, the petitioner, through counsel Anurag Jain, submitted that Kumar had filed a suit against Piccadilly Agro Industries Ltd for the recovery of Rs 8, 34, 647, along with interest. The suit was assigned to the Court of Civil Judge (Junior Division), Bhiwani, on January 2, 2017. The court, on the next date of the hearing, ordered that the defendant would be proceeded against ex-parte after it did not put in an appearance.The petitioner upon the closure of his ex-parte evidence moved an application seeking permission to lead additional evidence. But the court, vide impugned order dated December 13, 2019, dismissed the application, following which the petitioner filed a revision petition before the High Court.Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted that the suit was instituted in 2017 and was listed for ex-parte arguments on December 12, 2017, when the application in question was moved. As such, there was “no inordinate delay which could have necessitated the trial Court to have proceeded ahead in haste”.Justice Fateh Deep Singh added the ex-parte evidence concerned official records of a government department. The certified copies could have been easily placed on record and not much delay in the proceedings would have occurred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-raps-lower-court-for-hastily-deciding-plea-337846
14-11-2021||---||AAP leader, three others join probe in three-year-old cheating case||Tribune News ServicePanipat, November 13A day-long drama witnessed here when AAP leader and state president Navin Jaihind reached the Panipat city police station to ‘surrender’ after receiving a notice in connection with a three-year-old case registered against him and his supporters.City SHO Sunil Kumar said four persons — Navin Jaihind, Navin Malik, Sonu Malik and Jogender, have joined the investigation.As per the police record, the City police had registered a case against Jaihind, and his four associates Vineet Dhankar, Novin Malik, Sonu Malik and Jogender on the complaint of the then CIA in charge, Inspector Sandeep Kumar, on August 10, 2018.After receiving the notice, Navin Jaihind and his supporters today reached Sky Lark, where they raised anti-government slogans and later, moved toward the city police station with swords and trishuls, owing to which traffic was adversely hit.The then CIA in charge, Inspector Sandeep Kumar, said in his complaint that the DSP (Crime) had directed him to check Scorpio car parked near a cinema hall in the city and to verify the persons inside the vehicle.Four persons came out from a restaurant and identified themselves as Vineet Dhankhar of Rohtak, Navin Malik of Khrawar village, Sonu Malik of Rohtak and Jogender of Sonepat.Meanwhile, people gathered there and started arguing with Jaihind. Extra police force was called to tackle the protesters, the AAP leader said.Jaihind said he was booked for organising a ‘Bhaichara-Kanwar Yatra’, but was not afraid as he had not done anything wrong.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-leader-three-others-join-probe-in-three-year-old-cheating-case-337847
14-11-2021||---||Coach, bro-in-law sent to three-day police remand||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 13The Sonepat police produced accused coach Pawan and his brother-in-law Sachin in court today in connection with the murder of woman wrestler Nisha Dahiya and her brother Sooraj in Halalpur village of Sonepat three days ago.While the court sent them to three-day police remand, it has sent the coach’s wife Sujata to judicial custody.The Delhi police had arrested the two accused, Pawan and Sachin, from near Dwarka in Delhi on Friday morning. A Sonepat police team brought them on transit remand in late hours on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/coach-bro-in-law-sent-to-three-day-police-remand-337848
14-11-2021||Jhajjar||Dadri beat Jhajjar by 18 runs||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dadri-beat-jhajjar-by-18-runs-337849
