16-11-2021||Gwalior||Hindu Mahasabha to make Godse's statue in MP with Ambala jail soil||The Hindu Mahasabha has said it will make a statue of Nathuram Godse with soil brought from Haryana's Ambala Central Jail, where the assassin of Mahatma Gandhi was hanged to death in 1949.The right-wing organisation's comments came on Monday when it observed Godse's death anniversary."The Mahasabha activists last week brought the soil from the Ambala jail, where Godse and Narayan Apte were executed. This soil will be used to make the statues of Godse and Apte and they will be installed at the Mahasabha's office in Gwalior,” the outfit's national vice president Jaiveer Bharadwaj told reporters.The Mahasabha activists installed the statues of Godse and Apte at 'Balidhan Dham' in Meerut (Uttar Pradesh) on Monday, he said.“We will construct such Balidan Dham in every state,” he added.He said the Gwalior district administration had seized Godse's bust (installed at the Mahasabha's office here) in 2017, but it was not returned so far.Bharadwaj also alleged that the Congress was responsible for the country's partition (in 1947) which resulted in killings of people on a large scale.Meanwhile, Gwalior's Additional Superintendent of Police Satyendra Singh Tomar said there was no public programme of the Hindu Mahasabha here on Monday.No statue had been installed so far and the police are keeping an eye on the outfit's activities, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hindu-mahasabha-to-make-godses-statue-in-mp-with-ambala-jail-soil-338830
16-11-2021||Mahendragarh||Car falls into canal on Mahendragarh-Rewari road, 3 killed||Three members of a family, including a couple and their son, were killed after their car fell into a canal on the Mahendragarh-Rewari road near Jhagdauli village here today.The couple’s daughter suffered injuries. The deceased have been identified as Praveen, his wife Lalita and son Divya of Ramgarh Kheri village in Rewari. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/car-falls-into-canal-on-mahendragarh-rewari-road-3-killed-338473
16-11-2021||---||President Ram Nath Kovind to visit Bhiwani village||New Delhi, November 15President Ram Nath Kovind will visit Sui village in Bhiwani district of Haryana on November 17. The village is being developed as “Adarsh Gram” by Mahadevi Parameshwaridas Jindal Charitable Trust.The President will also inaugurate public facilities there, a Rashtrapati Bhavan release said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/president-ram-nath-kovind-to-visit-bhiwani-village-338474
16-11-2021||Karnal||Fuel stations observe strike in Haryana||Fuel stations in Hisar and Bhiwani were also shut in protest against the illegal sale of spurious diesel.As per the All Haryana Petroleum Dealers’ Association, the strike will continue if no action is taken.In Hisar, as many as 225 fuel stations observed the strike, but Relaince fuel stations did not participate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fuel-stations-observe-strike-in-haryana-338475
16-11-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Open space being used as garbage dumping ground in Hisar||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comOpen space being used as garbage dumping groundThe open space in the Dhobi Ghat locality of Hisar town is being used as a dumping ground for garbage causing problems to the people living nearby. Shockingly, there are around 50 small and big hospitals and clinics in the vicinity of this area. But, it seems that the district authorities are not concerned about the cleanliness of the town and health of residents. The rising cases of dengue have put focus back on maintaining cleanliness in the town. Hope the district authorities are listening. Arun Sihag, HisarHeaps of garbage on old Delhi road emit foul smellI was going through the Old Delhi road and was extremely shocked to note that there were heaps of garbage and poor sanitation. There was no cleanliness and it was quite difficult to pass through that way due to the foul smell. The authorities concerned should get up and act at the earliest. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramOvergrown trees obscure signpostsThe phenomenon of overgrown twigs and tree branches obscuring the signposts is very common. The situation is the same at the Ambala Railway Cantt station where bushy thickets are obscuring the exit signpost. The signpost must be cleared of such unwanted twigs, ad placards and posters. Rakesh Sudan, Kurukshetra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/open-space-being-used-as-garbage-dumping-ground-in-hisar-338488
16-11-2021||Kaithal||International workshop at RKSD College, Kaithal||Exhibition organisedYamunanagar: In the series of Azadi Ke Amrit Mahotsav programms under the Legal literacy cell of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, a literacy and awareness exhibition was organised on the college premises under the joint aegis of legal literacy cell and District Legal Services Authority, Yamunanagar. Inaugurating the exhibition, college principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said hundreds of laws had been made for the benefit of the general public, but due to lack of awareness and legal literacy, they were not able to take advantage of these. Head of the department of public administration and political science, Dr Meenu Kapoor said many family and social problems could be solved by taking the help of laws provided.Interactive sessions for teachersKurukshetra: Gurukul, Kurukshetra, conducted interactive sessions for teachers to make them aware of the new formats of CBSE term-I examination to be held from this month. The sessions were conducted by controller of examination Ramesh, coordinator Subey Pratap and moderated by Col Arun Datta, director of the school. A detailed presentation on demystifying the OMR pattern of the evaluation was discussed along with standard operating procedures brought out by the CBSE for smooth conduct of Class X and XII Board exams. Col Datta exhorted all teachers to conduct mock sessions as per the changed format of the exams for students so that they had sufficient practice before appearing in their final exams.Role of higher edu'l institutionsKurukshetra: Renowned economic expert and social worker Satish Kumar said new opportunities for employment and self-employment could be created through skill development. "Through self-employment we can take India to new heights." He said while participating as the chief guest in a workshop on "the role of higher educational institutions in employment generation" organised under the joint aegis of Haryana State Higher Education Council, Swadeshi Swalamban Trust and the Youth Red Cross of Kurukshetra University on Saturday at the KU Senate Hall. Presiding over the programme, the Vice-Chancellor of KU, Prof Som Nath, said to inculcate the nature of swadeshi and self-reliance among the youth and to make Haryana poverty free and fully employable, they had to work on the ground and make employment-centric education and policies.Seminar on World Diabetes DayGurugram: The department of nutrition and dietetics, faculty of allied health sciences of the SGT University organised a seminar on the topic of 'Holistic approach to management in diabetes' on the occasion of World Diabetes Day here on the campus. Dr Swapnil Auti, associate professor and head, panch karma ayurveda, Manjari Chandra, consultant, functional, nutrition of Max Health Care, Dr Swapna Chaturvedi, senior dietitian, AIIMS, New Delhi, were invited as chief guests at the seminar. The members of the expert panel and keynote speakers lighted the lamp to start the programme. The keynote speakers shared how diabetes in the modern era was spreading in the country and how people could combat the disease by just changing the daily routine and adding exercises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/international-workshop-at-rksd-college-kaithal-338476
16-11-2021||---||Haryana DGP PK Agrawal flags off ‘Jagriti Yatra’ on women empowerment||Chandigarh, November 15Director General of Police (DGP) PK Agrawal flagged off ‘Jagriti Yatra’, a month-long cycle rally launched by the Haryana Police to raise awareness on women safety and empowerment, at the police headquarters in Panchkula, near here, today.“The initiative aims to make women and girls aware of their rights, and educate them about the role of various agencies, including the police, in protection of people,” the DGP said.The ‘Jagriti Yatra’ will cover all districts in Haryana. Social awareness events will be organised by the district police teams for maximising the outreach of the initiative.The teams of 16 police women cyclists, led by Panchkula ACP Mamta Sodha, will cover 1,194 km.The rally that commenced from Panchkula will culminate on December 10 with the closing ceremony at the police headquarters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dgp-pk-agrawal-flags-off-jagriti-yatra-on-women-empowerment-338477
16-11-2021||---||Haryana Mid-day meal workers seek regular jobs||Karnal, November 15Mid-day meal workers on Saturday held a protest rally in Karnal, demanding regular jobs. Under the banner of the Haryana Mid-day Meal Workers’ Association, they alleged they had not been paid for the past six months as the mid-day meal was suspended due to Covid-19.They also demanded the government to start mid-day meal programme in schools. They took out a protest march from the Atal Park to the mini secretariat. They said workers should be given salaries for 12 months instead of 10 months and their minimum wages should be fixed. They also demanded compensation for the period when the mid-day meal service was suspended due to the lockdown for more than one year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-mid-day-meal-workers-seek-regular-jobs-338478
16-11-2021||Jhajjar||MLA Geeta Bhukkal inspects General Hospital in Jhajjar||Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal today paid a surprise visit to the General Hospital in Jhajjar city and took stock of the arrangements there for the treatment of patients. She also received feedback from the patients.Talking to the media, Bhukkal said there was an acute shortage of physicians and pediatricians in a situation when dengue cases were rising with every passing day.“I have talked to the Director-General (Health) over the phone and urged her to fulfil the shortage of doctors. She has assured to send some more doctors to the General Hospital on deputation soon,” said the MLA. Expressing dissatisfaction over the fogging to check dengue, Bhukkal said dengue was wreaking havoc in the district but the government’s claim of carrying out fogging in every village had fallen flat as fogging had not been done in many villages.She took a dig at the state government for announcing to send fogging machines to every district. The MLA said she was looking for such machines in Jhajjar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mla-geeta-bhukkal-inspects-general-hospital-in-jhajjar-338479
16-11-2021||---||Haryana IAS, HCS officers shifted||Chandigarh, November 15The Haryana Government has issued transfer and posting orders of one IAS and one HCS officer with immediate effect.Sachin Gupta, Additional Deputy Commissioner, and District Citizen Resources Information Officer, Ambala, has been given the additional charge of Administrator, Municipal Council, Ambala Sadar. Mandeep Kumar, General Manager, Hafed Sugar Mills, Assandh, has been posted as Sub Divisional Officer (Civil), Assandh, along with additional charge of General Manager, Hafed Sugar Mills, Assandh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-ias-hcs-officers-shifted-338480
16-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Mother kills 3-year-old girl, attempts suicide||Gurugram, November 15A woman slit her wrist after murdering her three-year-old daughter. An FIR on charge of murder has been registered against woman. The police said the woman would be nabbed after she was discharged from the hospital.As per the complaint filed by Pradeep Singh, a native of Bharatpur in Rajasthan and presently living in Ganpati Nagar, on Saturday afternoon when he returned from work, he found his wife Pooja Rani and daughter Kanishka lying in a pool of blood. He rushed them to the hospital, where doctors declared the daughter brought dead, while the woman was being treated. “My wife has anger issues and she first killed my daughter and then slit the wrist of her left hand,” the compalinant said.An FIR has been registered against Pooja Rani under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “The accused woman undergoing treatment. We have lodged the FIR and action will be taken as per the law,” said Sub Inspector Rakesh Kumar, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mother-kills-3-year-old-girl-attempts-suicide-338481
16-11-2021||---||Bahadurgarh air ‘very poor’, ban on mechanised stone crushers||Jhajjar, November 15Air quality of Bahadurgarh continues to be “very poor” with Air Quality Index (AQI) reported at 366 today.The AQI today was 41 points higher than Sunday, but lowest in the past four days. The Central Pollution Control Board recorded AQI 450 on Saturday, 481 on Friday and 416 on Thursday.The poor air quality has taken a toll on the health of residents, especially children and people suffering from respiratory diseases. The number of patients suffering from breathing problems has risen considerably in government and private hospitals across the town.Taking note of the situation, the district authorities have banned the operation of mechanised stone crushers and hot mix plants. The DC has also directed the officials concerned to ensure sprinkling of water on the roads to minimise pollution level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bahadurgarh-air-very-poor-ban-on-mechanised-stone-crushers-338482
16-11-2021||Karnal||Gurnam Singh Charuni  to chalk out morcha’s plan on November 18||Days after the announcement by the SKM to hold foot march on November 24, BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni today held a crucial meeting with leaders of various farmer unions and the core committee of his group at Dera Kar Sewa to discuss the morcha’s future plan.No decision was taken at a marathon meeting. A fresh meeting will be organised on November 18 in Karnal. As per sources, the issue of foot march was discussed. Charuni had already given a call to hold foot march on November 25 from Mohra Mandi to Tikri border. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurnam-singh-charuni-to-chalk-out-morchas-plan-on-november-18-338483
16-11-2021||---||Admission portal for UG courses reopens||Chandigarh, November 15Education Minister Kanwar Pal said the online admission portal (https://dheadmissions.nic.in/) had been reopened from November 15 to 22 for state students willing to take join UG courses in the government or aided and self-financed private colleges.The portal was earlier closed on October 27. The Education Minister said students, who had not registered, could apply on the portal, and those, who had already registered, could edit their college choices, so that their names could appear in the waiting list.He said colleges would prepare the merit list according to waiting list of the admission portal daily and offer seats to the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/admission-portal-for-ug-courses-reopens-338484
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||No dearth of manure in Haryana, says Manohar Lal Khattar||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said there would not be any shortage of manure for sowing wheat and mustard.The supply of fertilisers was being ensured in the state by holding talks with the Union Government, he said. In the past three days, eight racks of DAP manure had been received from the Union Government, and in the coming three days, nine more racks would be ordered, he said.The Union Government was providing 7,000-8,000 metric tonnes of DAP and NPK fertilisers every day, he said.Keeping in view the sowing season, fertilisers were being made available in every district as per the requirement, he said. So far, 2.10 lakh metric tonnes of DAP fertiliser had been made available in the state, he said. Out of this, 1.82 lakh metric tonnes had been purchased by farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-dearth-of-manure-in-haryana-says-manohar-lal-khattar-338485
16-11-2021||---||R-Day violence: Haryana minister Anil Vij slams Punjab Govt for ‘rewarding’ protesters||Chandigarh, November 15Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today took a dig at the Punjab Government for giving Rs 2 lakh each to the people involved in the Red Fort incident.He said, “It cannot be more shameful as the Constitution of the country is one and the law and order of the country is one. Whether there is a rule of the BJP or Congress or of any other party, rewarding such people is insulting the law and order of the country.”Insult to countryRewarding such people is insulting the law and order of the country. Anil Vij, Haryana Home and Health MinisterVij was interacting with the media here today.Flaying the Punjab Government, he said it proved that all those people were sent by the Punjab Government or by the Congress party itself.In response to a question regarding Gurnam Singh Chaduni’s yatra, he said they had no objection to him holding a sit-in and fast.He added, “Every person has the right to agitate, but you do not have the right to break the glass of someone’s car. You don’t have the right to hold anyone hostage. You don’t have to tear someone’s clothes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/r-day-violence-haryana-minister-anil-vij-slams-punjab-govt-for-rewarding-protesters-338486
16-11-2021||---||Nirmala Sitharaman lauds Haryana for bringing discoms in profit||Chandigarh, November 15Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while chairing a high-level meeting of Chief Ministers and state finance ministers held through video-conferencing, today lauded the steps taken by CM Manohar Lal Khattar for reduction in line losses of discoms and further taking the state to a profitable position.The Finance Minister said Secretary, Central Power Department, would be asked to study Haryana’s model to get a better understanding of the blueprint followed.During the meeting, detailed discussions were held on creating an enabling ecosystem for increased pro-active facilitation for investments, besides topics of energising growth, reforms, augmenting investments and creating a reforms-focused business climate.Khattar said under the structural reforms in the power sector, the state government was making dedicated efforts to reduce the gross distribution and commercial deficit of discoms under UDAY Yojana.During the past five years, the gross distribution and commercial deficit declined from 30.02 per cent in 2015-16 to 16.22 per cent in 2020-21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nirmala-sitharaman-lauds-haryana-for-bringing-discoms-in-profit-338487
16-11-2021||---||Rakesh Tikait: Won’t allow Haryana Govt to sell Karnal Agro Mall||Karnal, November 15Amid the reports of selling the Agro Mall, constructed in the previous Congress regime, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait today reached the mall and warned the government that if it tried to sell the property, farmers would lock the office of the Deputy Commissioner.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the auctioning of mall was being done by the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board as per the policy of the department.“If the Agro Mall is sold, it would be a start of the sale of property of mandis in Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh,” Tikait said.It was the land of farmers, which was purchased by the government, but if the project was not successful, the land should be given back to farmers, he added.“We will not allow the government to auction it as it is the property of the market board and huge expenses have been incurred on it. If the government tries to sell it, we will not let anyone take possession of the property,” the BKU leader said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rakesh-tikait-wont-allow-haryana-govt-to-sell-karnal-agro-mall-338489
16-11-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Panipat MC Commissioner seeks explanation from JBM firm||Tribune News ServicePanipat, November 15The Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Panipat (MCP), has sought explanation from JBM company, a private company — engaged for lifting and collection of garbage from door to door— for reportedly collecting double-user charges from residents in Ward 10 of the city.Post probe, proper action to be takenI have sought an explanation from JBM company about the collection of double-user charges from residents in Ward 10 within 10 days. Appropriate action will be initiated against the JBM after the probe. RK Singh, MC CommissionerNotably, the Urban Local Bodies Department has allotted the tender of garbage lifting and door to door collection in the areas of Municipal Corporation Panipat and Sonepat and Municipal committee Samalkha and Gannaur to the JBM environment management, a Gurugram-based company in 2018, during the previous regime of the BJP government.The company started working in Panipat in February 2018. From the beginning, the company was in controversy over tardy lifting of garbage and poor cleanliness in the city here. JBM company was the main issue in all General House meetings of the corporation.A new issue related to JBM company again come up when the residents of Ward 10 caught some employees of JBM company collecting extra money from the residents. As per sources, Rs 30 has been fixed for garbage collection but the employees of JBM were caught collecting Rs 60. The residents called Ward 10 councillor Ravinder Bhatia at the spot and gave a written complaint to Mayor Avneet Kaur and MC Commissioner RK Singh for initiating action against JBM company .Ravinder Bhatia said JBM had been looting the residents for the past three years. Heaps of garbage could be seen everywhere. The company has failed to clean the city in the past three years while the MC is giving crores of rupees to it every month, he alleged.Now, JBM has started collecting double money from the residents, he added. A complaint has been given to the Mayor and the MC Commissioner, he added.RK Singh said, “I have sought an explanation from JBM company about the collection of double-user charges from the residents in Ward10 within 10 days. Appropriate action will be initiated against JBM after the investigation, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-mc-commissioner-seeks-explanation-from-jbm-firm-338490
16-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||No night shelter for stuck passengers in Jhajjar city||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 15Stranded persons are compelled to sleep on benches in ticket booths and walkway at the bus stand in Jhajjar city as ‘raen basera’ (night shelter) is yet to start here.Men and women, along with their minor children, were found spending night in cold conditions when ‘The Tribune’ team visited the bus stand on Friday. Majority of people belonged to other states, who were stranded due to non-availability of bus services at night to reach their destination.Were Left in the lurchMy friend and I got late in reaching the Jhajjar bus stand and could not get a bus to reach Bhiwani. The next bus for Bhiwani was available in the morning. We had to sleep at the bus stand in the cold. Inderjit Yadav, resident of BiharNem Singh, a resident of Bulandshahr (Uttar Pradesh), said they arrived at the bus stand from their hometown at 8 pm to catch a bus for Charkhi Dadri. No bus was available for that place at night. They were forced to sleep in a ticket booth to protect themselves from cold, as there was no night shelter available at the bus stand for stranded persons, he said.“My friend and I got late in reaching the Jhajjar bus stand. Hence, we could not get a bus to reach our destination in Bhiwani. Since the next bus was to leave for Bhiwani the next morning, we had no other option but to sleep at the bus stand. We are feeling cold as the temperature is low,” said Inderjit Yadav of Bihar.Narender of Bulandshahr and Rajnish of Jhansi also faced a similar situation and were compelled to spend a sleepless night. Sources said a night shelter was set up at the bus stand in winter last year, but it was yet to start this time. Shyam Lal Punia, Deputy Commissioner, said the process was underway to set up night shelters at various places in Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh cities,.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-night-shelter-for-stuck-passengers-in-jhajjar-city-338491
16-11-2021||---||Two months on, MC park at Sampla yet to be dewatered||Rohtak, November 15Municipal Committee (MC) Park located on the Kharkhoda road in Sampla has been flooded for over two months now, forcing residents of nearby localities to go to other places for walk and exercise.No arrangement is allegedly being made to drain out the water despite local authorities being aware of the problem.Main gate of park floodedNo one can enter the park as its main gate is flooded too. The park has been inundated for over two months now, but no officer has come to take stock of the situation. Monu, a shopkeeperHad written to authoritiesThe work of draining out water comes under the Department of Public Health Engineering and we had written to it for resolving the issue. Mahavir Singh, building inspector Accumulated Water removed thrice}Water was removed from the park thrice but it accumulated again as it was located in a low-lying area. A plan has been chalked out to drain the water. Pooja Indora, chairperson, Sampla MC“Many residents of Rampura, Old Grain Market, Railway Road, Old Market Committee Road and other localities of ward 2 came to the park for morning and evening walks. The rain flooded the park over two months ago and remains waterlogged ever since. The authorities have turned a blind eye towards the problem,” a resident said.Monu, a shopkeeper, said a majority of people did not come to the park now owing to waterlogging and have now went to Chhotu Ram Park, which was more than a km away from here.“I visited the park daily in morning and evening, but now, no one can enter the park as its main gate is flooded too. The park has been inundated for over two months now, but no officer has so come to take stock of the situation,” he added.Pankaj Joon, secretary, Sampla Municipal Committee, could not be contacted. Mahavir Singh, building inspector, said the work of draining out water comes under the Department of Public Health Engineering and we had written to it for resolving the issue.Pooja Indora, chairperson, Sampla Municipal Committee, said water was removed from the park thrice but it was accumulated again as it was located in a low-lying area. “A plan has been chalked out to drain the accumulated water,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-months-on-mc-park-at-sampla-yet-to-be-dewatered-338492
16-11-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||No fire NOC, 42 Haryana govt offices get notices||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 15The Faridabad Fire Department has issued notices to as many as 42 government offices for not having an NOC for the buildings. The officials have been asked to apply for the NOC within two weeks.Reminder to be issued after 15 daysA reminder may be issued after 15 days. In case of non-compliance, an action-taken report will be submitted to the DC for further directions. Satyawan Samriwal, additional divisional fire officerHardly any government office building in the city or the district had acquired or renewed the NOC, said sources in the Fire Department. They claimed though many buildings had fire-fighting arrangements in place, this practice had been going on unabated for the past several years.Notices were issued after the matter was brought up at the recently held meeting of the District Grievances and Redressal Committee. “The departments that have been issued notices include the head office of the Faridabad Municipal Corporation, which supervises the office of the Fire Department in the city,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.He said as the Fire Department was headed by an official who was much junior to almost all department heads, taking action against the offices that had been violating the norms was impossible as a matter of protocol. The issue could be brought to the notice of the office of the Deputy Commissioner or the Divisional Commissioner, as per the norms, said the source.The offices, which have been issued notices, include that of Divisional Commissioner, DC, Faridabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner, Commissioner of Police, CEO, FMDA, Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority, CEO, Faridabad Smart City Limited, Zila Parishad, Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran, District Rural Development Agency, SDM office, Badkhal subdivision, Civil Surgeon, District Education Office, GM, Haryana Roadways, DHBVN, BSNL, PF office, ESIC Medical College and Hospital and Public Works Department office, among others.Additional Divisional Fire Officer Satyawan Samriwal said a reminder may be issued after 15 days. In case of non-compliance, an action-taken report would be submitted to the Divisional Commissioner and the DC for further directions, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-fire-noc-42-haryana-govt-offices-get-notices-338493
16-11-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana brings back ’95 order on OBC creamy layer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 15After the Supreme Court (SC) quashed Haryana’s notification of 2016 which gave preference within the OBC non-creamy layer to the persons having annual income up to Rs 3 lakh, the state has now reverted to its 1995 notification, which excludes the children of parents holding constitutional posts and Class-I jobs (direct recruits).Among the constitutional posts is President of India, Vice-President of India, judges of the apex court and high courts, chairman and members of the Union Public Service Commission, state public services commission, Chief Election Commissioner and Comptroller and Auditor General of India.After the Indra Sawhney judgment, the Haryana Second Backward Classes Commission was constituted on October 12, 1993. Based on its recommendations, the state government had brought the notification dated June 7, 1995.As per the new notification uploaded on the website of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research, Haryana, the exclusion category also included children of parents, both of whom are Class-1 officers, or parents, either of whom is a Class-1 officer.A woman belonging to the OBC category who has got married to a Class-1 officer and is applying for a job will also be excluded.The children of parents, both of whom are Class-II officers (direct recruits), or parents of whom only the husband is a Class-II officer and he gets into Class-I at the age of 40 or earlier are excluded.The creamy layer will not apply to the children of parents, both of whom are Class-II officers and one of them dies or suffers permanent incapacitation, and also parents, both of whom are Class II officers and both of them die or suffer permanent incapacitation.The same rule of exclusion will also apply to the Class-I and Class-II officers in public sector undertakings.The children of parents either or both of whom is or are in the rank of Colonel or above in the Army or Air Force or Navy and paramilitary forces are also excluded.Those whose families own more than permissible land under the Ceiling Act of Haryana state also fall in the creamy layer.On the income or wealth test, as per the notification dated June 7 of 1995, the children of persons having annual income of Rs 1 lakh or above or possessing wealth above the exemption limit as prescribed in the Wealth Tax Act for a period of three consecutive years are excluded. The income from salaries or agricultural land will not be clubbed. Later, the income criteria was revised to Rs 4.5 lakh per annum and then to Rs 6 lakh per annum.Was dated 1995After the Indra Sawhney judgment, the Haryana Second Backward Classes Commission was constituted on October 12, 1993. Based on its recommendations, the state had brought the notification dated June 7, 1995||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-brings-back-95-order-on-obc-creamy-layer-338494
16-11-2021||---||Sonepat murder accused threw DVR in canal: SHO||Sonepat, November 15The police have arrested another accused, Vikram of Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand, in connection with the killing of wrestler Nisha Dahiya and her brother Suraj in Halalpur village. Inspector Karamjeet Singh, SHO, said Vikram had been nabbed at the Kharkhoda bypass.He said during interrogation it was found that the accused had thrown the digital video recorder (DVR) installed at the academy into a nearby canal after the murders. “We tried to retrieve the equipment, but in vain,” the SHO said. Nisha was shot at Sushil Kumar Wrestling Academy on the outskirts of Halalpur while her teenaged brother was shot near the canal. Their mother, who was injured, is recuperating at the PGIMS, Rohtak.The coach, Pawan, his wife and his two brothers-in-law, Sachin and Amit, have already been arrested. The police on Monday produced Amit in a local court which sent him to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-murder-accused-threw-dvr-in-canal-sho-338461
16-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana petrol pumps go on 24-hour-long strike||Fuel pump owners in Haryana on Monday went on a 24-hour long strike seeking reduction in value added tax on petrol and diesel and increase in dealers' commission.Around 3,700 petrol pumps have gone on strike which started at 6 am on Monday, and will continue till 6 am on Tuesday, said Ashok Jain, treasurer of All Haryana Petroleum Dealers Association.However, he said the petrol pumps would give fuel to emergency vehicles like ambulances.Protesting fuel pump owners are demanding reduction in value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel on par with Punjab.The Congress-led government in Punjab had earlier slashed VAT on petrol and diesel, making them cheaper by Rs 10 and Rs 5 per litre respectively, in the state.The fuel pump owners have also been demanding a raise in the dealer's commission, saying that it had not been increased since 2017, while their expenditure had almost doubled.They have also been seeking compensation from the government for the loss caused to them on their existing stock due to the reduction in excise duty on fuel. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-petrol-pumps-go-on-24-hour-long-strike-338378
