17-11-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Haryana schools to reopen with 100% capacity from December 1||Chandigarh, November 17Haryana's Education Minister Kanwar Pal on Wednesday announced that all schools will reopen from December 1 with 100 per cent capacity.He said mid-day meals will be served in schools from January 1, 2022.The portal for admission in colleges will be reopened from November 16-22 and students who weren't able to take admissions can apply.शिक्षा एवं पर्यटन मंत्री श्री @chkanwarpal ने कहा कि कॉलेज में दाखिलों के लिए पोर्टल 16 से 22 नवंबर तक पुनः खोल दिया गया है। जो विद्यार्थी किन्हीं कारणों से अब तक दाखिला नहीं ले पाए हैं अब वे इसके लिए आवेदन कर सकते हैं।||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-schools-to-reopen-with-100-capacity-from-december-1-339353
17-11-2021||Parveen Arora||Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni calls off march from Ambala to Tikri border||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 17BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni has called off the farmers’ march from Ambala to the Tikri border on November 25.In a video message, he said some of the SKM leaders had given a call for the march to Delhi border on November 24 from Mohra Mandi. "We don't want to send any wrong message and as the agitation would get affected we have called off the march," said Charuni.Charuni at a state core committee meeting held recently in Karnal had given the call for the march on November 25 from Mohra Mandi to Tikri border that would pass through Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat and Rohtak districts. The SKM, meanwhile, also gave a call for the march.Without naming anyone, Charuni accused some of the farmer leaders from Punjab of dividing the farmers of Haryana saying, "Saddened on this issue. The leaders, trusting whom around 700 farmers sacrificed their lives and lakhs of others have been struggling for the past one year, are lying now. No decision was taken about the march by the SKM at any meeting, whether it was the meeting of SKM Haryana, or nine-member committee or the main SKM," he said.Charuni said they had called off the march to save the farmers’ movement. He said they had received support for the march not only from Haryana but also from Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-leader-gurnam-singh-charuni-calls-off-march-from-ambala-to-tikri-border-339254
17-11-2021||---||Samyukt Kisan Morcha to hold rally in Hansi on Nov 19||Tribune News ServiceJind, November 16The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will hold a state-level farmers’ rally in Hansi town on November 19 to step up the agitation on their demand for registration of criminal case against BJP Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra and also to seek withdrawal of the criminal case registered on farmers in the Narnaund incident.Police ‘inaction’Farmers submitted a complaint, seeking registration of a case against BJP MP Ram Chander Jangra and his aides for having assaulted an activist. But no action has been taken so far. — Suresh Koth, Farmer LeaderThe farmers organised a mahapanchayat in Jind town today to discuss the issue of Hansi dharna and to take measures to strengthen the ongoing agitation at the Delhi borders.On November 5, BJP MP Jangra visited Narnaund to lay the foundation stone of a dharamshala when the farmers staged a protest. During the protest, the windshield of the MP’s vehicle was allegedly smashed by the protesters.The police deployed at the spot tried to control the situation resulting in a confrontation between the farmers and the police.The police then cleared the way for the exit of the MP’s vehicle. The police had registered an FIR against 15 farmers with three of them identified as Harshdeep Gill, Kailash and Sudhir on November 5.Suresh Koth, a farmer leader, said that they would take decisions in the rally to be held in Hansi to press for their demands. He alleged that the police had been biased in its investigation into the whole incident.“The aides of the MP had assaulted farmer activist Kuldeep Rana who suffered severe injury and was admitted to the Jindal Hospital in Hisar. The farmers also submitted a complaint with the police demanding registration of a case against MP Jangra and his aides. But no action has been taken so far,” he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-to-hold-rally-in-hansi-on-nov-19-339112
17-11-2021||---||Gangsters open fire at Pundri shopkeeper, seek Rs 50 lakh ransom||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 16Two bike-borne miscreants today opened several rounds of fire on a shopkeeper at Pundri in Kaithal district and demanded a ransom of Rs 50 lakh from him.The miscreants handed over a slip to the shopkeeper, Prateek Nagpal, who runs a grocery shop in Pundri, and threatened him with dire consequences if he did not give them Rs 50 lakh. They claimed themselves to be members of the Ankush Kamalpur gang. Kamalpur is in jail in connection with the murder of gangster Neeraj Punia.Sources said the incident took place around 7.30 am when Prateek came to the shop for cleaning it. Soon, the miscreants, with faces covered, came there and handed him a slip, demanding Rs 50 lakh or face death. They asked Prateek to move forward, and fired at him. Prateek managed to save himself by entering another shop. Before fleeing, the miscreants fired at the shop indiscriminately.After some time, Prateek received a WhatsApp call from an international number, in which the caller reiterated the ransom demand.SP Lokender Singh, Pundri MLA and chairman of Haryana Tourism Corporation, Randhir Golan, also reached the site and assured the traders of action.The police have registered a case under Sections 307, 387 and 34 of the IPC. “Three teams — CIA-1, CIA-2 and Pundri police station — are working to arrest the accused,” said the SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gangsters-open-fire-at-pundri-shopkeeper-seek-rs-50-lakh-ransom-339113
17-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC: Employer not bound to retain contractual staff till term-end||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16The Punjab and Haryana HC has ruled that an employer was not bound to retain the services of a contractual employee till the completion of the term if his work and conduct was dissatisfactory.Employee’s conduct not satisfactoryThe question before the court is whether an employer is bound to retain the services of a contractual employee till the completion of the term even if his work and conduct is not satisfactory. The answer could not be in the affirmative. Justice HS MadaanEvery employee, on regular basis, ad hoc or contractual basis, was supposed to work with dedication. If he indulged in any misconduct, the employer could curtail the terms of the employee and dispense with his services.The ruling by Justice HS Madaan came on a petition against Haryana and other respondents by a junior engineer appointed on contract basis. The Bench was told that the petitioner was removed from service vide order dated September 4, 2020, without issuing charge-sheet and holding a regular inquiry.Justice Madaan asserted the question before the court was whether an employer was bound to retain the services of a contractual employee till the completion of the term even if his work and conduct was not satisfactory. The answer could not be in the affirmative.Justice Madaan added an employer could not be compelled to retain in service a contractual employee when he was displeased with his work and conduct. In the present case, the employer purportedly received several complaints against the petitioner for not taking action against land grabbers. As such, the employer served a show-cause notice on the petitioner, got the reply and passed the impugned order dispensing with his services. The petitioner, under the circumstances, could certainly not complain of being condemned unheard.His grouse that he did not join the inquiry did not make any sense since the probe was conducted to find out whether there was merit in the allegations against him and it was found to be so. Though it would have been better if the petitioner was associated in the probe, his non-joining did not vitiate the proceedings in any manner or cause prejudice to him. This was because he had separately been issued a show-cause notice and he submitted a reply before his services were dispensed with.“A contract with regard to personal services cannot be got specifically enforced. The petitioner may claim damages for the remaining part of his contract period by approaching the court of competent jurisdiction, if so advised,” Justice Madaan concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-employer-not-bound-to-retain-contractual-staff-till-term-end-339114
17-11-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal mini bypass to decongest city traffic||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 16To decongest traffic in the city as well as on NH-44, a mini bypass is being constructed to connect the Kunjpura road with the Indri road under the Smart City project. The construction is expected to be completed in December.The 1.6-km road with a width of 30 ft is being constructed at a cost of around Rs 2 crore.Once the construction is complete, the travel time between Indri and Kunjpura roads will reduce by 20-25 minutes. Besides, residents of Kailash, RK Puram and Mangalpur colonies will benefit as the mini bypass will traverse through these residential areas.“The work on the project is in full swing,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, Karnal Smart City Limited.Colony residents are elated at the road construction, thanking the state government for it.Mayor Renu Bala Gupta said, “The mini bypass was a long-pending demand. The district administration is thankful to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for having approved the project. The government is committed to strengthening the road network across the state.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-mini-bypass-to-decongest-city-traffic-339115
17-11-2021||Parveen Arora||Land for Prithviraj Chauhan research centre not  identified in Taraori||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 16Six years after the announcement made by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for establishing a monument and a research centre on Rajput warrior Prithviraj Chauhan in Taraori, the land for this ambitious project is yet to be identified. The authorities and community members are not able to fine land in Taraori, and now looking for the land in nearby villages — Padhana and Takhana.Exploring other optionsA piece of land was identified, but it was under litigation. We are exploring other options also with the help of the community members. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, DCNothing done for maintenance of FortThe fort of Prithviraj Chauhan has already been occupied by residents. We had met the CM and the Deputy Commissioner, and raised the issue of maintaining the archaeological value of this fort, but nothing has been done. — Col Davinder Singh (retd), Chief life patron, Maharana Pratap Samriti Bhawan Samiti, KarnalThe land was to be identified by community members with the help of the district administration and the rest of the work was to be done by the state government.Taraori is a historical town where battles of Tarain were fought between Chauhan and Mohammad Ghori. Chauhan was killed after the second battle in the court of Mohammad Ghori.There is a fort of Prithviraj Chauhan, which is lying in a dilapidated condition. It was built in around 1150 AD, said the community members. The demand for the restoration of this historical monument has been raised so many times by the people of the community, but it is still lying in poor condition. Lots of people, who came from Pakistan, started living there after the partition.With an aim to make the young generation aware of the valour, and courage of the great Hindu emperor, Prithviraj Chauhan, against the invaders, CM Khattar had announced the monument and research centre during a vikas rally in Taraori on August 9, 2015.The delay in the implementation of the CM’s announcement has led to resentment among the people. Members of the Rajput community have already approached the CM and the district authorities for the speedy establishment of the monument and research centre. They have even suggested land in the nearby villages also.“The fort of Prithviraj Chauhan has already been occupied by residents. We had met the CM and the Deputy Commissioner, and raised the issue of maintaining the archaeological value of this fort, but nothing has been done. We have also suggested land in front of the fort where there is a water body. Besides, we have also suggested land in Takhana and Padhana villages, but still, it is not finalised,” said Col Davinder Singh (Retd), chief life patron, Maharana Pratap Samriti Bhawan Samiti, Karnal.“The monument and research centre should be established, so that the young generation can be inspired by the great king,” said Singh.Virender Singh Chauhan, Director, Haryana Granth Academy and BJP state spokesperson, said he had raised this issue with the CM and efforts were being made to get the land finalised on the national highway-44, but it is in litigation. “We have also raised the issue that this research centre should be established on the NH-44, so that it could attract more people,” said Chauhan.Deputy Commissioner, Nishant Kumar Yadav, said a piece of land was identified, but it was under litigation. “We are exploring other options also with the help of the community members,” said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-for-prithviraj-chauhan-research-centre-not-identified-in-taraori-339116
17-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||Battle lines drawn for Maharshi Dayanand University non-teaching staff poll||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 16Battle lines have been drawn for the poll of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) Non-Teaching Employees Association scheduled for November 23. As many as 22 candidates from five panels are in fray while a total 881 non-teaching employees will exercise their franchise to decide their fate.It is for the first time when the election for the post of president will be contested among five candidates. The candidates are Phool Kumar Bohat, Sumer Ahlawat, Kulwant Malik, Rajbala Sangwan and Rajendra Yadav. Among them, Bohat, Ahlawat and Malik have been president of the association earlier.Rajbala Sangwan, former vice-president of the association, is the only woman candidate in the fray. She is also the only woman employee at the university, who is fighting for the post of president again. Rajbala had unsuccessfully contested on the post over a decade ago.Five candidates for the posts of the president have made the contest close and interesting. Even, it has also got employees guessing about the reasons behind the highest number of candidates in the fray.“Resentment prevails among non-teaching employees against the state government’s move of making recruitment through the HSSC.It may be the reason behind the highest number of candidates for the president’s post this time. Moreover, it is not only good to strengthen democracy but also will give options to the employees to elect the best one,” said Randhir Kataria, outgoing president of the association. Kharaiti Lal, an official associated with the poll process, said Tuesday was the last day to withdraw nomination papers. Only two covering candidates withdrew their nominations. Election symbols were also distributed among all five panels, he added. “Vikas Gill, Yogesh, Narendra Silk and Rajesh Kumar for vice-president, Kuldeep Grover, Suresh Sharma, Parveen Dalal, Jaipal Rathi and Rajesh Girdhar for general secretary, Rajbir, Sunil Saini, Rajesh Rohilla and Randbir for joint secretary, Pardeep Kumar, Ajmer Singh, Raj Kumar and Deepak are contesting for the post of cashier,” said Lal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/battle-lines-drawn-for-maharshi-dayanand-university-non-teaching-staff-poll-339117
17-11-2021||---||MDU VC got PhD without master’s degree, claims INSO||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 16The Indian National Students Organisation (INSO), the student wing of the Jan-nayak Janta Party (JJP), a coalition partner in the BJP-JJP regime in Haryana, launched a statewide protest drive today against the state government’s move to take over the appointments of faculty members and non-teaching employees of state universities.“No functionary of the Haryana Government will be allowed to enter the campus of any university across the state until the orders to this effect are withdrawn,” said INSO president Pradeep Deswal while addressing a news conference here today.Reiterating the demand for a high-level inquiry into the qualifications of Rohtak-based Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) Vice-Chancellor Dr Rajbir Singh, Deswal said he had been made a professor without having the requisite qualifications or experience.“As per the official records, Dr Rajbir has done PhD in education without having a master’s degree in that discipline/subject. He was made a professor of mass communications though he was not eligible for the post,” the INSO president maintained.He pointed out that Dr Rajbir had shown experience of teaching postgraduate classes at the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology in Hisar while he was serving at the state government’s Public Relations Department and was posted elsewhere.Deswal stated that Prof BK Kuthiala, who is facing charges of corruption, fraud and irregularities in recruitment and was once declared a proclaimed offender by a court of law, is still occupying the post of the Haryana State Higher Education Council.“It is unfortunate that such persons are occupying top positions in the state government and universities,” he said, adding that INSO would “continue to expose the wrongdoings of the state regime in a series of news conferences”.MDU Vice-Chancellor Dr Rajbir Singh could not be contacted for his comments despite repeated attempts. He did not respond to phone calls and WhatsApp messages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdu-vc-got-phd-without-masters-degree-claims-inso-339118
17-11-2021||---||Shahabad, Yamunanagar sugar mills begin crushing ops||Kurukshetra/Y’nagar, Nov 16Sugar mills in Shahabad and Yamunanagar began the crushing operations today.Cooperation Minister Banwari Lal, who joined the ceremony through video-conferencing for the Shahabad mill, said the state government had been paying special attention to strengthen the financial condition of sugar mills in the state.The crushing capacity of Shahabad Cooperative Sugar Mills Limited is 5,000 tonnes of sugarcane per day. Recently, an ethanol plant of 60 kilolitres per day (KLPD) was inaugurated in the sugar mill.Kurukshetra DC Mukul Kumar said, “The sugar mill had last year crushed 76.81 lakh quintals of sugarcane and produced 8.34 lakh quintals of sugar. This season, the target is to crush 80 lakh quintals and produce 8.8 lakh quintals of sugar.”Meanwhile, Saraswati Sugar Mills in Yamunanagar started the crushing operation a week earlier as compared with the last year. Its Chief Operating Officer, SK Sachdeva, inaugurated the operations.Farmers of 672 villages associated with the mill are happy with the early functioning of the mill.DP Singh, senior vice-president of the mill, said: “The mill had crushed 162 lakh quintals of sugarcane last year. This time, the target is to crush 175 lakh quintals.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shahabad-yamunanagar-sugar-mills-begin-crushing-ops-339126
17-11-2021||Kurukshetra||Dr Vivek Gaur elected Kurukshetra University teachers’ body president||Dr Vivek Gaur has been elected the new president of the Kurukshetra University Teachers’ Association (KUTA). Dr Gaur got 193 votes compared to his opponent Dr Dalip Kumar’s 96 votes.There were 343 eligible teachers for voting, of which 307 participated. Of the total votes, while four votes were found invalid, 14 postal votes were not opened due to a big margin of votes between the candidates, informed the outgoing Dr Parmesh Kumar, outgoing KUTA president.While the new president has been elected today, the other four office-bearers were elected unanimously earlier. Dr Rajvir Singh became vice-president, Dr Jatinder Kumar secretary, Dr Sandeep Gupta joint secretary and Dr Chander Kant treasurer. The new team will be administered the oath on Wednesday.After winning the election, Dr Vivek Gaur said, “I am grateful to the university teachers who have shown their faith in me and I will make all efforts to live up to their expectations. Getting the recent orders issued by the state government regarding the recruitment of teaching and non-teaching staff at the state universities withdrawn will be our top priority. The government has been trying to end the autonomy of the university which is not acceptable.”He was the secretary of the association in the previous term. “Besides this, we have sought a financial package of Rs 500 crore from the state government to strengthen the financial condition of the university. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dr-vivek-gaur-elected-kurukshetra-university-teachers-body-president-339132
17-11-2021||---||Now, schools can submit affiliation forms to Haryana board till Nov 30||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH), Bhiwani, has extended the date for submission of application form and fee for online school data/continuity fee and new affiliation with late fee of Rs 5,000 for secondary and senior secondary examination for academic session 2021-22 from government and non-government permanent recognised schools to November 30. Earlier, this date was November 16.An official spokesperson said due to non-uploading of affiliation form/data by many schools, the last date had been extended to November 30.He said that such schools, which had not yet uploaded the affiliation form/data, should make sure to fill the affiliation form/data online on time through the link available on the Board of School Education Haryana’s website — www.bseh.org.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-schools-can-submit-affiliation-forms-to-haryana-board-till-nov-30-339134
17-11-2021||Jhajjar||Jhajjar: Girl shot dead, mother hurt||An 18-year-old girl, Satakshi, was shot dead, while her mother Saroj suffered injuries at their house in Mandothi village today.The injured was admitted to the PGIMS, Rohtak, while the police took her husband, Sub-inspector Sant Kumar, into custody following reports that he had allegedly committed the crime. No case had been registered till the filing of this report. The police said it seemed to be a case of murder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-girl-shot-dead-mother-hurt-339135
17-11-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra: 2 die after consuming poison||A man and woman, who were reportedly in a live-in relationship, ended their lives after allegedly consuming some poisonous substance on Monday night.The deceased, hailing from Karnal district, were identified as Karambir, a resident of Badagaon, and Mahindro, a resident of Budha Khera. The deceased were in their early 40s. The police said both were married, but were in live-in relationship. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-2-die-after-consuming-poison-339136
17-11-2021||---||Congress to reach out to voters in Jind tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 16Stung by a humiliating defeat in the Ellenabad byelection where its official candidate Pawan Beniwal lost the security deposit, the Congress leadership is hitting the ground again with a mega outreach programme at Jind on November 18.In fact, broad contours of “Vipaksh aapke samaksh”, an outreach programme conceptualised by Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, were discussed at the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting here.It was felt at the meeting that the state leadership should connect with the people at the grassroots level in a big way at such outreach programmes at a time when the common man was at the receiving end of the “lopsided” policies of the BJP-JJP government in the state.“The BJP-JJP government is engaged in destroying jobs, business, forests, mountains, rivers, agriculture, law and order, health system and brotherhood,” Hooda alleged.Bhupinder Hooda asserted that issues related to every section, including farmers, employees, traders and youth, were discussed at the CLP meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-to-reach-out-to-voters-in-jind-tomorrow-339137
17-11-2021||---||In Faridabad, three held for online job racket||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 16The cyber cell of the local police has arrested three persons in connection with an online job racket.The accused — identified as Julfikar from Hapur, Imran from Budaun and Asif from Delhi — were arrested on the complaint of Digvijay, a resident of Sector 21-D here.In his complaint, he said he came in contact with the accused in response to an advertisement run on social media. “They promised me a job in a private company and took Rs 1.49 lakh for it,” said Digvijay. A police official said, “The interrogation of the accused has revealed they duped several persons of Rs 35 lakh in the past one year. Around Rs 1 lakh and a mobile phone used in the crime have been seized.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-faridabad-three-held-for-online-job-racket-339138
17-11-2021||Rohtak||Book fair at Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak||‘Masti Ki Pathshala’ conductedAmbala: OPS Vidyamandir, Ambala, organised 'Masti Ki Pathshala' and talent hunt, a fun-filled grand event on Children's Day. It not only provided a vibrant platform to the children to showcase their talent in singing, dancing, elocution, colouring, art and craft etc but also an exhibition where innovative projects were displayed. There were innovative learning junctions for toddlers so as to enhance their motor, speaking and subject skills. The cultural programme commenced with lamp lighting by chief guest Neerja Kulwant Kalson, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairperson, DLSA, Ambala, guests of honour Rajneesh Bansal, Addl District and Sessions Judge, Ambala and Dr Sukhda Pritam, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, DLSA, Ambala, Anoop Jakkhar, DEEO, Renu Aggarwal, and others.Talk on ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’Faridabad: The department of mathematics of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, held a talk on the topic, "Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav and mathematics here recently. It was held in association with "Centre for Fundamental Research Space Dynamics and Celestial Mechanics (CFRSC), New Delhi. Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta said Dr SC Arora, former head, department of mathematics was the keynote speaker who devoted his lecture on the topic related to the role of mathematics scholars. The participants were told that the subject of the operational research came into existence during the Second World War and revolutionary progress was made into other emerging avenues like computer science and statistics during that time.13 teachers promotedSirsa: As many as 13 teachers of Chaudhary Devi Lal University have been promoted under the Career Advancement Scheme. The decision was taken at the 65th meeting of the executive council held under the chairmanship of Dr Ajmer Singh Malik, Vice- Chancellor of the university. All teachers have assumed their new position and expressed their sincere thanks to the Vice-Chancellor for providing the promotion in stipulated time frame as per the UGC norms. Apart from it, more than 16 agendas were also passed at the meeting. The resolution regarding the rules and regulations for permanent affiliations to the affiliated colleges was also approved by the council. The permission has also been granted to the affiliated colleges to introduce new courses in the larger interest of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/book-fair-at-maharshi-dayanand-university-rohtak-339139
17-11-2021||The disposal of garbage in uncovered vehicles has been leading to unhygienic conditions in the city due to spill out of the waste from the vehicle during the transfer or movement of the disposal vehicles. With no authorities to keep a tab or check on the norms of disposal of the waste in the city||Garbage transfer in open leading to unhygienic conditions in Faridabad||Rakesh Kashyap, FaridabadKurukshetra short on facilities before Geeta Jayanti programmeThe Geeta Jayanti programme is approaching and still the city lacks several facilities for tourists. The budget must have been approved. The authorities concerned should get the Geeta Dwar and statue of Shri Krishna with the chariot painted. Cleanliness should be ensured at the entry point by the civic body. The DC along with other officials should take a round from Geeta Dwar to the police lines on foot. An auto stand should be set up, besides, putting up some benches and chairs at these points.Suraj Kamal, KurukshetraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-transfer-in-open-leading-to-unhygienic-conditions-in-faridabad-339140
17-11-2021||Deepender Deswal||Fatehabad sees 1,276 farm fires, most in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 16Fatehabad district has reported the highest number of 1,276 stubble-burning incidents this season in Haryana, forcing the administration to contemplate strict action against the erring farmers.Mahavir Kaushik, Deputy Commissioner, held a meeting with the SDMs of Fatehabad, Ratia and Tohana and directed them to take steps to prevent farmers from setting their fields on fire. Besides Fatehabad, Kaithal, Jind and Hisar districts also continue to report a high number of farm fires. The air quality remained in “severe” category in Hisar and Jind towns.The Agriculture Department detected a total of 269 farm fires on Tuesday, taking the total number of such incidents to 5,993 this season.The state has been compiling the data on the basis of active fire locations captured by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), Hisar, on a daily basis. The AQI was 425 in Jind and 394 in Hisar at 6 pm today.The number of farm fire incidents is down by 33 per cent as compared to last year, when 9,040 cases were reported. Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department, claimed that cases had declined following government’s efforts in helping farmers manage crop residue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fatehabad-sees-1-276-farm-fires-most-in-haryana-339095
