18-11-2021||---||Will show black flags to Charuni in Punjab like other political parties: Rajewal||Karnal, November 18All is not well between the SKM leaders with senior farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Thursday saying that they will show black flags to BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni in Punjab like other political parties.“We have decided yesterday to show black flags to the political parties and like them we will show black flags to Charuni if he continues to involve in political activities there,” said Rajewal while talking to mediapersons here at PWD Rest House, where he came to get his statement registered in the Bastara toll plaza lathicharge incident on the National Highway-44 on August 28.He appeared before the commission led by Justice Somnath Aggarwal (retd) of Punjab and Haryana High Court, constituted by the state government to inquire the sequence of events that led to police lathicharge.“We have strong objections on Charuni's involvement in political activities. Getting involved in political activities is not a work of SKM. We can also do it, but people ask questions from us. That has dented our position, so we have decided to oppose anyone indulging in political motive,” said Rajewal.However, he denied any rift in the morcha and said all is good. About the foot march to Delhi border from Mohra Mandi on November 24, Rajewal said they will review the decision to take the march in next meeting. “We will take final call on the march in next meeting and it would not march to India gate, but to Singhu border and Tikri border,” he added. He said people are connecting with the morcha.Rajewal took a dig when asked about Charuni’s statement that Punjab’s leaders are jealous of him due to his popularity, and said the popularity can be imagined with the fact that only 80 people gathered on his call.About his statement to the committee, he said. “I told the commission on the day of lathicharge, I was not present there. But on the day of Mini Secretariat gherao, I was in Karnal. The statement in the viral video of the IAS officer is illegal and action should be initiated against him,” said Rajewal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-show-black-flags-to-charuni-in-punjab-like-other-political-parties-rajewal-339849
18-11-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Gurdwaras in Gurugram offer space for ‘namaz’||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, November 18Amidst the ongoing controversy around mass gatherings for offering ‘namaz’ in the city, five gurdwaras have offered their premises to Muslims devotees.“A gurdwara is the house of the Guru. People from all communities are welcome here to pray. If the Muslim community is facing problems in praying at designated sites, they can offer prayers in gurdwaras. The doors of gurdwaras are and will always be open to all. We are vary of communal tension in the city and if space is a problem we have enough of it in our gurdwaras and hearts,” said Sherdil Singh Sidhu, president of Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha, Sabzi Mandi.While the five gurdwaras located in Sadar Bazaar, Sector 39, Sector 46, Model Town and Jacobpura have made the offer, representatives of Muslim community say they will use ones at Sadar Bazaar and Sector 39 for offering ‘namaz’ tomorrow.As of now, ‘namaz’ is being offered publicly in 20 different places and Hindu Sangharsh Samiti wants it down to zero in a month. Citing the sensitivity of the matter, the administration has refrained from making any comments till a final decision is reached.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurdwaras-in-gurugram-offer-space-for-namaz-339842
18-11-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Streetlights on during the day in Panchkula||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Streetlights on during the day in PanchkulaThis photograph captured in park number 803 in Sector 8, Panchkula, speaks volumes about the indifferent and reckless attitude of its power corporation. The park/streetlights is in on mode even at 12 noon. It is sheer wastage of electricity and the authorities should act at once. Vinayak G, PanchkulaPotholes on Pinjore-Kalka roadThe Pinjore-Kalka main road is full of potholes even though the Chief Minister frequently passes through this stretch while visiting Kali Mata ka mandir in Kalka. The authorities do not care for that also. We don't know whom we should approach so that the road is repaired at the earliest. ML Kashyap, Kalka||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/streetlights-on-during-the-day-in-panchkula-339426
18-11-2021||Karnal||Declamation contest at Dyal Singh College, Karnal||RKSD college Students shineKaithal: Rimple Kumari, a student of MSc (mathematics) of RKSD College Kaithal, excelled by securing first position in the results released by Kurukshetra University. She achieved this feat by getting a total of 589/600 marks in the second semester of the first year. Apart from her, Rubina secured sixth position in the university by getting 577/600 marks. Shalu Rani got eighth position by getting 574/600 marks and Kirtika got 10th position by getting 571/600 marks. President Saket Mangal sent congratulatory messages to these students and principal Sanjay Goyal, head of maths department, Dr Satbir Maihala, honoured these students.Gurpurb celebratedKarnal: Mount Litera Zee School, Karnal, celebrated Guru Nanak Jayanti. A special assembly was conducted to mark the occasion and bring home the relevance of the occasion to the young generation. Students depicted glimpses of the sacred life lived by Guru Nanak Dev. Students dressed as 'panj pyaras' took out a procession. Shabad Gayan was also presented by the students. Principal Deep Bedi addressed the students.Cleanliness drive organisedFaridabad: A function on 'Banega Swachh Faridabad' an initiative launched by the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) took place at Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, recently. It was organised by the MCF in collaboration with Aggarwal College. Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta said Ekta Raman, master trainer, spoke about how trainers and participants would be trained for the drive. The initiative, he said will also motivate students and help increase participation and willingness in carrying out total waste segregation. The main motive of organising this event was to create an awareness based on the model of information, education and communication (IEC).Workshop on IPR for studentsFaridabad: The research promotion cell of DAV Institute of Management, Faridabad, organised a workshop on "Intellectual property rights (IPR)--laws and procedures" for the students of MBA, MCA, BBA (BE) and BSc honours and computer science. CA Rishu Gupta, a fellow member of ICAI and practicing in the field of intellectual property rights, and explained the concept of IPR, its importance and applications to the students along with the laws and procedures involved in enforcing all types of intellectual property rights including patents, copyrights, trademarks, designs and geographical indications.NSS camp at MMDU concludesAmbala: Under the 75th Azadi Amrit Mahotsav, the ongoing university-level NSS seven-day camp concluded at Maharishi Markandeshwar Deemed to be University (MMDU), Mullana. About 200 volunteers from different colleges of Ambala district and Yamunanagar participated in this seven-day camp. Best male volunteer Pankaj (Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar), best female volunteer Muskan (MMIPR, Mulana), best organiser volunteer Manish (College of Agriculture, Mullana) and best team "Rani Lakshmi Bai" were awarded the medals.Job opportunities in defenceMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised a webinar on 'Employment opportunities in the field of defence' as part of the National Service Scheme (NSS) camp being attended by 200 students. Group Captain Rajesh Sharma, Commanding Officer of 3 Punjab Air SQN NCC Patiala and Col DV Nehra, Commanding Officer of 2 Pb. R&V NCC Gudda Bathinda, made the students aware of employment opportunities in the field of Defence. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeswar said the defence sector was the best option for such youth who liked challenges.Boys excel in TaekwondoKarnal: The district-level Taekwondo competition was held at Karan Stadium, Karnal. The competition was organised by the Education Department. Under the age group of under 19, Harshit Chabbra from St Theresa's Convent School, Pavan from the DAV School, while under 17 age group, Rijul from Dyal Singh Public School, Chettanya Singh from Delhi Public School won the gold medal in their respective weight category and were also selected for the School State Taekwondo Championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/declamation-contest-at-dyal-singh-college-karnal-339425
18-11-2021||---||Haryana govt diluting RTI Act: Activists||Chandigarh, November 17Right to Information (RTI) activists from across the state, under the banner of Jan Abhiyan Manch (JAM), today alleged dilution of the RTI Act by the state government.In a memorandum to Chief Information Commission Yash Pal Singal, a delegation of the manch alleged that certain amendments to the Act by the current government were aimed at “destroying” the legislation. These amendments included mandatory identity proof for RTI applicants and bar on providing information on educational qualifications and experience certificates of government servants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-diluting-rti-act-activists-339410
18-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Quack held for selling MTP kits in Gurugram||Gurugram, November 17The Gurugram police nabbed a quack for allegedly running an illegal abortion racket. The accused provided MTP kits illegally to patients in connivance with a chemist.According to the complaint filed by Dr Pardeep Kumar, Deputy Civil Surgeon, Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PNDT), Gurugram, they received information that a Jitender Yadav was practising as doctor at Shree Shyam Medical Store in Madanpuri and was running an illegal business of pregnancy termination. Following the information, Gurugram Civil Surgeon constituted a team which arranged a decoy customer. The doctor was arrested after the sting.Yadav confessed that he did not have any medical degree and had been practising for four years.An FIR has been registered against Jitender, Shree Shyam Medical Store and their associates under various sections of the MTP Act, IPC, and Drugs and Cosmetic Act at New Colony police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/quack-held-for-selling-mtp-kits-in-gurugram-339411
18-11-2021||---||Gurugram, Rohtak bag ‘garbage-free city’ award||Chandigarh, November 17Haryana has won awards in the Swachh Survekshan 2021 survey with two cities bagging the award of ‘Garbage-free city’ and one winning the ‘Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge’.The awards will be given to Haryana in the upcoming Swachh Amrit Mahotsav to be held in New Delhi on November 20.Besides, 12 urban local bodies of the state have also been certified as ‘ODF Plus-Plus’ while 43 others as ‘ODF Plus’ by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.An official spokesman said the Municipal Corporations of Rohtak and Gurugram have received the ‘garbage-free city’ award while the Gurugram Municipal Corporation is also the recipient of ‘Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge’.The 12 urban local bodies which had been certified as ‘ODF Plus-Plus’ are Gurugram, Karnal, Rohtak, Ambala, Panchkula, Yamunanagar, Hisar, Nilokheri, Panipat, Gharaunda, Rewari and Radaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-rohtak-bag-garbage-free-city-award-339412
18-11-2021||---||43 leprosy patients get financial help in Karnal||Karnal, November 17As many as 43 leprosy patients of the Kusht Lachar Ashram, Indra Chakravarti Gram, Hansi road in the city, have received financial assistance for ration and electricity bill of four months. They were waiting for the financial assistance since September 2020. The Tribune had highlighted the issue in its edition of November 4, “11 months on, Karnal leprosy victims wait for financial help”, raising the problems being faced by them due to shortage of funds.“We have transferred a financial assistance of Rs 1,125 per month through the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department of four months to 43 victims,” said Davinder Singh, secretary of Mata Prakash Kaur Welfare Centre for persons with speech and hearing impairment, Karnal, an NGO, through which the amount is transferred to the leprosy patients.Mani Ram, president, Kusht Lachar Ashram, said they had received the financial assistance and demanded the authorities to release the remaining funds. Davinder Sachdeva, a social activist who has raised this issue at several platforms, thanked the Deputy Commissioner, department and the secretary Mata Prakash Kaur Welfare Centre, for the issuance of financial assistance. He said there were 15 leprosy patients who were yet to be registered, due to which they were not receiving financial assistance. “I have submitted their documents with the Mata Prakash Kaur Welfare Centre for their registration,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/43-leprosy-patients-get-financial-help-in-karnal-339413
18-11-2021||---||President Ram Nath Kovind visits model Sui village in Bhiwani district||Bhiwani, November 17President Ram Nath Kovind visited the model village Sui in Bhiwani district which has charted the path of development under the self-motivated Adarsh Gram Yojana, today. He inaugurated public facilities there.The President planted a Bodhisattva Peepal tree on this occasion. The President's wife Savita Kovind and her daughter Swati Kovind besides the Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, Chief Minister Manohar Lal and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, were present on the occasion.This village is being developed as ‘Adarsh Gram’ by the Mahadevi Parameshwaridas Jindal Charitable Trust under the Haryana Government’s scheme, the Swa-Prerit Adarsh Gram Yojana (SPAGY). Speaking on the occasion, the President noted that SK Jindal and his family had made immense contributions in making Sui village a model village. “It is a good example of attachment and gratitude towards our motherland. I am sure that the villagers will make good use of the school, library, drinking water facilities and other amenities developed in the village.”, he said.The President said rural development was the basis of national development in our village-dominated economy. He appreciated the Haryana Government for conceiving and implementing the Adarsh Gram Yojana. He said, “If all of us work for the development of our villages, then our country will become a developed nation.” He also interacted with children in the village school. Chief Minister Manohar Lal informed that the state government had started the ‘Pran Vayu Devta Pension Scheme’ to preserve the old trees as heritage. Under this scheme, a pension of Rs 2,500 is being given for the maintenance of ancient trees. He said the visit of the President to inaugurate Adarsh Gram Yojana would give new energy to the rural development of Haryana. Appreciating the Jindal Trust for contributing to the village's development, the CM said the government would undertake more projects in the village on priority basis. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala proposed to the villagers to initiate a development project under the 'One Block One Product' scheme. He said, the government was ready to set up an industrial cluster in 50 acres here, which will be the first cluster to be built under the 'One Block One Product' scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/president-ram-nath-kovind-visits-model-sui-village-in-bhiwani-district-339414
18-11-2021||---||Plan to introduce boating at Brahma Sarovar draws flak||Kurukshetra, November 17The proposal to start boating at Brahma Sarovar by the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) has not gone down well, with the Shri Brahmin Evam Tirthodhar Sabha threatening to protest if boating is introduced at the religious site.Promote it as religious destinationIt has come to our notice that the board is planning to introduce boating at Brahma Sarovar. Such an act will hurt the sentiments of the devotees. The board should promote it as a religious destination only Rampal Sharma, Secretary-General, Shri Brahmin Evam Tirthodhar SabhaBoard will resolve all issuesThe intention behind introducing boats is to provide an experience to devotees. If the sabha has some objections, the KDB will resolve it. Madan Mohan Chhabra, Honorary Secretary, K’shetra Development BoardAccording to information, to increase tourist attraction, the KDB has planned to introduce boats in Brahma Sarovar. The sabha members have raised objection to the same saying such moves are not good for the sanctity of the religious site.However, the proposal is not new. There have been proposals to start boating and set up permanent craft shops at the sarovar in the past too, but due to opposition, the proposals were never executed.A KDB official said the lack of tourist attraction had been a major issue and efforts were being made to increase religious tourism. There are several major tirthas in the country where boating has been introduced.Rampal Sharma, secretary-general of the sabha, said: “It has come to our notice that the KBD, along with the state Tourism Department, are planning to introduce boating at Brahma Sarovar. Such an act will hurt the sentiments of the devotees who reach here from far away locations for religious purposes. The board should develop and promote the sarovar as a religious destination only and not as a tourist spot.”“We have submitted a memorandum to Kurukshetra Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar for Governor Bandaru Dattatreya. We will also meet the Governor to express our resentment,” he added.Sabha’s chief adviser Jai Narayan Sharma said: “The Sabha will not let the KDB introduce boating at the sarovar and if required, we will launch an agitation against the move.”Meanwhile, the honorary secretary of board, Madan Mohan Chhabra, said: “There is a plan to introduce four to six boats in Brahma Sarovar, but the intention behind the move is only to provide an experience to devotees. They will be able to visit the evening aarti from the boat and do parikrama of the sarovar. If the sabha has some objections, the KDB will resolve it. The board will ensure that the sanctity of the sarovar is maintained.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plan-to-introduce-boating-at-brahma-sarovar-draws-flak-339415
18-11-2021||---||Man shot dead in Panipat||Panipat, November 17A 46-year-old man was shot dead near Pahalwan chowk on Kutani road in the city late on Wednesday evening. The man sustained three bullet injuries and died on the spot.The deceased has been identified as Sanjeev Gupta of Jagdish Nagar in the city. He was selling old clothes to earn his living.Sanjeev Gupta and his friend Shokeen were on a motorcycle on their way home on Wednesday evening. When they reached near Pehalwan chowk, two youths on a motorcycle came from the opposite side and hit their motorcycle. Sanjeev and Shokeen fell down on the road. Meanwhile, the youths opened fire at Sanjeev.Sanjeev received bullet injuries on his head, chest and back. The assailants fled away from there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-shot-dead-in-panipat-339416
18-11-2021||---||Haryana Govt issues order on appointments to MSME council||Chandigarh, November 17The state government has issued a notification related to the appointment and work of members of the Haryana Micro and Small Enterprises Facilitation Council, constituted by the Department of Industries and Commerce.The council has been constituted by the government to facilitate recovery of delayed payments by the state Micro and Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).The official spokesperson said an officer from Haryana Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Department, not below the rank of director will be appointed the chairperson. One officer from the office of Haryana Bureau of Public Enterprises, not below the rank of ‘category-A’ officer and an officer from the Justice Department, Haryana, not below the rank of Deputy District Attorney, will be made members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-issues-order-on-appointments-to-msme-council-339417
18-11-2021||Rohtak||MDU-Rohtak prof sues ex-VC for harassment||Dr Sunita Dhingra, an Assistant Professor at the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, has filed a legal suit seeking relief of unliquidated damages at a local court.Documents forged by Asst profAs part of the conspiracy, one Manoj Kumar filed a complaint in April 2018 with Prof Punia, alleging that certain certificates furnished by Dr Sunita Dhingra for her appointment were forged. PlaintiffsThe suit has been filed by Dr Sunita and her husband Prof Ashwani Dhingra, former president of the MDU Teachers’ Association (MDUTA), against former MDU Vice-Chancellor Prof BK Punia and 10 others.The plaintiffs have alleged that Punia had hatched a conspiracy with MDUTA president Dr Vikas Siwach to defame, harass and humiliate them.“As part of the conspiracy, one Manoj Kumar filed a complaint in April 2018 with Prof Punia, alleging that certain certificates furnished by Dr Sunita Dhingra for her appointment were forged,” the plaintiffs maintain.In May 2020, another complaint was filed on similar grounds by one Suresh Kumar Nandal.Dr Sunita and Dr Ashwani asserted that the complaints were baseless and had been filed after stealing documents from Dr Sunita’s personal record file, which was in custody of the MDU administration.The then Vice-Chancellor had constituted a committee to probe the matter.The plaintiffs said though the authorities of IIT Kanpur verified Dr Sunita’s GATE certificate, the committee maintained that it appeared doubtful and recommended a forensic examination of the same.Dr Sunita’s certificates were found genuine in the police investigation and the MDU authorities closed the case against her.NK Singhal, the counsel for the plaintiffs, said the court had issued notices to the defendants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdu-rohtak-prof-sues-ex-vc-for-harassment-339418
18-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Protect rights of 1st wife: Punjab and Haryana High Court to courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that courts were not to act as post office and simply forward protection pleas to the police for gauging threat perception and doing the needful without commenting on the issue of the marriage’s validity.The courts were, on the contrary, required to apply judicial mind to protect the rights of legally wedded first wife and minor children in case of the husband’s second marriage during the subsistence of the first.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan also exercised suo motu power to rescue a mother of five, whose husband performed second marriage. Justice Sangwan directed Nuh Deputy Commissioner / Superintendent of Police to attach her husband’s land. Directions were also issued to Nuh Tehsildar to ensure payment of one-fourth of the land’s sale proceeds to the wife for taking care of her minor children “so that they may stay in the mainstream and may not become hardcore criminals to earn their livelihood or to survive by illegal means”.Justice Sangwan was hearing protection petition by the woman’s husband and his second wife after both performed second marriage. During the course of hearing, an advocate stated on behalf the petitioner-husband’s first legally wedded wife that five children were born out of the wedlock. But the husband refused to maintain her and the children aged between one-and-a-half years and 11 years.Justice Sangwan asserted two views existed on deciding protection petition filed on the basis of live-in relationship, inter-caste marriage or matters where parties sought protection after second marriage during the subsistence of first. In a number of cases, the High Court disposed of protection petitions with the aid of Article 21 by directing examination of threat perception without commenting upon the validity.In some other cases, the court looked into reciprocal right of the aggrieved persons as well as duties of the persons seeking protection.Justice Sangwan made it mandatory for couples performing second marriage or in live-in relationships despite subsisting marriages to declare the status of minor children from the first marriage.Justice Sangwan ruled the couple would be required to give details of movable and immovable properties and their income and also explain the manner in which they would take care of minor children in their upbringing and education. Justice Sangwan also set February 1 as the deadline for compliance with the conditions before clearing such or similar protection petitions for hearing. Directions to this effect were given to the High Court Registrar-General.Declare status of childrenJustice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the Punjab and Haryana High Court made it mandatory for couples performing second marriage or in live-in relationships despite subsisting marriages to declare the status of minor children from the first marriage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/protect-rights-of-1st-wife-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-courts-339420
18-11-2021||Palwal||38.77% population in Palwal fully vaccinated||Around 94.9 per cent population above 18 years has received the first dose of Covid vaccine, taking the fully vaccinated population to 38.77 per cent in the district.Officials of the Health Department said 8.79 lakh vaccine doses had been given, and the number of beneficiaries who had received the first and the second doses was 6.23 lakh and 2.56 lakh, respectively. So far, 94.9 per cent population has received the first dose and 38.7 per cent has got the second dose.“Special teams have been deputed in areas with slow progress. Focus is to contact those, who have yet not received the second dose,” said Dr Brahmdeep Singh, Civil Surgeon.Claiming that certain pockets in Hathin subdivision was lagging behind in the drive, he said door-to- door survey had been started to ensure all eligible residents were vaccinated.A directive has been issued by the SDM, Hathin, in which the Auxillary Nurse Midwives, ASHA workers, ‘numbardars’ and secretaries of 30 villages in the subdivision have been told to prepare a list vaccinated persons and those who yet to get the first and the second doses.As per sources, around 1 lakh people in Hathin subdivision are yet to be vaccinated. Misgivings about the health of those receiving the vaccine could be the main cause, said sources. The total eligible population of the district as per the revised voter list is around 6.55 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/38-77-population-in-palwal-fully-vaccinated-339419
18-11-2021||---||In Karnal, 1.5 lakh eligible persons fail to turn up for 2nd vaccine dose||Karnal, November 17Administrating the second Covid vaccine dose to the eligible population in Karnal district has become a big challenge for the Health Department as around 1.5 lakh, who are due for the jab, have not got themselves inoculated yet even as their dates have elapsed.As per data collected by The Tribune from the Health Department, only 41 per cent of the eligible population in the district has been administered both doses of Covid vaccine till Sunday evening. The eligible population in the district is 11,88,298.The data further states that the population aged between 18 and 44 years was more reluctant in comparison to others as only 28 per cent of them got both doses, while 98 per cent healthcare workers, 93 per cent frontline workers, 70 per cent people aged above 60 and 52 per cent in the age group of 45-60 years got the second.Different teams visited 43,860 houses and establishments and identified 7,408 unvaccinated population and 17,374 people due for the second dose.On November 8, the department launched the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ initiative with a mobile van, under which the vaccine is being administered at the doorstep. Despite this, people are not showing interest in getting vaccinated.Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil Surgeon, said 1.5 lakh eligible people had not come forward for the second dose, , but they were making efforts to vaccinate them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-1-5-lakh-eligible-persons-fail-to-turn-up-for-2nd-vaccine-dose-339421
18-11-2021||---||Singhu lynching case: Accused Nihang Amandeep Singh’s anticipatory bail rejected||Sonepat, November 17The court of Additional Sessions Judge RP Goyal refused to grant anticipatory bail to Nihang group head Amandeep Singh in connection with the lynching of a man at Singhu border.Amandeep Singh is the head of Pyara Himmat Singh Nihang group and was seen in a photo with the Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar which went viral on social media.A semi-naked mutilated body of a man with his left hand and foot chopped off was found hanging from an overturned police barricade near the main stage of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) at Singhu border on October 15 allegedly for disrespecting a holy book.Later, the deceased was identified as Lakhbir Singh (35), a labourer from Cheema Khurd village in Tarn Taran, Punjab.A Nihang, Sarvjeet Singh, was arrested allegedly for his involvement in the murder on the same day. Besides, the police also arrested three more accused -– Narain Singh, Govindpreet Singh and Bhagwant Singh — on October 16.DSP Virender Singh said that during investigation, it was found that the crime spot was just a few steps away from the camp of Amandeep Singh.The accused had disclosed that they had chopped off Lakhbir’s hand on the directions of Amandeep Singh, the DSP added.Amandeep had filed an application in court for anticipatory bail but the court rejected his bail plea on Monday, the DSP maintained.Amandeep Singh is an accused in the Lakhbir’s murder case and we would arrest him, the DSP said.SKM pledges to intensify stir Hisar: The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), Haryana, has resolved to mobilise more farmers on the Delhi borders in the coming weeks. The decision was taken at a meeting in Jind today. Inderjit Singh, an SKM leader, said: “The SKM has adopted a resolution to strengthen the farm stir. The Chhotu Ram Jayanti will be observed as the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Diwas on November 24 across the state.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/singhu-lynching-case-accused-nihang-amandeep-singhs-anticipatory-bail-rejected-339423
18-11-2021||---||Gurnam Singh Charuni calls off march to Tikri border||Karnal, November 17Amid reports of a rift among SKM leaders, BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni today said he had called off the march from the local grain market to the Tikri border on November 25.On participating in the SKM’s November 24 march to the Delhi border, Charuni said he would decide on that in a November 18 meeting.Bid to sideline meThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders have given a call for a march to the Delhi border on November 24. In view of that, I don’t want to send out a wrong message…. Some leaders want to sideline me. Gurnam Singh Charuni, BKU (Charuni) presidentHe released a video in the morning, announcing the decision to call off the BKU (Charuni)’s march. Later, he visited the dharna spot at the Bastara toll plaza and interacted with his supporters.“SKM leaders have given a call for a march to the Delhi border on November 24. In view of that, I don’t want to send out a wrong message. I have called off the BKU’s march so that the agitation doesn’t get affected,” he told the media.Charuni had recently given the call for the Delhi march on November 25 that would have passed through Ambala, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat and Rohtak districts. Subsequently, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha also gave a call for the march.“Now, the November 24 march will be of national leaders. Farmers across the country will participate in it,” he said, adding “some leaders want to sideline me”.Without naming anyone, the BKU leader accused some of the Punjab leaders of causing a rift in the SKM. “Thousands of farmers reposed their faith in SKM leaders. Around 700 farmers sacrificed their lives for the just cause. It saddens me to see that these leaders are lying.”Charuni said he had received support for the Delhi march not only from Haryana, but also from Punjab. On the “Mission Punjab”, he said: “There are plans A, B and C. We are fighting for repealing of the three controversial agricultural laws for the past one year, but the Centre is adamant. The plan B is to visit to other states and garner support.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurnam-singh-charuni-calls-off-march-to-tikri-border-339424
18-11-2021||Gurugram||21-year-old woman abducted in Gurugram||Jan Jagran Abhiyan launchedBhiwani: Lal Bahadur Khowal, state chairman, Haryana Congress Legal Department, on Wednesday said a ‘jan jagran’ campaign was being run in villages across the state, which would expose the “anti-people” policies of the BJP. TNSNewborn boy found deadPanipat: The body of a newly born male baby was found abandoned in the tank of a government tubewell in Vikas Nagar in Sector-16, Panipat. The complaint said it seemed some unidentified woman delivered the baby and threw him in the tank. TNSLast date for ITI forms extendedChandigarh: The new date for filling application forms for admissions to ITIs is November 21. Candidates can apply on itiharyanaadmissions.nic.in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/21-year-old-woman-abducted-in-gurugram-339422
18-11-2021||Faridabad||Labourer dies in factory blast in Faridabad||A 42-year-old industrial worker was killed and four others injured in a gas cylinder blast that took place at a factory here last night. The police have registered a case.The deceased, Sohaib Ali, a native of Bihar, worked as a helper in a steel company in Sector 6 here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/labourer-dies-in-factory-blast-in-faridabad-339427
18-11-2021||New Delhi||Income Tax raids in Haryana, Delhi over instant loans through app||The Income Tax Department today carried out search and seizure operations in Delhi and Haryana in the case of a fintech company providing instant short-term personal loans through a mobile application.The searches were conducted on the business and residential premises in Delhi and Gurugram.During the search, it was revealed that the company had been allegedly charging a high processing fee at the time of disbursement of loans.“The company is held by a group based in the Cayman Islands. The company has brought in India nominal initial capital by the way of FDI, but took substantial working capital loans from Indian banks. The business model of the company results in high rotation of capital which is evidenced by turnover of Rs 10,000 crore in its first year of operation,” the Finance Ministry said.The I-T sleuths noted that a repatriation of about Rs 500 crore had been made by the company to its overseas arms under the pretext of buying of services in two years.“Evidence gathered during the search has revealed that such remittances made to the group companies are either highly inflated or non-genuine. Evidence also indicate that internal web-based application for lending business was controlled from outside India. Statements of foreign nationals have been recorded,” the ministry said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/income-tax-raids-in-haryana-delhi-over-instant-loans-through-app-339428
18-11-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Budget 2022-2023: Economy hit by Covid, departments told to explore PPP model||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 17With the Covid pandemic playing havoc with the state’s economy, the Haryana Government has asked its departments to explore the possibilities of public-private partnership (PPP) in development projects in the run-up to the 2022-23 Budget.Under stressIn the wake of Covid, the government is functioning under stress as the state’s economy faced a setback on account of lockdown-induced stagnation. Finance DepartmentInitiating the process for the finalisation of the Budget Estimates for financial year 2022-23, the Finance Department underlined “the unprecedented crisis on account of Covid pandemic.”“In the wake of the Covid pandemic and its far-reaching effects, the state government is functioning under stress as the state’s economy faced a setback on account of lockdown-induced stagnation,” the Finance Department said.A direct fallout of the economic crisis triggered off by the Covid pandemic, sources said, had been that the expenditure of a number of departments had increased during 2021-22. “At the same time, development activities have been deferred for the next year (2022-23),” a senior officer said.Since the resources at the disposal of the state government may not be adequate to finance development activities, the private sector had to be roped in for execution of the projects.“The possibilities of the new projects under PPP may be explored to invite private entrepreneurship and capital into areas being regulated by the departments,” the Finance Department said.Besides the private sector, the departments had been advised to formulate schemes by augmenting resources from public sector undertakings, including the National Bank Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) and the National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB).The Finance Department said the scheme-wise proposals for 2022-23 should be “realistic” and formulated on the basis of the actual expenditure of the previous years.What’s in storeChief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, had presented a record Budget of Rs 1.55 lakh crore for the year 2021-22. With Covid throwing the state’s finances haywire, it would interesting to see if Khattar surpasses last year’s Budget outlay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/budget-2022-2023-economy-hit-by-covid-departments-told-to-explore-ppp-model-339429
18-11-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Industrialists: Shutting Faridabad units no solution||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 17With the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) ordering closure of 600 industrial units in the district till November 22 in view of the deteriorating air quality in the NCR, industrialists have demanded immediate review of the decision.They said shutting units temporarily was not a solution.As per the HSPCB’s order, 400 industrial units not using PNG, 105 brick-kilns and 96 stone crushers in the district will remain closed till November 22.An index of air quality stood at 378 on a scale of 500 in the city today, a sign of “very poor” conditions.BR Bhatia, president, Faridabad Industries Association (FIA), said the HSPCB’s decision would further hit the industry, which was to still recover from the Covid-induced lockdown.“The industry supports measures aimed at improving air quality. Having said that, shutting industries for a limited period is not a solution,” he said.Ramneek Prabhakar of the Manufacturers Association Faridabad said, “As the industry has just come out of the bad phase, such restrictions can prove doom for the industrial growth.”Rajiv Chawla, chairman, Integrated Association of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, pointed out that dusty roads, bursting of crackers and dumping of garbage in the open were some of the factors that needed attention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/industrialists-shutting-faridabad-units-no-solution-339430
18-11-2021||Parveen Arora||Stubble trouble: Ethanol, biogas plants on anvil in Panipat, Kaithal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 17As Haryana is struggling hard to deal with stubble-burning, an ethanol plant, which is under construction in Panipat, and a compressed biogas plant proposed to come up in Kaithal’s Kailram village are being seen as a game-changer in managing stubble.Agricultural experts say the plants will serve two purposes — discourage farmers from burning stubble and encourage clean fuel generation.At present, custom hiring centres collect straw from farmers and sell it to industries after making bales. Farmers get Rs 160 per quintal. Once the two plants start functioning, farmers and custom hiring centres will get higher prices for straw,” said Karam Chand, Deputy Director, Agriculture (DDA), Kaithal.The ethanol plant, a venture of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL), will begin processing in April 2022. As for the compressed biogas plant, land has been finalised. The construction is expected to start soon.The IOCL plant, being constructed at a cost of Rs 766 crore, will utilise around 2.2 lakh tonnes of straw, which will be converted into ethanol, a renewable fuel.“The daily capacity of the biogas plant, to be constructed at a cost of Rs 100 crore, will be 10 tonnes, for which around 100 tonnes of straw will be required,” Kaithal DC Pradeep Dahiya said, adding the project would be commissioned in a year.Kaithal generates around 9.61 lakh tonnes of paddy straw, of which around 4.41 lakh tonnes is utilised through the ex-situ management by industrial units and around 2.34 lakh is processed by custom hiring centres.“The biogas plant will help in utilising the straw through the ex-situ method. The government is extending support to farmers for stubble management,” added Dahiya.Aditya Dabas, DDA, Panipat, said: “Karnal generates around six lakh tonnes of paddy straw every season, of which around two lakh tonnes are used in nine industrial units. Another two lakh tonnes are decomposed by farmers in the soil. The remaining straw will be used in the IOCL plant once it is starts functioning.”Virender Arya, DDA Panipat, said Panipat generated around 3.75 lakh straw in a paddy season, most of which is used by farmers through the in-situ and ex-situ methods. Several farmers process it and sell it to UP farmers.This year, Haryana has reported fewer number of stubble-burning cases. The data shows that the state witnessed 5,993 active fire locations from September 15 to November 16 this year. The number was 9,040 during the corresponding period last year.Straw burning cases this season1,137 Kaithal 933 Karnal 188 PanipatEthanol plantIOCL’s venture in PanipatRs766 crore project costBiogas plantKaithal’s Kailram villageRs100 crore project costChallan drive in SonepatSonepat: A naka near Maharana Pratap Chowk here was installed to check polluting vehicles. Around 350 vehicles were checked, out of which 22 found violating NGT norms were impounded. Besides, 24 vehicles were challaned during the drive, which will continue for six more days. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stubble-trouble-ethanol-biogas-plants-on-anvil-in-panipat-kaithal-339431
