20-11-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Air quality of Faridabad worsens this month||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 19The air quality in this industrial city is on continuous decline. It had not only hit the poorest levels in the past six months, but was also poorer than the corresponding period of the last year. Ineffective monitoring and measures to control the development of dust and smog have reportedly made the air quality turn “very poor” or “hazardous” (severe).Ineffective monitoringThe air quality has been recorded at the levels between “very poor” ( PM- 2.5 of 300 to 400 (particulate matter of 2.5 micrograms hangs in air) and “severe” (above 400) in the past 17 days out of the total 19 days of this month (November), according to details available at the “Sameer”, the official app of the Central Pollution Control Board. The air quality index (AQI), which started deteriorating a week prior to Diwali, hit the worst patch in the first week of this month, as it turned “hazardous” and continued to remain so. While the air quality, which is monitored at five different spots, got recorded at the PM- 2.5 level has remained at an average of 400, it hung between 450 and 480 level for a majority of the days this month. Official sources claim that the air quality has turned worse due to various factors which include impact of the stubble burning, dusty roads, traffic, burning of waste in the open , construction works and manual sweeping.The air quality last year in this period (November 2020) was slightly better, as only 13 days out of 19 (till November 19), recorded “very poor” or “severe quality” of air. While five days of November last year were “poor” or “moderate” (between 100 and 300), it was none this time. Air quality in Ballabgarh, a subdivisional town here, also has been “very poor” or “severe” for the past three weeks.Appealing to residents to cooperate and help in the effective implementation of pollution control measures, Yash Pal Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, said while teams had been made functional in all 40 wards , he said 125 tractor-trailers had been pressed into the job of the removal of garbage. Violations of the graded response action plan (GRAP) were being penalised on a daily basis, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/air-quality-of-faridabad-worsens-this-month-340592
20-11-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal youth a call away for platelet emergency||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 19With blood banks facing shortage of donors amid the rising number of dengue patients, 15 youth of the city have formed WhatsApp groups comprising around 1000 active volunteers, who are available on phone calls and have been donating platelets for the past month.Trying best to provide platelets to allMy friends and I have formed four groups of active donors and are trying our best to provide platelets to all patients. On receiving calls from any blood bank, members reach there to donate platelets. Dilbag Kadyan, Social activistSo far, these groups have provided platelets to around 500 patients and continue to do so still. These members have also displayed their mobile numbers in government and private blood banks for families looking for donors.Harish Nagpal, a government employee, said he had donated platelets twice in the current season and will continue to when the need arises. “There are several active members in these groups who are available round the clock for patients,” said Nagpal.Dilbag Kadyan, a social activist, said he and his friends had formed four groups of active donors and were trying their best to provide platelets to all patients. “We are working as a team. On receiving calls from any blood bank, our members reach there to donate platelets,” Kadyan said.Shubham Gupta, another social activist working as a volunteer donor for the past eight years, said all group members had tremendous coordination and were available during odd hours as well. “Most of the volunteers have been donating blood and platelets for the past eight to ten years,” he added.As per the data of the Health Department, with 10 fresh cases of dengue reported on Friday, the tally in the district has now reached to 243.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-youth-a-call-away-for-platelet-emergency-340593
20-11-2021||---||Breaking myth, Haryana CM Khattar attends Kapal Mochan Mela||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, November 19Breaking myths and superstitions, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today participated in the historic Kapal Mochan Mela.The five-day historical Kapal Mochan Mela concluded today with pilgrims taking a dip in the sarovars at Kapal Mochan here. Pilgrims from Punjab, Haryana and other states participated in the mela.Khattar is the only Chief Minister who has participated in the mela in 50 years.Due to the superstition that if an MP or MLA joins Kapal Mochan Mela, he/she would not be elected an MP or MLA again, no Chief Minister had come to the mela since 1970.“A few days ago, when I came to know about such myths and superstitions associated with this holy place, I decided to break all of them as I do not believe in such superstitions,” the CM said.The CM said the area from Kalesar in Yamunanagar to Kalka in Panchkula would be developed for pilgrimage and tourism.Around 2 lakh devotees took a dip in the mela on Thursday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/breaking-myth-haryana-cm-khattar-attends-kapal-mochan-mela-340594
20-11-2021||---||Ambala: Firm violates orders on DAP sale, case filed||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 19The Ambala police booked a firm for selling fertiliser for allegedly selling DAP to farmers of other states.The case has been registered against Yash Agro Company on the complaint of Deputy Director Agriculture Girish Nagpal at Ambala City police station under Sections 7 and 10 of the Essential Commodities Act and 420 of the IPC.As per the complaint, the dealer was directed to produce the data regarding the DAP received from September 1 to November 9 and also to provide the list of farmers to whom the DAP was sold, but no data was provided.As per the data collected from the Centre’s portal, the firm was allotted 46 MT DAP. Of that, the firm had sold 18.15 MT DAP to farmers of other states.DDA Girish Nagpal said, “There were clear directions that the dealers can’t sell DAP to farmers of other states to ensure that local farmers don’t face any shortage but the firm has violated directions following which the action has been taken. The licence of the firm will also be suspended for 15 days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-firm-violates-orders-on-dap-sale-case-filed-340595
20-11-2021||Gurugram||Two nabbed for making fake IDs in Gurugram||The Gurugram police and the CM flying squad today nabbed two brothers from Sarhaul village for allegedly making fake ID cards.The duo operated a shop, Naveen Communication, and used to either tamper with the existing cards or make fraudulent ones.Cops recovered 19 PAN cards, nine Aadhaar cards, two voter IDs and Rs 50,000 from them in addition to a laptop and printers etc.The flying squad and the Sector 18 police acted on a tip-off and conducted a raid at the shop by nabbing the two brothers, Vikas and Sunil, natives of Nepal. The accused used to charge Rs 3,000 per person.The duo was produced in court and taken on police remand. The police are investigating the matter. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-nabbed-for-making-fake-ids-in-gurugram-340596
20-11-2021||---||Elated farmers celebrate with fireworks, drumbeats in Karnal, Kaithal||Karnal, November 19Farmers of Karnal and Kaithal districts on Friday celebrated the decision to repeal the three farm laws, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation.They distributed sweets and burst firecrackers while dancing to drum beats. The farmers staging dharna at the Bastara toll plaza on the NH-44, however, made it clear that they would go with the SKM decision and would stay put. Also, the toll exemption will continue.Referring the decision as a victory of the farming community, they first celebrated at the Bastara toll plaza and later at Committee Chowk, Prem Nagar and Ram Nagar. The farmers also took out a procession in the city.Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, BKU (Charuni) state core committee member, said it was the victory of the farmers, who had forced the government to repeal these laws. “We will go with the SKM decision as there are several more issues like the enactment of a law ensuring the MSP and cancellation of the FIRs among others.”Bhadhur Singh Mehla, district president IT Cell of the BKU, said the struggle and the sacrifice of the farmers bore fruit today when the PM repealed these laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/elated-farmers-celebrate-with-fireworks-drumbeats-in-karnal-kaithal-340597
20-11-2021||Hisar||Demands met, farm protesters lift dharna in Hansi||On the day when the PM agreed to repeal the farm laws, the Hisar administration accepted the demands of the protesters sitting on a dharna at the Hansi mini secretariat for nearly two weeks.The farmers called off the dharna later. They had held a mahapanchayat at Hansi today and was attended by BKU (Charuni) leader Gurnam Singh. Later, DC Priyanka Soni also reached Hansi.SKM spokesperson Ravi Azad said the administration had decided to set up a SIT to look into the complaint of the farmers lodged against BJP MP Ram Chander Jangra. “It also agreed to bear the cost of treatment of injured farmer Kuldeep Rana and decided to give government job to one of his family members,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demands-met-farm-protesters-lift-dharna-in-hansi-340598
20-11-2021||---||Decision historic, but partial win for movement: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Tribune News ServicePanipat, November 19Welcoming PM Narender Modi’s announcement to repeal the three farm laws on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) called it a partial victory of the historic movement.The leaders dedicated the historic victory to over 700 farmers who died during the year-long movement and to the people, press, social organisations and every faction of the society who backed the farmers’ struggle in any manner.Welcoming the move, Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Lakhowal), said the PM made the announcement on the auspicious occasion of Gurpurb, which makes us happy. “But out other major demand about the legal guarantee on the MSP is still pending and we need to discuss it too. The morcha will continue till the government starts the procedure. Also, the next course of action will be decided in the SKM meeting, which will be convened soon,” he added.Yogender Yadav, convener, Jai Kisan Andolan, said it was a historic but partial victory for the farmers. “The MSP issue still hasn’t been discussed so far. For a majority of the farmers in the country, the MSP matters the most.”Punjab Kisan Sabha general secretary Maj Singh Punnawal, however, said it was a one-sided announcement. “Farmers are happy with the decision but the government should have announced the legal guarantee on the MSP too,” he added.Kulwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha said the announcement on the occasion of Gurpurb was a good initiative but we would stay put on the Delhi borders till the Parliament session ends. “More people will be gathered on the Delhi borders on November 26 to mark one year of the historical movement. We will also talk about the other important demands. Besides, the SKM will take note of all developments and hold its meeting soon to announce further decision.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/decision-historic-but-partial-win-for-movement-samyukt-kisan-morcha-340599
20-11-2021||Pradeep Sharma||PM’s announcement a huge relief for Haryana BJP-JJP leaders facing protests||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on the repeal of three “controversial” farm laws has come as a huge relief for the BJP-JJP government, whose leaders have been at the receiving end of the farmers’ protests over the past one year.Public interest paramount for MODIThe PM’s announcement shows that public interest is paramount for him. I urge the farmers to immediately end their protest and return to their homes as positive attitude needs to be adopted towards this issue. ML Khattar, CMThe announcement, which comes days before the first anniversary of the farm movement at the Delhi borders, was welcomed by the ruling party functionaries as yet another step by the Centre for farmers’ welfare keeping their community’s sentiments in mind.Notably, the Singhu and Tikri borders had emerged as the epicentre of the farm stir since November 26 last year.Top BJP functionaries, including Khattar and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, have been facing violent protests by the farmers during their field visits since last year.There were rumblings within the BJP-JJP as several leaders wanted an amicable settlement of the farm issue since it was becoming a huge embarrassment for them since several villages had virtually announced their “social boycott”.Sources said the announcement would blunt the Opposition’s attack on the state government, which had been in the firing line of other parties and farmers. In fact, Dushyant can heave a sigh of relief as he had been under attack for supporting the BJP in utter disregard of party patriarch Tau Devi Lal’s legacy, who toiled for the farmers throughout his life.Besides, an atmosphere of uncertainty had been created in the state on the account of the protests. Also, police forces had been pre-occupied in maintaining law and order due to the protests with other policing jobs taking a hit.Responding to a question regarding the withdrawal of FIRs against the farmers, the CM said in suuch cases, many issues were taken into consideration, while some incidents were serious in nature. “Now a positive initiative will be taken from our side too and there will be no controversies.”“The PM’s announcement has received mixed reactions as some have lauded him while others are still not satisfied. I urge the farmers that they shouldn’t worry now.”Responding to another question regarding the sudden announcement, he said the decision wasn’t taken overnight, talks over this had been going on for a long time and a lot of efforts had been put in on the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pms-announcement-a-huge-relief-for-haryana-bjp-jjp-leaders-facing-protests-340600
20-11-2021||Hisar||After 4 years, Dera Sacha Sauda HQ in Sirsa holds ‘naam charcha’||The Dera Sacha Sauda headquarters in Sirsa organised ‘naam charcha’ after a gap of nearly four years today. Thousands of devotees thronged the venue.The police had made elaborate security arrangements to maintain order during the programme. This was the first major congregation after 2017 in the dera headquarters when sect head Gurmeet Ram Rahim was convicted in a rape case.A dera spokesperson said they celebrated ‘avtar divas’ during which the needy were given ration and blankets. Specially abled persons were given tricycles and four families were handed over the keys to their new homes under the Ashiana camapign of the dera. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-4-years-dera-sacha-sauda-hq-in-sirsa-holds-naam-charcha-340601
20-11-2021||---||Liquor vends shut to protest ‘false’ cases in Assandh||Karnal, November 19Alleging harassment by the Assandh police, scores of liquor vendors of Assandh block on Friday kept their liquor vends closed for five hours.After assurance by officials, they opened the vends later in the evening. They said that they would meet the SP in this regard.Liquor vendors alleged the police have been registering false cases under Section 120-B against liquor vend owners whenever they arrest any liquor peddler in the area.“The police have registered couple of such FIRs in the past fortnight against vend owners. We are vendors. Why will we promote peddling,” asked a vendor.Another vendor said that in protest against police action, they kept their shops closed today and would protest in the future also. They have brought the issue to the notice of the DETC, but no action has been taken so far.Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said that the issue has come to his notice and he would get it checked. “Nobody will be harassed unnecessarily. We will look into it,” the SP said.RK Nain, DETC, said that the issue has been brought to the notice of the SP and he has assured inquiry in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/liquor-vends-shut-to-protest-false-cases-in-assandh-340602
20-11-2021||New Delhi||Haryana's Bhattu Kalan gets best police station trophy||A police station of Haryana was among three stations that received trophies from Union Home Minister Amit Shah for being adjudged among the three best police stations in the country.The Sadar Bazaar in New Delhi and Gangapur in Odisha were the two other police stations given the best police trophy by Shah at the annual conference of police chiefs from across the country that got under way in Lucknow today.Om Prakash, Station House Officer (SHO), Bhattu Kalan, received the trophy from Shah. Bhattu Kalan police station has jurisdiction over 24 villages and Bhattu Kalan town. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-bhattu-kalan-gets-best-police-station-trophy-340603
20-11-2021||---||77 war widows honoured||Tribune News ServiceRewari, November 19As many as 77 war widows were felicitated at a function organised jointly by the Razang La Shaurya Samiti; Rezang La Trust; and War Widows’ Association, Delhi, here today to mark Rezang La Shaurya Divas.Three retired Army officials — Nihal Singh, Ram Chander Mohanpur and Bhaiya Ram Karoli — who had fought the Rezang La battle in 1962, were also honoured on the occasion.Naresh Chauhan, general secretary of the samiti, said keeping in view the contribution of the soldiers of Ahirwal region in various wars, a resolution to raise the demand of formation of the Ahir Regiment was also passed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/77-war-widows-honoured-340604
20-11-2021||The park in front of some houses has always been in controversy. The Residents’ Welfare Association has been making all efforts to beautify and maintain the park||Muck created in park||Gian P Kansal, Ambala CitySecurity issues in parkThe town park of Sector 18, Part 2 Jagadhri, touted to be the largest park in the twin cities of Jagadhri and Yamunanagar, is in utter state of neglect. Garbage littered all over the park has not been cleaned for months despite a contractor being assigned for the maintenance of the park. Since there is no patrolling by the police around the park, it has become a haven for public drinking. It is high time that the district administration wakes up to the deteriorating situation of the park.Sachin Sangwan, JagadhriWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/muck-created-in-park-340606
