21-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||Tikri blockade costs Bahadurgarh industry dear||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 20Large, medium and small-scale industries in the town have suffered a loss to the tune of Rs 30,000 crore in the past one year due to the Tikri blockade during to the ongoing farmers’ movement. This was revealed by the Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries (BCCI).Moreover, many factories were shut down while many more have also reached on the verge of closure.“Located on the Haryana-Delhi border, Bahadurgarh has around 9,000 companies and factories, including footwear, automobile, spare parts, packing and industrial manufacturing etc, which collectively provides livelihood to over 7.5 lakh people directly and indirectly. Most of the industries are situated near the Tikri border,” said Narinder Chhikara, senior vice-president, BCCI.“Over 100 factories being run on rent by industrialists from outside Bahadurgarh faced closure due to heavy losses, he added.“All vehicles carrying raw material from Delhi or elsewhere have to take a detour, leading to the escalation of the input cost to at least 300 to 400 per cent. With no alternative road in good condition, the arrival of all vehicles also gets delayed. A significant number of employees/workers and factory owners daily travel to Bahadurgarh from Delhi,” Chhikara added.Subhash Jagga, general secretary, Footwear Park Association, Bahadurgarh, said the town was the hub of such products but the Tikri blockade had took a toll on the exports. “Bahadurgarh industries used to export a huge quantity of footwear to Africa earlier but the demand dropped this year due to the high cost of products as compared to Delhi and other states,” Jagga added.Meanwhile, Gulshan Dang, state president, Rashtriya Jan Udyog Beopar Sangathan, said the PM’s announcement about the repealing of the three farm laws had come as a big relief for the industrialists and traders, who were now hoping for the complete opening of the Delhi borders soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tikri-blockade-costs-bahadurgarh-industry-dear-340893
21-11-2021||---||Haryana CM nod to hike in honorarium pension for staff||Chandigarh, November 20Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday approved an increase in the honorarium pension by 5 per cent for the retired teaching and non-teaching employees working in government-aided colleges across the state.This 5 per cent increase will be made on basic pension every year from November 1, 2021, and no arrears will be paid. The employees will be given the benefit of notional pension.Giving information, an official spokesperson said this was a long-standing demand of the retired teaching and non-teaching staff of the aided colleges.At present, a retired principal is getting Rs 30,000 per month, retired lecturer Rs 25,000 per month, non-teaching Class III employees Rs 11,000 per month and non-teaching Class IV employees Rs 6,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-nod-to-hike-in-honorarium-pension-for-staff-340894
21-11-2021||Rohtak||Exempt farmers from toll tax, demands samiti||After the PM’s announcement about the repealing of the three farm laws, the Toll Hatao Sangharsh Samiti has again raised the demand for tax exemption to the farmers across the nation.It has decided to put forward the demand before the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) in its meeting to be held at Singhu on Sunday.“We have been demanding free passage to farmers through toll booths for a long time. As all toll booths are, at present, free for every road user in Punjab and Haryana owing to the ongoing protest, the issue had taken a back seat. Since the PM has now announced to repeal the three farm laws in the upcoming Parliament session, it is high time that this demand is raised again,” said Virender Hooda, president of the samiti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/exempt-farmers-from-toll-tax-demands-samiti-340895
21-11-2021||Kurukshetra||Bus overturns on police vehicle, car in Shahabad||A major tragedy was averted after a Volvo bus overturned on a police vehicle and a car on the Ambala-Delhi National Highway in Shahabad this morning.There were no occupants in both vehicles when the bus overturned.As per the information, a car had rammed into a container which overturned on the national highway near Naugaja Peer at around 5 am. After receiving the information, the police reached the spot to regulate traffic. The police was assisted by some youths.The youths had parked their car nearby.Meanwhile, the driver of the bus lost control of the vehicle and it overturned over the police vehicle and parked car. A few bus passengers suffered minor injuries. An auto driver also suffered a leg injury in the incident.The bus driver managed to flee from the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bus-overturns-on-police-vehicle-car-in-shahabad-340896
21-11-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Smart City: Bicycle tracks, footpaths nowhere in sight in Faridabad||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 20The vision of promoting bicycle use in the city remains only on paper. Despite getting the status of a metropolitan city, around 735-km-long cycle track and an equal length of footpaths proposed under Rs 3,000-crore Smart City Project have failed to come up in Faridabad.Though Wednesdays were to be observed as a car-free day by the district authorities from October 1 this year, the move has failed to evoke response in view of the fact that the city has no dedicated track and riding a bicycle on roads full of heavy congestion was unsafe and unhealthy, claim sources in the administration.“Bicycle use won’t be popularised till roads and facilities are improved,” says Devender Singh, a retired government official. “The poor air quality and damaged roads have been a cause for concern,” he adds.Describing cycle tracks and footpaths as a basic need for commuters, SK Sharma, District Coordinator, Road Safety Organisation, an NGO involved in the field of safe driving, said a large number of cyclists and pedestrians were killed or injured in accidents each year. “Heavy usage fuel-operated vehicles have also been a major reason for the growing pollution,” he added.The 1.5-km-long cycle track, first and one of its kind built by the HSVP (Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran), on the road connecting the national highway and the mini secretariat in Sector 12 at a cost of Rs 23 lakh in 2017 has turned obsolete due to poor upkeep. Pratyush Sharma, an advocate, claimed that the cycle track had almost been reduced to rubble and had become a victim of encroachment.Claiming that a cycle track was suited in residential areas, Ajay Chaudhary, a local, said such a facility was the need of the hour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/smart-city-bicycle-tracks-footpaths-nowhere-in-sight-in-faridabad-340897
21-11-2021||---||Give jobs to deceased farmers’ kin: Deepender Singh Hooda||Rohtak, November 20Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Haryana Deepender Singh Hooda has congratulated farmers on the success of their agitation.“The Prime Minister’s announcement to repeal the three agriculture laws has proved that the farmers’ demand was justified. Had the government accepted it timely, lives of hundreds of farmers would have been saved,” he stated.Deepender demanded from the Centre that government jobs be given to family members of the deceased farmers and cases registered against them withdrawn at the earliest.Meanwhile, addressing a news conference here today, former state Home Minister Subhash Batra said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was responsible for the deaths of nearly 700 farmers and he could not get away with an apology.“Hundreds of farmers lost their lives during the year-long agitation due to the stubborn attitude of the BJP government. Now, the Prime Minister has tendered an apology while announcing that the laws will be repealed. This is not acceptable,” maintained Batra.The Congress leaders stated that now the Prime Minister should also accept the farmers’ demand to ensure the provision of minimum support price (MSP) for their agricultural produce.They also demanded that compensation of Rs 50 lakh should be given to the family of the farmers who died during the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/give-jobs-to-deceased-farmers-kin-deepender-singh-hooda-340898
21-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Withdrawal of stamp duty relief to farmers challenged||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 20The withdrawal of concession on stamp duty granted a decade back to the farmers purchasing agricultural land within two years of receiving compensation for acquired land has come under judicial scanner.Taking up the matter, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has not only put the State of Haryana on notice, but also stayed the recovery, if any, from the petitioner-farmers.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after a petition against the State of Haryana and other respondents was filed by Khushhal and other petitioner through counsel RN Lohan and Kuldeep Sharma.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Rajbir Sehrawat, the counsel submitted that the concession was granted vide notification dated November 9, 2010, to the farmers purchasing agricultural land within two years from the date of receipt of compensation.Elaborating, the counsel submitted that the notification was issued by the Financial Commissioner and Principal Secretary to Government of Haryana, Revenue and Disaster Management Department after due approval from the Council of Ministers. As such, the notification had statutory character.But now, Additional Chief Secretary and Financial Commissioner to Government of Haryana, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, had tried to put an end to the benefit in the name of a clarification while writing a simple letter. “This is beyond his authority,” the counsel contended.The Bench was also told that the petitioners’ land was acquired after the enactment of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act. The benefit of stamp duty exemption and registration fee granted vide notification dated November 9, 2010, and January 3, 2011, was never undone by the Act.In fact, the exemption granted by the Haryana Government vide the notifications was applicable to acquisition under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, or any other corresponding statute on the subject. “The action of the respondents issuing the letter dated October 23, 2019, and April 19, 2021, and consequently issuing the notices for recovering the stamp duty is arbitrary, discriminatory, illegal, unconstitutional and contrary to the rules of natural justice,” the counsel added.Taking a note of the submissions, Justice Sehrawat issued notice of motion, which was accepted by Haryana Additional Advocate-General Rajesh Gaur on behalf of the respondents. Accepting his prayer for time to file a written statement, Justice Sehrawat fixed the matter for April 26 for further hearing.Ending the benefitAdditional Chief Secretary and Financial Commissioner to Government of Haryana, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, had tried to put an end to the benefit in the name of a clarification while writing a simple letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/withdrawal-of-stamp-duty-relief-to-farmers-challenged-340899
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||HSVP land to be allotted for museum||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while chairing a meeting with representatives of Swami Omanand Sarswati Puratattva Sangrahalya Samiti Gurukul, Jhajjar, on Friday accorded approval to the proposal for giving the HSVP land to the gurukul for the construction of a museum.The meeting was attended by Acharya Vijay Pal, Virjanand Devkarni of the gurukul.In the museum, a huge collection of about 2 lakh antiques preserved by Swami Omanand would be displayed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hsvp-land-to-be-allotted-for-museum-340900
21-11-2021||Kurukshetra||Brahma Sarovar to get 21 abstract sculptures||As many as 21 artists will prepare 21 contemporary abstract sculptures based primarily on the Mahabharata and the Gita during the International Gita Mahotsav in Kurukshetra.The sculptures will be made from black marble and placed permanently near the famous chariot at Purushottam Pura Bagh of Brahma Sarovar.The sculptures will be the property of the Kurukshetra Development Board.The art and cultural officer (Sculpture) of the Haryana Art and Cultural Affairs Department, Hirday Kaushal, will leading the artists. He said: “As many as 21 artists will showcase their art. The sculptures will not be like other realistic sculptures, but will be art pieces in abstract form. The Gita, the Mahabharata, and Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav will be the theme of the sculptures. Special black bhainslana marble will be brought from Rajasthan for the project.”There will be interactive sessions with the audience, people will also be able to learn the art on the spot and visitors are allowed to see the artists working.“It will take around 20 days to complete the sculptures. The rocks are expected to reach Brahma Sarovar on November 25. Artists will start working on November 30. We will do our best to finish the sculptures by December 14,” Hirday added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/brahma-sarovar-to-get-21-abstract-sculptures-340901
21-11-2021||Deepender Deswal||Farmers victorious: Jind villagers still in high spirits||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 20Kandela village in Jind district, which has been the nerve centre of the farmers’ movement, has been rejoicing over the decision to repeal the three “black” laws.Backing the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), Tekram Kandela, former pradhan of the Kandela khap and convener of the Sarv Khap Panchayat, said just half the work had been done and they would continue their struggle to get the other demands fulfilled. “Though the PM’s announcement came quite late, it is still a good step in the direction of the farmers’ issue. It has definitely costed the farmers immensely,” he added.“I was at the Tikri border when the PM made the announcement and I plan to go back there tomorrow. There is no lack in the enthusiasm of Jind farmers,” he said, adding that the agenda of the implementation of the Swaminathan Commission recommendations and bringing a law on the MSP were also important for the farmers’ survival.Kandela farmers were among those at the forefront, who gave a new lease of life to the stir after it suffered a setback post the January 26 Delhi incident. As soon as a video of Rakesh Tikait in tears was flashed on television and the social media, farmers in tractor-trailers started marching towards the Delhi borders on January 29 night.“We realised the significance of the agitation and thus took the immediate decision to march to Delhi when the UP Government was gearing up for the crackdown at the Ghazipur border. As the videos of farmers from Kandela village going towards the Delhi borders got viral on the social media soon Jind residents and the rest of Haryana too followed us,” said Ishwar Singh, a farmer.“We know how to turn the tables when the stakes are high,” Singh said, adding that they had done so in the past as well.Notably, a statue of a bull placed at the entrance of Kandela village signifies the contribution of these villagers in the farm stir in 2002 when they took on the then INLD government. The residents remembered that when the police wanted to unleash a crackdown on the farmers who had blocked the highway, the bull stood like a wall in front and didn’t let them enter the village. They placed a statue in the memory of the bull, who is worshiped as a deity of the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-victorious-jind-villagers-still-in-high-spirits-340902
21-11-2021||---||With 1,745 points, Haryana 2nd among states||Chandigarh/Panipat, Nov 20Haryana has bagged second rank in the ‘Swachh Survekshan Awards-2021’ among states with less than 100 urban local bodies. The state scored 1,745 points out of 6,000.Jharkhand has emerged as the cleanest state with 1,880 points, while Goa is at the third spot (1,350). Fourteen states have been ranked in this category. In 2020 too, Haryana had secured the second rank.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar congratulated the people of the state and officers of the Urban Local Bodies Department for making consistent efforts so as to ensure a clean and green state and also urged them to aim for the first position in the next survey.In the category of states with more than 100 urban local bodies, Chhattisgarh has been adjudged the “cleanest”, followed by Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.In the cities with more than 10 lakh population, Faridabad slipped to 41st place while in 2020 it was at the 38th position. Gurugram city improved its rank from 62nd last year to 24th this year among cities with population between 1 lakh and10 lakh. Rohtak slipped to 49th spot from 35th rank last year.Karnal is at the 86th place this year while in 2020 it was at the 17th position. Ambala got 90th rank and Panchkula slipped to 99th place from 56th spot last year.Among districts, Gurugram is placed at the 25th spot this year, Rohtak at 91st and Faridabad at the 110th spot.Meanwhile, with a rise of 11 points, Panipat city secured 185th rank across the country while it secured the seventh position in the state in the ‘Swachh Survekshan, 2021’ that was conducted by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs Government.Besides, Sonepat city dipped with 132 points and got 235th rank across the country this year while it was on 103rd rank in 2020. Sonepat also slipped at 15th rank in the state while it was on the sixth rank in the previous year.Kavita Kadyan, Swachh Bharat Mission city team leader, said Panipat was on the 196th rank in 2020 in the population category of 1 to 10 lakh while it was on 188th rank in 2019. The city has improved its position by 11 points this year and secured 185th rank across the country out of a total of 372 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in the category.Besides, the Panipat had also improved its rank in the state. Out of total 18 ULBs, Panipat was on the 11th position in 2020 but this year the city secured seventh rank by jumping four steps in comparison of previous year.Panipat has secured 2,591 marks out of total 6,000 in three various categories. According to the result announced today by the Union Ministry, Panipat secured 1,179 out of 2,400 marks in service level progress (SLP); 912 marks out of 1,800 in citizen’s voice and 500 out of 1,800 marks in certification, Kadyan said. RK Singh, Panipat MC Commissioner, said: “Though the rank has improved but it is not satisfactory and we will make efforts to bring the city in upper ranks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-1-745-points-haryana-2nd-among-states-340903
21-11-2021||---||CM’s city Karnal slips by 69 points in 'Swachh Survekshan Awards'||Karnal, November 20Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s city Karnal slipped by 69 points from 17th rank last year to 86th in the ‘Swachh Survekshan Awards, 2021’ under the 1 lakh to 10 lakh population category. The survey was conducted in 4,320 cities of the country.Last year, the city had improved its ranking to 17th position from 24th in the 2019 survekshan, while it ranked 41st and 65th in 2018 and 2017 surveys respectively.Though the residents and authorities were eying a place in the top ten cities in the category, their dreams got shattered with this ranking. Besides, the city had been at the top in the index in the Northern Region in this category, but this time it is at the third position in Haryana with 3,395.16 marks.With 4,201.19 marks, Gurugram is at the 24th position, while Rohtak is at the 49th position with 3,821.52 marks. Ambala bagged the 90th position, while Hisar is at the 165th place. However, the city got the Anupam Gold Award along with Gurugram and Rohtak and Nilokheri civic body got the Silver Ujjwal Award in the mixed category.For a gold award, the ministry has fixed certain parameters, including segregation of waste (wet, dry and hazardous), processing of waste, percentage of waste going to landfill and ODF category. Under these categories, it was found that 75 per cent of the city waste was being segregated at the source, while around 81 per cent of the total waste was being processed. Around 15 per cent of the waste was going to landfills and Karnal was already under the ODF++ category, said Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, Karnal Municipal Corporation. “We will try to improve the ranking in the next survey,” added the Commissioner.The decline in the ranking has raised a question mark over the performance of the civic bodies. City residents blamed the authorities for the poor performance. “Services such as door-to-door collection of garbage and also the lifting of garbage from dustbins is not being done effectively. The authorities should review these and make efforts to make the city clean,” said Amanpreet Budhiraja, a city resident. Rajiv Kumar, a social activist, blamed the civic body as well as the city residents for the poor show. He said apart from the authorities, it is the duty of the residents to make the city clean.Deputy Municipal Commissioner Dheeraj Kumar said no doubt the ranking had slipped, but they would make efforts to improve it.Karnal ranks 17thLast year, the Karnal had improved its ranking to 17th position from 24th in the 2019 survekshan, while it ranked 41st and 65th in 2018 and 2017 surveys respectively||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cms-city-karnal-slips-by-69-points-in-swachh-survekshan-awards-340904
21-11-2021||---||In Hisar, claims on cleanliness  exposed||Hisar, November 20Hisar town has slipped to 165th rank from the previous ranking of 105th in 2020. The Centre’s Swachh Survekshan has bared the claims of cleanliness campaigns in the town.The issues of lack of cleanliness, garbage disposal and stray cattle menace have been plaguing the town for long. The residents as well as the municipal corporation members have been complaining about the lack of sanitation in the residential areas. However, the municipal corporation and the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has not been able to coordinate their efforts which lead to the blame-game regarding maintenance of the localities and parks in the town.Municipal Corporation officials maintained the ranking had come as a setback to them. Mayor Gautam Sardana said they would launch new plans to make the city clean. Residents said heaps of garbage lying on the vacant land in the area around the railway station and bus stand speaks volumes of the state of affairs in the town. The corporation has not been able to dispose the solid waste from these places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-hisar-claims-on-cleanliness-exposed-340905
21-11-2021||---||Ambala city rises to 90th position||Ambala, November 20Improving its national ranking, the Ambala Municipal Corporation has secured 90th rank in the category of civic bodies with 1 to 10 lakh population in the ‘Swachh Survekshan-2021’.It had ranked 120th in the last year’s national ranking. Ambala Municipal Corporation Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said: “The national ranking in the ‘Swachh Survekshan-2021’ has improved. This year the civic body has secured 90th rank while last year it was on 120th rank, among 372 civic bodies. The corporation has also been selected under the Aarohi category of the Prerak DAUUR Samman for improvement in sanitation conditions. Ambala City has also been kept under the category of Open Defecation Free++ category.”Faridabad slips to 41st place||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-city-rises-to-90th-position-340906
21-11-2021||---||Applications from minority scholars invited||Chandigarh, November 20The Haryana Social Justice and Empowerment Department, in collaboration with the Ministry of Minorities, has invited applications for the grant of scholarship to eligible students of post-matriculation and merit-cum-means for the year 2021-22.Only students with 50 per cent or more marks can apply to take advantage of this scheme.Giving information, an official spokesperson said eligible students belonging to minority communities —Muslim, Sikh, Buddhist, Christian, Jain and Parsi religions — can apply online on the National Scholarship Portal www.scholarships.gov.in by November 30.He said it was necessary to issue the income certificate and minority certificate from the competent authority declared by the state government. The scholarship of eligible applicants will be directly transferred to the bank account of the students/guardians. An applicant can avail scholarship for only one course at a time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/applications-from-minority-scholars-invited-340907
21-11-2021||Gurugram||Four shooters arrested for Gurugram murders||The Gurugram police have nabbed four sharpshooters in the Kasan village shooting. The accused had attacked a family of former late sarpanch in the village killing four persons on Diwali night.They were produced in a city court today and sent to seven-day police remand.The main accused, Rinku alias Yogender, is still on the run and the police claim that the shooting was planned and the cause was enmity.Earlier, eight accused, including two minors, have been nabbed by the police for conspiracy.The crime unit of Palam Vihar team nabbed four sharpshooters from KMP when they were trying to commit another crime. They have been identified as Abhishek Saroha alias RC alias Tara Bawana, a resident of Bawana in Delhi; Sanjeev alias Sanju alias Baba, a resident of Bakheta village in Rohtak district; Sahil alias Bheema, a resident of Firozpur Bangar; and Vikas alias Kala, a resident of Bakhtawarpur in Sonepat district. “These four were directly involved in the Kasan shooting and are professional criminals. They confessed to the Kasan shooting as they were arranged by main accused Rinku alias Yogender. The accused revealed that the shootout was to avenge the murder of Rinku’s brother Manoj in 2007 on the day of Holi. We have arrested total 12 accused so far,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, crime. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-shooters-arrested-for-gurugram-murders-340908
21-11-2021||---||Crop burning causes loss of key nutrients in soil, say agri experts||Hisar, November 20Agriculture experts and progressive farmers have expressed concern over the practice of burning crop residue during the kharif and rabi seasons, stating that burning adversely affected the health of the soil due to loss of key nutrients from the soil.The experts maintained that soil contains numerous organisms and each of those have a specific ecological significance. “The presence of organic matter in the soil is a source of carbon or food for soil micro-organism which ensure the health of the soil for crop production,” the experts said.“The practice of burning crop residue, especially paddy straw during the kharif season, is causing a huge damage to the soil due to destruction of nutrients, which renders the land almost barren,” said Dr Ram Kumar, retired scientist from Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, Hisar.A progressive farmer, Baljinder Singh Khera from Kurukshetra, said they had done away with the practice of burning paddy straw years ago. “It has improved the soil health and the crop yield has increased over the years as well,” he said.Khera, however, admitted that there was challenge before the small and medium farmers for paddy straw management. “It costs about Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 to manage paddy residue without burning and so, a small farmer opts to set the residue ablaze, which costs him just a stick of a matchbox,” he added.Dr Vinod Kumar Phogat, Deputy Director Agriculture, Hisar, said they had launched an awareness drive to aware farmers about the adverse effects of burning on the soil. “Teams have been reaching out to the farmers to hold regular discussions with them. We have also set up custom hiring centres to provide implements for crop residue management,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crop-burning-causes-loss-of-key-nutrients-in-soil-say-agri-experts-340909
21-11-2021||Chandigarh||Hooda attacks govt over HPSC recruitment scam||Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today attacked the BJP-JJP government over the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) recruitment scam.  He has said in all recruitments of the BJP-JJP government, lakhs to crores were being charged. “Today the rate of every job from HCS to Group-D is fixed in the state. After Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), it’s now clear from the revelations of scams in HPSC recruitments that every job in the present government is for sale,” he alleged.  The Leader of Opposition said the Congress had been continuously raising its voice against the wrongdoings. He also demanded a CBI investigation into the job scams. “Even the Home Minister of the state had supported this demand of the Opposition. But the government did not accept it and the result of this is in front of the people of the state,” he said. “People sitting in the offices of the HSSC and HPSC have been involved in the recruitment mafia for years but surprisingly they have been repeatedly given clean chit by the government. This proves that the mafia has got the government’s protection,” he said. He questioned: “If it is not so, why does the government not bring out the name of the real culprits? Why doesn’t the government want a high-level and impartial probe into the matter? After all, whom does the government want to save?” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-attacks-govt-over-hpsc-recruitment-scam-340910
21-11-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar man hangs self||HCS main exam postponedChandigarh: The Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) on Saturday announced that the main examination of HCS (ex-branch) and other allied service examinations, which was slated from December 3 to 5, has been postponed. The notice on the website of the HPSC cited administrative reasons behind the postponement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-man-hangs-self-340911
21-11-2021||Mukesh Tandon||SKM won’t back off, even a day after Centre rolls back agri laws||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 20A day after PM Narendra Modi announced the government’s decision to repeal the three contentious agriculture laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday said it would continue with its announced programmes, including the tractor march to Parliament every day during the winter session starting November 29.The umbrella body of the farmers’ unions also decided to continue the struggle in one form or the other. The SKM said the future course of agitation would be decided in a meeting to be held on Sunday.Ours is a long-drawn battle: UgrahanWe will fight for assured MSP and till the government stops facilitating the corporate sector through the back door. We will fight for compensation for kin of farmers who committed suicide. —Joginder singh Ugrahan, BKU Ekta-UgrahanTo observe one year of the anti-farm law agitation on November 26, the SKM had earlier this month announced that 500 farmers would participate in a peaceful tractor march from Tikri border to Parliament every day till the winter session ends.Besides, the SKM had also given a call to the farmers of six states — Punjab, Haryana, UP, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Rajasthan — to gather at the Delhi borders in large numbers to mark the first anniversary of the agitation. Darshan Pal Singh, convener, SKM, confirmed that they would stick to all programmes announced earlier, including the tractor march to Parliament. He said farmers in states far away from Delhi would mark the first anniversary by holding rallies in capital cities.Yogendra Yadav, convener, Jai Kisan Andolan, said while the PM had decided to repeal the laws, their main demand for a legal guarantee on MSP had been ignored. Besides, thousands of cases had been registered against agitating farmers in various states, which must be withdrawn unconditionally, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skm-wont-back-off-even-a-day-after-centre-rolls-back-agri-laws-340822
21-11-2021||---||Reading labels on packaged food||Karnal: Pratap Public School, Jarnailly Colony, Karnal, organised a webinar on 'How to read labels and not to get misled by food industry' on November 14 focusing on how to overcome the marketing tricks of food industry and buy better. The session was conducted by clinical dietitian Deepta Nagpal, founder at Beyond inches and kilos, Zagreb, Croatia (Europe). She emphasised that health claims on packaged food were designed to catch the customer's attention but how actually they mislead them. One of the best tips she gave was to study the ingredients list thoughtfully and not to be lured by the claims on the front of the packaging. She exhorted the young learners to follow healthy eating habits.Centre for women empowerment launched at DAV Institute of Management, Faridabad Faridabad: To make a difference in the graduating women's life, a centre for Women Empowerment has been launched at the DAV Institute of Management, Faridabad (DAVIM) by the ICT Academy. Revealing this Dr Satish Ahuja, principal director, DAVIM Centre, aims at empowering women students of the institution with employability skills pertaining to IT and other sectors. The centre will train 80 students on employability skills, provide certification, and facilitate placements for certified students will train them on skills such as data analytics, python programming, cloud infrastructure and services and banking and financial literacy. The training delivered for 75 hours will be followed by expert mentorship and placement facilitation. For the sustainability of programme in future, faculty members of the host institution will also be trained.Scouts and guides programmeAmbala: A Scouts and Guides introduction and training programme began at SD Vidya School, Ambala. The students of Classes IV to XI will be enrolled in this programme. Scouts and Guides trainer Sunaina Gupta was present at the school. She addressed the students from and motivated them to join this programme. Volunteers would get training for one hour daily for three consecutive days. After the training all the students will be given certificates and woggles with scarfs.Vacant seats at IGURewari: The Indira Gandhi University (IGU) authorities have decided to fill vacant seats in various undergraduate/postgraduate courses except B pharmacy, BTech and MCA in the university teaching departments (UTD). Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said the seats would be filled up on November 18 on the basis of merit.Special lecture organisedSonepat: A special lecture by a barrister from UK, David S Boyle organised at Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University (DBRANLU) on the topic, 'Black and white law in the world of colour' on Wednesday. Around 200 students attended the online event. The event was organised by the Research and Publications Committee of the university.Foundation day at NIDKurukshetra: The fifth Foundation Day was organised at the National Institute of Design, Haryana, in the virtual mode. The programme was inaugurated by Dr Vanita Ahuja, the Director of the institute. In this programme, classical dance, classical music, dance, music and cultural programmes were organised by students (online). Rakesh Kumar Singh (Joint-Secretary, DPIIT, Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Government of India) Chairman, Governing Council National Institute of Design, Haryana, Kurukshetra gave a special message on the occasion and chief guest Amit Krishna Gulati was present online. The Director informed that a film festival named “Preksha” was being organised during the foundation day celebration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reading-labels-on-packaged-food-340605
