25-11-2021||Rohtak||Retired doctors, health officials treat 14,000 protesting farmers at Tikri in a year||A considerable number of social outfits, charitable societies, medical professionals and political leaders came forward to provide free medical aid to the protesting farmers when they camped at Tikri border last year but now only a few are left, who are still serving.A team of retired government employees, including SMO Dr Ranbir Khasa, PGIMS doctor Dr RS Dahiya, Medical Superintendent Dr OP Lathwal, district health officers Dr Balram Kadian and pharmacists — Azad Siwach and Ranbir Kadian from Rohtak — is one from them.It has so far treated around 14,000 farmers and provided them with free medicines.Significantly, Dr Khasa and Dr Dahiya also conduct free OPD two days a week at Kishan Pura in Rohtak city for poor people.“We set up a medical camp at Tikri on learning that many farmers at Tikri are unhealthy and they need medical aid on a daily basis. Our team contacted socially active people who provided us free medicines throughout the year,” said Dr Dahiya.Dr Khasa maintained that a majority of the patients coming to the camp were suffering from cough, cold, joint pains, back ache, abdominal pain, high blood pressure, diabetes, anxiety, blunt injuries, urinary problems and fever. Besides medicines, farmers were also given counselling for stress busting, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retired-doctors-health-officials-treat-14-000-protesting-farmers-at-tikri-in-a-year-342708
25-11-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Four of family die in fire in Yamunanagar||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, November 25A man and his three children were burnt alive after their rented house located above a scrap godown caught fire in the City Centre area of Yamunanagar early Thursday morning.The deceased have been identified as Niyamudin (37) of Madhuban district (Bihar), his daughter Fiza (12), his sons Chand (8) and Rehan (3).The deceased’s wife Naseema (32) also suffered burn injuries in the fire incident and she was admitted at Trauma Centre here.According to information, a scrap dealer had constructed five-six quarters on the first floor of his scrap godown near City Centre and 22 persons were living on rent in the said quarters.Sources said that the fire broke out at the scrap godown at about 2 am and later the fire engulfed the quarters also.When the fire broke out, 17 people living in the quarters managed to escape, but the family of Niyamudin was stranded in their quarter. Niyamudin worked as a laborer.Pramod Kumar Duggal, Fire Officer, Yamunanagar said that they got the information of occurring fire at 2.30 am.He said that they pressed six fire tenders to control the fire.“Five persons who sustained burn injuries were rushed to the Trauma Centre,” said Pramod Kumar Duggal.Dr Vijay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Yamunanagar said that five persons including a woman were rushed to Trauma Centre with burn injuries at 4 pm today.He said that four of them were declared brought dead and the dead bodies were kept at the mortuary.He said that the woman was having minor burn injuries and she was admitted at Trauma Centre for treatment.“Probable cause of death is extensive burn injuries and suffocation. The exact cause of death will be ascertained after postmortem examination,” said Civil Surgeon, Dr Dahiya.Dal Singh, SHO, City police station, Yamunanagar, said that there were 22 persons in the quarters and 17 persons were rescued.He said they were yet to determine the exact cause of the fire, but a sort circuit might be one of the reasons behind the fire.He added that the matter was being investigated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-of-family-die-in-fire-in-yamunanagar-342633
25-11-2021||---||Stir anniversary: Farmers gear up for show of strength||Sonepat, November 24Despite the Prime Minister’s announcement to repeal the three agricultural laws, the protesting farmers are gearing up for a show of strength on the first anniversary of the farm movement at the Delhi borders on Friday.Notably, a handful of farmers were left at the Singhu and Tikri borders, with scores of tents, huts, shelters and sheds lying vacant for a long time. Also, maximum Punjab and Haryana farmers had returned to their fields due to the paddy season.Earlier this month, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) had announced to mark the first anniversary of the stir at the Delhi borders and also asked the farm unions to bring a large number of supporters to the protest sites. Soon after, the leaders started mobilising the farmers and asked them to reach Singhu and Tikri. They claimed that thousands of farmers would start arriving at the borders on Thursday.“All preparations to mark the first anniversary of the farmers’ movement are on in full swing and our teams will start moving towards Delhi borders on Thursday,” says Kulwant Singh Sandhu, general secretary, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha.“There is a great enthusiasm among people in Punjab to become a part of the victorious first anniversary of the farmers’ movement as the day is very special for them,” he added.Meanwhile, Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal), said they were all set to mark the day. Farmers in Punjab villages were quite excited and preparing to reach Singhu and Tikri for the big day, he added.Abhimanyu Kuhar, farm leader of Haryana, said thousands of farmers from villages in the state would arrive at Singhu and Tikri on Friday to celebrate the repeal of the three farm laws. Village-wise duties had been appointed across the state to mobilise the farmers, he added. The protest sites would again witness a huge number of farmers on Friday, he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stir-anniversary-farmers-gear-up-for-show-of-strength-342531
25-11-2021||Rohtak||Farm leaders remember Sir Chhotu Ram in Rohtak||Besides Tikri, farm organisations on Wednesday celebrated the birth anniversary of peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram by garlanding his statue at a park here.Inderjit Singh, state vice-president, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), recalled the appalling condition of farmers reeling under usury and deprived of lands for non-payment of money lenders’ debt, an ancient practice that was abolished through a law.He described how Chhotu Ram worked to bring together farmers of various communities, including Hindu, Muslim and Sikh, who were divided by communal political outfits. Other speakers referred to him as a leader, who worked for the welfare of both farmers and labourers.Meanwhile, Jagmati Sangwan, a woman activist, said Chhotu Ram was also known for his monumental contribution towards enacting a series of path breaking laws, including the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act in 1939. The legislation was known for putting curbs on the ruthless exploitation of farmers at the hands of money lenders, she added.Celebrations were also held at various toll plazas in Rohtak and Jhajjar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-leaders-remember-sir-chhotu-ram-in-rohtak-342532
25-11-2021||Karnal||Karnal cane growers protest over mill running below capacity||Infuriated over not running the sugar mill to its full crushing capacity and allowing cane growers from other districts to sell their crop here, scores of farmers created ruckus in the Karnal Cooperative Sugar Mill on Wednesday.They alleged Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had inaugurated the mill and at that time, it was claimed that its crushing capacity had increased to 3,500 tonnes crushed per day (TCD) from 2,200 TCD, which was of the old one that started working in 1977.“At present, the mill is being run at the capacity of around 2,500 TCD, while it was claimed that it has been increased to 3,500 TCD,” said Satpal, a farmer.Another farmer Rajpal said cane growers from other districts were being allowed to sell their produce in this mill, which was not good. “It takes 18-24 hours for a farmer in a mill to unload his tractor-trailer. We demand only the farmers attached with this mill should be allowed here. Also, the mill should start operating to its full capacity,” the farmers demanded.Meanwhile, Aditi, MD, Karnal Cooperative Sugar Mill, said as power from the plant was not being exported, it was not running to its full capacity. “The work to erect 132-KV lines for power supply is under way. However, the work is delayed due to some Right of Way (RoW) rules. “We have already deposited the amount with the power corporation for the erection of lines,” she added.The plant is running at the capacity of around 3,000 TCD, which would be increased gradually, she added.On the issue of sugarcane from other districts being brought by farmers, she said, “We have issued a schedule to the area growers, who have further given it to their relatives and others. We have a computerised calendar system, through which a proper schedule is followed and farmers get indent as per it.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-cane-growers-protest-over-mill-running-below-capacity-342534
25-11-2021||Gurugram||Bomb hoax triggers panic on Shatabdi at Gurugram railway station||Panic gripped the Ajmer-Delhi Shatabdi Express last night after the police control room received an anonymous call about a bomb on the train.The train was stopped at the Gurugram railway station and hundreds of passengers deboarded. The dog and bomb disposal squads were called in, which frisked the train and the platforms for almost two hours. During the checking, the police did not find anything and the train left for Delhi at 11.38 pm.On Wednesday, the Government Railway Police registered a case against the man who made the hoax call. The police said the mobile number was registered on the name of one Ravindra (35) of Karawal Nagar in Delhi. “His number is switched off since the call and he has not reached home yet,” they said.The police, however, will probe whether the call was made by Ravindra himself or by someone else.As per the police, the information was received from the Rewari control room at 9.20 pm on Tuesday. The caller claimed that he had got down at Rewari and the train with a bomb in its coach (07161/C) was heading to Delhi. “On Wednesday, a team reached Ravindra’s house and talked to his father, who said his son hasn’t returned from Rajasthan. We will nab him soon,” said ASI Ramphal, investigating officer. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bomb-hoax-triggers-panic-on-shatabdi-at-gurugram-railway-station-342536
25-11-2021||---||Haryana Govt’s law providing 75% quota to locals challenged in High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 24The Haryana Government’s law providing 75 per cent reservation in industries to the domiciles of the state has come under judicial scanner.A petition was today filed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court challenging the “Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020”.The government earlier this month had notified the law, which provided 75 per cent reservation to local youth in private sector jobs that offered monthly salary of less than Rs 30,000 from January 15, 2022. It covered private companies, societies, trusts and partnership firms in the state, as per a notification issued by the state government.Skills matterPrivate sector jobs were purely based on the skills and analytical blend of mind of the employees who were citizens of India having constitutional rights on the basis of their education to do jobs in any part of India. —PetitionersIn its petition, the Gurgaon Industrial Association, through its representative JN Mangla, submitted that the impugned Act dated March 2 and further notification dated November 6 was against the provisions of the Constitution and also against the basic principle of meritocracy that acted as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive.The petitioner submitted that the Haryana Government wanted to create reservation in private sector by introducing policy of “Son of soils,” which was infringement of the constitutional rights of the employers.Elaborating, the petitioner stated that private sector jobs were purely based on the skills and analytical blend of mind of the employees who were citizens of India having constitutional rights on the basis of their education to do jobs in any part of India.“The act of the respondent forcing the employers to employ local candidates in private sector, vide this bill impugned Act, is the violation of the federal structure framed by the Constitution of India, whereby the government cannot act contrary to public interest and cannot benefit one class…,” it was added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govts-law-providing-75-quota-to-locals-challenged-in-high-court-342539
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||High Court  notice to CBI in Rabia Saifi murder case||Acting on a plea seeking CBI probe into a court-monitored CBI probe into the murder of Delhi Civil Defence volunteer Rabia Saifi, the Punjab and Haryana HC today issued notice to the investigating agency and the government.As the petition filed by father Sameed Ahmad and another petitioner through counsel Ajay Kalra came up for a preliminary hearing, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan fixed February 17, 2022, as the next date in the matter. “Reply, if any, be filed in the meantime, with advance copy to counsel opposite,” Justice Sangwan asserted.Rabia, 21, was stabbed to death on August 26 in Faridabad. An FIR for murder was registered at the Suraj Kund police station in Faridabad. The parents had initially approached the SC, seeking a CBI probe into her death. But the SC asked them to approach the HC concerned.The plea alleged that incorrect and misleading facts were mentioned in the FIR to conceal the truth to save and shield the real culprits. Despite the fact that the cause of action in the matter arose within the territorial limits of Delhi, the FIR was lodged in Haryana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-notice-to-cbi-in-rabia-saifi-murder-case-342541
25-11-2021||Ambala||Ambala cops come to rescue of addicts with new rehabilitation scheme||The Ambala police have come out with a new initiative ‘Substance use disorder helpline and appropriate rehab’ (SUDHAR) under which a dedicated helpline number has been launched to gather information about drug peddlers and help addicts in quitting drugs in the district.As per the information, local residents would be able to share information about drug peddlers on the helpline number 7419112112 and also seek help for addicts. The calls on the helpline number will be answered at the district control room.The Superintendent of Police (SP) , Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said, “The primary motive of the SUDHAR programme is to identify peddlers, consumption of drugs, the areas where drugs are provided and the people, who have been selling drugs. We are already getting information through different sources and action is being taken against peddlers.”“With this new initiative, local residents will be able to share information about such activities. Their names will be kept secret. On the basis of the information, a database will be prepared and surveys will be carried out in the areas, which will help in identifying supply chain at the local level, kind of drugs sold and the age group, who have been doing drugs,” the SP added.“The second objective of the programme is to help addicts. There are de-addiction centres and NGOs working in this field and we are in touch with them. We have invited social organisations and NGOs to work on this issue. If any person, who wants medication and detoxication, then the helpline will help him/her. The aim is to bring such people back into the mainstream”, said the SP.“A meeting was held with all SHOs and members of social and religious organisations here on Tuesday. The Deputy Superintendent of Police, Ambala Cantonment, Ram Kumar, has been appointed as the nodal officer for the programme. SHOs will monitor the programme while beat in-charges will be main functionaries in field,” the SP added.“It will help beat in-charges in knowing about active peddlers. A one-day training will be provided to officials in which they will be taught what kind of information has to be gathered while answering calls,” said the SP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-cops-come-to-rescue-of-addicts-with-new-rehabilitation-scheme-342542
25-11-2021||---||Government’s policy to sell jobs for votes, notes: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Panipat, November 24Former Chief Minister and leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today slammed the BJP-JJP coalition government for alleged job scams and said “the merit and transparency of recruitment were being auctioned in briefcase of notes and the coalition policy had become sell jobs, buy votes, earn notes”.Hooda paid tributes to the toiling farmers and labourers on the birth anniversary of Deenbandhu Sir Chhotu Ram and also paid tributes to Guru Teg Bahadur on his martyrdom day.Hooda was addressing a press conference at the residence of former youth congress president Sachin Kundu today here.“There are so many scams that when the government tries to suppress one scam, another gets exposed. When they try to cover the second, the third one comes in front,” he said. Instead of selling jobs covertly, the government should have to formally release the rate list of jobs because jobs are being sold like goods at a grocery store in this government,” he said.“If the people sitting in the government have nothing to do with this corruption in jobs and if the government has nothing to hide, why is a high-level judicial inquiry not being conducted into whole matter?” he questioned.Hooda said the state government was constantly playing with the future of the youth, who were facing maximum unemployment in the country and the 75% reservation in private jobs was tossed to mislead them. Hooda also referred to the programme “Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh” and claimed that the events of Karnal and Jind were a complete success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/governments-policy-to-sell-jobs-for-votes-notes-bhupinder-singh-hooda-342544
25-11-2021||Hisar||Hisar Bar Association: Repeal of laws farmers’ win||Lawyers of the Hisar Bar Association have described the decision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the three agriculture laws as a victory of farmers.Meanwhile, farmers distributed ‘laddoos’ at a dharna orgasnied by the Hisar Bar Association here today. They also celebrated the birth anniversary of farmer leader Deen Bandhu Sir Chhotu Ram.Advocate Vikram Mittal said the dharna was presided over by former Bar president Pradeep Bajia. Through dharna, lawyers called the Prime Minister’s withdrawal of the three black laws a victory of farmers, peasants and labourers movement and unity.Lawyers demanded that the government should enact the MSP guarantee law at the earliest, withdraw cases registered against farmers and compensate families of martyred farmers. Wreaths were laid on statue of Sir Chhotu Ram during dharna. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-bar-association-repeal-of-laws-farmers-win-342546
25-11-2021||Karnal||Haryana Government doctors seek ‘specialist’ cadre||Demanding specialist cadre, abolition of the direct recruitment of the SMOs and 40 per cent reservation in the postgraduate seats, government doctors, under the banner of the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA), Karnal unit, today handed over a memorandum to the ADC, Yogesh Kumar, for Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The HCMSA has, meanwhile, announced to hold a state-level general body meeting in Karnal on December 5 to chalk out strategy to press for its demands.Dr Sandeep Abrol, district president, HCMSA, Karnal, said there was acute shortage of specialists in the HCMS. It could be gauged from the fact that one third of specialists were working in the cadre against the required strength due to which they were overburdened and not able to render quality services to patients.“The issue of the formation of the specialist cadre is pending with the government for the past several years. Now, a draft proposal was made by the department and put on the website for suggestions on making a cadre. Thereafter, a committee was constituted at the DGHS level, which has drafted proposal that has been submitted to the ACS (Health), but with no headway so far,” said Dr Abrol.“Besides, doctors are protesting against the direct recruitment of the SMO, which would lead to stagnation of the existing cadre,” he added. In the entire service, 95 per cent of the HCMS cadre and doctors are getting only one promotion and that is SMO,” Dr Abrol added.He, along with Dr Neelam Verma, vice-president, Dr Deepak Goel, general secretary, Dr OP Saini, executive member and Dr Swati Kalia said the association had also suggested that doctors should be given 40 per cent reservation in the PG seats so that more doctors could become specialists. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-doctors-seek-specialist-cadre-342549
25-11-2021||Panipat||HVPN engineers to boycott online exam today||The Haryana Power Engineers Association (HPEA) on Wednesday said the power engineers of the Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam (HVPN) would boycott the online exam to test the skills of assistant engineers and assistant executive engineers scheduled for Thursday.KK Malik, general secretary, HPEA, said over 350 assistant engineers and assistant executive engineers, working in all circles of the HVPN, had made a joint representation against the online exam and sent it to the management through their superintending engineers, saying they would boycott it.The HPEA has also written a letter to the Chief Managing Director, HVPN, forwarding the engineers’ representation and sought a meeting with the management at the earliest to resolve the issue and other issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hvpn-engineers-to-boycott-online-exam-today-342551
25-11-2021||Rohtak||University teachers on mass leave tomorrow||An online meeting of office-bearers of the teachers’ associations of state universities on Wednesday announced to go on mass leave on Friday to register their protest against the staff recruitment through the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC).Vikas Siwach, president, MDU Teachers’ Association, said they don’t want to cause any inconvenience to the students hence the routine work would continue as usual. “The decision is an attack on the autonomy of the state universities hence we will continue to oppose it. We staged a symbolic dharna at all universities from November 18 to 23. But the government didn’t pay any heed, forcing us to go on mass leave. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/university-teachers-on-mass-leave-tomorrow-342552
25-11-2021||Rewari||Indira Gandhi University student wins gold in yoga||IIM foundation dayRohtak: Faculty members, students and staffers of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Rohtak, celebrated the 13th foundation day of the institute. Supreme Court Judge Justice Surya Kant, who was the chief guest on the occasion, also inaugurated a hostel building of the institute. "Despite being a new institute, IIM, Rohtak, has made tremendous contributions in all fields of management studies, which makes one appreciate the institution's ongoing dedication, future goals, and ambitions. The integrated programme in law is one of the most innovative initiates of the institute in the field of management and law," he stated.Sample testing on National Milk DayKarnal: Dr MS Chauhan, Director, National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), said NDRI would conduct the testing of milk samples of general public for presence of adulterants on National Milk Day on Friday at the main gate of the institute. He said that India celebrated every year National Milk Day on November 26, on the occasion of birth anniversary of Dr Verghese Kurien who is also known as "father of the white revolution". He said that over the past few years, NDRI had developed a new series of tests for detection of adulteration in milk and the same technology would be used to test milk on this day.Faculty development programmeHisar: Training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, started a one-week online faculty development programme in association with the AICTE on the theme 'Skill development for employability and entrepreneurship". 40 faculty members and 160 students are enrolled in the FDP programme. Vice Chancellor Prof BR Kamboj was the chief guest at the inauguration ceremony. Registrar Prof Avnesh Verma and Vice Chancellor of Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Palwal Raj Nehru was the guest of honour for the event. AICTE Director Col Venkat attended the virtual function as special guest.Chaitanya shines in roller skatingAmbala: Chaitanya, a student of Class XI brought laurels to MM International School, Sadopur, in Ambala by bagging two gold medals in the Indo-Nepal Roller Skate Championship organised by the Nepal Roller Skates Association held in Nepal. The school principal congratulated him and his family for his success.Debate competitionKaithal: A debate competition was organised by the department of physics at RKSD College, Kaithal. A total of 14 students gave their seminars on subjects such as online education v/s traditional education, nuclear bomb disaster v/s opportunity, pros and cons of technology and social media etc. Puneet from BSc III came first, Arusi and Tarsem bagged second positions and Muskan and Ravi secured third positions. All winners were felicitated by principal Sanjay Goyal.‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’Kurukshetra: Haryana Education and Tourism Minister Kanwar Pal said every student should work for the society after getting education, so that India becomes self-reliant. Children should have the ability to do not just one but at least two or three jobs so that they can contribute in nation building when the time comes. Along with education, emphasis should be laid on character building of the students as per the new education policy. He was speaking as chief guest at the conclusion of a seven-day National Integration Camp organised by the National service planning cell of Kurukshetra University on the theme of 'self-reliant India' under the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav on Wednesday.Audio project for studentsFaridabad: The placement cell of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, recently conducted a 10-day 'Audio project' for students of BBA, BCAM, BCom, BCA, BSc and BA to generate simulated content for machine training. Dr Krishankant Gupta, principal, said such events needed to be conducted regularly for the practical experience of the students. As many as 150 students took part in the project. The company selected 60 students from each stream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/indira-gandhi-university-student-wins-gold-in-yoga-342556
25-11-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||In Faridabad, road project worth Rs29-cr waiting for approval||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 24The Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority, (FMDA) which came into existence two years ago, is yet to start the construction of some of the important roads in the city lying in a dilapidated condition. A project worth Rs 29 crore submitted by the FMDA is awaiting approval, it is learnt.“The FMDA which had been allotted the construction of three major roads had prepared the proposal and submitted to the higher authorities about one and half months ago. It is yet to get the approval,” said sources in the district administration. It is added that while the move to take over the construction of the roads identified as dividing road of Sectors11-12, Sectors15-16 and the Vyapar Mandal road in the NIT area, had been decided at the FMDA meeting couple of months ago. The total length of these roads is 4,625 metres (4.6km). This is the first time that the FMDA has announced plans to rebuild some roads lying in a dilapidated condition. Formed in 2019, the FMDA has also announced plans to take over some of the prominent assets of the departments such as the HSVP, HSIIDC, Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) and sports.Proposal submitted one and half mths agoThe FMDA which had been allotted the construction of three major roads had prepared the proposal and submitted to the higher authorities about one and half months ago.It is yet to get the approval. —Sources in district administrationNo need for FMDA if things move slowlyWhat is the need of an agency like the FMDA if things move so slowly. —SK Sharma, A social activistWwork to begin after approval grantedThe road project is expected to start as soon as the approval is granted. —Senior official,  FMDAVishnu Goel, a resident, said the road repair work had been going on at a snail’s pace and it was a pity that basic amenities projects had been delayed. “What is the need of an agency like the FMDA if things move so slowly,” asks SK Sharma, a social activist. Claiming that multiplicity of agencies may hamper work, he said there was a dire need to make development work transparent and time bound.“The FMDA has already taken over the functioning of six Ranney wells from the Municipal Corporation to look after the bulk supply of drinking water,” said a senior official of the FMDA, who added that the road project was expected to start as soon as the approval was granted. All roads (30-metre wide or more), sewage treatment plants and properties such as cricket stadium, city bus service are expected to come under the FMDA purview.While the focus of the FMDA was a comprehensive and integrated development based on the Master plan, it would be authorised to issue licenses and CLUs for projects locally, it is added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-faridabad-road-project-worth-rs29-cr-waiting-for-approval-342560
25-11-2021||---||Post tie, Sumer Ahlawat, Kulwant Malik to share tenure of president of MDU Non-Teaching Employees’ Association||Rohtak, November 24Two candidates, who were locked in a tie by securing 277 votes each in the annual polls held yesterday, will now share the tenure of the president of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) Non-Teaching Employees’ Association for six months each as the Returning Officer (RO) ,Rahul Rishi, today decided to give both — Sumer Ahlawat and Kulwant Malik — a chance to work on the top post on a rotation basis instead of declaring any of them winner in the election.Sources said the RO held a meeting with both candidates and their supporters at the Registrar office at the university in the morning. He invited suggestions from the candidates to find out an amicable formula to declare the winner. Both candidates then collectively agreed on a six-month term each for serving as the president stating that they didn’t want to see any of them losing the election by adopting a lucky draw system.“Since both candidates were happy to get six-month terms each, hence I asked them to decide, who will serve first as the president. Thereafter, they mutually consented on giving the first term to Sumer Ahlawat upto May 10, 2022 while Malik will hold the position from May 11 to October 31, 2022,” said the RO, adding that they have also been advised to make a provision in the association’s constitution to declare the winner if two candidates were locked in a tie on any post in the polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-tie-sumer-ahlawat-kulwant-malik-to-share-tenure-of-president-of-mdu-non-teaching-employees-association-342562
25-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Three caught stealing from  Gurugram  shop||Gurugram, November 24Three thieves were caught on the spot while trying to barge into a shop and beaten up by the people. Later, all three were handed over to the police. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 5 police station and the police recovered a pistol, knife and cartridges from their possession.According to the complaint filed by Khalid, originally a resident of Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh, his blanket shop is in front of Prince Vatika in Sector 5. On Monday night, he was sleeping in his shop.“There was noise in the shop at one 1 am. I saw three thieves were stealing money from the shop. My colleagues Adil, Rashid and Tasleem were also sleeping with me, so I woke them up. Once they saw us they began running away but we raised the alarm and finally caught them and the police was called”, Khalid told the police.After thrashing the thieves, they informed the police. The police reached the spot and took all three accused into custody. They were identified as Bhura Malik, Priyanshu and Vijay. A pistol, live cartridges and a knife has been recovered from their possession.The police said an FIR hadbeen registered and the accused has been arrested. Now, the police are questioning the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-caught-stealing-from-gurugram-shop-342564
25-11-2021||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC begins drive to catch stray cattle||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, November 24In a relief to commuters and residents, the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ), has begun a drive to catch stray cattle.On the first day of the drive, a team constituted on the direction of Ajay Singh Tomar, Municipal Commissioner of MCYJ, caught 10 stray cattle mainly cows from the Buria Chowk area of Jagadhri today and left them in the gaushala of Jagadhri.The stray animals are turning into a source of inconvenience and danger as it is common to find herds of these wandering on roads, residential areas, grain markets and other places in Yamunanagar and Jagadhri.Chief Sanitary Inspector Harjeet Singh said this drive was started under the road safety measures.He said this drive would continue in the future also to solve the problem of stray cattle.According to information, the authorities of the MCYJ were getting complaints from residents about the problems being faced by them due to stray cattle.“There is no end to stray cattle menace in Yamunanagar and Jagadhri. Stray cattle, including cows, calves and bulls can be easily seen on road sides, market places and residential areas foraging on vegetable and fruit wastes,” said Manga Ram, a resident of Saraswati Colony, Jagadhri.He said the stray animals along the busy roads caused accidents every day, particularly at night, mostly involving two-wheelers.“Farmers and dairy owners abandon their cows and buffaloes once they stop producing milk. Therefore, the number of stray cattle has increased tremendously in the past some years. These cattle roam around the city leading to traffic jams and accidents,” said Manga Ram.Deepak Kumar of the ITI area of Yamunanagar said the authorities of MCYJ had totally failed to solve the problem of stray cattle.“The MCYJ authorities should start a regular drive to make the twin cities stray cattle free,” said Deepak Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-mc-begins-drive-to-catch-stray-cattle-342565
25-11-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Man held with illegal pistol||A team of the CIA-II of the Yamunanagar police has arrested a man and recovered an illegal country-made pistol from his possession.The accused has been identified as Vikrant, alias Bagga, of Old Hamida Colony of Yamunanagar. Chamkaur Singh, a police spokesperson, said the accused was arrested and was produced in a Jagadhri court, from where he was sent to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-man-held-with-illegal-pistol-342566
25-11-2021||Palwal||Widow abducted, raped in Palwal||The police have registered a case in connection with an incident of abduction and rape of a widow. No arrest has been made so far.According to the police complaint, the victim, aged about 30 years, was not only abducted but raped by some unidentified persons after holding her hostage for more than 12 hours. The incident took place on the intervening night of November 20 and 21, when she accompanied two youths who contacted her to buy her house lying vacant in a village.The victim, who works with a private company and resides in the city, told the police that two youths came to her house around 7 pm on Saturday. The youths then asked the woman to accompany them immediately if she wanted to make a deal after which she went with the duo on a motorcycle. On the way, the accused made her unconscious and took her to a house in Hodal, where she was sexually assaulted. The victim was also tortured by burning cigarettes and candles after she protested and threatened to lodge a complaint, it is claimed. The victim, who managed to escape from the spot on Sunday night, reached her home and revealed the matter to her kin. The complaint was lodged on Tuesday and a police official claimed a probe had been launched and the culprits were likely to be arrested soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/widow-abducted-raped-in-palwal-342567
25-11-2021||Ambala has improved its position and rank from 120th to 90th which is a very good progress. However||For Ambala, it is still a long  way to go||Monkey menace continues in KarnalMonkey menace continues in Karnal leading to the rise in incidents of attack by monkeys on residents, especially children. Monkey-bite cases are reported daily in the city. Monkeys can be seen in everywhere. The Karnal Municipal Corporation should take action to control the menace. —Sunil Arora, KarnalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/for-ambala-it-is-still-a-long-way-to-go-342572
25-11-2021||Ravinder Saini and Mukesh Tandon||Numbers swell at Tikri, Singhu for farmers' stir anniversary||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar/Sonepat, November 24Farmers from Punjab have started returning to Tikri and Singhu borders to mark the anniversary of their protest on November 26. Hundreds of them, including women, arrived on Wednesday, some carrying sweets to express happiness over the repeal of the contentious farm laws.Karnail Singh, who came from Sangrur, was hopeful that the PM would meet their other demands too. “We have set up three committees to make arrangement for food,” said Pargat Singh, general secretary, BKU (Rajewal). He said since most farmers had sown wheat by now, they expected a large gathering by November 26. Another BKU leader Purushottam Singh Gill said a majority of protesters who had arrived here were from Moga, Bathinda, Faridkot, Sangrur and Amritsar etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/numbers-swell-at-tikri-singhu-for-farmers-stir-anniversary-342429
25-11-2021||Chandigarh||Petition in HC challenges Haryana quota law providing 75% reservation to those domiciled in state||Haryana government’s law providing 75 per cent reservation in industries to the domiciles of the State has come under the judicial scanner. A petition was on Wednesday filed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court challenging the “Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020”.The government earlier this month notified the law, which provided 75 per cent reservation for local youth in private sector jobs that offered a monthly salary of less than Rs 30,000 from January 15, 2022. It covered private companies, societies, trusts, and partnership firms in the State, as per a notification issued by the Haryana government.In its petition, Gurgaon Industrial Association through its representative JN Mangla submitted that the impugned Act dated March 2 and further notification dated November 6 was against the provisions of the Constitution and also against the basic principle of meritocracy that acted as the foundation for businesses to grow and remain competitive.The petitioner submitted the Haryana government wanted to create reservations in the private sector by introducing a policy of “Son of Soils”, which was an infringement of the constitutional rights of the employers. Elaborating, the petitioner stated private-sector jobs were purely based on the skills and analytical blend of mind of the employees who were citizens of India having constitutional rights on the basis of their education to do jobs in any part of India.“The act of the respondent forcing the employers to employ local candidates in private sector vide this bill impugned Act is the violation of the federal structure framed by the Constitution of India, whereby Government cannot act contrary to the public interest and cannot benefit one class,” it was added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/petition-in-hc-challenges-haryana-quota-law-providing-75-reservation-to-those-domiciled-in-state-342358
