26-11-2021||Roads in the city that were lying damaged for the past several months have not shown good results despite the repair work taken up recently. Though the patchwork has been done on many roads||Poor quality material used to repair roads in Faridabad||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-quality-material-used-to-repair-roads-in-faridabad-342962
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Schools to reopen from Dec 1 with full capacity||IAS officer gets new postingChandigarh: The state government has appointed Vijay Singh Dahiya, Director General, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, as Member Secretary, Kuruksherta Development Board, in place of the Secretary to Governor in addition to his present duties with immediate effect. TNSWoman found dead in Hisar, broter detainedHisar: A 32-year-old woman, Neelu Sikka, was found dead at her house in Sector 14 on Wednesday night. The police said a property dispute with her brother might be a reason behind the crime. She was found lying unconscious at her house. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-to-reopen-from-dec-1-with-full-capacity-342959
26-11-2021||Karnal||Additional Secretary visits NDRI||Tributes paid to Guru Teg BahadurRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) organised a function on 'The life of Guru Teg Bahadur' to pay tribute to him for his supreme sacrifice to protect humanity and Indians from tyranny of the then rulers. Jitender Singh Shanti, Padma Shri recipient and president, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Seva Dal was the chief guest while Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar presided over the function. Portraits of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and Rajguru were also unveiled on the occasion.Cleanliness drive conductedAmbala: The MMIM organised an awareness campaign on cleanliness at Sarakpur village. The main purpose of this programme was to spread awareness among villagers on the significance of cleanliness and its benefits. The students of MBA, BBA and BCom enthusiastically participated in it. Even teachers were the essential part of it. As many as 50 students motivated the villagers to clean the drainage system of the village, aiming towards fulfilling Mahatma Gandhi's vision of clean India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/additional-secretary-visits-ndri-342957
26-11-2021||---||Man found dead near NH-44||Karnal, November 25A 34-year-old man, who went missing on Wednesday evening, was found dead in the fields near Taraori on NH-44.The deceased has been identified as Amandeep Singh, a resident of Nilokheri. He was working in a pharmaceutical company in Karnal.The deceased’s family has alleged that Amandeep was murdered as his body bore injury marks.The family said he left office for home at around 7.30 pm on Wednesday, but did not return home, adding that he did not have enmity with anyone.A case has been registered under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-found-dead-near-nh-44-342954
26-11-2021||---||Medical officer suspended for 'misbehaving' with woman||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 25The Principal Medical Officer (PMO) of Sonepat General Hospital has been suspended for allegedly misbehaving with a woman medical official posted in the hospital.A case has been registered against the PMO in Sector 27 police station under Sections 354A and 354D of the IPC.Investigation officer HC Suraina said the accused was arrested and produced in court on November 21, from where he was released on bail.The complainant said the the accused had misbehaved with her six months ago. Following the complaint, an inquiry committee has been constituted.During the period of suspension, the headquarters of the PMO has been fixed at the office of the Director General, Health Services of Haryana in Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/medical-officer-suspended-for-misbehaving-with-woman-342951
26-11-2021||Yamunanagar||Fire breaks out at scrap godown in Yamunanagar, 4 die||A man and his three children allegedly died due to burn injuries and suffocation in Yamunanagar today.The incident took place at about 2 am when a fire broke out in a scrap godown in City Centre. The family was trapped in their rented room above the scrap godown.The deceased have been identified as Nayamudin (37), his daughter Fiza (12), his sons Chand (8) and Rehan (3). The man was working as a labourer in a plywood factory in Damla village.The deceased’s wife, Naseema (32), also suffered burn injuries and was admitted at the trauma centre here.On the complaint of the brother of the deceased, a case was registered against the owner of the godown, Naveen, under Sections 338, 427, 429, 304-A at city police station, Yamunanagar.The complainant said several families were living on rent in the quarters above the godown.According to the police, 22 persons lived in eight rooms above the godown. The police, and Haryana Fire and Emergency Services Department managed to rescue 17 persons. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-breaks-out-at-scrap-godown-4-die-342949
26-11-2021||---||CM Khattar first to enrol for Japanese course at Kurukshetra university||Kurukshetra, November 25CM Manohar Lal has become the first person to enrol for a three-month online basic certificate course in Japanese culture and language at Kurukshetra University.The CM said he had a passion for learning foreign languages from the very beginning, so he had enrolled in the Japanese language course started by Kurukshetra University.Kurukshetra University Vice-Chancellor Som Nath Sachdeva said the Chief Minister had become the first student of the Japanese language course. He said it was a matter of pride for the university. His presence as a student will be a great motivation to the entire teaching and student fraternity of the university.The KU VC, Principal Secretary to CM V Umashankar, advisors to CM Pawan Kumar and Yogender Choudhary, and Foreign Cooperation DG Anant Pandey also enrolled for the course.Faculty of Arts and Languages Dean and Department of Foreign Languages Chairperson Prof Brajesh Sawhney said the basic course would cover Japanese history, life values, basics of Japanese writing and pronunciation, vocabulary, basic greetings used in daily life and business meetings.Prof Sawhney said the online programme is tailored specifically to the need of government representatives so that collaborations in the field of business, economy, research and education can be established between India and Japan. Kurukshetra University has also started a one-year online certificate course in Japanese language from the session 2021-22, which will help stdudents secure jobs in India and abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-first-to-enrol-for-japanese-course-at-kshetra-university-342947
26-11-2021||---||University staff meet Haryana Principal Secy over recruitment by HPSC||Hisar, November 25A meeting of the All-Haryana Universities Employees Federation (AHUEF) was held with the Principal Secretary of the Higher Education Department, Anand Mohan Sharan, in Chandigarh today. The issues discussed at the meeting were recruitment in the universities by the HPSC and the state government’s transfer policy of the university employees.The meeting was called to discuss the demands of all universities of Haryana. The state president of the AHUEF Dayanad Soni said after the meeting that the Principal Secretary had assured the federation that the transfer policy would not be applicable in any university of Haryana and there would be no tampering with the line of promotion in any university.Soni said regarding the recruitment in the universities, the Principal Secretary told them that the demand of the AHUEF was under consideration of the government. Soni said that the federation registered its protest to the Principal Secretary while demanding that the recruitment should be done by the respective universities itself.The state president of the Sarva Employees Union, Subhash Lamba, said the AHUEF had decided that all the non-teaching staff of all universities of Haryana stood in solidarity with the Federation of University Teaching Associations (FUTA) and would wear black badges on November 26 at work. The FUTA has also protested the Haryana government’s move to make recruitment in the universities through the HPSC while withdrawing the power of appointments from the VCs.Lamba said the Sarv Karamchari Sangh objected to the recruitment process taken by the Haryana Government from the universities and gave full support to the university federations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/university-staff-meet-principal-secy-over-recruitment-by-hpsc-342943
26-11-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana records hike in infant mortality rate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25Haryana has the dubious distinction of being among the four states (Tripura, Meghalaya and Manipur being the other three) which have registered an increase in the infant mortality rate (IMR) in the past five years.Though the increase is marginal from 32.8 to 33.3 (NFHS-4 in 2015-16) per 1,000 live births, the spike is a cause for concern for a progressive state like Haryana whose Health Minister Anil Vij had been quite proactive in launching new projects and schemes.The state fares poorly as compared to its immediate neighbours on the IMR front, data from the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) indicated.Haryana’s neighbouring states have registered significant decline in the IMR. The IMR in Punjab has come down to 28 from 29.2 and in Delhi it has decreased to 24.5 from 31.2. The IMR in Rajasthan has come down to 30.3 from 41.3 and the ratio in Himachal Pradesh is down to 25.6 from 34.3 as compared to the NFHS-4. At all-India front, the IMR has come down from 40.7 to 35.2.Meanwhile, the nutritional status of the children is also not good with 27.5 per cent of the children under the age of five years “stunted” (height for age) and 11.5 per cent children were “stunted” as far as weight-for height was concerned.The survey said 60.6 per cent of the women in the age group of 15-49 were anaemic while about 19 per cent men were anaemic in the same age bracket. Besides, 62.3 per cent women in the age group of 15-19 were anaemic.As per data, 33.1 per cent of the women (15-49 years) and 28.3 per cent men are obese. The survey found that 25 per cent of men and 21 per cent of the women are hypertensive.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar claimed that a 57-point rise in the sex-ratio at birth in the past five years (females per 1,000 males) for infant girls in Haryana as per the NFHS-5 reflected the effective implementation of the “Beti, Bachao, Beti, Padhao Yojana”. The gender ratio at birth was 836 as per NFHS-4 which has now increased to 893 during the recent NFHS-5, he added. HIGHLIGHTS of NFHS surveyNeighbouring states register decline||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-hike-in-infant-mortality-rate-342942
26-11-2021||Karnal||11 properties sealed for not paying tax in Karnal||In a major crackdown on property tax defaulters, the tax branch of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC), on Thursday sealed 11 properties, including six shops in Super Mall, building of K3C Mall, a banquet hall and others, for not depositing their property tax. They have to pay a tax to the tune of Rs 2 crore.As per the authorities, more properties will also be sealed in the coming days. The KMC has already issued notices to these property owners a few days ago, but when nobody came to clear their dues, the KMC initiated this process, said Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-properties-sealed-for-not-paying-tax-342941
26-11-2021||---||Gurugram: Sarmathla to come up as model village||Sanjay YadavGurugram, November 25In line with the government’s CSR (corporate social responsibility) plans, a local company has adopted Sarmathla village to transform it into a model village. The village will be under CCTV surveillance and have state-of-the-art infrastructure.An exercise has begun to make Sarmathla village into a model village. The government school and village bus stand will be renovated with corporate social responsibility funds. After this, the entire village will be equipped with CCTV cameras. Those coming to the village will be monitored through these cameras by the panchayat. This work will be done in two phases . Apart from maintaining cleanliness, work will also be done to improve the future of children studying in the village. After seeing the abilities of the children, they will be helped in choosing their careers.As per the plan, the CCTV cameras will be installed in all lanes and main roads inside the village and the streets and roads will have solar streetlights.The private company will renovate the school of the village with the corporate social responsibility fund. A big hall will be built on the school premises and fencing will also be done around the school. The rooms will be prepared on the lines of private schools. Apart from this, the bus stand in the village will be renovated.“The private company will spend from its CSR fund to make Sarmathla a model village. To get the work done quickly, it will be divided into phases. In the first phase, the company will renovate government school and the bus stand. During the second phase, CCTV cameras will be installed,” said Gaurav Singh, regional head of the Haryana CSR Advisory Board.Work in two phasesTo get the work done quickly, it will be divided into phases. In the first phase, the company will renovate government school and the bus stand. During the second phase, CCTV cameras will be installed in the village. Gaurav Singh, regional head of the Haryana CSR advisory board.Roads to have solar streetlights||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sarmathla-to-come-up-as-model-village-342940
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Plea against Haryana Government’s law providing quota for locals to come up on Dec 9||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today fixed December 9 for hearing plea against the Haryana Government’s law providing 75 per cent reservation in industries to the domiciles of the state.The hearing on the petition, placed before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, was adjourned after the counsel for the petitioner prayed for a short accommodation to amend the memo of parties. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plea-against-quota-for-locals-to-come-up-on-dec-9-342939
26-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Keep judicial propriety in mind while on duty: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25Just over a month after explanation was sought from Sirsa Additional District and Sessions Judge on extending interim bail granted by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in a pending matter, Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi made it clear that the judicial propriety/jurisdiction was required to be kept in mind while discharging judicial functions in future.Justice Sethi asserted that the explanation of the presiding officer concerned, in pursuance to an order passed on October 12, had been received. Certain justifications were given for extending the interim bail granted by the High Court, including order passed by a Division Bench in a PIL on court proceedings in Covid times.Justice Sethi added the question for consideration was whether the trial court could extend interim bail granted by the High Court in the present proceedings. “Even if any order passed by the Division Bench entitles the extension of the interim bail to the petitioner, the appropriate order can only be passed by this court, especially once the present proceedings were still pending consideration before this court.Giving the benefit of the doubt, Justice Sethi termed the presiding officer’s act as a “judgment of error” before ruling that further orders were not being passed by the court. “But it is expected that in future while discharging the judicial functions, the judicial propriety/jurisdiction is kept in mind.”Taking up a petition, Justice Sethi had noticed that the HC granted interim bail to the petitioner till May 13. The order made it clear that orders on his prayer for regular bail would be passed on May 17 after considering his conduct and progress in the trial, subject to his surrendering by May 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/keep-judicial-propriety-in-mind-while-on-duty-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-342938
26-11-2021||---||AAP threatens to gherao Haryana Vidhan Sabha||Chandigarh, November 25Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) leader Naveen Jaihind today threatened to gherao the Haryana Vidhan Sabha during the forthcoming winter session if impartial probe was not conducted into the alleged job scam in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC).Jaihind demanded a detailed examination of the telephone calls of Anil Dagar, HPSC Deputy Secretary, who was recently nabbed by the State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) on the charges of accepting cash in lieu of providing jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-threatens-to-gherao-house-342937
26-11-2021||---||Haryana Assembly session from Dec 17||Chandigarh, November 25The winter session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha will begin on December 17 and continue till December 21.Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar gave this information at a press briefing after the Cabinet meeting, which was presided over by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The minister said the date fixed by the Cabinet for the upcoming session would be sent to the Haryana Governor for approval. After approval, a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee of the Vidhan Sabha would be held to finalise the details, including the duration of the session, he added.The minister said the Cabinet meeting approved framing of Group-B Service Rules 2021 of the Haryana Transport Department. For the governance of the service conditions of the employees of the Transport Department and for bringing efficiency and reforms to meet the needs of this department, effective and progressive service rules were the need of the hour. Accordingly, the department had drafted comprehensive service rules for Group B employees, he said.Gujjar said while adopting zero-tolerance towards corruption, the state government was providing jobs only on merit basis. Those involved in corrupt practices would never be spared at any cost, he asserted. “The previous governments may not have taken any action against those involved in corruption in jobs, but the present government is taking strict action against such people,” he added.Service rulesCabinet meeting nod to framing of Group-B Service Rules of Transport Department||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-assembly-session-from-dec-17-342936
26-11-2021||Chandigarh||Congress alleges HPSC scam accused enjoying CM's tutelage||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala today alleged that CM Manohar Lal Khattar had compromised the investigation in the job “scam” where Deputy Secretary of the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) Anil Nagar was the main accused.Holding a press conference, he said Khattar gave a sound byte to the press that no money was recovered from the HPSC office recently and played the video concerned of the CM. He claimed that the Vigilance Bureau had claimed otherwise before the court.He questioned, “Why did Chief Minister Khattar mislead by telling lies, whom he saved!” “The whole government has been working in tandem to cover up the whole issue in some way or the other. So much so, the main culprits have been released from the police custody and are enjoying sound sleep in judicial custody.”He added, “At this pace, the main accused will also be out on bail very soon.”He questioned, “How and why the police remand of the main accused Anil Nagar, Ashwini Sharma, and Naveen were rejected in such a huge ‘Mahavyapam’ scam?”“Neither any recovery has been made from Anil Nagar’s maternal uncle Ramkishan’s house in village Rithal, Rohtak, nor his residence at Rohtak. Also, his house in Sector 17, Panchkula, was not searched. Neither anything was recovered from Ashwini Sharma’s house in Sonepat nor from Jasbir Singh Malik’s agency, Safedot e-solutions Pvt Ltd, in Sector 11, Panchkula.”He added, “Neither any investigation nor recovery was made from the HSSC nor any investigation or recovery was made from the Haryana Board of School Education in respect of the HTET examination.” “The conspiracy to cover up the Mahavyapam job sales scam is clear by limiting it to only 14 OMR sheets of dental surgeons and 22 OMR sheets of the HCS.”He also pointed out the possibility of fraud in sub-inspector recruitment and HTET exams. “We demand that a sitting high court judge should look into the job fraud cases,” he said. — TNSNotices to 38 HCS officers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-alleges-hpsc-scam-accused-enjoying-cms-tutelage-342935
26-11-2021||---||Dental Surgeons exam scam: Culprits will be brought to book, says Haryana Govt||Chandigarh, November 25The state government issued a press statement that no stone would be left unturned to bring all culprits to book.“On the receipt of a complaint regarding the manipulation of marks of candidates in the written examination for the recruitment of Dental Surgeons, conducted by the Haryana Public Service Commission on September 26, 2021, the Haryana State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) registered a case on November 17, 2021, and conducted a raid in which one Naveen Kumar, a resident of Bhiwani district, was caught red handed from a public parking in Sector 5, Panchkula, while accepting Rs 20 lakh,” said the statement.Based on Naveen Kumar’s confession, the SVB officials further arrested Ashwani Sharma, a resident of Jhajjar district, and seized Rs 1,07,97,000 during the search of his house at his village in Jhajjar.The statement added that on being questioned, the accused Ashwani Sharma confessed that the money recovered from his house was to be paid to Anil Nagar, HCS officer, posted as Deputy Secretary in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC).“In order to verify this, he was made to contact Anil Nagar, HCS while in custody and was asked by Nagar to hand over the money to him in his office, whereupon the investigating team arrested Anil Nagar while accepting the bribe of Rs 1,07,97,000 from Ashwani Sharma.”The statement added, “This amount had originally been recovered from the house of accused Ashwani Sharma in Jamalpur village, Jhajjar. Therefore, doubts being raised by certain sections regarding recovery in the case have no basis.”He further said following the arrest of the accused, they were produced in the court and taken on police remand.Fair probe onThe investigation is proceeding in a fair and impartial manner strictly as per the law with a view to successfully prosecuting the offenders. Official spokesman||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-culprits-will-be-brought-to-book-342934
26-11-2021||---||Gurnam Singh Charuni: Mission Punjab will be model for nation||Ambala, November 25The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh today said that through “Mission Punjab”, farmers will try to present a model before the nation so that other states could demand a similar model in the entire nation in the 2024 elections.Gurnam was in Ambala to address a Samvidhan, Desh, Kisan, Mazdoor Bachao Sammelan organised by Samvidhan Bachao Morcha and the Bhartiya Kisan Union in Ambala City.Gurnam said, “Those who have the power of vote should rule and not those who have the power of money. We will form a new party and exhort voters to support it. This system of money and power-driven politics needs an overhaul now. I will not contest the elections in Punjab, but will be connecting people across the state and they will contest the election. We want to present a model if farmers come to power and they make pro-people policies so that the entire nation demands the Punjab model in 2024. Elections are the last option before us.”The government has not made any announcement regarding the MSP, compensation for the kin of farmers who have sacrificied their lives, and FIRs registered against the farmers. The government should accept the pending demands as well at the earliest, the farm leader said.He also said that the labourers, farmers and Dalits, all are being exploited and we blame each other but the fact is that the entire country is being looted by a few corporate houses.Poll last optionI will not contest the elections in Punjab, but will be connecting people across the state and they will contest the election. Elections are the last option before us. Gurnam Singh, BKU (Charuni) chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/charuni-mission-punjab-will-be-model-for-nation-342933
26-11-2021||Deepender Deswal||When farmers from Punjab, Haryana showed solidarity||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 25Farmers from Haryana, especially Hisar, Jind, Sirsa and Bhiwani districts, have left no stone unturned to make the farmers’ agitation a success during the past year. People from the rural belt in these districts ensured regular and uninterrupted supply of manpower and resources required to get the agitation going at the Delhi borders.As farmers from Sangrur, Moga and Mansa districts of Punjab started marching toward the national capital last year, they had to pass through Haryana via Sirsa and Tohana to reach Rohtak-Delhi on national highway 9 and from Data Singhwala border in Jind district.Though the Haryana Government took Haryana farmer leaders in custody as a precautionary measure and raised roadblocks for them on these three routes, farmers from Punjab received immense support from the farmers and people of the state along these routes.Ramraji Dhull, a BKU leader from Jind who was present at Data Singhwala village on Jind-Sangrur border at that time, recalled that despite the massive deployment of police forces, there was no stopping for the tractor-trolleys of Punjab farmers.“They were filled with enthusiasm and determination. We were taken by surprise by their steely nerves. As the state government blocked the roads, farmers gave way to their tractors from their fields which had their standing crops of mustard and wheat,” he stated. Kapoor Singh, a farmer from Kirtan village in Hisar district, has devoted most of his time at Tikri in the past year.En route to Tikri, one dies in mishapSonepat: A 50-year-old farmer died in an accident while another 75-year-old farmer sustained injuries in a mishap near Mahra village on Gohana-Rohtak road on Wednesday night. A group of farmers in a tractor-trailer was on the way to Tikri border||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/when-farmers-from-punjab-haryana-showed-solidarity-342922
26-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||Stage set to mark 1st anniv of farmer's stir||Mukesh TandonTribune News ServiceJhajjar/Sonepat, Nov 25The stage is set to mark the first anniversary of the farmers’ protest at Tikri and Singhu. The management committees are finalising preparations for the stay and food for those coming to become a part of the celebrations.Farmers from Punjab reached the borders today. Many were seen raising slogans of ‘Kisan Ekta Jindabad’. “It is for the first time in the past year that celebrations at Tikri will go all day long. The function has been divided into two phases. Farm leaders will pay tribute to the martyrs and share their experiences of the protest in the first half of the celebrations, while Punjabi artists, namely Babbu Maan, Kanwar Grewal, Harif Cheema and others, will enthral farmers with their performance in the second half,” said Pargat Singh, general secretary, BKU (Rajewal).He said farmers had been arriving at borders from Punjab in large numbers since Wednesday and langar was being organised at more than 20 places at Tikri.“Though some agricultural work is still pending in villages, I could not stop myself from participating in the much-awaited first anniversary of the protest,” said Gurchant Singh of Ferozepur.The BKU (Ugrahan), which runs a separate stage at the border, has also decked up an open space of around eight acres near Naya Gaon Chowk with flags to organise a rally to mark the occasion.“A large number of famers will be attending the rally tomorrow to celebrate the anniversary,” said a leader of the BKU (Ugrahan).Event to take place in two phasesIt is for the first time in the past year that celebrations at Tikri will go all day long. The function has been divided into two phases. Farm leaders will pay tribute to the martyrs and share their experiences of the protest in the first half of the celebrations. — Pargat Singh, general secretary, BKU (Rajewal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stage-set-to-mark-1st-anniv-of-farmers-stir-342913
