27-11-2021||---||Haryana allows gathering exceeding 500 in open spaces||Chandigarh, November 27Haryana government on Saturday allowed gatherings in open spaces exceeding 500 persons, subject to strict observance of Covid-19 appropriate behavioural norms and social distancing.However, in indoor spaces, gatherings of up to 50 per cent of the hall capacity are allowed with a ceiling of maximum of 200 persons, said the order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan.Meanwhile, the state extended the lockdown with relaxations from November 28 till December 31.Earlier, the government had allowed the restaurants, bars, gyms, spas and club houses or restaurants of golf courses to open to their full capacity with adherence to Covid norms.Cinema halls, both in malls and standalone, have been allowed to open to their full capacity.Also, full residential varsities in the state are directed to plan re-opening their campuses for physical classes as per their respective semester schedules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-allows-gathering-exceeding-500-in-open-spaces-343499
27-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||Weather vagaries failed to dampen protesters? spirits||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 26Several tractor-trailers were transformed into rooms to brave the bone-chilling cold. Later, they shifted to huts, raised structures and dug up borewells to cater to the daily needs when summer wreaked havoc.They spent many sleepless nights when high-velocity winds uprooted their huts and rainwater entered their tents during monsoon. But they did not lose heart and stayed put at the Tikri and Singhu borders with the sole intention of pressuring the Centre to repeal the three farm laws.Do-or-die battleWe spent sleepless nights draining out water and protecting our belongings, but adversity failed to lower our morale as we’re here for a do-or-die battle. —Gurchant, FarmerThis is the story of struggle and success of farmers who braved the odds for a year for the success they are celebrating now. They occupied several km-long stretches at the Delhi borders when the police didn’t let them enter the national capital last year. They’ve since been camping there. “It was not easy to adjust to these conditions, but then we had come with the resolve that we would not return if the government doesn’t fulfil our demands. Winter was approaching when we camped at Tikri and Singhu a year ago. We had no option but to turn tractors into makeshift rooms to protect us from cold,” says Pargat Singh, general secretary, BKU (Rajewal).He said many farmers died amid severe cold conditions, but they continued to protest with the same enthusiasm. “During summer, new problems emerged such as water crisis, long power cuts and breeding of mosquitoes.”“We had to dig borewells and install RO systems to address the drinking water issue. Solar plates were used to get power, while a lot of money was spent on erecting tents, many of which caught fire at night, forcing us to keep vigil to ward off anti-social elements.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/weather-vagaries-failed-to-dampen-protesters-spirits-343276
27-11-2021||New Delhi||Khattar calls on PM Modi||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday and discussed several issues relating to the state.After meeting Modi, Khattar told reporters that the PM enquired about the farmers’ protest and was concerned about them. “He was desirous of farmers returning to their homes,” he added.Khattar said Modi also enquired about pollution and farm fires and ameliorative measures taken. Khattar informed Modi of the state’s impetus to “swachhta”. To which, the PM suggested that the focus of “swachhta” should also be laid in villages.Khattar also apprised Modi of the state’s implementation of the “Swamita” scheme and its plan to undertake the comprehensive mapping of land in the villages. Besides, he informed the PM of the several policy measures, including Auto Appeal System and Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivar Utthan Yojana. TNSInvites him for Gita MahotsavChandigarh: CM Manohar Lal Khattar paid a courtesy call on PM Narendra Modi at New Delhi on Friday and invited him for the International Gita Mahotsav to be held in Kurukshetra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-calls-on-pm-modi-343277
27-11-2021||---||Targeted, Jind traders to observe bandh on Dec 3||Hisar, November 26Traders have given a call for “Jind bandh” on December 3 in protest against the murder of a trader and demand of a ransom of Rs 10 lakh from another businessman in Jind town.The Haryana Pradesh Beopar Mandal (HPBM) held a meeting in Jind town today to stage a demonstration against the rising incidents of crime against the traders here and other parts of the state. Bajrang Dass Garg, president of the Haryana Pradesh Beopar Mandal, said the police was clueless about the murder of the trader, Shyam Sunder Bansal, who was killed by a group of assailants outside his residence two days ago. The incident was captured on the CCTV camera. In another incident, trader Nitin Goyal had got a ransom call of Rs 10 lakh from a gangster.To down shuttersIf the government fails to curb crime, the businessmen of Haryana will down shutters of their shops, establishments and factories and hand over the keys to the Chief Minister. —Mahavir Singh, President of traders’ body in jind districtPoor law & orderIt is a matter of concern for us and the government should take urgent measures to stop criminal incidents in Haryana. —Bajrang Dass Garg, President of the hpbmGarg said the incidents of crime indicated that the common people, especially traders, were not safe in the state. “There is a sense of insecurity among the people. The failure of the police in arresting the criminals indicates that the common people are not safe in Haryana while the culprits are having a field day”, he said.The traders’ body unanimously decided to observe a strike by keeping the markets closed in Jind on December 3. Garg said they would continue their agitation until the criminals involved in the murder and other crime incidents were arrested.Garg said the trade and industry sector would suffer a setback until the traders feel safe in Haryana. “It is a matter of concern for us and the government should take urgent measures to stop criminal incidents in Haryana”, he said.The traders during the meeting alleged that the government was responsible for the safety of life and goods of the traders and the general public at large. “If the government fails to curb crime, the businessmen of Haryana will down shutters of their shops, establishments and factories and hand over the keys to the Chief Minister”, said Mahavir Singh, president of traders’ body in Jind district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/targeted-jind-traders-to-observe-bandh-on-dec-3-343278
27-11-2021||Parveen Arora||With 285 dengue cases, Karnal sees highest spike in 10 years||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 26Already under intense pressure amid Covid-19 outbreak, healthcare workers are now in an overdrive after the number of dengue cases is rapidly rising in the district.As per the available data, the spike in the cases is the highest in the past one decade. As many as 285 cases and two deaths have been reported till Friday in the district in the current season against 93 cases last year. However, there was no death reported in 2020.These are those cases which have been reported in the government record, while there are scores of patients who are being treated at private hospitals.The data says the district had witnessed 72 cases in 2010, 1 case in 2011, 14 in 2012, 185 positive cases and 3 deaths in 2013, 3 cases in 2014, 1 death and 215 positive cases in 2015, 23 cases in 2016, 234 positive cases in 2017, 106 cases in 2018, 29 cases in 2019 and 93 cases in 2020.Out of the positive cases of this season, 148 are in Karnal block, 11 in Assandh, 20 in Gharaunda, 21 in Indri, 6 in Nilokheri, 31 in Kunjpura, 34 in Nissing, 10 in Taraori and four in Ballah.During inspection, the department has found larvae of adies mosquito in as many as 6,640 households and so far it has issued notices to 3,915 households.Local residents say the spread could be curtailed with the precautions being taken by the Health Department, but the government issues advisory only after the situation gets out of control. “Dengue can be controlled if the measures are taken timely by the department. People should also cooperate in checking the mosquito breeding,” said Munish Arya, a local resident.Civil Surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said no doubt this year the cases were highest in the past 10 years. “We are making efforts to control it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-285-dengue-cases-karnal-sees-highest-spike-in-10-years-343279
27-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Row over namaz again, group raises ?Jai Shri Ram? chants||Gurugram, November 26The row over namaz in the open continued this Friday as well. More than 100 people from villages of Mohammadpur Jharsa, Khandsa, Narsinghpur and Khatola reached the designated namaz site near the Sector 37 police station and conducted a havan in the memory of those killed on 26/11 to mark the 13th anniversary of the Mumbai terror attacks.The group chanted “Hanuman Chalisa” and raised slogans of “Jai Shri Ram” while namaz was conducted a few metre away amid heavy police deployment.Meanwhile, local Sikhs and Nihangs staged a protest against the proposal of the gurdwara committee allowing namaz in Gurdwara Singh Sabha, near a vegetable market. “Gurdwara is meant only for Gurbani and is no rental place for mass religious gatherings. We are surprised at the decision of the gurdwara committee head allowing Muslims to offer namaz. It’s totally against the gur-maryada. The committee head might have a personal reason for this, but we would not let this happen in the gurdwara at any cost,” said Sardar Ravi Ranjan of Gurmat Prachar Jatha Panth Khalsa.Meanwhile, members of the Muslim community also sought action against those disturbing their prayers. “They hold bhajan, kirtan and havan only on Friday at the time of namaz. They are taking law into their hands and it’s not right. We want action against them,” said a member of the Muslim community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/row-over-namaz-again-group-raises-jai-shri-ram-chants-343280
27-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||DHBVN filing plea unfortunate: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 26The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) Ltd for filing a regular appeal in a case involving just Rs 30,000. The Bench has asserted it was "unfortunate" that the appellant, a public sector undertaking, had decided to go in for a regular second appeal, when the total amount involved was Rs 30,000, which included penalty as well as the compounding charges.The Bench was hearing the appeal filed by the nigam against respondent Sandeep. As the matter came up for hearing, Justice Anil Kshetarpal of the High Court asserted both the courts below that had dealt with the matter earlier, had given concurrent findings against the appellant.Elaborating, Justice Kshetarpal asserted: "Both the courts after examining the evidence have concurrently found that while conducting search, the officials of the appellant-board did not follow the procedure as prescribed under Section 126 of the Electricity Act, 2003. Even, no opportunity of hearing was given to the plaintiff before issuing the impugned assessment order."The judgment assumes significance as the successive governments over the years have been claiming before various fora that the national litigation policy would help in streamlining the system.Among other things, the government, under the policy, identifies bottlenecks and ensures that appeals are not filed where the stakes are not high. The policy, in fact, aims at minimising government litigation, as the state is believed to be the biggest litigant. Once in place, the litigation policy is expected to reduce the pendency of cases drastically.As of now no less than 4,48,728 cases are pending before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Out of the total, as many as 53,057 are second appeals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dhbvn-filing-plea-unfortunate-hc-343281
27-11-2021||---||20% milk samples found adulterated in Karnal||Karnal, November 26Scientists of the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) here celebrated National Milk Day by conducting free adulteration test of the samples brought by the public.A camp was organised at the NDRI main gate, where the public was invited to get their milk samples tested. As many as 61 samples, comprising 40 of buffalo and 21 of cow, were tested and none was found containing urea, neutralisers, glucose, hydrogen peroxide, sucrose and maltodextrin detergent among others.However, 20 per cent samples were found to be in violation of the prescribed standards of the FSSAI with the percentage of fat and solid not fat (SNF) not being appropriate in 12 samples – comprising four of buffalo and eight of cow. As per the scientists, the fat and SNF should be above 5 per cent and 9 per cent, respectively, in buffalo milk, while 3.2 per cent and 8.3 per cent, respectively, in cow milk, the report said.Inaugurating the camp, Dr MS Chauhan, NDRI Director, said every year, India celebrates National Milk Day on November 26 on the birth anniversary of Dr Verghese Kurien, who was also known as the “Father of the White Revolution”.“Though India is the largest milk producer in the world, but its quality always remains in the news, owing to reports of the presence of adulterants,” he said, adding that over the past five years, the NDRI had developed rapid and convenient methods that were quite effective.Dr Dheer Singh, Joint Director (Research), however, said the camp was organised in collaboration with a startup company Delmos Research Private Limited.Meanwhile, on National Milk Day, the NDRI conducted a webinar on the “sustainable development in dairy sector — clean milk production”. Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) secretary and ICAR Director General, stressed upon the importance of the webinar’s theme and launched a mobile app named “MILKSAFECON” for clean milk production.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-milk-samples-found-adulterated-in-karnal-343282
27-11-2021||Karnal||Karnal girl chosen for national award||8 hockey players selected in KU teamYamunanagar: Principal of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said the inter-college hockey championship was organised at Kurukshetra University in which the college hockey team performed brilliantly and brought laurels to the college. He said eight players of the college hockey team have been selected for the Kurukshetra University team. The team in-charges Dr Praveen Kumar and Dr Anurag said the team was given a grand welcome on reaching the college.Awareness programme on drugsKarnal: Under the Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan (NMBA) of the Narcotics Control Bureau, an awareness programme was organised by the NSS units, NCC wings and sports committee of Dyal Singh College on the college premises with an aim to educate youth to cooperate in achieving the goal of a sustainable world free of drugs. Ashok Kumar from the Narcotics Bureau was the speaker.Two students get placementsHisar: Two students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, have been selected in the pool campus placement drive of Bangalore-based Happiest Mind Technology held at the MMU, Mulana. Prof Baldev Raj Kamboj, Vice-Chancellor and Prof. Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university, congratulated the selected students. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said 13 students from BTech CSE and IT 2022 passed out batch were part of the drive. After the online technical test followed by technical interviews, two students got selected.JC Bose team wins Kabaddi tourneyFaridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad organised a one-day inter-college kabaddi tournament. As many as 13 teams including University and its affiliated colleges participated in the tournament. Vice-Chancellor Raj Nehru and dean student welfare Prof. Lakhwinder Singh congratulated the winning team. In the tournament, NGF College Palwal secured the second position and Satyug Darshan College Faridabad and BS Anangpuria College Faridabad jointly secured the third position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-girl-chosen-for-natl-award-343283
27-11-2021||---||Tobacco firms luring schoolkids: Experts||Rohtak, November 26With a view to creating awareness about the ill-effects of tobacco consumption and discuss the measures required to save the young generation from its trap, the environment sustainability management (ESM) cell of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, organised a webinar and poster-making competition on tobacco control in collaboration with Delhi-based organisation Consumer Voice on Thursday.Rohtak Mayor Manmohan Goel, who was the chief guest on the occasion, pledged to take all steps to ensure proper enforcement of the tobacco-control laws, especially near educational institutions.Companies exploit loopholesIt has been found that the tobacco companies exploit loopholes in laws to advertise, market and sell products to the youth. —Amarjeet Singh, Adviser, consumer voiceDr Rita Kotwal, State Nodal Officer, (NTCP) Haryana, said it was alarming that even the children were getting lured towards tobacco consumption.Prof Rajesh Dhankar, the coordinator of the ESM cell, maintained that strict implementation of tobacco-control laws was necessary to prevent tobacco-addiction among children.Amarjeet Singh, adviser, Consumer Voice, made a presentation about their study on the sale of tobacco near the educational institutions.“It has been found that the tobacco companies exploit loopholes in laws to advertise, market and sell products to the youth,” he said, stressing on the need to strengthen tobacco-control policies and implement tobacco-vendor regulations.Two districts of Haryana — Rohtak and Faridabad — were surveyed as part of the study, which identified 58 points of sale of tobacco products within 100 yards of different educational institutes.The study also found that 56.9 per cent points of sale displayed tobacco products at the eye level of a child (about 1 meter high). Besides, 81.03 per cent shops sold single-stick cigarettes.As per the survey, 98.28 per cent points of sale displayed cigarettes near candies and sweets to attract children. Most of the shops have displayed advertisements of tobacco products to attract youth.Gulshan Nijhawan, who represented the Rohtak Vyapar Mandal, said tobacco was a big threat for children and all-out efforts should be made to save them from the menace.The webinar also had a technical session moderated by Dr Rajesh Kumar. It was attended by more than 100 students. Consumer Voice COO Ashim Sanyal gave suggestions to strengthen the tobacco-control regime. Slogan-writing and painting competitions on the subject of tobacco control were also organised.58 sale points in Rohtak, FaridabadTwo districts of Haryana — Rohtak and Faridabad — were surveyed as part of the study, which identified 58 points of sale of tobacco products within 100 yards of different educational institutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tobacco-firms-luring-schoolkids-experts-343284
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||263-gm heroin seized in Fatehabad||As a part of the special anti-drug drive, the police have seized 263 gram of heroin from a car in Fatehabad district and arrested two persons in this connection. The estimated value of the seized drug is around Rs 25 lakh.Sharing the details, a police spokesperson said during the initial probe, the accused revealed that they had bought the contraband from a Nigerian in Delhi for supply in the Sirsa area. The accused, Vishal, alias Laadi, of Shahpur Begu, Sirsa, and Sunil Kumar, alias Sheelu, of Badopal were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). The crackdown was made by a team of the Anti-narcotics Cell. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/263-gm-heroin-seized-in-fatehabad-343285
27-11-2021||Hisar||Ensure security of witnesses: SSP to cops||In view of the murder of a witness and ransom call to traders in Jind and Hisar districts, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Hisar Range, Rakesh Kumar Arya has directed the Superintendents of Police of the five districts to take strict measures for the security of witnesses while stating that any laxity on part of the police will be dealt with strictly.He reviewed the law and order situation with the SPs of the Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind and Hansi police districts on Thursday in view of the sudden spurt in the threat calls to traders and murders in Hisar and Jind districts. The IGP said adequate measures should be taken to ensure safety of witnesses so that the accused could be convicted in the court. “This is a task for the police, any negligence in this task will not be accepted,” he said.Arya said he had directed the SPs to chalk out a special strategy to dismantle the network of the criminal gangs which were indulging in ransom and extortion by targeting traders, liquor contractors, etc. He asked the SPs to prepare a list of the gangsters active in the region and also the status of the pending criminal cases against them in the courts.He asked the police to take action against sureties of criminals who had been absconding or jumped parole. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ensure-security-of-witnesses-ssp-to-cops-343286
27-11-2021||---||Yamunanagar MC seals 10 shops for not paying rent||Yamunanagar, November 26The authorities of the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) sealed 10 shops for not paying rent to the tune of Rs 32 lakh today.According to information, a team headed by the Zonal Taxation Officer(ZTO) of the MCYJ, Ajay Walia, sealed three shops each in Sabzi Mandi and Rampura Colony, two shops at Kanhaiya Sahib Chowk, one shop each at the bus stand and Nehru Park in Yamunanagar.According to information, before beginning the process of sealing, the MC authorities had issued final notices to shopkeepers under Section 408-A (3) of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act 1994 in September. Walia said owners of the said shops had failed to pay the rent despite being given final notices in this connection.“The owners of 10 shops owe rent to the tune of nearly Rs 32 lakh. They were issued final notices to clear the rent, but they failed to respond to the notices of the MCYJ. Therefore, these 10 shops were sealed, today,” said Walia.Ajay Singh Tomar, Commissioner of MCYJ, said the MCYJ had started the drive of sealing the shops for not paying the rent. “A team of the MCYJ also sealed 15 shops for not paying rent sometimes ago,” said Tomar. He said this drive would continue in future too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-mc-seals-10-shops-for-not-paying-rent-343287
27-11-2021||Yamunanagar||More artefacts found in Yamunanagar||Some coins, remains of old statues and earthenware have been found at Sandhai village of Yamunanagar district.Residents of Sandhai village today handed over these artefacts to a joint team of the Haryana Archaeology and Museum Department and Haryana Sarasvati Heritage Development Board (HSHDB). The team today visited the site (remains of an old fort) here from where six old coins were found last week. The team included HSHDB vice-chairman Dhuman Singh Kirmach and Haryana Archaeology and Museum Department deputy director Banani Bhattacharya.Bhattacharya said the artefacts might be from the Kushan era. “The department will clean the old coins found at Sandhai village to determine how old these were,” said Bhattacharya.Kirmach said the archaeology department would soon start a procedure to protect the old fort site that is spread over two acres. He appealed to villagers to hand over whatever artefacts they had found to the archaeology department. The HSHDB had written to the Haryana Archaeology Department to inspect the old fort on November 22. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/more-artefacts-found-in-yamunanagar-343288
27-11-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra teachers on mass leave||While Kurukshetra University Teachers’ Association (KUTA) members today observed mass casual leave to mark their protest against the government’s move over changes in recruitment in state universities, the contractual staff welcomed the government’s decision.Opposing the staff recruitment through the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) and Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), KUTA members termed it an attack on the autonomy of the university. On the other hand, the contract staff said the move would help in bringing transparency in the recruitment.KUTA president Dr Vivek Gaur said, “On the call of the Haryana Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation and KUTA, they observed mass casual leave today. Soon another meeting of the state body will be called to decide the future course of action and to intensify the protest.” Dr Abhinav Kataria, a member of Kurukshetra University Contractual Teachers’ Association, said, “The decision is the need of hour and will not only bring transparency, but also ensure timely recruitment.” — TNSGJUST follows suitOn the call of Haryana All Universities Teachers’ Association, 193 of the 209 teachers of the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, proceeded on mass leave to protest the government’s decision to withdraw the power of recruitment from the universities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-teachers-on-mass-leave-343289
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||NOC must for groundwater extraction||Concerned over depleting groundwater level, Haryana Water Resources Authority (HWRA) chairperson Keshni Anand Arora today directed all industrial units to obtain no-objection certificate (NOC) for extraction of groundwater.Arora said the HWRA was working on a comprehensive plan to get rid of the problem and all industrial units should ensure their participation in it. The last date to apply for the NOCs is November 30. Presiding over a workshop today, Arora asked the industrial units through video-conferencing to ensure maximum utilisation of waste water. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/noc-must-for-groundwater-extraction-343290
27-11-2021||Rohtak||Tributes paid to freedom fighter Ranbir Singh||Political leaders and social activists today paid tribute to late freedom fighter and member of the Constituent Assembly Ranbir Singh Hooda, on his 107th birth anniversary at his memorial in Kheri Sadh village of Rohtak district.Addressing the gathering, Ranbir Singh’s son and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said his father was lodged in eight jails at various times under the British regime during the freedom movement. He asserted that there was no system of minimum support price (MSP) for the farmers before Independence and his father was the first to have raised the issue in the Constituent Assembly in 1948.“After that, the MSP system gradually started in the country,” he said.The Congress leader pointed out that while serving as minister in the governments of Haryana and Punjab, Ranbir Singh played an key role in the construction of the Bhakra Nangal Dam. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tributes-paid-to-freedom-fighter-ranbir-singh-343293
27-11-2021||Gurugram||Man posing as IAS officer held||A 32-year-old man, allegedly posing as an IAS officer, was arrested by the Gurugram police today from Delhi. The accused having a fake ID, called himself Joint Secretary in Delhi. He duped many persons, including his landlord in the name of providing a job.The police said Vikesh of Jharsa alleged that he was duped by Roshan Pandey, a native of Bhagalpur in Bihar, who claimed that he was an IAS officer. Vikesh said Roshan had taken Rs 1 lakh from him on the pretext of giving him a job. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-posing-as-ias-officer-held-343294
27-11-2021||Gurugram||32-year-old killed||A food delivery boy was allegedly thrashed to death by friends after an altercation during a party late last night at Wazirpur village here. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 10A police station. The deceased has been identified as Rakesh (32), a resident of Mundka in Delhi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/32-year-old-killed-343295
27-11-2021||The population of stray dogs in Panchkula is increasing day by day. These canines have become a source of nuisance. When I move out on roads on a two-wheeler they chase me and bark. They are a real problem for those who travel on a bicycle or motorbikes. They sometime bite children playing outside their houses. The authorities concerned must start an operation to sterilise these stray dogs. —Rajiv Malhotra||Stray dogs a nuisance in P?kula||Repair defunct traffic light The traffic intersection close to Tau Devi Lal Stadium and Sector 21 in Panchkula, reveals non-functional traffic signals for the past many days. Since this widely used road also serves as a vital link with the city’s Sector 25 and 26, the authorities concerned should urgently take necessary remedial steps to ward off any untoward incident. —Vinayak G, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-dogs-a-nuisance-in-pkula-343299
27-11-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi man held with MTP kits||Cong workers stage protestKarnal: Scores of Congress workers on Friday staged a protest in the city against the rising inflation, including prices of fuel and LPG cylinders. Holding banners and posters, they took out a procession carrying the effigy of the BJP government and burnt it. Trilochan Singh, former chairman, Haryana Minority Commission, led the protest and handed over a memorandum to City Magistrate Abhay Jangra. tnsNSUI ex-leader targets TanwarNew Delhi: Former national president of National Students' Union of India (NSUI) Subhash Chaudhary on Friday hit out at former Haryana Congress chief Ashok Tanwar for joining the TMC, saying it was his "pre-planned" move. "First Tanwar deliberately made Congress organisationally weak in Haryana and it now appears that he was in league with anti-Congress forces to weaken the party," he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-man-held-with-mtp-kits-343301
27-11-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Stir anniversary: Thousands join celebrations at Delhi borders||Tribune News ServiceSonepat/Jhajjar, November 26Following the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), thousands marked the victorious first anniversary of the farmers’ movement at the Delhi borders, including Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Shahjahanpur, on Friday.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand arrived at Singhu and Tikri in tractor-trailers and other vehicles. Scores of young farmers donning colourful turbans were seen dancing to drumbeats and Punjabi songs.The farmers expressed their happiness by distributing sweets and congratulating each other on the victory of the one year of the farmers’ movement against the three farm laws that the Union Government is set to formally withdraw in the upcoming winter session of Parliament.Groups of hundreds of farmers were seen chanting slogans ‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad’ and ‘Haryana-Punjab bhaichara zindabad’ among others at the protest sites.Meanwhile, the protesting farmers also organised a blood donation camp at the Singhu border to mark the first anniversary of the farm movement.Determined to continue the fightThis day shows the farmers’ determination to continue the fight for the pending demands. It also stands as testimony to the public will to fight against an unrelenting govt. —SKMIn a statement, the SKM said the day would forever be remembered as one of the greatest moments of people’s struggle in history. “This day marked twelve-long months of the farmers’ struggle, with numerous victories, which seemed unlikely... It also stands as testimony to the will of the common people to fight against an unrelenting government, and for a long time, will be remembered as an example of peaceful Satyagraha inspired by Mahatma Gandhi and the freedom movement.”Meanwhile, various programmes were held at the Delhi borders, state capitals and district headquarters. Various trade unions, student and youth organisations, women bodies and civil societies among others came together to back the nation’s ‘annadatas’, the SKM said.It claimed that protests, chakka jams, blockades on national and state highways were also organised. The farmers across the country celebrated their victory of the PM’s announcement for the repeal of the three laws, while raising the pending demands.Shambhu Farmers arrive at SinghuAmbala: On the SKM call, farm activists left the Shambhu border and joined the stir at Singhu on Friday. The leaders said they would continue to protest till their remaining demands — relief and jobs for the kin of deceased farmers and the MSP, were met. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/stir-anniv-thousands-join-celebrations-at-delhi-borders-343205
27-11-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram sees Namaz disruptions again||Disruptions to public Namaz offerings continued on Friday when over 100 people raised Hindu slogans, conducted a prayer of their own, and chanted the Hanuman Chalisa a few metres from where some Muslims were offering their Friday prayers.The protest site this time was near the Sector 37 police station. People flocked to the prayer site from Mohammadpur Jharsa, Khandsa, Narsinghpur, and Khatola villages and held a havan they proclaimed was for the “martyrs of 26/11” on the 13th anniversary of the Mumbai attacks.The group also chanted “Jai Shri Ram”—a slogan that several fringe Hindu organisations are seen using increasingly as a weapon of intimidation—even as police stood nearby in large numbers to prevent escalation.The prayer site is one of several designated by the Gurugram administration for Muslims to offer the “jumma” prayers.  Public protests led the Gurugram administration to withdraw eight sites from their list of 37 sanctioned for Friday prayers.Meanwhile, some Sikhs protested the gurdwara committee’s decision to offer Gurudwara Singh Sabha, located near the sabzi mandi, for namaz.“Gurudwara is meant only for Gurbani and is not a rental place for mass religious gatherings,” said Sardar Ravi Ranjan of Gurmat Prachar Jatha Panth Khalsa. “We’re surprised that how the head of the gurudwara committee offered it to Muslims for Namaz. It goes completely against our Gur-Maryada.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/namaz-disruptions-in-gurugram-again-343097
27-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||Braving the elements for a year, farmers stay put at Tikri and Singhu borders||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 26They braved the elements but did not lose heart and stayed put at the Tikri and Singhu borders with the intention of bending the Centre before their demand of repealing the three farm laws.  Punjab farmers have been protesting at these places for the past one year. They occupied a stretch of 10 km on National Highway-9 from Bahadurgarh bypass to Tikri and a similar area on National Highway-44 at Singhu when Delhi Police did not let them enter the capital on November 27 last year. They have since been camping there to carry forward their agitation.“It was not easy for us to adjust to these conditions but then we had come with the resolve that we would not return without getting our demands met. Winter was approaching when we camped at Tikri and Singhu a year ago. We had no option but to turn trolleys into make-shift rooms to protect us from cold,” says Pargat Singh, general secretary, BKU (Rajewal).   He says they braved severe cold conditions but these snatched many fellow protesters from them. Yet, the agitation continued with the same enthusiasm. Summer brought new problems like scarcity of water, long power cuts, breeding of mosquitoes, he adds.“We had to dig borewells and install RO systems to address the drinking water issue. Solar plates were used to get electricity while a lot of money was spent to erect huts to save ourselves from the scorching heat. Many of our huts both in Singhu and Tikri caught fire at night forcing us to keep vigil to ward off anti-social elements,” says Singh.Purshotam Singh Gill, another farmer leader, says they also developed parks by lifting garbage, levelling the surface, planting saplings and putting benches. Air-conditioners, coolers, fans and deep freezers were arranged. “We had to be vigilant round-the-clock to foil any conspiracy to stop our agitation," he added. Gurchant Singh of Faridkot says monsoon was not short of a disaster. “Rain flooded the protest sites at the Delhi borders. We spent sleepless nights while draining out the water or protecting our belongings, but adversity failed to lower our morale as we were here for a do-or-die battle," he adds. Raising questions over the district administration's intentions, Jaspreet Singh from Sangrur says the administration left no stone unturned to harass them. "Despite repeated requests, it failed to provide potable water, electricity and mobile toilets,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/braving-the-elements-for-a-year-farmers-stay-put-at-tikri-and-singhu-borders-343033
27-11-2021||Ghaziabad||Farmers in hundreds descend on Delhi-UP border on protest anniversary||Hundreds of farmers in tractors started arriving at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border as Friday marked one year of the ongoing farmers' protest against the central laws.Many of them brought along vegetables, sacks of flour and lentils, spices and cooking oil on their tractor-trollies, saying they had come prepared for a long haul.Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), an influential farmers' union from western Uttar Pradesh, has been leading the charge at the Ghazipur border since November last year.The BKU is part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a farmers' collective, which is spearheading the protest for withdrawal of three contentious farm laws and for legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) of crops.“It has been a year of unmatched struggle mixed with happiness and sadness. We are fighting and winning. We will fight and win. MSP law is farmers' right,” BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait tweeted in Hindi.The outfit's office-bearers claimed the police had been strengthening the barricading at Ghazipur border - both on the Delhi-Meerut elevated highway patch and at the UP Gate down below it - since Thursday, even as they said the crowd would swell at the protest site by Friday evening.“We have a meeting of the SKM on Saturday and the future course of our action will be decided only after that.“We have planned a march towards Delhi on November 29, but the SKM will take a call about it on Saturday,” BKU spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay said.He said, “Supporters in large numbers started reaching the border on Friday morning and by evening we are expecting over 50,000 people at Ghazipur alone.”A BKU supporter who reached Ghazipur in the morning from Muzaffarnagar on a tractor in a group said they had come to the protest with arrangements for food and accommodation.“It has been a year, the farmers can continue the protest for their rights for several years,” the villager, draped in a shawl and a muffler, said.Modi had last week announced his government's decision to withdraw the contentious laws. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/security-beefed-up-at-delhis-borders-as-farmers-protest-completes-one-year-343015
