28-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram govt college wins quiz||Gita Mahotsav from Dec 12-14Chandigarh: Amit Agrawal, Director General, Haryana Information, Public Relations and Languages Department, said to connect people with the message of Gita, programmes would be organised in all 22 districts as part of the International Gita Mahotsav from December 12 to 14. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-govt-college-wins-quiz-343667
28-11-2021||Gurugram||Project on road safety launched||Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishram Kumar Meena inaugurated the ‘Mission Gurugram-Town Hall’ project here on Friday.The project by Hyundai Foundation, with the message of ‘Dhyan Do’, will emphasise on the road safety and self-care of public and private transport drivers.To cover more than 34,000 drivers every year, the project will offer free health check-up of public transport drivers with curative and preventive counselling with a sustained follow-up plan. SS Kim, MD and CEO, Hyundai Motor India Ltd, said: “Under our global vision ‘Progress for Humanity’, we aim to create an amicable ecosystem realising the dreams of mankind by going ‘beyond mobility’ and future role models driving a social change. This project aims at spreading awareness about the importance of self-care and road safety of drivers.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/project-on-road-safety-launched-343666
28-11-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram market shuts in protest against attack on shopkeeper||Gurugram, November 27The famous Banjara market here was shut on Saturday in protest against an extortion bid on Friday night. Around 15 men came and threatened the shanty owners and thrashed one of them, allegedly seeking weekly protection money.The incident happened around 11.30 pm on Friday, when the accused, identified as Sitam, alias Satish, of Wazirabad village, allegedly reached the market in his Creta car along with his henchmen. They allegedly demanded weekly protection money and when a shopkeeper, Jitu, objected to it, they thrashed him and his wife badly. Jitu got a fracture in his leg and is undergoing treatment at the Anand Hospital in Sector 56.Soon, other shopkeepers gathered and the accused fled the spot, leaving his car behind. Angry shopkeepers then smashed the window panes of the vehicle and the police were called.“My family and I were sleeping in my shanty when Sitam came and asked for shop rent. I sought two-three days time, but Sitam started thrashing me with a rod. He hit my left leg. When my wife Asha tried to save me, he pushed her too and she fell on me. She then raised alarm and Sitam fled the spot. He, however, threatened to kill me if I fail to pay him the extortion money in the name of rent,” Jitu told the police.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against Sitam and others under Sections 147, 148, 323, 325, 385 and 506 of the IPC at the Sector 53 police station.Following the incident, the shopkeepers on Saturday shut the Banjara market and said they would open only after the accused are arrested.Meanwhile, the police said they were conducting raids to nab the accused.Notably, the market has been home to over 2,000 people — mostly from the Gadiya Lohars nomadic community, originally hailing from Chittorgarh, Rajasthan, who stay in the shanties spread over 25 acres in Sector 56.Last month, the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) demolished over 250 makeshift shops and hutments to reclaim the 25-acre encroached land at the Banjara market, which is a popular destination in Delhi-NCR for affordable home decor and furniture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-market-shuts-in-protest-against-attack-on-shopkeeper-343649
28-11-2021||Our Correspondent||At 362, Gurugram air quality very poor again||Gurugram, November 27Gurugram air slipped to ‘very poor’ category yet again as the Air Quality Index (AQI) reached 362. The dipping temperature added to the woes. For the prevention of pollution, the Graded Response Action Plan was implemented in the city from October 15.In all, 41 officials of different departments were given the responsibility, but despite all the efforts, the air of the city is getting polluted.The AQI of Gurugram was recorded at 362 on Saturday whereas on Friday, it was 379. Manesar’s AQI stood at 354 on Saturday while it was 346 on Friday.The sky was smoggy on Saturday morning due to which people could not see sunlight in many areas. By 9 in the morning, the AQI of Gurugram had crossed 350. On Saturday, the most toxic air was in the area around Vikas Sadan.Despite being a weekend, the air quality did not improve. People remained confined to their homes to avoid the toxic environment and there was little movement in city parks and malls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/at-362-gurugram-air-quality-very-poor-again-343650
28-11-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Panchkula MC in dock, audit bares multi-crore scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27The Directorate of Local Audit, Haryana, has exposed scam worth crores of rupees allegedly committed by the Municipal Corporation Panchkula (MCP). From giving undue benefits to a shopping mall to awarding contracts without e-tendering and choosing the second lowest bidder for a project, the MCP’s files are full of irregularities.CM Manohar Lal Khattar recently ordered a vigilance inquiry into the matter.The audit report, submitted to the Haryana Legislative Assembly, revealed that property and fire tax in respect of Shalimar Mall, Sector 5, for 2010-11 to 2021-22 was under-evaluated by Rs 1.76 crore.It is pointed out that the MC Commissioner had ruled that basements wouldn’t be counted for the assessment of mall’s property tax whereas the exemption is only for residential properties and shops. Similar exemption was given to hotels resulting in a loss of Rs 21.77 lakh for 2019-20.A contract for purchase of 29 e-carts for door-to-door garbage collection was given to the second lowest bidder (SKS Trade India Pvt Ltd) in December 2017, resulting in a loss of Rs 12.06 lakh. The tender mentioned that the firm would be responsible for maintenance for two years, but the period was reduced to one year.In May 2019, a contract for maintenance was given to another firm and Rs 5.85 lakh was spent on the upkeep of vehicles despite their being in warranty period. Also, 26 e-carts got damaged before the expiry of warranty period, resulting in a loss of Rs 43.97 lakh.In its reply to the Local Audit Department, the MC informed that the decisions were taken by competent officers.On night shelters for homeless people, the audit found that the contract was given to Balaji Event Management, Chandigarh, for Rs 51.12 lakh without floating an e-tender. The decision was taken after taking quotations.It was found the contractor had set up shelters at some places and entries of visitors were shown even before the contract was given. “It shows that taking quotations and selecting the firm was a mere formality,” said the report.Besides, the MC spent Rs 17.11 lakh without e-tenders for other works. It overpaid Rs 16.54 lakh to VN Engineering for running road sweeping machines despite the fact that the machines were not fully operated and a fine of Rs 6.87 lakh was not levied.Ind Sanitation Solution Pvt Ltd was allotted the work of bio-remediation of legacy waste in Sector 23. The agency started the work on September 19, 2020. It was to be completed by April 7, 2021. By June 22, 2021, at least 70 per cent of work was yet to be completed. Also, Rs 9.50 lakh fine was not charged whereas a payment of Rs 5.04 crore was made to the firm.The audit found that Rs 1.32 crore was paid in advance to MC employees in 2019-20, but not settled yet. Also, consumer tax for collection of garbage was to be added in property tax bills, which led to a loss of Rs 16.15 crore, and business licences were not renewed in 2019-20, leading to a loss of another Rs 48.10 lakh.The MCP Commissioner, Dharamveer Singh, said they were yet to get the report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-mc-in-dock-audit-bares-multi-crore-scam-343653
28-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Centre's bid to file certificate case fails to find favour with HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27Attempts by the Union of India, among others, to file a “certificate case” after complying with an order passed by the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on the grant of medical reimbursement have failed to find favour with the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Appeals and petitions filed for the sole purpose of getting a “certificate of dismissal” are categorised as “certificate cases”. The intention behind the move is to enable the petitioner or an appellant to say nothing can be done as the court has dismissed the matter.The Bench ruled that the petition was filed by the Union of India and other petitioners at a belated stage, much beyond the period of limitation and before the court proceedings were affected by the pandemic. “This is a certificate case and has only been filed to get a stamp of approval that the matter has been finalised in the courts. This court, thus, does not feel that any case is made out to exercise its extraordinary writ jurisdiction,” the Bench asserted, while dismissing the petition on the grounds of “delay and laches”.The Union of India and other petitioners had moved the HC against the CAT and another respondent challenging an order passed in May 2018. The review order passed subsequently by CAT in September 2018 was also challenged.Deciding 30 applications, the tribunal had placed reliance upon an earlier judgment in another case “Union of India and others vs Mohan Lal Gupta and another”, wherein it was held that a retired government employee, residing in area without the availability of the CGHS facilities, was entitled to claim medical reimbursement.The Bench asserted that the tribunal dismissed the review applications also after noticing the absence of “new and important matter or evidence”. The Bench added the petitioners had, for over a year and a half, chose not to file the writ petition. They now opted to “absolve themselves” of the responsibility in spite of having complied with the impugned order. The Bench also placed reliance upon a Supreme Court judgment that said the approach being adopted in the case before it was what was categorised earlier as “certificate cases”. The object appeared to be to obtain a certificate of dismissal from the SC to put a quietus to the issue and, thus, say nothing could be done because the highest court had dismissed the appeal. “It is not disputed that the amount of medical reimbursement has been paid in pursuance of the order passed by Tribunal,” the Bench of Justice GS Sandhawalia and Justice Vikas Suri said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centres-bid-to-file-certificate-case-fails-to-find-favour-with-hc-343654
28-11-2021||Gurugram||Cops, two accused get notice for submitting fake receipts in court||The two main accused in the cricket scam, who are out on bail, have been accused of committing forgery and lying on oath for bail. Cash receipts towards the payment of the amount due to the complainants, namely Rahul and Ankit, were presented, but now the victims’ claimed that they had not got any money and the receipts were forged.A local court issued summons to the accused and the Gurugram police. The hearing will be on November 30.After the HC granted bail to one of the key accused, Chitra Bora, other accused Ashustosh Bora and Nitin Jha also applied for bail on Nov 22 after they signed an agreement with the two complainants for returning their money. The bail was granted by the local court. In the documents of the bail, cash receipts towards the payment of the amount due to complainants Rahul and Ankit were presented. Later, it was revealed that the complainants’ signatures had been forged.Upon inquiry by SI Umesh Kumar, it was found that no money had been paid to the complainants. The police have widened the probe by adding Section 467 (forgery of valuable security), IPC, to the FIR. “It is shameful that the accused have no fear of law and soon after being out on bail, they are back to their old ways,” said Omar Siddaqi, complainants’ lawyer. — OCCricket scamOn Sept 4, the economic offence wing had busted a gang for allegedly duping aspiring cricketers of several lakhs by promising them selection in various teams and tournaments. Seven accused have been arrested, while many others are under scanner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-two-accused-get-notice-for-submitting-fake-receipts-in-court-343655
28-11-2021||Hisar||Cong slams govt over rising crime against traders||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Saturday led a demonstration against extortion and ransom calls to the traders in Jind, Hisar and Kaithal districts.The party workers also protested the murder of Jind trader Shyam Sunder.Addressing a press meet on Saturday, Surjewala demanded that the government must form a SIT headed by an IG-rank officer for a detailed probe into these incidents. “The incidents of extortion and ransom calls in Hisar, Jind, Safidon and Julana towns have sent shock waves and created fear among the business community. The daylight murder of the Jind trader three days ago indicates that criminals and gangsters are having a field day in Haryana,” he added.The Congress leader also sought police security for the family of Shyam Sunder and other traders being targeted by the criminals.Surjewala further alleged that organised crime was taking roots across the state. “About a dozen incidents have taken place in Jind where the traders had to fulfil the ransom demand of the gangsters silently because they don’t have faith in the police. A number of medical practitioners and traders have migrated due to the threats,” Surjewala alleged.“The police should issue a helpline number for the traders. But their identity must be kept secret in these cases,” he added.Bandh in HisarThe Auto Market Association in Hisar observed a bandh on Saturday to protest the ransom call to shop owner Vipin Raheja last week. The police lodged a case but have failed to arrest the accused. At noon, the shops were opened after the police assurance to nab the criminals. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-slams-govt-over-rising-crime-against-traders-343656
28-11-2021||Ambala||Governor: No compromise on education, health||Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today said health and education sectors were not the source of money, but two important pillars of human resource development, which could neither be compromised nor traded.Addressing the Manthan School Leadership Summit-2021 organised by the National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA) at BPS Planetarium in Ambala Cantonment, he said: “Moral education is also important for children. Covid-19 has made us realise the importance of technology in the field as a large number of students from poor and remote areas couldn’t attend classes amid pandemic. As per a survey, only 40 per cent children were able to get online education. Under such circumstances, we need to repeat the syllabus to bring them on par.”He also released a report by NISA based on the survey regarding online education and learning loss during Covid.“In the New Education Policy (NEP), emphasis has been laid on value-based education, skills and vocational education and holistic development of children. A provision has also been made where children will be imparted skill education on the basis of their interest from primary classes so that they grow up to become job givers, not seekers,” he said.He called upon NISA to ensure that all member schools prepared quarterly, half yearly and annual schedules for implementation of the NEP-2020.NISA chief Kubhushan Sharma apprised the Governor of the programmes being run by the alliance. Ambala division Commissioner Renu S Phulia, DC Vikram Singh, SP Jashandeep Randhawa, ADC Sachin Gupta and Super-30 fame Anand Kumar were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/governor-no-compromise-on-education-health-343657
28-11-2021||Ambala||CM's claim on ending graft eyewash: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state spokesman Loveleen Tuteja today slammed the Haryana Government and said the claims of jobs being given on merit were mere eyewash.Speaking to mediapersons here, he said, “There is a job scam in HPSC and HSSC. Touts have been giving job guarantees to ineligible people while the eligible are finding hard to get recruited. The claims of the Chief Minister have fallen flat. The lists are prepared by the CM office and touts are collecting money accordingly. Ministers are also involved in the scam.”He alleged corruption was rampant in the municipal councils and corporations of the state. People were being looted in the name of no due certificates. AAP was the only alternative to the BJP-JJP government in Haryana, he said. The spokesman said the party would contest the upcoming local bodies election. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cms-claim-on-ending-graft-eyewash-aap-343658
28-11-2021||Chandigarh||Will replace defective meters: HERC chief||Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) chairman RK Pachnanda has called for replacement of faulty meters and replacing them with smart or prepaid ones. He made the comments while presiding over the 25th State Advisory Committee meeting at the HERC office, Panchkula, on Thursday.In the meeting, the financial position of the UHBVN, DHBVN, renewable purchase obligation, fuel surcharge adjustment and thermal plants of the HPGCL were discussed.UHBVN and DHBVN MD PC Meena said from April 2015 to October 31, 2021, 21.36 lakh new connections had been given. About 80% of the revenue that UHBVN and DHBVN got was in the form of bills. Till October 31, 3.37 lakh smart meters were installed in Karnal, Panipat, Faridabad and Gurugram. Also, 24-hour power was available in 5,487 villages till November 1, he said, adding the profit was Rs 636.67 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-replace-defective-meters-herc-chief-343659
28-11-2021||---||Antyodaya fairs to be organised in all dists||Chandigarh, November 27The Haryana Government has decided to organise “Antyodaya fairs” in each district under the Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivar Utthan Yojana.Through these fairs, work will be done to enhance the income of the poor families by connecting them with various schemes being run by the government.These “Antyodaya fairs” will begin from November 29 and it will be ensured that all beneficiaries who come under its purview get the benefits of various schemes being run by the government.Principal Secretary, Social Justice and Empowerment Department, Vineet Garg, through videoconferencing, today gave directions to all Deputy Commissioners (DCs) regarding organising the fairs.Mission Director of Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivar Utthan Yojana Mandeep Singh Brar said the fairs would be organised in such a manner so that the aim to help the poor could be achieved.Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister V Umashankar said it was the vision of Chief Minister to raise the standard of living of the poor. At these fairs, leading banks will participate and sensitise the beneficiaries with regard to the benefits that can be availed from the government schemes and expedite the sanctioning of loans.Umashankar directed all Deputy Commissioners to ensure the success of the fairs, training of the officers concerned so that appropriate guidance could be given to the beneficiaries.Will focus on self-employmentAt these fairs, young beneficiaries will be identified for self-employment or employment in any field by training through the Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/antyodaya-fairs-to-be-organised-in-all-dists-343660
28-11-2021||Rohtak||Notice to Haryana filmmakers for defaming judges, lawyers||The makers of Haryanavi movie “Safe House” have received a legal notice for allegedly defaming judges and lawyers.Rohtak lawyer Digvijay Jakhar has sent the notice to the producer, director, script-writer and artistes of the film and manager of the Indore-based production house.Jakhar said lawyers had been called rapists and referred to as thieves, scoundrels and goons in the film, which was slated to be released shortly.“In a trailer already streaming on YouTube, a character uses derogatory language and throws a slipper at a judge in an open court. It is an attempt to bring disrepute to the legal profession in the eyes of millions of audience/subscribers,” the notice said.The makers have been asked to remove the “objectionable” content from the movie, failing which civil as well as criminal proceedings would be initiated against them. As per the notice, the filmmakers are also liable to pay up to Rs 5 crore to the Legal Aid and Bar Council of India. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-to-state-filmmakers-for-defaming-judges-lawyers-343661
28-11-2021||---||Now, over 500 can gather at outdoor events in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 27The Haryana Government on Saturday allowed gatherings in open spaces exceeding 500 persons, subject to the strict observance of the Covid-appropriate behavioural norms and social distancing.However, in indoor spaces gatherings of up to 50 per cent of the hall capacity are allowed with a ceiling of maximum of 200 persons, said the order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan.Meanwhile, the state extended the lockdown with relaxations from November 28 till December 31.Earlier, the government had allowed the restaurants, bars, gyms, spas and club houses or restaurants of golf courses to open to their full capacity with adherence to the Covid norms.Meanwhile, cinema halls, both in malls and standalone, have been allowed to open to their full capacity.Also, full residential varsities in the state are directed to plan re-opening their campuses for physical classes as per their respective semester schedules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-over-500-can-gather-at-outdoor-events-343662
28-11-2021||Rewari/gurugram||Cop among three arrested on rape charge||Three persons, including a head constable of the Haryana Police, were arrested last night for allegedly raping two employees of a spa centre after taking them to a hotel in Rewari in a PCR van.The victims belong to West Bengal. Head Constable Anil has been placed under suspension while a departmental inquiry has been initiated against Home Guard Jitendra. The third accused is Dharmendra.“The crime was perpetrated on Thursday night when the victims were at their rented accommodation,” said DSP Mohammad Jamal Khan. The trio was produced before a court which sent them to judicial custody.Meanwhile, the Gurugram police nabbed a man for allegedly raping a two-year-old girl while she was playing outside her home in Sector 29 on Thursday evening. The accused was produced in a city court on Friday and sent to judicial custody.According to the victim’s mother, it was on Thursday evening when her daughter was playing outside the home, a neighbour, Ramesh, lured her and took her to his room where he raped her. “My daughter was crying and later I found that she was sexually exploited and the police were called.”An FIR has been registered against the accused under Section 4, POCSO Act.— Tribune Reporters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-among-three-arrested-on-rape-charge-343663
28-11-2021||Yamunanagar||Woman raped on job pretext in Haryana's Yamunanagar||A 24-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a man on the pretext of providing her a private job here.On the vcitim’s complaint, a case was registered against the unknown person at the city police station on Thursday. The complainant said she was searching for a job and she met an unknown person, who assured to provide her a private job. “The accused called me to provide a job on November 11. He took me to a closed factory on Radaur road, where he raped me,” she alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-raped-on-job-pretext-343664
28-11-2021||Rewari||Rewari university wins NSS contest||The Indira Gandhi University (IGU) here has been crowned the overall champion at the national-level unity camp organised by the Centre’s National Service Scheme (NSS) at the Kurukshetra University.Vice Chancellor SK Gakhar felicitated the winners at the university on Saturday.“More than 400 students from 24 universities of 18 states took part in declamation, skit, group dance and other cultural events. Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar awarded the students,” said Gakhar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-university-wins-nss-contest-343665
28-11-2021||---||No penalty for stubble burning, says govt; farmers call off tractor rally||New Delhi/Sonepat, Nov 27Appealing protesting farmers to end their agitation, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday said the Centre had agreed to their demand to decriminalise stubble burning.With the government listing the Farm Laws Repeal Bill-2021 for passage in both Houses of Parliament on Monday, Tomar said there was no cause for farmers’ agitation any more. Hours later, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of unions spearheading the farm stir, called off its November 29 tractor march to Parliament.Unions on MSP panelFarm unions will be part of panel announced by PM Modi for reviewing the MSP regime... Farmers should now return home. —NS Tomar, MinisterThe minister said the farmers’ demand originally was to repeal the laws and that had been agreed along with another demand to decriminalise stubble burning. On the issue of MSP, he said farmer organisations would be part of the committee the PM had announced for review of minimum support price regime and for the realisation of crop diversification and zero budget farming goals.On the farmers’ demand to withdraw cases registered against them during the course of the year-long agitation against farm laws and for compensation to the families of 700 farmers who died protesting, the minister said, “The issue of registered cases is under the jurisdiction of the state governments and they will review the cases depending on seriousness and then take a decision. The matter of compensation is also with the states.”The minister said once the committee on Minimum Support Price issue, as announced by PM Modi, was formed, the farmers’ demand to discuss the MSP would also be met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-penalty-for-stubble-burning-says-govt-farmers-call-off-tractor-rally-343542
28-11-2021||---||Few takers for Haryana's education diploma course||Rohtak, November 27Diploma in Elementary Education (DElEd), offered by 342 self-financing colleges across Haryana, has got a dismal response as over 86 per cent seats remained vacant after the first counselling. Of the total 18,550 seats, merely 2,570 were filled. The remaining 15,980 found no takers.Around 4,000 students had applied for admission in the course, sources said. The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), is now planning to conduct second counselling to give another chance to aspirants, the sources said.Of 18,550 seats, 16K still vacantThe development is a setback for the self-financing colleges, which have asked the authorities to enhance quota for candidates from other states and convert seats under reserved categories to general. The two-year course was discontinued in all government-run district institutes for teachers’ training over two years ago after the New Education Policy (NEP) was implemented.Satish Khola, president, Haryana Self-Finance Private College Association, said candidates from Haryana did not want to pursue the course as no recruitment of primary teachers was done in the past eight years. Even the government made it clear that there was no vacancy of primary teachers in state government schools, he said."There is a 15 per cent quota for candidates from other states. It needs to be revised as early as possible. The first counselling concluded on November 6, but no notification about the second counselling has been issued yet. The matter is delaying admissions," Khola said.Rishi Goyal, Director, SCERT, said candidates were not taking interest in the diploma course as they knew it would not be useful as per the NEP, which stressed upon a four-year integrated teachers' education programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/few-takers-for-hrys-edu-diploma-course-343547
28-11-2021||New Delhi||Centre to introduce Bill in Lok Sabha on Monday to repeal contentious farm laws||The central government will introduce a new Bill to repeal the three contentious agriculture laws in Lok Sabha on Monday.The new Bill, which states that though “only a small group of farmers are protesting” against these legislations, the need of the hour is to take along everyone for inclusive growth, has been listed for introduction and passage in Lok Sabha on the first day of the Winter Session of Parliament.It was passed by the Union Cabinet after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an announcement that all three farm laws will be repealed in the Winter Session.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar will introduce the Bill in the lower house.The ruling BJP and main opposition party Congress have issued whips to their MPs to be present on the day.“Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar will move for leave to introduce a Bill to repeal the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation Act) Act, 2020, the Essential Commodites (Amendment) Act, 2020 and to amend the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. Also to introduce the bill,” Lok Sabha’s list of business for November 29, states.Despite the prime minister’s surprise announcement to repeal the bills, farmers’ unions have announced that they will continue with their protest until their other demands are not met. However, they have called off their proposed tractor March to Parliament on Monday.“To enable the farmers to sell their produce at higher prices and benefit from technological improvements, farmers have been provided access to agriculture markets which will help them increase their income. With this objective three farm laws...were enacted, as a part of the government’s endeavour to improve the condition of farmers including small and marginal farmers,” the Bill to repeal three farm laws states.It also says that even though “only a group of farmers are protesting against these laws, the government has tried hard to sensitise the farmers on the importance of the farm laws and explain the merits through several meetings and other forums”.Without taking away the existing mechanisms available to farmers, new avenues were provided for trade of their produce, the proposed legislation states. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/centre-to-introduce-bill-in-lok-sabha-monday-to-repeal-contentious-farm-laws-343468
28-11-2021||New Delhi||Centre agrees to farmers demand of decriminalising stubble burning; panel to discuss MSP and other issues||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Saturday the Centre has agreed to farmers demand of decriminalising stubble burning and appealed to them to end their protest.Tomar, in an official statement, said farmers’ two other demands, that of a minimum support price (MSP) and crop diversification—would be discussed, he said. This demand will also be fulfilled with the setting up of a panel as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 on the day of Gurupurab.“The farmers’ demand was to decriminalise stubble burning. The Government of India has agreed to this demand,” the minister said.With regard to withdrawal of cases against farmers during the agitation, Tomar said this is in the domain of the state governments.“Looking at the severity of the cases, the state governments have to take a call and the issue of compensation is also to be decided by them,” he said, adding that every state will decide as per their state legislations.Stating that there is no justification for the continuation of the agitation after the government announced repeal of the three farm laws, Tomar said:  “Therefore, I appeal to all farmers organisations to end the protest ethically and show their big heart. They should return to their respective homes.”  The minister said the protesting farmers’ had initially demanded repeal of the three farm laws, which the government agreed to keeping  their interest in mind.The Cabinet has approved a bill to repeal the three farm laws, which will be introduced in the beginning of the coming session of Parliament starting November 29, he said.Tomar also said that the government is unhappy that it could not succeed in convincing some of the protesting farmers’ unions about the benefits of the farm laws.It has been over a year now that farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting against the three farm laws at Delhi borders.Although farmer unions have welcomed the government’s recent move to repeal the three farm laws, they said their protest would continue until the laws are totally and formally withdrawn and other demands, including legal guarantee to MSP, are met. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/centre-agrees-to-farmers-demand-of-decriminalising-stubble-burning-agriculture-minister-narendra-tomar-343457
28-11-2021||Sonepat||Samyukt Kisan Morcha postpones its Parliament march scheduled for November 29||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Saturday decided to postpone its Parliament march.The march was announced at a time when the situation was different from what it is now, the SKM, a joint front of 13 farmer unions that has been spearheading the protests since last year, said as it announced its decision.At a press conference, SKM leader Darshan Pal said: "We are suspending the Parliament march on Monday. We had written to the prime minister for withdrawal of cases against farmers, allotment of land for building a memorial for farmers who lost their lives (during the protest), suspension of Ajay Mishra ‘Teni' from the Union Cabinet over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, along with other issues".The front said it wanted an assurance in Parliament on their demand for a law guaranteeing farmers Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their crops.The SKM will review the further course of action at its next meeting on December 4. It also demanded that the government should initiate a dialogue with them in a respectful way, adding that it would decide then whether it would boycott the Bharatiya Janata Party. The march from the Tikri border was scheduled for November 29.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced recently that the Centre would take back the three farm laws. Later, the Union Cabinet endorsed the decision.The Morcha said the farmers’ protest would continue till their pending demands were accepted. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-postpones-its-parliament-march-scheduled-for-november-29-343446
