29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh meets Haryana CM Khattar||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday met Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar at his official residence here.The meeting comes on a day when a Bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws, against which farmers have been protesting for over a year, was passed by the Lok Sabha.“This was a simple courtesy meeting with Khattar sahab,” said Singh while talking to reporters.Singh is hoping for a seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP for the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections.Singh had resigned as the Punjab Chief Minister in September amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Charanjit Singh Channi had replaced Singh.After his unceremonious exit, Singh named his political party as the Punjab Lok Congress. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/capt-amarinder-singh-meets-haryana-cm-khattar-344242
29-11-2021||---||To return or not, Punjab unions to decide today||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 28All 32 farm organisations of Punjab have decided to hold a joint meeting at Singhu tomorrow to discuss the prevailing situation and to decide on a “suitable time” to return home after winning the yearlong battle with the Centre.The meeting by Punjab’s outfits is being viewed as important, especially when the Samyukt Kisan Morcha heading the farm stir has announced it would meet on December 4 to decide the next course of action. Sources say some outfits are in favour of going back home after three farm laws’ repeal Bill is passed by Parliament and a joint committee, comprising representatives of farm outfits and government officials, is formed to consider the demand of MSP guarantee.“Punjab outfits want to reach a consensus over future strategy about ‘marching ahead’ or ‘going back home’ before the SKM’s proposed meeting on December 4,” said a farm leader. Buta Singh of the BKU (Dakonda) said, “The Punjab outfits will discuss when they are to return home, if the farm laws are repealed and a joint committee of farmers is formed. If that doesn’t happen, then the SKM will decide further course of action.” Pargat Singh of the BKU (Rajewal) said the meeting would be decisive, but the final call would be taken by the SKM on December 4.SKM leader Inderjit Singh said both Punjab and Haryana outfits used to hold separate meetings before the SKM meet. The final call was, however, taken unanimously by the SKM, he said. “Haryana outfits will also meet on December 4 morning before the SKM meeting,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-return-or-not-punjab-unions-to-decide-today-344194
29-11-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||HCS exam scam: Vigilance to procure 'dump footage' of CCTV cameras||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28The dump of the CCTV footage of cameras installed in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) office for the period of the conduct of the HCS examination on September 12 will be procured by the Vigilance Bureau for investigation, while it has already taken into possession the recordings in the run-up to the examination for the recruitment of dental surgeons.Rs1.08 cr was seizedSources maintained that the Bureau was also looking into a list of 30 candidates, 17 dental surgeons and 13 HSC aspirants, found in chats of the 2016-batch HCS officer Anil Nagar, a deputy secretary in the HPSC, and the other accused.The OMR sheets of the examination, in the custody of the Vigilance, will be examined for the forensic team. “They will look for difference of ink in the marking of answers, the difference in strokes used to mark the answers, among other things,” sources maintained.The arrest of the officer and two others came following a complaint to the Bureau by a Panchkula resident. Acting swiftly, the Bureau did its entire homework, prepared an action plan and apprised Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar of the developments who gave his nod. Within a few hours of receiving the information, the Vigilance launched the “operation”.Sources said that modus operandi involved the “interested” candidates contacting the agents who would finalise the “deal” and advise the candidate on how the exam was to be attempted, asking them not fill too many circles.After the exam, the candidates were required to hand over their copy of the OMR sheets to the agent who would “organise” the marking and take his payment.The tip-off came from a complainant who had approached the Bureau with the information that an agent was demanding Rs 40 lakh per candidate for the recruitment of a dental surgeon. He had expressed his apprehension that the HCS exam conducted prior to this could have been compromised as well.The complainant explained that his candidate had appeared in the exam. After the exam, the agent, Naveen, a former government employee, approached him and asked him to submit the actual OMR copy (there are three copies of which two are retained by the HPSC and sent for marking, while one is handed back to the candidate). Before handing over the copies to the agent, the candidate, with the idea of exposing this scam, clicked a picture of his original OMR sheet.It was decided that the complainant would approach the agent with Rs 20 lakh and the Bureau caught the agent, Naveen, red-handed. A resident of Jhajjar, Ashwini, was nabbed after Naveen gave out his name. He ran a company which scanned the OMR sheets for these exams. The Bureau recovered Rs 1.08 crore from his residence.He spilled the beans on Nagar and that the money was meant for him. The Bureau then laid another trap in which Ashwini called up Nagar, told him he wanted to deliver the money. The HCS officer asked him to come to the HPSC office. Nagar was nabbed in the presence of a duty magistrate as soon as he accepted the cash.Sources in the Vigilance Bureau said the entire amount had been recovered and there were no likely further linkages in this case. “Two other agents are on the run and search for them is on,” sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hcs-dental-exam-held-by-the-haryana-public-service-commission-vigilance-to-procure-dump-footage-of-cctv-cameras-344022
29-11-2021||---||Antyodaya fairs to make poor financially independent: Haryana CM||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28CM Manohar Lal Khattar said “Antyodaya Gram Utthan Melas” were being organised at the block level to make people aware of self-employment opportunities and welfare policies of the government.3.25L Families’ income less than Rs1 lakh1.5L Families’ personal info gathered272 Zones in which state has been dividedSurvey from todayAddressing a press conference here today, he said under the “Parivar Pehchan Patra” (PPP) scheme, the government was aiming at fostering entrepreneurial spirit among 1.5 lakh families with an income of less than Rs 1 lakh.“Since giving jobs to everybody is not possible, we want to make them self-employed and these melas would assess their potential and banks would make loans available,” Khattar said. In the first phase, a survey through these melas would be carried out from November 29 to December 25 and youth across the state would be given a chance to choose their profession at 180 places.He said the Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Utthan Yojana had been implemented to raise people’s standard of living and Antyodaya Gram Utthan Melas would be organised under this scheme across the state from tomorrow.“A campaign was launched to identify the eligible families. Of 3.25 lakh families whose income is less than Rs 1 lakh, personal information of 1.5 lakh families was taken. According to the schedule issued in each district, eligible families will be selected for business and self-employment on a large scale,” he said.The state has been divided into 272 zones and a nodal officer has been appointed in each zone. Besides, the duty of state-level officers has been imposed in which social workers and public representatives have also been included.The Chief Minister said the objective of this scheme was to strengthen families financially. “For this, 42 schemes have been identified. Efforts are being made to double the income of families from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh during the first phase of this campaign. Financial assistance will be taken from banks,” he said.He said bank officials would complete the loan formalities during the mela. “The government will also assist the eligible persons. Form submission desks will also be set up,” Khattar said.In the second phase, the work will be finalised by providing loans sanctioned in these melas in January. He said working with the spirit of service, the government was committed to making concrete efforts towards doubling the annual income of the people of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/antyodaya-fairs-to-make-poor-financially-independent-cm-344023
29-11-2021||Parveen Arora||Karnal village stadiums in poor shape||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 28Rajiv Gandhi Gramin Khel Stadiums in seven villages, which were started with much fanfare spending crores of rupees, are in pathetic condition. Most of them lack basic infrastructure. Broken boundary walls, windows and doors are enough to narrate the neglected state of these stadiums. The grounds are full of wild grass, causing inconvenience to budding sportspersons. The condition of the running tracks is also not good in almost all stadiums.Will renovate through MGNREGAWe are going to renovate these seven stadiums in the rural areas through the MGNREGA scheme. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy CommissionerIssue raised at various platformsThe ground is in low-lying area and little rain leads to waterlogging. We have raised the issue at various platforms, but to no avail. Vinay Kumar, Resident, Nigdhu villageGovt should give it a thoughtSeveral sportspersons, who have brought laurels for the country, come from the rural belt. The government should think about these stadiums. Virender Rathore, Congress SecyThe previous Congress government had constructed these stadiums in Ghoghripur, Nigdhu, Bastara, Jaisinghpura, Pundrak, Kalri Jagri and Gagsina villages, but almost all are in a shambles.In Nigdhu stadium, the boundary wall collapsed, but is not repaired. Besides, it does not have electricity and potable water facilities. “There are several cracks in the building walls and the windows are shattered. The ground is in low-lying area and little rain leads to waterlogging. We have raised the issue at various platforms, but to no avail,” said Vinay Kumar, a resident of Nigdhu village.The condition of Ghogripur stadium is almost the same as it lacks cleanliness. The track is in low-lying area and it requires to be filled with mud. The toilet is also in a poor state and the building requires whitewash. The boundary wall of the stadium in Pundrak village has collapsed, but not repaired. It does not have electricity connection, and the ground does not have proper level. The water pump is also lying non-functional and the bathroom is also in a bad shape.The stadium in Kalri Jagir village also lacks electricity and water connections. Windows are broken and the building requires whitewash, said residents.The stadium in Bastara village does not have electricity and proper washroom facilities. The broken windows need attention and the building requires whitewash. The stadium in Gagsina village is also in a pathetic condition as it boundary wall requires repair work as well as whitewash. It does not have electricity connection, due to which sports activities at night are not possible. The track is also in the low-lying area and the level needs to be raised, said the residents.The condition of the stadium in Jaisinghpura village is almost the same as it is also in the low-lying area and it is waterlogged during the rainy season. The boundary wall is also not complete. Doors and windows of the multi-purpose halls are broken, due to which electricity wires and other items have been stolen. Ground levelling is required.The opposition leaders accuse the government for not taking care of the sports infrastructure in the rural areas. Virender Rathore, Congress secretary, said the state government claim to uplift the sports infrastructure had fallen flat as the rural areas are not having basic facilities. Several sportspersons, who have brought laurels for the state and the country, come from the rural belt. “The government should think about these stadiums,” he said.The district authorities claim to renovate these stadiums through the MGNREGA scheme. “We are going to renovate these seven stadiums in the rural areas through the MGNREGA scheme. The tracks will be made and the greenery work will be done at the earliest in these stadiums,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner.“Our focus is on uplifting the sports infrastructure so that the sportspersons can get better facilities. All stadiums will have the electricity connections and their boundary walls, doors and windows will be repaired. The whitewash will also be done,” the DC said.As per the policy of the government, groundmen or guards will be appointed for the care of these stadiums, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-village-stadiums-in-poor-shape-344025
29-11-2021||Kurukshetra||1,500 take part in IGM Marathon||Nearly 1,500 persons from different states participated in the IGM marathon, organised as part of the International Gita Mahotsav celebrations here on Sunday morning.Haryana Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Sandeep Singh flagged off the marathon that started from Purushottam Pura Bagh of Brahma Sarovar.The marathon was jointly organised by the district administration, Kurukshetra Development Board and the Sports and Youth Affairs Department.In the men’s category, while Lokesh Chaudhry from Uttar Pradesh won the 10-km marathon and got Rs 31,000 cash award, Kuldeep Singh of Madhya Pradesh and Prince Kumar of Uttar Pradesh secured the second and third spot, respectively, and got Rs 21,000 and Rs 11,000 cash awards. In the women’s category, Sonika from Bhiwani won the 5-km marathon and got Rs 31,000 cash award, while Varsha from Hisar, and Kiran from Sonepat secured the second and third spot, respectively, and got Rs 21,000 and Rs 11,000 cash award.Besides the winners, Amit (Uttarakhand), Ashok (Karnal), Vipin (Panipat), Amarpreet (Ambala), Ravi (Kurukshetra), Santosh (Ambala), Mohit (Yamunanagar) in men’s category, while Sanju (Karnal), Arpita (Uttar Pradesh), Anita (Sonepat), Bhado (Bhiwani), Saneha (Rohtak), Rimpi (Ambala), and Babita (Uttar Pradesh) in the women’s category were awarded Rs 2,100 each as consolation prize.Minister Sandeep Singh said, “The youngsters have participated in the marathon enthusiastically. All young players should work hard and diligently in their respective sports and fields. We are confident that these youngsters will bring laurels for the country in all fields, including sports.”Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar, Kurukshetra Development Board CEO Anubhav Mehta, and honorary secretary of the board Madan Mohan Chhabra were among those present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-500-take-part-in-igm-marathon-344026
29-11-2021||Nitish Sharma||Voting rights of nominated councillors: MC seeks help from Local Bodies Dept||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 28After a row over voting rights of nominated councillors, the Municipal Corporation, Ambala, has sought directions from the Urban Local Bodies Department regarding the voting rights of nominated councillors in the House meetings.Two nominated councillors — Sandeep Sachdeva and Suresh Sahota — from the BJP were administered oath during the House meeting, recently. During the voting over an agenda, Sandeep Sachdeva wanted to exercise his vote during a House meeting.The elected councillors of Opposition parties, raised objections and claimed that the nominated councillors had no right to vote. Then Mayor had directed officials to get legal advice on this issue and take further action accordingly. Sachdeva said, “As per the MC Act, nominated councillors also have voting rights in ordinary course of business. There is general perception that the nominated councillors don’t have the right to vote, and the people don’t have clarity on this issue. Opposition members were just trying to create an issue. The government has nominated us and sent us to the House because of the expertise we have and suggestions that we can give for the betterment of the MC but if the nominated members wouldn’t get the right to vote then what is the point of sitting in the House. I will also approach the court if needed.” Congress councillor Mithun Verma said, “I had raised an objection on the voting right. As per the Act, nominated members don’t have the right to vote. I have shown the Act and the MC officials were satisfied. .”The Executive Officer, Ambala MC, Jarnail Singh, said, “A letter has been sent to the ULB seeking directions on the issue over voting rights.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/voting-rights-of-nominated-councillors-mc-seeks-help-from-local-bodies-dept-344027
29-11-2021||---||Heroin worth Rs26L seized, 2 held in Sirsa||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 28The Anti Narcotics Cell of the Sirsa police arrested two persons who were allegedly in possession of 260 gm of heroin worth Rs 26 lakh and recovered Rs 66,500 from them at Beharwala Khurd village in the Ellenabad subdivision of Sirsa district.The police said the accused, riding a motorcycle, had crossed over to the Haryana border from the Rajasthan side.A team of the Anti Narcotics Cell, headed by sub-inspector Data Ram, got suspicious about them and overpowered them when they tried to escape from the place on seeing the police.The Sirsa SP Arpit Jain said the accused had been identified as Ravinder Singh, alias Ravi, a resident of Talwara Lake in Rajasthan and Krishna, alias Roda, a resident of Ward No. 4 in Ellenabad town. He said during preliminary inquiry, the accused revealed that the heroin was brought from Rajasthan and was to be supplied in Ellenabad and surrounding areas.He said investigation had begun after registering a case under the Narcotics Act at the Ellenabad police station. “The police are trying to get to the network of the suppliers who were indulging in drug trafficking in the region,” he said while asking the public to cooperate with the police in the special campaign “Operation Clean” against drugs. The name of the informer would be kept strictly confidential, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/heroin-worth-26l-seized-2-held-344028
29-11-2021||Rohtak||Apologise to farmers' kin: Deepender Hooda||Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda has demanded that the Centre must apologise to the kin of farmers who died during the ongoing protest and also bring an obituary proposal in this regard in Parliament session commencing tomorrow.Accompanied by Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra, Deepender was addressing the media after flagging-off an ‘OBC Adhikar Pad Yatra’ at Ambedkar Chowk here today to mark the death anniversary of social reformer Mahatma Jyoti Ba Phule. The yatra, being taken out by members of OBCs, would culminate in Chandigarh on December 9.“At the beginning of the session tomorrow, the Centre should apologise to the kin of all 670 farmers who died to protect the farming sector and the future generations of farmers. An obituary proposal should also be passed in both Houses to pay tribute to them,” said the MP, adding that the Centre should also accept other demands of farmers.Meanwhile, Kishan Lal Panchal of Loktantra Suraksha Party joined the Congress on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/apologise-to-farmers-kin-mp-344029
29-11-2021||New Delhi||Haryana slashes VAT on jet fuel||Haryana has slashed the value added tax (VAT) on aviation turbine fuel to one per cent, making it the fifth state to reduce the levy on the fuel. In a series of tweets, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Sunday expressed his gratitude to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for the prompt action on reducing VAT on jet fuel.Scindia also noted that the decision would boost air connectivity and economic development in Haryana. “With this, Haryana becomes the eighth state/UT to slash the tax rate after Andaman & Nicobar Islands, J&K, Ladakh, HP, Uttarakhand, MP and Tripura,” he said.Scindia has been requesting states to reduce taxes on jet fue. With the current tax structure on the ATF, “you cannot have a robust civil aviation sector. I am very clear on that,” he had said. - PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-slashes-vat-on-jet-fuel-344030
29-11-2021||---||12% students did not attend online classes during pandemic, says report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28A report of the National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA) has indicated that 12 per cent students did not join online classes during the Covid-19 pandemic due to lack of internet. Meanwhile, 98.6 per cent respondents preferred offline classes.The report “National level survey on learning loss in school education during the pandemic”, released by Kulbhushan Sharma, NISA president, here today noted divide in schools from the rural parts of India with four per cent of 61 per cent respondents saying they used other non-interactive platforms like YouTube and Doordarshan for study.On stress level, it said 42.3 per cent of the total respondents reported that they went through stress and anxiety during pandemic.Sharma said NISA assessed the learning loss amongst school students of third, fifth and eighth grade during the Covid-19 pandemic at the national level.“The objective of the research is to understand and identify learning gaps that occurred in the pandemic,” Sharma added.Mother tongue challenges in reading were observed in all the urban zones. The difficulty level is higher in respondents in writing (mother tongue) compared to reading across all grades and zones. Surprisingly, difficulty level in reading skills (English) in urban schools are found to be higher at an aggregate of 30 per cent across all zones with third and fifth grade reporting major challenges compared to eighth grade.Grade three students have major challenges in mathematics with 44 per cent falling below Class I level (36 per cent) and Class II level (8 per cent).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-students-did-not-attend-online-classes-during-pandemic-says-report-344031
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Govt prepared to tackle new Covid variant, says Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said the government is fully prepared to tackle the new variant of Covid-19. “Continuous monitoring is being done by the Health Department and necessary instructions are being issued by the Disaster Management Department from time to time,” said Khattar. “Guidelines are being issued by Deputy Commissioners regarding the celebration of Gita Jayanti. Special steps will be taken by the government as required,” Khattar added.Answering questions after his press conference, here today, Khattar, said, “Whatever good suggestions come for improving mechanism in the recruitment of the HPSC, they will be considered for implementation.”Under the Mission Merit, he ended interviews in Group C and D recruitment and decided to give five extra marks to families, which do not have any member in government jobs, Khattar added. This had directly benefited many families of the state, said Khattar.Responding to another query the CM said, “The government has taken effective steps to curb corruption. If any complaint is received about corruption in any department or the SSC, then information can passed on to the Vigilance or the police. Information can also be given in the civil court.”“The Vigilance has been given full liberty to proceed against the guilty in the recent HPSC case. The roots of those involved in the scam are 20 years old and we have cracked the whip on them,” Khattar added. On farmers continuing to stay put at the Haryana-Delhi borders, the Khattar said he had already appealed to them to leave after the PM announced the repeal of farm laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-prepared-to-tackle-new-covid-variant-says-khattar-344032
29-11-2021||---||Doctors over 75 yrs honoured in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 28Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the process of opening one medical college in every district was under way to meet the demand of doctors in the state. He said a target had been set to prepare 2,500 doctors every year and for this, seats for the MBBS had been increased to 1,685 from 700 in 2014.Khattar was addressing the “Doctors Day Award function”, organised under the aegis of the Haryana Medical Council at Indradhanush Auditorium in Sector 5, Panchkula, today.Khattar and Health Minister Anil Vij honoured 90 doctors above the age of 75 years by presenting them the “Vat Vriksha Award”.Dr RS Sangwan, aged 92, from Sirsa was also among those who received the honour.The Chief Minister said at present, the number of doctors in both private and government sector in Haryana were about 13,000 to 14,000, whereas as per the United Nation Organisation norms, there should be one doctor per 1,000 population. If we consider the population of Haryana as 2.70 crore in 2021, then 27,000 doctors were required in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/docs-over-75-yrs-honoured-344033
29-11-2021||Karnal||AVSM conferred on Maj Gen Singh||Major General Virendra Singh (retd), VSM, has been conferred Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM) by President Ram Nath Kovind to recognise his distinguished service.He had joined the Madras Regiment in 1983 and served the Army for 37 years. He served in all terrain, including the LoC and in the North East, during counter-insurgency operations. A resident of Sector 13, Karnal, he studied at Sainik School Rewa in Madhya Pradesh. “It’s an honour to get this award. I exhort youths to join defence services and serve the nation,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/avsm-conferred-on-maj-gen-singh-344034
29-11-2021||Rohtak||PGIMS staff pledge organs||Fifteen staff members of the Rohtak PGIMS pledged organs to motivate people here.Those who filled the forms included the head of the Community Medicine Department, Dr RB Jain, Public Relations Department in charge Dr Varun Arora, nursing superintendent Ishwanti Malik, Deputy Medical Superintendent Dr Mahesh Mahla and chief security officer Ishwar Sharma. As many as 115 persons came forward for organ donation at the help-desk set up as part of an awareness drive.PGIMS Director Dr Geeta Gathwala said the growing awareness regarding organ donation indicated that the organ-transplantation facility would be launched at the institute in future. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pgims-staff-pledge-organs-344035
29-11-2021||Hisar||Alumni urged to make varsities  self-reliant||The Haryana Governor and Chancellor of Chaudhary Devi Lal University (CDLU), Sirsa, Bandaru Dattatreya, has called upon the alumni to come forward to contribute in making universities of the state self-reliant. He stressed that the alumni had a long lasting relationship with their mother institutes. The Governor was addressing the online “Alumni Meet” function of the CDLU today. He said the alumni were the capital of the educational institution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/alumni-urged-to-make-varsities-self-reliant-344036
29-11-2021||Chandigarh||Elusive Cabinet reshuffle||CM’s AIIMS announcement raises eyebrowsRewari: Though CM Manohar Lal Khattar during a rally here recently announced to lay the foundation stone of much-awaited AIIMS project soon, a section of those struggling to get the project executed are still not ready to believe it. They questioned how it would be possible without buying private land for the project. “The first step is to buy land, but the CM instead of doing so has announced the second step of laying the foundation stone. So, we still doubt the intention. The government should buy the land without further delay if it really wants to execute the project,” said a leader of AIIMS Sangharsh Samiti.Modi praises Khattar’s decision to learn JapaneseKurukshetra: CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s decision to learn Japanese earned praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Twitter, the PM wrote: “This is wonderful to know. I have known ML Khattar ji for years and he is someone who loves to learn new things. His decision to learn Japanese is another stop in that direction.” Khattar has become the first person to enrol for a three-month online basic certificate course in Japanese culture and language at Kurukshetra University.MC officials told touse public toiletsHisar: Municipal Commissioner Ashok Garg has ordered the staff in the MC office to use toilets in the MC office complex instead of the private ones in their respective offices. Garg had also taken a similar decision on January 16, 2020, as the Sirsa Deputy Commissioner when he had issued an official communication to all officers in the Mini Secretariat to lock private toilets and deposit the keys with the DC office. However, he was transferred on January 23. The decision aims at ensuring maintenance of the toilet facilities. “Let’s hope the decision will improve the condition of public toilets in Hisar,” said a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/elusive-cabinet-reshuffle-344037
29-11-2021||Karnal||Sports meet organised||CM attends online Japanese classKurukshetra: Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Sunday attended the online inaugural class of basic Japanese along with five senior officers of the Haryana Government. Khattar said in the opening remarks that knowing regional languages binds the nation in one thread. Now is the time for international unity, peace and business opportunities through learning international languages. Ranjan Gupta, the course instructor from Japan said, "It is important to know the history, culture and people of a country before knowing its language. This makes learning very easy, deep seated and convincing." VC KU Prof. Som Nath Sachdeva appreciated Harish Sachdeva, KU alumnus, managing director of Wisdom World School, Kurukshetra and CEO of Meritech Company Ltd ,Tokyo, Japan, for providing services of a very senior and experienced teacher of Japanese, Ranjan Gupta.NCC day celebratedKarnal: NCC Air Wing and NCC Army Wing of the KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, celebrated NCC Day. A poster-making competition, speech and poetical recitation competition were organised on the topic of pollution prevention and cleanliness to bring in limelight the subliminal talent of cadets. The cadets participated in the events with great gusto. The rincipal of the college, Renu Mehta, exhorted the cadets to continue following the rich tradition and customs of the NCC.Three MoUs signedHisar: The Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences signed three memorandum of understanding (MoUs) on Sunday in the field of training and research with Ayurvet Limited, Ghaziabad, Ayurvet Research Foundation, Sonepat and Chaudhary Bhagmal Sewa Samiti, Jind, respectively. University spokesperson informed that the MoU would be valid for five years with Ayurvet Limited Ghaziabad and for three years with Ayurvet Research Foundation and Chaudhary Bhagmal Sewa Samiti, Jind. The emphasis will be on training of farmers in the programmes and the research work done in various new technologies in the university will be directly accessible to the farmers in the field.Constitution DayKarnal: Constitution Day was celebrated by the department of political science and political science association of RKSD College, Kaithal. Principal Sanjay Goyal said it was necessary to celebrate this day to pass on the democratic values of India to the future generations. The former head of the department, Dr RK Gupta gave his address on the topic 'Challenges and achievements before the constitution'.E-rickshaw facilitySirsa: An e-rickshaw facility has been provided to students of Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa. The provision has been provided to facilitate the students to commute inside the campus. Apart from making the movement hassle free, it will also ensure a pollution-free environment and help in keeping the campus noise and smoke free. Professor Ajmer Singh Malik, Vice-Chancellor, stated that the university would do its level best to provide each and every facility to make the stay of the students on the campus easy and healthy.Workshop on 'no to junk food'Kurukshetra: Tagore Global School, Kurukshetra, conducted a workshop on 'No to junk food' to encourage students to adopt healthy eating habits and making them aware of the harmful effects of junk food. A power point presentation was made. The interaction gave them insights on various aspects and effects that stem out from consuming processed food. The workshop was conducted by Suvidha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sports-meet-organised-344038
29-11-2021||The recent report of the district health authorities that Mahendragah has witnessed a spike of 70 per cent in cases of airborne diseases due to stone crushers and other reasons has raised a question mark over the functioning of the district administration. It is the responsibility of the authorities to take strict action against those polluting the environment with impunity so that locals can be protected from respiratory||Spike in airborne diseases worrisome||Carpeting work causes inconvenienceThe carpeting work is being carried out on the National Highway-44. Though the work is important to make roads pothole free, the same work has become a cause of inconvenience to commuters. Long traffic jams are being witnessed, especially during the late hours. The traffic should be regulated and diverted to ensure smooth flow of traffic on the NH. Ajay Kumar, KurukshetraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/spike-in-airborne-diseases-worrisome-344039
