30-11-2021||New Delhi||Govt seeks names of farmer leaders for panel on MSP, other issues||To constitute a committee for discussion on MSP and other issues, the Centre has sought five names from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and it will be decided by the umbrella body of farmer unions in its December 4 meeting, farmer leader Darshan Pal said on Tuesday.The move comes a day after both Houses of Parliament passed a Bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws against which farmers have been protesting for a year.“Today, the Centre has asked for five names from SKM for the committee that will deliberate on the issue of minimum support price (MSP) for crops. We have not yet decided on the names. We will decide this in our December 4 meeting,” Pal told PTI.The SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, has been spearheading the farmers’ movement against the three farm laws and their other demands, including a legal guarantee for MSP.Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that a committee would be formed to take decisions on the subjects of promoting zero budgeting-based agriculture, changing crop patterns as per the changing needs of the country, and making MSP more effective and transparent.He made the announcement during his address to the nation in which he also stated that the government has decided to repeal the three farm laws, which were at the centre of protests by farmers for the past year. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/centre-seeks-5-names-from-farmer-unions-for-panel-on-msp-and-other-issues-darshan-pal-344716
30-11-2021||Pradeep Sharma ||New Haryana Chief Secretary Kaushal follows in footsteps of father-in-law, brother||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 30 The 1986-batch IAS officer Sanjeev Kaushal, who was elevated by the Haryana Government as state’s chief secretary on Tuesday, has carried forward family’s legacy by becoming third person from the family to don Chief Secretary’s hat. Following in the footsteps of his illustrious father-in-law BS Ojha and his elder brother Sarvesh Kaushal, Kaushal’s elevation has not come a surprise as he was the senior-most officer in the state administration and front-runner for the top post. While Ojha was the Haryana Chief Secretary in the early nineties, Sarvesh Kaushal has been the Punjab Chief Secretary. In fact, Kaushal’s father late Baldev Kaushal was Engineer-in-Chief with the Haryana Government.Kaushal has succeeded Vijai Vardhan, who retired today. Kaushal has sufficient service left with his retirement due on July 31, 2024. Kaushal had also been the Principal Secretary to Chief Minister when the BJP formed the government under Manohar Lal Khattar in 2014. Considered to be a competent and yet sensitive officer, Kaushal has been instrumental in executing two major pet projects of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar during his tenure as the Financial Commissioner Revenue (FCR). These are the modernisation of the age-old revenue record rooms and project to make Haryana “lal dora” free. Source said though the appointment of the Chief Secretary was the prerogative of the state government, yet the Khattar was keen on following the principle of seniority. “Kaushal was chief minister’s obvious choice given his vast experience, affable nature and non-controversial conduct,” the source asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-haryana-chief-secretary-kaushal-follows-in-footsteps-of-father-in-law-brother-344697
30-11-2021||---||6 killed as cars collide in Haryana’s Kaithal||Karnal, November 30Six people were killed and four others injured in a head-on collision between two cars in Haryana’s Kaithal.The accident occurred near Pai village in the district on Tuesday morning.According to the police, the accident took place at around 7 am when an I-10 and a Swift Dezire collided.Six occupants of the I-10 were returning to Pundri after attending a marriage, while four occupants in Dezire were going from Kurukshetra to Malhar village in Kaithal.The four deceased travelling in the I-10 were identified as Satyam (26), a resident of Bareli; Ramesh (55) of Pundri, Anil (55) of Narwana and Shivam (20) of Hisar.The two deceased travelling in the Dezire were identified as Vinod (34) and wife Rajbala (27), residents of Malhar village. Their son Viraj (7), received injuries. Sonia of Malhar village also sustained injuries.Satish of Pundri and Balraj of Narwana, who were traveling in I-10, sustained injuries.The injured are being treated at the Kaithal civil hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-killed-as-cars-collide-in-haryanas-kaithal-344664
30-11-2021||The day at the red light squares of the national highway in the city. When there is a ban on begging in the country||Begging menace continues in Karnal||Commuters drive in darknessThe main dividing road of Sector 5-6 (near Belle Vista hotel) in Panchkula says it all. With tilted electricity pole and the road lights also being in an “off” mode (upto Geeta Chowk) for the past many days, one can well imagine the impending plight of the road users on this stretch. Ironically, the city's power department seems to be oblivious to its onerous responsibilities towards the commuters. —Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribuneinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/begging-menace-continues-in-karnal-344606
30-11-2021||Parveen Arora||16,380 acres identified for land bank in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 29To overcome the problems being faced during land acquisition for any project and to speed up projects, a land bank has been set up in Karnal on pilot basis under which various departments have identified 16,380 acres.Through the land bank, the state government aims at determining the area of different departments that can be used for development works.Land categoriesAs per the authorities, whenever the government starts a big project, it faces land issues. “Sometime, farmers disagree to provide the land or the project gets delayed due to other issues, leading to increase in the cost of the project. Once, this pilot project is successful, similar land banks will be established across the state,” said an official.First in stateThe govt usually faces problems in acquiring land, resulting in project delay and unexpected rise in the project cost. So, it has decided to set up a land bank. Karnal is the first district where this project has been initiated on pilot basis. —Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC“There are seven categories — shamlat land of Panchayati Raj Department, land of civic bodies, unclaimed land after the death of owner, evacuee land, unutilised acquired land by different departments, land of HAFED and the central government land. All departments have identified a total of 16,380 acres,” said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav.“Many a time when the government comes up with a project, it faces problems in acquiring land, resulting in the project delay as well as unexpected rise in the project value. So, the government has decided to set up a land bank to avoid any unnecessary delay. Karnal is the first district where this project has been initiated on pilot basis. Now, we have a data of the land where we can start development works,” the DC said.He said since there were several amendments in the Land Acquisition Act, making land acquisition a herculean task, this bank would prove to be a milestone in speeding up the projects.“We have written to the government to issue a notification, making it the owner of these land. It will also help address encroachment issues,” Yadav added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/16-380-acres-identified-for-land-bank-in-karnal-344552
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Officials allowed personal use of government vehicles by paying Rs1/km||The BJP-JJP government has unveiled a bonanza for the state government officers, including members of the IAS, IRS, IES and HCS. Officers can now use official vehicles for their personal use at the rate of Rs 1 per km.An order of the Chief Secretary said this facility would be available to all administrative secretaries, managing directors of boards/corporations, heads of various departments, Principal Secretary to the CM, Additional Principal Secretary to the CM, Deputy Principal Secretary to the CM, OSD to the CM, and all-India service and HCS officers, who have government vehicles attached with them.However, the government has capped the total distance for private journey to 1,000 km per month.“An amount of Rs 1,000 will be deducted from the salary of officers unless the officers concerned submit in writing that they have not been provided with any such vehicle and/or they do not use any such vehicles for private use, including journeys between residence and office, and back,” the order said.Meanwhile, the decision has come in for severe criticism.Naveen Jaihind, AAP leader, termed the decision “illegal” and “discriminatory”, alleging that it would drain the state’s scarce resources. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/officials-allowed-personal-use-of-govt-vehicles-by-paying-1-km-344554
30-11-2021||s||Retd doctors treat 14K  farmers at Tikri border||Rohtak, November 29Many social outfits, charitable societies, medical professionals and political leaders came forward to provide free medical aid to protesting farmers when they camped at the Tikri border last year, but now only a few are left, who are still serving protesters.A team of retired government employees, including SMO Dr Ranbir Khasa, PGIMS doctor Dr RS Dahiya, Medical Superintendent Dr OP Lathwal, District Health Officers Dr Balram Kadian and pharmacists Azad Siwach and Ranbir Kadian from Rohtak, is one of them.So far, the team has treated around 14,000 farmers and provided them free medicines since last year.Significantly, Dr Khasa and Dr Dahiya also conduct free OPD on two days in a week at Kishan Pura in Rohtak city for the poor people.“We set up a medical camp at Tikri on learning that many farmers are unhealthy and need medical aid on a daily basis. Our team contacted socially active people, who provided us free medicines throughout the year,” said Dr Dahiya.Dr Khasa said a majority of patients coming to the camp were suffering from cough, cold, joint pains, back ache, abdominal pain, high blood pressure, diabetes, anxiety, blunt injuries, urinary problems and fever.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retd-doctors-treat-14k-farmers-at-tikri-border-344555
30-11-2021||Kurukshetra||Will gherao DC office if dues not paid: Farmers||The BKU (Charuni) has threatened to gherao the office of the Deputy Commissioner on December 2 if the pending payment of paddy farmers was not cleared by December 1.The union today staged a dharna at the District Food and Supplies Controller (DFSC) office in Kurukshetra to mark their protest.BKU (Charuni) spokesman said: “Over 6,000 farmers in the state have been awaiting dues even weeks after the procurement.” DFSC KK Goyal said: “Duesare likely to be cleared in a day or two.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-gherao-dc-office-if-dues-not-paid-farmers-344556
30-11-2021||---||3 of Neeraj Bawana?s gang held||Karnal, November 29A team of special staff of the Karnal police in Assandh has arrested three members of gangster Neeraj Bawana’s gang. The police also recovered two pistols, a bulletproof Scorpio and 66 cartridges from their possession.The accused have been identified as Arvind from Panipat, Amit of Sonepet, and Aman of Jind district.On a tip-off received about smuggling of illegal weapons, the police set up a naka near Maharana Pratap Chowk in Salwan on Sunday night and arrested the trio with illegal weapons. During the investigation, the arrested persons revealed that they were members of gangster Neeraj Bawana’s gang and had brought weapons from UP.Two cases under the Arms Act are already registered in Delhi against Arvind. A case under the Arms Act has also been registered against the arrested persons at Assandh police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-of-neeraj-bawanas-gang-held-344557
30-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||No mobile phones during field duty: SP||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 29Except policemen in-charge, other members of teams engaged in field duties like VIP security, traffic management, nakas and public places would now not be able to use their mobile phones during working hours.Superintendent of Police (SP) Waseem Akram has restricted the cops from using mobile phones while performing such duties. The orders were issued after the SP found three cops deployed at a checkpoint on the Jhajjar-Bahadurgarh road busing talking on cellphones instead of keeping vigil on public movement. Significantly, a clarification has also been sought from the trio by putting them on notice in this respect. Actually, the police had put up special nakas at various places in the district to prevent any untoward incident during the first anniversary of the ongoing farmers’ protest celebrations at Tikri on November 26. The SP was on the inspection when the three were found using cellphones during duty hours.“The policemen are deputed at nakas and other public places to keep a tab on every moment, but it has been found that the cops use cellphones for their entertainment instead of discharging their duties. Such acts not only adversely affect their efficiency, but also promote indiscipline while the cops are supposed to remain attentive while performing such duties,” said Akram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-mobile-phones-during-field-duty-sp-344558
30-11-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram air most polluted in NCR||With cyber city Gurugram recording the AQI of 395, it was most polluted in Delhi-NCR on Monday. The AQI stood at 372 on Sunday. As the level of air pollution was eight times more than the normal, there was a blanket of haze in the morning.While Delhi’s AQI was 389, Noida’s was 356, Ghaziabad’s was 365 and Faridabad’s was 276, the air quality of Gurugram was the worst in these cities. Due to polluted air, respiratory patients faced problems. The maximum crowd in hospitals was in OPDs with many reaching there with complaints of problems due to pollution. Pollution levels are measured at four centres in the city. According to the data of the Central Pollution Control Board, the maximum pollution was in Sector 51 and its adjoining areas on Monday morning. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-air-most-polluted-in-ncr-344559
30-11-2021||---||Wife, paramour held for man?s murder||Karnal, November 29With the arrest of his wife, her paramour and their accomplice, the CIA-2 of the Karnal police claimed to have solved the blind murder of a 34-year-old graphic designer from Nilokheri.Amandeep Singh, who worked for a pharmaceutical firm here, was allegedly killed by his wife Ravinder Kaur, her paramour Harshpal and Kunal — all residents of Baldev Nagar in Ambala.CIA-2 incharge Mohan Lal said Amandeep was found dead in a field near a gurdwara between Nilokheri and Taraori on November 25.During the probe, the wife confessed to being in an illicit relationship with Harshpal, whom she knew since childhood, and she continued to meet him even after marrying Amandeep. “Harshpal, too, was married to another woman. Amandeep was aware of their relationship, but could not do anything as Ravinder had threatened to leave him,” Mohan Lal said.“Amandeep used to consume opium and on November 24, Harshpal, on the pretext of giving him the drug, called him to the field between Nilokheri and Taraori. Accompanied by Kunal and one more person, Harshpal attacked Amandeep with a hammer,” Mohan Lal said.The accused were held from Ambala on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wife-paramour-held-for-mans-murder-344561
30-11-2021||---||Man gets death for raping, killing minor||Jhajjar, November 29The Additional Sessions Judge today awarded death penalty to a 28-year-old man, identified as Vinod, alias Munna, for abducting, raping and murdering the five-year-old daughter of a migrant labourer from Madhya Pradesh over 11 months ago, said Dhirendra Hooda, Public Prosecutor.According to information, the accused had kidnapped the girl from her rented house in Jhajjar city and then took her to his house on the December 20-21 night last year where he raped and murdered her. The victim’s father informed the police, who rushed to the spot and broke open the main door of the house. The police found the girl dead, while the accused was in an inebriated condition.Later, a case under Sections 376 AB, 302 and 365 of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act was filed against the accused on the complaint of the victim’s father.Acting swiftly, then Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal ensured filing of a chargesheet within eight days while making 25 persons witnesses in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-gets-death-for-raping-killing-minor-344562
30-11-2021||Faridabad||Girl assaulted in Faridabad||A 21-year-old girl was injured after she was assaulted by a male friend in a hotel here this noon. As the victim has been admitted to a hospital, a case of attempt to murder has been registered.According to the police, the incident took place around 3 pm today, after a youth accompanied by his girlfriend had checked into a hotel at the NIT here. It was reported that the accused identified as Yash (23) attacked the girl with a sharp-edged weapon after a quarrel related to their relationship. As the girl fell down, the accused fled. The police reached the spot after they were informed by the hotel staff. The condition of the victim is reported to be stable. The exact cause of the incident is yet to be ascertained. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girl-assaulted-in-faridabad-344565
30-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram cop attacked, three nabbed||Gurugram, November 29A Gurugram policeman was attacked by four persons when he stopped them from drinking in public. Three persons were nabbed from the spot but the fourth managed to flee.An FIR has been registered at Bajghera police station in this regard.The incident happened on Sunday night when ASI Shastra Kumar, along with his team, was patrolling near Nihal Colony on Rajendra Park Road.“During patrolling, I found the four accused drinking publicly. I tried to stop them, but they pushed me and threw me in a drain. One of them also hit me with a brick on my head,” the ASI said. The police said raids were on to nab the fourth accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-cop-attacked-three-nabbed-344566
30-11-2021||Gurugram||Techie held for impersonation in BSF exam||The police have arrested a techie for allegedly impersonating a candidate in the BSF recruitment exam after taking Rs 1.5 lakh from him. A BSF Vigilance Team nabbed him when he appeared for the examination.According to the police, an examination was held on Sunday for Group-‘C’ posts of AAM (ASI) Avionics, AAM (ASI) Mechanical and ARM (ASI) Avionics in the BSF Air Wing at Lady Florence Public School, Bengumpur Khatola village. During the checking by the BSF Vigilance Team, Partik, a resident of Sarsod village in Hisar, was found appearing in the examination instead of the actual candidate, Kapil Kumar. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/techie-held-for-impersonation-in-bsf-exam-344568
30-11-2021||---||Haryana recruitment scam: OMR sheets, roll Nos. not recovered, court slams IO||Chandigarh, November 29Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala today alleged cover-up in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) recruitment scam, where Haryana Civil Services officer Anil Nagar has been named the main accused.At a press meet here, Surjewala said the State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) was trying to bury the investigation just like what had been done in the previous Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) scam.HPSC: New firm handling portalThe court of the Panchkula Chief Judicial Magistrate, Nitin Raj, had recently come down heavily on the Investigating Officer (IO) of the HPSC scam over non-recovery of copies of roll numbers and OMR sheets of candidates who appeared in a dental surgeon examination and pre-examination of Haryana Civil Services (HCS).Surjewala questioned that on whose instructions a private firm, Safedot E Solution Pvt Ltd, got the contract of online applications for the HPSC recruitments. He pointed out that the FIR and remand applications mentioned allegations against the private firm.“The HPSC’s former chairman had dis-empanelled the firm, but incumbent chairman Alok Verma approved it again. Why has he not been questioned yet?” Surjewala said.He also questioned the SVB for not questioning or raiding other accused in the case.He pointed out anomalies in the remand applications of accused Anil Nagar, Ashwani Sharma and Naveen Kumar, after which the court denied their police custody on November 23. The court had observed that on the previous hearing on November 19 too, the IO had sought Nagar’s remand to recover documents from Rohtak and the HPSC office in Panchkula. But when the IO was asked to produce the DDR entry of the local police station regarding his visit to Rohtak, “he had expressed inability to furnish it”, the court had observed, adding that one-day remand of Ashwani and Naveenwas also taken on November 22 on the pretext that documents were to be recovered from Solan, but the IO again failed to furnish the DDR entries.Reading out the court observations, Surjewala said: “The court observed that the IO had said though he was heading the SIT constituted to probe the matter, another IO would be able to explain why the accused were not taken to Rohtak and Solan on availing police remand of the accused on November 19. In view of this observation, the plea of counsel for the defence that the IO is not serious in the recovery of articles and only interested in keeping the accused in custody attains gravity.”He said when a lower court had denied police custody of the accused, why the order was not challenged in a higher court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/omr-sheets-roll-nos-not-recovered-court-slams-io-344497
30-11-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Hooda targets CM Khattar, alleges jobs being sold||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 29Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda today took a dig at CM Manohar Lal Khattar, saying: “CM Khattar says there is transparency and merit in recruitments. The merit is a suitcase full of currency notes. The cat is out of the bag. The jobs are being sold as if it is a ‘parchoon ki dukaan’.”During an interview with The Tribune, he hailed the passage of the Farm Laws Repeal Bill in the Lok Sabha today, but demanded a law guaranteeing the Minimum Support Price (MSP). “It is wrong to suggest that the law on MSP is not feasible. If the government is spending money on purchasing crops, it is going to sell them too.” he said.Probe matterEarlier, it was HSSC and now it is HPSC. No one is questioning the HPSC chairman. It should be investigated by a sitting High Court judge. —Bhupinder Hooda, Ex-chief minister“The kin of those who died during the struggle should get jobs and compensation and cases against farmers should also be withdrawn.” On Khattar’s “Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Uthan Yojana”, he said it was an attempt to throw dust in people’s eyes. “What survey have they done? People already have ration cards. Today, the state has maximum rate of unemployment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-targets-khattar-alleges-jobs-being-sold-344500
30-11-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana government diverting attention from job scam: Kumari Selja||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kumari Selja today said the BJP-JJP government was trying to divert the attention of people from the job scam.“The government does not want a fair investigation into the scam. CM Manohar Lal Khattar said it is not possible to investigate 85,000 recruitments conducted during his tenure and only those will be investigated whose complaints have been received. This shows that the government is trying to hide this scam,” she said, adding that it was clear the money was taken from educated unemployed youth to ensure that they cleared the teacher eligibility test conducted by the Haryana School Education Board.Later, more money was charged from them and they were appointed as lecturer through the Haryana Public Service Commission or teacher through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/government-diverting-attention-kumari-selja-344502
30-11-2021||Ravinder Saini||Indira Gandhi University hikes BEd exam fee, private colleges upset||Tribune News ServiceRewari, November 29Indira Gandhi University (IGU) has hiked exam fee up to 70 per cent for the Bachelor of Education (BEd) course being run by the self-financing colleges in Rewari and Mahendragarh districts. Earlier, the fee was Rs 1,000 per student for all colleges, but it has now been enhanced to Rs 1,700 per student only for private colleges.Significantly, no change has been made in the exam fee charged by the government and government-aided colleges for the course. Upset over the development, the self-financing colleges said the fee hike would burden the students. Even the difference in the exam fee for government and private colleges was also not justified, they said.Panel recommended fee hikeThe hike had been made following the suggestions of a committee formed to revise the fee structure for various courses. —Suresh Dhanerwal, controller of examination“The IGU is the only university in the state, which will charge 70 per cent higher exam fee from the BEd students of private colleges than the government and government-aided ones whereas the exam fee for the course is same for all colleges in other universities of the state. We have urged the IGU authorities to withdraw the hike, otherwise we will have no other option but to move a court,” said Satish Khola, president, Haryana Self Finance Private College Association, adding that the IGU was already charging higher exam fee than other universities in the state.He said the decision would adversely affect several thousand students enrolled in both — previous and final year of BEd course being run by 70 private colleges of Rewari and Mahendragarh district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/igu-hikes-bed-exam-fee-pvt-colleges-upset-344503
30-11-2021||Saurabh Malik||Developer to bear cost of  development for common facilities, says High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that development cost incurred, or to be incurred, for providing common facilities was required to be borne by the developer in case of land acquisition. The High Court has also made it clear that landowners, deprived of their property, stood in the shoes of a loser even if some part of the acquired land was being used for providing common facilities.The ruling by Justice Anil Kshetarpal on a bunch of 105 regular first appeals related to allotment of approximately 700 acres of land acquired by Haryana State Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) to Maruti Suzuki India Limited.Taking up the appeals by Jai Singh and other appellants, Justice Kshetarpal observed the question for consideration was whether it was mandatory for the court to impose a development cut or deduction on the base value arrived on the basis of the “sale exemplars of sufficiently large tract of land available for the contemporaneous period” while assessing the market value of acquired land under the Land Acquisition Act.Justice Kshetarpal asserted the legislature’s intention was not to put the landowners through double whammy. On one hand, their immovable property was compulsorily taken away. On the other, they were not being compensated adequately due to the deduction towards development.Justice Kshetarpal added it would not be appropriate to apply a development cut for assessment either towards development cost or area to be used for passages, roads, drains, parks, etc., once a large chunk of agricultural land was being acquired for carving out a residential, commercial or industrial colony and the sale exemplars of reasonable size plots of agricultural land were available.Justice Kshetarpal also added the landowner did not gain anything exclusively out of land reservation for common facilities. “The development agency, organisation, coloniser or the government does not sell the developed plots on the market value assessed by the court. The plots are sold while determining price on basis of the demand and supply. Usually, the plots are sold on the basis of price determined on per square feet or per sq yard basis and not on per acre. Therefore, certain percentage of land utilised for carrying out development activities like passages, roads, drains, parks, etc. is to be accounted for by the developer and not the landowner”.Justice Kshetarpal allowed appeals filed by the landowners and dismissed appeal by Maruti Suzuki India Limited. The owners of land abutting the national highway up to distance equivalent to one acre were held entitled to market value at Rs 44,69,547 per acre. The remaining owners of acquired land were held entitled to the market value at Rs 40,20,823 per acre along with all statutory benefits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/developer-to-bear-cost-of-development-for-common-facilities-says-high-court-344505
30-11-2021||Parveen Arora||Much-hyped open-air gyms in Haryana's Karnal defunct||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 29Once a health-enthusiast puller, the open-air gyms in a majority of the public parks across the city are in poor state. Broken equipment are a disappointment to morning and evening walkers who come to these parks frequently to exercise. Equipment have either been damaged or stolen by miscreants. Several equipment are rusting in the absence of care by the authorities.With an aim to create a healthy Karnal city, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Karnal Smart City Ltd, (KSCL), set up around 120 open air gyms out of total 185 small and big parks at the cost of around Rs 6.5 crore, but most of them are of no use to the public due to pathetic condition. The first open-air gym was installed in the city in 2016, said an official.Good ConceptThe concept of open-air gym was excellent to attract people to do exercise everyday in the open, but most of the gyms in the city are non-functional due to poor upkeep. —Malak Singh, Resident of shaktipuramDoes not serve any purposeA large number of health conscious people visit Karan Park daily, but due to non-maintenance of the gym, they are not getting the benefits of the open-air gym. —Amit Ahuja, ResidentMaintenance of equipment mustWe demand the authorities should keep a vigil on the maintenance of the equipment. —Vir Vikram Kumar, CouncillorKMC to help in repair workGyms which are under the defect liability period will be repaired by the agencies and those that are not in the defect liability period will be repaired by the KMC. —Dr Manoj Kumar, CommissionerResidents allege that the authorities are showing no interest in maintaining these gyms. “Atal Park is the largest park of the city and open air gym is also set up here, but most of the equipment of this gym are defunct. Seats and foot stands of various equipment are missing for the past several months, but nobody is here to look after the equipment even after reminding the authorities,” said Rishipal Arya, a resident of Raghunath Nagar.The situation is almost the same in Karan Park near the Manav Sewa Sangh as the equipment are waiting to be repaired. “A large number of health conscious people visit this park daily, but due to non-maintenance of the gym, they are not getting the benefits of the open-air gym,” said Amit Ahuja, a resident of the city.Gym equipment are in bad shape at Shaktipuram Park, Sector 7 Park, Sector 6 Park, Sector 13 parks, and other parks of the city. “The concept of open-air gym was excellent to attract people to do exercise everyday in the open, but most of the gyms in the city are lying non-functional due to poor upkeep. These are machines and require regular service and maintenance, but the authorities have been looking the other way,” said Malak Singh, a resident of Shaktipuram.Vir Vikram Kumar, councillor, Ward10, said four open-air gyms were in poor condition and he had raised the issue with the authorities to get it repaired. “We demand the authorities should keep a vigil on the maintenance of the equipment,” he added.Officials of the KMC say that the defect liability period of most of the gyms has been completed. Monika Sharma, XEN, KMC, said the KMC had hired agencies which had the responsibility of replacing or repairing the equipment under the defect liability period. Several equipment were repaired or replaced by the agency but now the defect liability period of most of the gyms is completed.Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, said those gyms which were under the defect liability period would be repaired by the agencies and those that were not in the defect liability period would be repaired by the KMC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/much-hyped-open-air-gyms-defunct-344518
30-11-2021||Faridabad||Rs 315-cr bridge over Yamuna most-delayed project in Faridabad district||The project of the construction of the Rs 315-crore bridge over the Yamuna river to connect Faridabad with Greater Noida has emerged as the most-delayed and time-consuming project of the district.With over seven years passed and five deadlines missed, the project is not likely to be ready by the next deadline of March 31, 2022. The foundation of the project was laid on August 15, 2014.65 pc civil work done65 per cent of the civil work is over and the remaining work is expected to be completed within the next four months. —Pradeep Sindhu, Executive engineer, PWDMarred by initial delay of over three years after its foundation, the construction of the bridge over the Yamuna could have been fastened in February 2018 with the assurance of it being completed by December 31, 2019. The deadlines were later revised to March 2020, June 2020, December 2021 and June 2021, mainly due to the delays associated with the work.Sources in the PWD claim that the deadline of March next year may also be missed if the work fails to gain momentum. Pradeep Sindhu, Executive Engineer, PWD, said 65 per cent of the civil work was over and the work was expected to be complete within the next four months. Admitting delays, he said the work was halted due heavy flow of water in the river bed for the past five months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/315-cr-bridge-over-yamuna-most-delayed-project-in-dist-344526
30-11-2021||Hisar||Hisar vet university conducts entrance test||IGU holds induction programmeRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) organised a student induction programme that was inaugurated by chief guest Raj Nehru, Vice-Chancellor, Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Palwal, by lamp lighting. IGU Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said teachers and students together could take this university to great heights. Nehru said with a new approach, this programme should be made a source of inspiration and a medium of learning. He said that teaching should go along with employable skill development.Date for PhD admissions extendedMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana has extended last date upto December 5 for submitting an online application for admission to the PhD courses in various departments. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeswar said the MCQ-based entrance test for the courses will be conducted offline on the university campus.Talent hunt eventKurukshetra: Markanda National College, Shahabad Markanda, organised a talent hunt event, which was sponsored by the department of youth and cultural affairs, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. Students' hidden talents were unleashed through events such as dancing, singing, instrumental music, poetry recitation, speech, painting, quiz, rangoli making etc. The function was presided over by Dr Ashok Kumar, college principal. More than 150 students took part in various activities. The cultural committee along with a jury of college faculty members judged the events. Three winners were announced for each event. The cultural activity was attended by all faculty, staff and students of the college.DAV PG College gets gold medalKarnal: DAV PG College, Karnal, won a gold medal by winning first position in Inter Zonal Volleyball Championship that was organised by Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, from November 23-25. Eight students - Sawan, Abhishek, Vedpal, Ankit, Harsh Sameer, Raman and Vikram have been selected to represent Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, in the north zone. Principal, Dr. Rampal Saini congratulated the incharge of sports DrJitendra Chauhan and the winners.Newsletter launchedHisar: Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatraya said the media played a very vital role in a democracy as it was a communication link between the government and the masses. He said the media disseminated the welfare schemes of the government among the people and that the role of the press was crucial in strengthening a democracy. He was speaking at the launch of the first edition of the Chaudhary Devi Lal University newsletter launched by the department of journalism and mass communication. Vice-Chancellor Dr Ajmer Singh Malik along with Dr Amit Sangwan, editor of the newsletter and director public relations of the university, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/entrance-test-conducted-344527
30-11-2021||Nitish Sharma||Kurukshetra tourist centres yet to resume ops||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, November 29The International Gita Mahotsav is about to begin, but all three Tourist Information and Facilitation Centres (TIFC) are yet to start operations in Kurukshetra.The mahotsav will start with a crafts fair from December 2, while the main events will begin from December 9.As tourists from different states will reach Kurukshetra, the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) wants to resume operations before the beginning of the mahotsav.Initially, the centres were maintained by the KDB, but due to the lack of manpower, the centres were shut. In fact, the board wanted to hand over the operations to the Tourism Department. Later, after discussions, it was decided to hire private agencies to run the centres, following which three tenders were floated.The tenders were invited for the operation, management and maintenance of cloakroom, food refreshment counter, retiring room and prepaid cab counters. All required infrastructure is already there and the agencies will be maintaining the centre besides providing all these facilities.An official said no bids were received when the tender was opened on November 12. Later, the tenders were floated again and opened on November 29.Honorary secretary of the board Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “The tender was opened today and some people have shown interest in operating the centres. After technical assessment, further action will be taken. The board wants to start the operations at all three centres at the earliest as the mahostav is about to begin very soon.”Lying closed for 20 monthsThe TIFCs were opened at three locations — at Pipli, near Gurdwara Chhati Patshahi and Brahma Sarovar — at a cost of Rs 2 crore to facilitate tourists. However, in the absence of manpower, the centres have been lying closed for nearly 20 months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-tourist-centres-yet-to-resume-ops-344529
30-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Gurugram hospitals put on Omicron alert||Gurugram, November 29Following state orders, a meeting of private hospitals’ management was held at the Civil Surgeon’s office to discuss the new Covid variant, Omicron, and district’s preparedness for it.All private hospitals have been directed to remain vigilant. Samples will be sent for genome sequencing if any international traveller tests positive. Civil Surgeon Dr Virender Yadav asked hospitals to share complete information of international travellers twice a week with the district authorities.Prepared for variantWe have put all labs and hospitals on alert and asked them to follow all protocols. We are ensuring that we are prepared for the new variant. —Dr Virender Yadav, Civil surgeonOwners of private labs were also called to the meeting where revised guidelines were distributed. They were directed to mention correct addresses and mobile numbers of persons undergoing tests so that they could be traced immediately.They have been told to remain vigilant and report any unusual clustering of cases.“We have put all labs and hospitals on alert and asked them to follow all protocols. We are ensuring that we are prepared for the new variant,” said Dr Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-hospitals-put-on-omicron-alert-344532
30-11-2021||Ravinder Saini & Mukesh Tandon||Form joint panel on MSP, demands Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar/Sonepat, Nov 29With Parliament passing the Bill to repeal the farm laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today gave one-day ultimatum to the Centre to accept its other demands, including setting up a joint panel of farmers and officials over MSP guarantee issue.It decided to hold an emergency meeting at Singhu on December 1 to decide the next course of action.Day’s ultimatumThe government wants there should be no protests, but we will not leave the site before MSP is discussed among other issues. —Rakesh Tikait, BKU leaderButa Singh Burjgill, president, BKU (Dakaunda), disclosed this after a meeting of 32 farm organisations of Punjab wherein leaders reviewed the prevailing situation and discussed a “suitable time” to return home. “We now want the Centre to accept our demands mentioned in an open letter written to the Prime Minister,” said Burjgill, adding the repeal of the laws proved that no one was bigger than the court of people. Farmer leader Harmit Singh Kadian said all 32 Punjabunions had chalked out the next strategy regarding the agitation and it would be discussed at the SKM’s meeting on December 1. The final call would be taken by the SKM unanimously, he said.Referring to their six demands, including legal guarantee for MSP and withdrawal of cases against farmers and compensation for those who died during the stir, Kadian said the Centre must accept these for an early resolution to their issues||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/form-joint-panel-on-msp-demands-skm-344297
