04-12-2020||News||India and the geopolitics of technology | Analysis||Splinternet, the balkanisation of the internet, digital sovereignty, and data localisation are some of the more popular terms that have come to define the debate on the future of data, and, more broadly, on the future of technology. The argument boils down to the different ways in which governments and transnational organisations (such as the European Union) choose to access, use, and allow data to flow across borders.Countries that have closed their data markets to external actors — such as China — are commonly referred to as digital authoritarianists. Those that are guided by judicial standards, the rule of law, and support the freer — but not always free — movement of data have come to be known as digital democracies. The political, ideological, and economic tensions between, and within, these categories of actors shape what might be called the geopolitics of technology. This form of geopolitics is as much about competing domestic regulations, the renewed focus on anti-trust laws, and domestic standards on privacy legislations, as it is about international affairs. Greater cooperation on Artificial Intelligence (AI) or blockchain technologies, between entities in different countries, requires mediation and cooperation across borders. This is a matter of data diplomacy.At least 14 countries have appointed negotiators to shape data diplomacy. Designations such as tech ambassador, ambassador of innovations, ambassador for digital affairs, and ambassador for cyber diplomacy are becoming increasingly common.And they all want to deal with India. It is, after all, the largest open data market in the world. Close to 600 million Indians currently use 4G data. India also has the highest per capita consumption of data (above 10 GB per month) anywhere in the world. It is a treasure trove for big tech firms, as much as it is for those firms within India wanting to expand operations outside its borders.Yet, India’s unique data demography is unlikely to sustain current levels of international interest and domestic needs in the long-term. A lot will depend on the kind of digital democracy that India aspires to be. How open or closed will it be to the movement of data across its borders, is the moot question for the fast-growing number of global “tech ambassadors”.To an extent, the question of data openness will be resolved as India’s Personal Data Protection Bill (PDPB) becomes a law, potentially in 2021. A joint parliamentary committee is currently examining the PDPB. This crucial legislature will outline localisation requirements for personal data, thereby setting out clearer rules for the cross-border movement of data. It will also lead to the creation of a Data Protection Authority (DPA) to regulate the use of personal data. Over the next year, there is a very good chance that India will have developed its legal digital architecture.More urgently than before, India needs to consider what exactly it wants out of the fast-changing geopolitics around technology. This goes beyond banning Chinese apps or considering how India can absorb the slow move to diversify global supply chains. This is about ensuring India’s evolving domestic data architecture supports its international interests, with the clear view to benefit from the same. The aim must be to negotiate its weight in data and find the right balance for India’s future between localisation and internationalisation.This balancing act has much to do with conceptualising a centralising vision, as well as with administrative organisation. There are a range of ministries that are involved in the PDPB, as well as those that focus on the future of emerging technologies such as AI. The ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) mooted the PDPB. The ministry of commerce and industry has taken positions internationally with regard to data.In September 2020, the minister of commerce and industry, Piyush Goyal, made clear that India was not in a position to sign onto a charter at the G20, known as the Data Free Flow with Trust (DFFT), and for excellent reasons. How could India sign onto an international norm-setting agreement, without first passing the PDPB? Moreover, the minister made clear that “equitable access to data” was central to India’s concerns.The ministry of external affairs created the new, emerging, and strategic technologies (NEST) division in January 2020. The focus is on strategic technologies such as 5G, emerging technologies, and tech diplomacy. The division hit the ground running. It invested in an initiative along with the office of the principal scientific adviser to the government to assess the transformational effects of disruptive technologies such as digital currencies, big data computing, communication hardware, and others. Moreover, senior officials in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) oversee diverse elements of domestic and international data-related developments.It will be key to connect these assorted elements of the State by way of a coherent narrative that articulates a common Indian position on the future of technology. More importantly, it is essential for these different domains — between trade, law, finance, and diplomacy — to negotiate the right balance between domestic needs, international requirements, and India’s long-term position in a market area that can be — but automatically will not be — India’s for the taking.To start with, the government could consider appointing its own coordinator for technology. The aim should not be to add to the bean count of global tech ambassadors, but to appoint at least a minister of state-ranked individual to synthesise India’s pulsating story with the view to effectively shape the geopolitics of technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-and-the-geopolitics-of-technology/story-dd2DGyVvuhH7XmOfVSpLwL.html
04-12-2020||News||To preserve its edge, the silent service must innovate | Analysis||Navies are often referred to as the silent service and, in the case of the Indian Navy (IN), this description is apt. It is anecdotally recalled that in the preparatory stages of the 1971 war, the then Prime Minister (PM), Indira Gandhi, would meet the three service chiefs and receive a detailed briefing from the Army and Air Chiefs. The Navy, it was believed, had a marginal role and, towards the end of the meeting, the PM would glance at her watch and then the Naval Chief (Admiral Charles Nanda) and ask if he had anything to say and end the deliberations even before a no could be said.However, the IN acquitted itself with aplomb in that war and adopted innovative tactics — such as towing small missile boats to locations in the Arabian Sea that allowed them to attack Karachi on December 4 with devastating effect and deploying the aircraft carrier, INS Vikrant, in the Bay of Bengal with unexpected efficacy. Yes, the IN lost the INS Khukri to an enemy submarine, but the silent service had demonstrated its credibility and December 4, 1971, is enshrined in its collective memory with quiet pride.In his annual comments in the run-up to Navy Day, naval chief Admiral Karambir Singh outlined the orientation of the IN as a force that is ”combat-ready, credible and cohesive” (3C) and highlighted operational details, which were impressive given the IN’s diminutive size.The raison d’ etre for any military force is to be prepared for war should the exigency arise and the dialectical element, as raksha mantri Rajnath Singh alluded to at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, is that the more a nation acquires a credible combat capability and related political resolve, the lesser the probability of a potential adversary going down the path of adventurism.Despite the constraints imposed by the pandemic, the IN has carried out a number of operational mission-based deployments in the Indian Ocean to maintain the appropriate ”presence” to safeguard India’s maritime security interests. This allowed the naval chief to assert that while some Chinese research and fishing vessels had been deployed in the Indian Ocean, there had been “no infringement” of India’s maritime boundaries. The IN also evacuated 4,000 Indian nationals as part of the Covid-19 effort from the neighbourhood and provided food aid to a set of African nations, even while engaging in disaster relief and anti-piracy operations. While the recently-concluded Malabar naval exercises has received considerable attention, the IN participated in a total of 13 bilateral /multilateral exercises and PM Narendra Modi’a advocacy of security and growth for all in the region (SAGAR) was given a fillip in a variety of ways.But while the IN remained active through the year, it is not evident that this tempo that can be satisfactorily sustained in the next few years with the current funding trends. Admiral Singh, in December 2019, had noted that the allocation for the IN had dropped to under 14% of the total defence budget and this was not adequate for the long-term acquisition plans that had been mooted.That was a pre-Covid-19 observation and the fiscal picture this December is bleak. India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) will shrink substantially, and the next few years will be ”lean” years for the Indian military. As the Cinderella service (one that gets the least funding), many big-ticket items of the IN may have to be placed on the backburner even as the national security matrix remains complex.Limited resources will have to be innovatively utilised by the IN to retain the 3C sheen and here, a remark by Admiral Singh may point to the way ahead. Acknowledging the budgetary constraints that the IN would have to factor in, the naval chief indicated that leasing options could be examined. India had obtained a nuclear submarine on lease from the former Soviet Union in 1988, and this is a niche that could be reviewed in a meaningful manner — particularly with the United States (US) in the current geopolitical context. The US has a template for leasing assets to allies and how this will play out in a “partnership” would have to be negotiated but it is feasible.In this phase of Covid-induced austerity, the IN will benefit from investing in information technology in a strategic manner and shape it into a force multiplier. Surveillance across all three domains (surface, sub-surface and space) with adequate focus on Artificial Intelligence (AI) and spectrum dominance could be the key to IN retaining the edge that it needs to remain credible. China has been investing heavily in autonomous (ie AI-enabled) drones that operate in communications-denied and GPS-denied environments and this has the Pentagon worried. India’s hi-tech human talent, which is being harnessed by the world’s leading corporates and universities, needs to be given the necessary incentives to irrigate the Indian techno-strategic ecosystem in a more effective manner. The silent service should explore these uncharted waters as its relevance in the affairs of the Indo-Pacific acquires greater salience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-preserve-its-edge-the-silent-service-must-innovate/story-FRE47ZFZbyrgYFN88rvJWN.html
04-12-2020||News||Reform institutions to ensure equitable representation to women||As a document, the Constitution lays the legal foundations for a country’s governance and formulates the institutions tasked with implementing the principles enshrined in it. For India, these institutions are the legislature, the judiciary, and the executive. With the legislature being empowered to make the laws, the judiciary tasked with adjudication and the executive being duty-bound to ensure implementation, the three are meant to safeguard and actualise the founding document’s core tenets. Seventy-one years have passed since India adopted its Constitution, guaranteeing equality to all its citizens, including its largest minority population — women. This was a radical step undertaken by the framers, considering that most supposedly liberal democracies had refused to guarantee universal suffrage at that time. What is also important is that the framers didn’t just confine themselves to providing women with a guarantee of formal equality, but through Article 15(3) that reads: “Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any special provision for women and children” — also opened avenues for the State to take steps towards promoting substantive equality. This was a crucial provision as it implied that the framers realised that Article 15 alone wasn’t enough, and that special provisions were required to ensure that women are able to exercise their right to equality.Have we been able to achieve these targets?The legislative branch, made up of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha account for only 103 female Members of Parliament (MPs) out of 795 sitting MPs. This is approximately 13% representation. This raises the question as to whether, we as a country are truly committed to equal representation especially when the foremost representative body in our democracy provides barely any representation to the country’s largest minority? Unfortunately, this lack of representation isn’t limited to the legislature but rather spreads to the judiciary as well, where female judges account for 6% of the Supreme Court and 11.5% and 27.6% in the high courts and the lower judiciary respectively. These figures are also indicative of successive decreases in women’s representation with each rung of the judicial hierarchy. This is disheartening considering the fact that the institution that was envisioned to protect the principles of the Constitution has failed to ensure them. In terms of representation in the police, female personnel account for 7.28% (State of Policing Report, 2019) of the country’s police force. This is striking when we consider the fact that it is required by law for female uniformed personnel to be present when escorting/arresting a female accused. Considering the serious lack of female representation, how has the police been able to comply with this law? And in the off chance that it has failed to follow procedure, would that not be a violation of the accused’s right to dignity and liberty?It was BR Ambedkar who stated that a Constitution was only as good as the individuals who implemented it. Thus, a modern democratic nation-state must aspire to develop institutions that enshrine within themselves constitutional values as originally conceptualised in their foundation. The failure of these institutions to provide equitable representation to women, continues to serve as a stark reminder of what poor implementation can do to a fantastic document. Two decades into this century, India must put behind itself the regressive ghosts of its past that continue to haunt its institutions. As the country looks to move towards a more just and equitable future, it must begin by reforming its institutions to represent more accurately some of its most important stakeholders. Reshma Arif Khan is a lawyer and secretary of The Guild For ServiceThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/reform-institutions-to-ensure-equitable-representation-to-women/story-9ZqHOSV5tP2T0nhpaC5e3I.html
04-12-2020||News||Coal power plants need an integrated approach||As the contribution of renewable energy (RE) in electricity supply increases, proportionally fewer coal plants may be needed. The ones that remain will have to operate more flexibly to accommodate the varying nature of RE. Most coal plants were not designed to operate this way. In addition, there are regulations to clean up coal power by retrofitting equipment for pollution control. The problem is that all three aspects — retirement of older plants, pollution control equipment, and making plants more flexible — are being planned in isolation. By thinking at a systemic level, we can address all three aspects at a lower cost, with better public health outcomes.At a national level, there is excess generating capacity. This has provided the rationale for several studies recommending early retirement of older coal plants, mostly using a plant age of 25 years as the threshold. These studies suggest replacing the energy from these older plants by RE or energy from newer, and presumably more efficient, coal plants that have not been able to run to full capacity. The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC)’s emissions norms require emissions control systems (ECS) for oxides of sulphur (SOx), nitrogen (NOx) and other pollutants. While there are fewer details on regulations or rules for making coal plants more flexible, many utilities are working on doing so.There are several problems with this approach. First, these three issues are being looked at in isolation and second, simple binary rules are being recommended to address each. On the issue of excess capacity, the extent varies across the country. Most studies examine only aggregate utilisation of coal plants, their Plant Load Factor (PLF), which misses the value of output at peak times. This is key for a high-RE future. It is also not clear how long this excess capacity will last; decisions to either add or retire generation capacity should be based on long-term considerations. One advantage of older plants is that they are fully depreciated and thus have much lower fixed costs than newer plants. The issue of retirement of older plants is intertwined with the need for flexibility because older plants, which are of sub-critical technology design, are more suitable for flexible operations. In addition, if a distribution company that has no excess capacity has to run some plants at low PLF, then it is economically better for it to retain older plants with low fixed costs in its portfolio rather than contract for supply from a newer plant.The issues of pollution control and requirements for flexibility are also inter-related. We will confine ourselves to control of emissions of SOx because this is the pollutant which is currently most contentious. Flue Gas Desulphurization (FGD) is the most commonly-used technology to control SOx. Operating a plant with FGD in flexible mode makes the operation of FGD more challenging, likely requiring augmentation of the control and instrumentation systems, and possibly hardware changes, increasing costs and complexity.The current emissions control approach relies on a one-size-fits-all policy. A recent study found that the health benefits from FGD varied greatly by location, with the highest benefit being 28 times that in the location with the lowest benefit. The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) recently carried out a study to examine the issue of plant-location specific emission standards instead of a uniform standard, and has recommended segregation of areas by the level of ambient SOx into five categories and that pollution control be required only in the two categories with higher SOx levels. One gap in the CEA’s study is that it did not consider secondary particulates due to SOx emissions. More nuanced installation of FGD based on plant location-specific environmental conditions plus expected duty cycle can save a significant amount of money. However, the implementation of such an approach will be challenging given the difficulties in monitoring compliance in India.As we have seen, the three issues — retirement, pollution control, and making plants flexible — are inter-related. They need to be addressed in an integrated fashion by distribution companies based on long-term system-level considerations of demand, supply and availability of new technologies. Distribution companies should be best placed to make these decisions because they are responsible for power procurement and additions or retirements of generation capacity from their portfolio.As electricity markets become more effective, the true value of flexibility, the value of RE, and the need for capacity adequacy will become better known. This will make it easier for the distribution companies to make decisions about the optimal plan for retirements, making plants flexible, and installing FGDs. Therefore, rather than issuing rules on these issues in isolation, the government should focus on accelerating the introduction of effective electricity markets that provide the right signals for stakeholders to both invest in, but also operate plants once built, in the most cost-effective and clean manner.Daljit Singh is visiting scholar and Rahul Tongia is senior fellow, Centre for Social and Economic Progress, a Delhi-based not-for-profit think tank. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/coal-power-plants-need-an-integrated-approach/story-DWxnwteMJT3OLRikbu4jWP.html
