09-12-2020||News||Navigating the vaccine challenge||For anyone seeking to understand the path ahead for vaccines and vaccination for Sars-CoV-2, there is abundant confusion. Part of this is because there is divergence in information from official sources, academics and “unofficial” sources, and a difference in opinion on the timeliness and completeness.Press releases tell us that vaccines are performing well. On December 2, the United Kingdom (UK)’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency became the first regulator to grant temporary authorisation based on a phase III trial, to Pfizer and BioNTech’s mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine. On December 7, the UK began the process of administering vaccines. Results from the Astra-Zeneca/University of Oxford vaccine, based on a chimpanzee adenoviral vector, well exceed the 50% efficacy requested by the World Health Organization (WHO) and regulators, leading to the reasonable assumption that most vaccines that are based on the spike protein of Sars-CoV-2 will be successful.In India, Pfizer has applied to the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation for emergency approval, under the provisions of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rule, 2019, which allow the national regulatory authority to waive clinical trials. Even if Pfizer is granted approval, it is unlikely that this will be a vaccine that can be widely deployed because it requires storage at -70 degrees Celsius. Given the limited capacity of even cold storage at -20 degrees Celsius as required by the Moderna vaccine, it is likely that India’s national immunisation system, and those of other low- and middle-income countries, will opt for vaccines that can be stored at the more widely available facilities that hold vaccines at 2-8 degrees Celsius. If vaccines that will not be used for national immunisation programmes are given limited or full approval, the ability to purchase vaccines will differentiate sections of society between those with purchased access and those who must wait for the government to provide vaccines. This situation already exists for many vaccines, such as influenza or chickenpox where vaccines are available in the private sector. Open and transparent discussions about the role of the private sector and access to vaccines are essential for a clearer picture of what lies ahead.In terms of production capacity, figures vary, but a survey of 113 manufacturers by the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and partners between March and June 2020 estimated that global capacity was two to four billion doses by the end of 2021. Vaccine production landscapes tend to be slow to change, but much more optimistic figures are now being projected, with the Duke Global Health Innovation Center stating that purchase of more than nine billion doses is in discussion and India alone already has an advance market commitment of 1.6 billion doses. This figure does not align with the government’s announcement of financial commitments to vaccines or plans for immunisation, and company announcements of their production capacity and commitment not just to India, but to global supply through the COVAX facility.Even if the figures are correct, and India will have access to 1.6 billion doses of vaccines by the end of 2021, there are significant challenges to getting these doses to where they are needed. The WHO has six rights of supply-chain management for immunisation, which are right product, right quantity, right condition, right place, right time and right cost. Making sure that all of these logistics are in place requires permutations of product packed volume, temperature for transport and storage, location of supply and delivery, cycle for vaccination and restocking. Availability of refrigerated transport, security of transport, opportunities for pilferage and replacement with fake products are all very real concerns for which preparation is necessary. To accompany the complexity of storage and supply, which in India will be managed by the National Cold Chain Vaccine Management Resource Centre and the electronic Vaccine Information Network, redeveloped as COVIN, we will need to train vaccinators, have additional supplies needed for immunisations, prepare for immunisation sessions and establish systems for waste disposal. And all that, as we develop and use methods to identify and track individuals who need the vaccine.India does not have an adult immunisation programme beyond the tetanus/diphtheria vaccination for pregnant women. Hence, in the prioritisation lists that have been announced, identifying and reaching all priority groups will be a challenge. States have been asked to list public and private health care workers, and this is feasible and being done. However, moving beyond health care workers and other essential workers, however defined, to the elderly and those with co-morbidities as indicated in official announcements will be difficult and there is a need to prepare for falsified documents and fraud. As important as the issue of delivering vaccines to those prioritised, and not those who try to beat the system is the global concern for migrants and refugees who might be excluded from vaccination based on lack of residency documentation. Ensuring that both doses of a two-dose schedule are delivered is also a challenge since drop-outs are already known to be an issue, particularly for the most vulnerable populations, for infant immunisation. This is likely to much greater with adult immunisation.Not all problems can be anticipated, but we have experience with strengthening immunisation and with the conduct of campaigns, particularly in the last decade. While the government is using that experience to plan for a range of product, supply and logistic scenarios, sharing plans and developing the right partnerships is important, because in this enterprise, all of us are stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/navigating-the-vaccine-challenge/story-qVaZbfDC7mLDYdRkoBhkDI.html
09-12-2020||News||How the agriculture reforms finally liberate farmers | Opinion||In early April 2019, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) released a Farmers Manifesto for Freedom. It was a progressive document, and said, “Seven decades after India won independence from British colonial rule, the largest section of our population, the farmers, have remained bound by the chain of laws and regulations”.The manifesto sought “freedom to trade” and bemoaned that existing laws were restricting farmers from “where, how and at what price they can sell their produce”, and underlined that Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) have only helped in creating “legal monopolies” of a few “licensed traders”, who now have a “stranglehold on farmers”. It called for removal of restriction on land use including “contract farming”, and abolition of “such laws as the APMC and the Essential Commodities Act”. It even sought facilitation of “future trading” in all agricultural commodities.APMCs were started in central India during British rule to force cotton farmers to sell their produce only to State-run markets so that cotton mills in England could have cheap raw material from India. After Independence, the powerful rural lobby ensured that this legacy continued. It helped farmers in the initial years when Indian agriculture was in dire straits until the Green Revolution. But today, as the BKU manifesto highlights, APMCs have become dens of ”middlemen” from whom the farmers have to be ”saved”.This is what the three recent agriculture reform acts intend to do. Strangely, the same BKU is on the streets leading the so-called farmers agitation against the reforms. They argued earlier that the farmers were “bound by the chains” of British-era laws. Now, they argue that the same chains should be restored because the farmers may, in future, be bound by the chains of private agri-entrepreneurs.Incidentally, through a tweet on April 4, 2019, the BKU leadership had expressed happiness about the Congress and Rahul Gandhi adopting ”some parts” and said, ”Let us see what the BJP and Narendra Modi adopt”. The Congress is now supporting BKU leadership’s duplicity, while the Modi government is working for the implementation of its manifesto. The acts are the most historic and boldest reforms in agriculture since Independence. The farmer is the only private producer in India who didn’t have freedom to sell until now. “Farmers of India! You are henceforth the masters of the harvest”, said Ram Manohar Lohia in 1963 articulating his vision for agricultural reforms. Modi has transformed that vision into a reality.The APMC regime was an anomaly, with farmers forced to sell their produce only to APMCs. For political reasons, government after government, in states as well as at the Centre, went on extending the Minimum Support Price regime leading not only to a distorted pricing regime but also the production pattern. The new laws end that anomaly. They essentially extend three benefits to farmers. They are now free to sell their produce wherever they get better prices — in mandis or to private procurers anywhere. They can now price their produce as per the demand. They can now enter into agreements with corporate and private agribusinesses and engage even in future trading.Opposition to such historic reforms is suicidal for the farming community. Yet, some sections of the farmers are on the streets blockading Delhi arteries. There could be some genuine apprehensions, such as the need for an MSP protection in case private businesses try to exploit farmers. The government has been open to discussion on such concerns. But the propaganda that the new acts make the farmers slaves to private businesses is far-fetched. The acts protect the land of the farmer from any kind of exploitation even if the farmer defaults.The agitation is led by a section of the farmers, misled by false propaganda. On the other hand, the majority of the tilling class, Dalits and the poor, are conspicuous by their absence. The government must engage with the farmers directly and explain the benefits. A couple of amendments could be considered, but anything beyond that would be detrimental to the future of agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-agriculture-reforms-finally-liberate-farmers/story-mB1fDyTdiaFA6LYxwBWW1K.html
09-12-2020||News||Decoding India’s latest diplomatic push in the West Asian theatre | Opinion||Over the past month, New Delhi has orchestrated a significant push to strengthen relations with the Gulf. India’s Army chief General MM Naravane’s visit to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), external affairs minister S Jaishankar visited Bahrain and UAE earlier, and further visits by top officials to Qatar, Oman and Kuwait are to be undertaken.Long gone are the days when Indian diplomats scoffed at postings in the region, which were looked down upon for being work largely based around Indian migrant workers, sans the frills and thrills of the cinematic view of international diplomacy. Today, India is central to the economic and geopolitical thinking of Asia and global economics and politics. This has reflected throughout the Covid-19 crisis, with New Delhi’s dispatch of rapid medical response teams to Kuwait and emergency nurses to UAE, and talks at the highest levels, first digitally and now in person, on issues such as health diplomacy.The recent flurry of diplomacy between the regions, while being a continuation of trends of the past few years, is also centred on two major fronts. The first, of course, is the fact that as positive news of vaccines now rolling out across the world means that preparations to normalise global economics, commerce, migration have begun. The larger Gulf region is home to nearly seven million Indian workers, and one of India’s major tasks is to try and manage what is essentially a mini country-like population outside its own borders. According to estimates from May, over 300,000 Indian workers had registered to return from the Gulf as the pandemic ravaged global economics and trade, with unprecedented job losses.Though India prepared to rehabilitate the returning workers and put their skill sets to use domestically to an extent, a planned return and normalisation of migrant workers to and from the Gulf is critical not only for hundreds of thousands of people to return to employment in the region, but also because this employment generates a significant chunk of the nearly $80 billion in remittances that the Indian economy enjoys every year. This cash flow is critical, and its health depends on the normalisation of employment opportunities in the Gulf which relies on both skilled and semi-skilled labour from countries such as India.Second, it is even more pertinent today to push India’s case in countries such as UAE, which recently orchestrated a ban on 13 countries for reissuance of visas. This list includes Pakistan. The reasons for the ban were not aired overtly by Abu Dhabi; however, analysts believe that security reasons were the driving force behind this measure. In private, officials in the Gulf have often stated that workers from countries such as India are increasingly preferred due to their high level of qualifications and the low threat of extremism and ideological indoctrination both from their native society and how they integrate into the Gulf in general. Meanwhile, the ongoing problems between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia also offer New Delhi more diplomatic room.Beyond this, India’s diplomacy push in West Asia also comes at a time when arrangements such as the Abraham Accords signed between UAE, Bahrain and Israel are potentially bringing in a new era of geo-political normalisation. Further stability in the Gulf and minimised chances of conflict create a more durable environment for both India’s economic and diaspora interests.While successfully balancing relations between Israel, Iran and Saudi Arabia power blocks, New Delhi’s affinity for this Gulf outreach is rooted in geopolitical and geo-economic realities. Despite certain roadblocks such as an often aloof view of India’s concerns regarding migrant workers by the Gulf, and the concerns of certain Gulf nations regarding minority rights issues in India (which some capitals have raised privately), long-term interests for both sides have trumped short-term issues of contention, paving the way for robust development of relations across the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/decoding-india-s-latest-diplomatic-push-in-the-west-asian-theatre-opinion/story-RoTBWrjp3P7jdMvDfAxtIN.html
09-12-2020||News||The Indian economy is bouncing back | Opinion||“You can’t discover light by analysing the dark.” The quote by Wayne Dyer resonates with the four-month episode of the great economic fall that followed the pandemic, with predictions of a gory climax. Critics claimed that it would take more than one or two years for India to reverse the Q1 23.9% GDP contraction. The last four months, however, have witnessed a desirable twist; a flush of optimism for businesses, governments and the financial markets, brought in by a 7.5% contraction in Q2 — better than most street estimates. This figure beats the global average, where according to an analysis by State Bank of India, 49 economies declined at an average of 12.4%.Going by the latest trends and government forecasts, India’s economy is likely to return to pre-Covid-19 levels by the end of the current fiscal year, which is much earlier than expected. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has predicted a positive growth in the second half of FY21. Take a look at the recently published Q2 data — manufacturing PMI is above 50 for the fourth straight month; the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) reached 89.2 last month, only 11 percentage points lower than pre-Covid-19 levels; growth in other trends such as foreign policy investment, foreign direct investment (FDI) and corporate bond market inflows point to strong investor faith in India’s economic resilience. Besides, upwards revisions by rating agencies in India’s GDP forecast are all telling the same story — that we have kicked off the rebound phase.This recovery sentiment has been buoyed largely by the bold leadership of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, and frequent policy interventions by the central government. Over the last eight months, the government has not just expanded the ambit of its Covid-19 response strategy by pooling in massive resources for virus control and acquiring vaccination, but has simultaneously employed the Keynesian prescription for recession, ie spending (worth ₹20 lakh crore) to boost aggregate demand. This reflected in the recently-announced stimulus package, which focused on resetting demand by introducing new employment schemes for the formal sector workforce. It is worth noting that unemployment levels are currently on a decline; the 6.7% unemployment rate for September was lower than the pre-Covid-19 level of 7.6% in February. Besides, fiscal stimulus and tax rebates for growth-critical sectors, such as housing, would have spillover effects, thus indirectly boosting demand-led growth.Looking at all three stimulus packages, it is clear that the government’s fiscal response has been calibrated, where it has made judicious choices in spending, especially with regard to continuation or expansion of certain schemes. The one that stands out is the extension of the 100% credit guarantee scheme to 26 stressed sectors. Similarly, incentives to firms through the expansion of production linked incentive (PLI) schemes worth ₹1.46 lakh crore for 10 new sectors will give a boost to the manufacturing sector, and result in long-term benefits for the economy. A calculated restraint in spending the money of taxpayers is critical in the face of limited fiscal space. What is equally laudable is that the government has stayed on the ball in taking small steps to forge the big picture of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. While fixing the broken, it also unleashed structural reforms across various sectors that promise far-reaching benefits for the economy. For instance, the liberalisation of the notoriously rigid formal labour market would expedite India’s upward movement in the ease of doing business rankings, and attract further investments. Since 2014, India has moved up 79 positions in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business rankings. Reforms and timely fiscal interventions in other critical sectors are already showing positive results: The Gross Value Added for three sectors (agriculture, manufacturing and utilities) has been positive in Q2, as compared to just one (agriculture) in Q1 this year.This positive sentiment is not just evident in growth indicators, but can be seen among the people as well. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) swept the by-elections in seven states, besides improving its performance to return to power in Bihar. The leitmotif of the government’s economic and policy efforts is to open up more windows for India to gain from the current vacuum in the global supply chain. At the same time, there will be a sustained focus on reforms to enable a conducive environment for start-ups, micro, small and medium enterprises, and other businesses, and propel a global market for local products.For now, the government’s prognosis for the near future is as follows. The first priority is to keep the pandemic spread under control, and thus, eliminate the possibility of facing a second wave of the virus. The second is to sustain the momentum of recovery, so that it enters the positive territory by the end of the third quarter. The Covid-19 battle is proving to be a long-drawn-out one, where all the countries have seen severe output losses this fiscal year. However, with India’s impressive pace of recovery, the declining graph of active Covid-19 cases, and with the vaccination distribution blueprint in place, perhaps, the light at the end of the tunnel is not as far as it seems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-indian-economy-is-bouncing-back-opinion/story-Na5Dw9tTvIRxUu3FmCnAaI.html
