11-12-2020||News||A manifesto for the climate summit||The year 2020 teaches us that “super shocks” do not just come and go; they transform our ways of life. The climate crisis is another super shock, which will keep hitting harder going into the future. As we close out the pandemic year, the world’s largest polluters must pledge resources towards mitigating the climate super shock. That should be the metric to judge the Climate Ambition Summit on December 12.The United Nations (UN) Secretary-General said, recently, “Our planet is broken”. He promised that the UN’s goal for 2021 would be to build a global coalition around reducing emissions to net zero, by cutting greenhouse gas emissions or removing them from the atmosphere. He envisions a carbon price, eliminated fossil fuel subsidies, carbon taxes on polluters, and support for those already facing adverse impacts.The December 12 summit, on the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement on climate, is co-hosted by the United Kingdom (UK) presidency of the conference of the parties (COP-26, now scheduled for next year), the UN and France, in partnership with Chile and Italy. World leaders are expected to make major announcements on mitigation, adaptation and support.The prospect of more speeches hardly sounds encouraging in the backdrop of a rapidly-unfolding climate crisis. Summits serve three purposes. High-level participation allows leaders to negotiate knotty issues, building on personal rapport and the promise of grand bargains. Alternatively, leaders could set a new agenda, drawing others to their cause. This was why India and France promoted the International Solar Alliance in 2015. Further, heads of state/government could make unilateral announcements, baiting other countries to match in ambition. The 12/12 summit is primarily designed around the third objective.To that end, four kinds of announcements are expected: Upgraded Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement; long-term ambitions for net-zero emissions; commitments for more climate finance; plans and policies for adaptation.India, the only G20 country with NDCs consistent with a 2 degree Celsius goal, could legitimately ask, “Why should we upgrade NDCs when other major emitting countries should catch up with us?” Long-term ambitions are flaky. Thirty years ago, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change had not even been drafted. Since then, humanity has pumped out about 302.3 (±25.8) gigatonnes of carbon. With what crystal ball can the world hold countries accountable for their 2050 or 2060 net-zero targets?Moreover, the statements on December 12 will be made against the backdrop of the pandemic. Amid talk of building back better, governments must deliver on jobs, growth and sustainability. Fiscal resources are limited. Returns on investment on restarting growth and creating new jobs would have to be quicker than waiting three decades for net-zero emissions. As the capital of global finance, the UK has a chance to connect climate ambition with sustainable recovery by triggering a real effort at sustainable finance. Here are four ideas.First, make clean energy access a centre-piece of climate action. Energy poverty remains one of the key barriers to sustainable development. Access to distributed clean energy is also a route to energising small businesses in rural and urban settings. In India alone, there is a $50 billion market for using clean energy for productive enterprises in rural areas. In Sub-Saharan Africa, mobile money has helped to push the adoption of solar home systems. Now is the chance to bring together developing countries with a package that offers access to capital to finance such systems. With the potential to power labour-intensive businesses, this will signal that high-level summits have the interests of common people in mind.Second, help small and medium industries become more energy-efficient. Again, lack of access to clean fuels or regular electricity supply means that often polluting (and more expensive) fuels are used. These make small industries uncompetitive, a double whammy for the economy and the environment. Energy-efficient production processes need access to cheap working capital so that businesses can pay off the higher upfront costs for efficient equipment against their lifetime savings. This is not rocket science but needs dedicated attention from the financial industry.Third, aggregate clean energy projects across developing countries via a common risk mitigation mechanism to reduce the cost of finance. Financing costs are the largest component in the levelised cost of electricity in developing countries. Bundling non-project (macro, offtaker and political) risks and bundling projects for clean energy and sustainable transportation could increase their creditworthiness. It could also standardise investments across countries, thereby helping to scale up bond market capital flows into regions with growing energy demand.Fourth, fund the measures that can increase resilience against climate shocks. According to Swiss Re, economic losses from natural catastrophes and man-made disasters in 2019 were $146 billion. But the insurance industry covered only $60 billion. A global risk pooling reserve fund could combine climate risks across countries to spread them and ensure a payout when climate disasters above severe thresholds strike. Plans to build resilience will be worth little if the most vulnerable countries and communities have no insurance cushion against climate-induced loss and damage.If we could earn cents for every climate speech made, we would all be rich and resilient by now. The road to next year’s big climate talks (COP26) could be paved with the soft ground of promises or punctuated by the hard milestones of delivery. The rest, as they say, will be just words on paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-manifesto-for-the-climate-summit/story-VVM0kNaBhG9YD1i2mFVbMK.html
11-12-2020||News||What to expect when the vaccine rolls out||With Pfizer/BioNtech becoming the first company to get its vaccine approved for public use in the United Kingdom (UK), the wait for a post-Covid world seems to have got shorter. New developments are taking place each day; in India, the Serum Institute of India (SII)’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin stand just weeks away from getting regulatory clearances led by Pfizer, claiming the waiver of clinical trials in accordance with special provisions under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019 and based on the results of its United States (US) trials. Who would’ve thought that vaccine generation which had till date been a decades’ long process would get abridged to a period of a year? Given the magnitude of this feat, it is only fitting to earmark 2020 in golden letters in the legacy of science.However, does vaccine inception guarantee its distribution to one and all? While the vulnerability and essentiality clauses of the selection criteria call for prioritising front line workers and senior citizens as the first beneficiaries of the inoculation drive and with politicians and bureaucrats in the mix, ordinary citizens will ultimately bear the brunt. Indians are very shrewd when it comes to making connections for claiming benefits. This will manifest in the form of those having political connections and resources getting an upper hand in the vaccination drive. By 2021, it has been estimated that 800 million Indians would have to be inoculated to meet the requirement of the herd immunity objective. Nonetheless, with no clear public vaccine rollout plan in place, it remains to be seen who all will make the cut.Vaccines are our best bet against the virus, but not much is known about their capability to break the chain of transmission or indeed the efficacy of each vaccine. Apart from this, side-effects after being inoculated have also not been explored properly till date, courtesy of emergency approvals. When the news of an officer-bearer contracting Covid-19 after being injected with Covaxin made the rounds recently, the question of vaccine efficacy was raised again. Also, there is news of several volunteers of the same vaccine testing positive during trials. Given this, it would not be wise to let our guards down at such a critical stage. This calls for a need to tone down our over-optimism regarding the vaccine and adhere to the social vaccine which demands adherence to the 3S principle- social distancing, shielding through masks and sanitising. Even if the vaccines get accelerated approval, their storage and transportation will prove challenging. With Pfizer requiring temperatures as low as minus 70 degree Celsius for storage, its distribution in India will be problematic. But with new developments and use of dry ice, the vaccine vial can be stored for up to five days at refrigerated (2-8 degree Celsius) conditions. Given the burgeoning demand for the vaccine, this should not be that difficult to manage. Covishield, on the other hand, can be originally stored at refrigerated temperatures (2-8 degrees Celsius) without a need for thawing. With the Centre and states bolstering cold chain infrastructure, it is the administration that remains. Here is where we can reap the benefits of our past experiences. Our Universal Immunisation Programme and Pulse Polio have won wide appreciation. With lakhs of centres across the country, the polio vaccine can be stored at minus 20 degree Celsius. Through our learning curve developed under these programmes and utilising support from Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Community Health Centres (CHCs), ASHA workers and ANMs (Auxiliary Nurse Midwives), a network of professionals can be established to ensure that the vaccination reaches every beneficiary. Besides, Electronic Vaccination Intelligence Network (e-Vin)) transformed into Co-VIN will provide a schedule of all beneficiaries along with the dates allotted to them for vaccination, their vaccine centres as well as who administered the vaccine to whom. The objective is to ensure real-time monitoring of the beneficiaries to determine any adverse effects of the jab. Work is in progress to boost the database with the details of the beneficiaries. If we are able to execute this plan well, then last mile connectivity issues will no longer be an arduous task.Another point that must be considered is long the vaccine-induced immunity will last? This is crucial given the fact that immunity developed against the Sars-CoV-2 is not indelible. No wonder, even after four rounds of sero-surveys in Delhi, the average percentage of people exhibiting antibodies remains just 25%. This is so because antibodies developed against the transmissible virus wane after a period of time. This implies that even people infected with the virus remain at a risk of reinfection as witnessed in a number of cases worldwide. On that account, does it make sense to inoculate such a vast number of people without knowing the duration of immunity post injection? What if a new strain develops before achieving the target? Other than this, demands are being made to categorise the vaccine as a public good. Is this a worthwhile request given the uncertainty looming the immunisation? With the government facing a fiscal crunch, it needs to be examined whether the vaccine will be subsidised and, if so, whether the recipient will be a person from the below poverty line cardholder category or whether everyone can avail of it. Finally, can the vaccine emancipate us from the reign of protective equipment, face masks and sanitisers? We, as doctors, will scrutinise the UK closely since it was the first country to approve the mass vaccine rollout. With all these considerations, it might be premature to be over-optimistic about the vaccine. Let us wait for things to become clearer. Dr Rajat Arora is an Interventional Cardiologist and Director at Yashoda Group of Hospitals, Delhi-NCR and Genestrings Labs.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-to-expect-when-the-vaccine-rolls-out/story-vRgrSJs8lhDslMlMVeuVQP.html
11-12-2020||News||What the Paris Agreement means for the climate crisis||The adoption of the Paris Agreement on December 12, 2015, marked the beginning of a journey towards limiting the global temperature increase to below 2°C. The agreement is different from its predecessor, the Kyoto Protocol, in several ways. The design of the accord nudged nationally-determined voluntary action towards the climate crisis, keeping into account the economic development and historical responsibility of each party. The mechanism also enabled a ratcheting up of these commitments every few years and taking stock of implementation of existing commitments. The first such stock-taking is scheduled for 2023 and every five years thereafter. The Paris accord kick-started a journey of relentless and collective action towards achieving a global common good, accomplished through diverse, locally appropriate, but carbon-emission reducing actions. Five years hence, the need to achieve these goals and the opportunities to do so have increased. This decade has been the hottest since record-keeping began about 140 years ago. The years between 2015 and 2018 have seen the hottest temperatures recorded till date, with global CO2 emissions increasing by an additional 4%. Further, as highlighted by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Emissions Gap Reports, the gap between achievement of the 1.5°C target and the current Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) scenario, has widened to 32 gigatonnes of equivalent carbon dioxide (GTCO2e) in 2019.This first half-decade of the accord has seen domestic actions in key economies in and around the energy sector, together with multi-sectoral energy efficiency improvements, and the beginning of decarbonisation in the agriculture, transport, and industrial sectors. One of the success stories is India, which, according to the Climate Action Tracker, continues to be the only country among the G20 whose Paris pledges and subsequent actions place it on track to a below 2°C global warming future. This is largely because of the steep decline of renewable energy tariffs, which declined by 64% just between 2015 and 2019; hitting a historic low of Rs 2/kWh ($0.0270/kWh) in a bid opened on November 23. Solar electricity is now the most inexpensive electricity in India, and its newly-discovered price is less than the cost of coal alone in more than two-thirds of the coal-based electricity generated. A similar achievement happened earlier in the case of LED bulbs, whose prices fell by about 82% between 2014 and 2020. These experiences, focusing on increasing sales volumes by conscious market expansion strategies accompanied by reducing prices due to bulk procurement, have been made possible through a combination of policy levers, institutional innovation, technological support and mobilisation of finance. Another reason why renewable energy achieved the scale that it currently operates at is that, after the initial policy nudge, deployment and uptake of renewable energy made for an economically strong case. As a next scalable task, the deployment of infrastructure for the wide-scaled uptake of electric vehicles, especially buses and two-wheelers will not only be economically viable but will also reduce local air pollution and the emissions that contribute to the climate crisis. These will improve public health while reducing ecological damage. From this point onwards, the global community finds itself in a stronger position on at least two accounts. First, the pledges on achieving carbon neutrality by China, Japan and South Korea are positive announcements. The unwillingness of the United States (US) to participate in the global agreement as seen in the last four years is likely to be overturned with the US being officially back on board with the agreement. Second, the pace of advancement and availability of technology will continue to make it possible to undertake economically viable transformations which can further limit global emissions across geographies. This can be achieved as long as best practices and access to best available technologies are made available to influence climate action in vulnerable regions. This can be assisted by developing long-term strategies embedding climate in social, economic and developmental discourse; and strengthening global collaboration and multilateral support in nudging towards climate-friendly pathways. India’s experience with collaborations like the International Solar Alliance (ISA) is a successful case in point. The next phase of the Paris Agreement must further build on this.The Paris Agreement creates a once-in-a-generation opportunity for India to substantively contribute to development and climate action in developing countries. This can be done through strong partnerships that bring together here-and-now development benefits with longer-term climate benefits, and at prices that are attractive. Capturing this opportunity will depend on the actions we take now. However, the agreement has been able to bring together the vulnerable countries and high-emitting players to tackle a collective problem, and has enabled us to move to the successful first step in the decarbonisation discourse. Dr Ajay Mathur is the director-general, TERI , Ritu Ahuja is research associate, TERIThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-the-paris-agreement-means-for-the-climate-crisis/story-DVnGjs1StDBC7Wa4MleyAN.html
