15-12-2020||News||India is right to bet on a post-Brexit UK||India recently invited the United Kingdom (UK)’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson as chief guest for Republic Day 2021. Johnson, on Tuesday, officially accepted the invitation, and UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab’s ongoing visit to New Delhi is meant to set the agenda. The visit will take place less than a month after the UK leaves the European Union — with or without a deal. The timing and occasion of the visit signals intent on both sides to develop a genuine partnership.For decades, India-UK relations remained suboptimal. This was because neither side was invested in truly understanding what the other valued. In India, London’s motivations were — incorrectly — viewed as a former colonial power’s desire to weigh in on regional issues such as Kashmir and the Afghan war by tilting towards Pakistan. This sense of grievance turned into disconnect when London scrapped the post-study work permit for international students. The move led to a sharp drop in Indian student numbers between 2013-17, even as Chinese student numbers swelled based on special visa arrangements. This trend is now reversing as the post-study work permit has been reintroduced.The disconnect was apparent when the UK was pilloried in the Indian media for not countering China’s move to make Kashmir a formal agenda item at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) after the effective nullification of Article 370. That London had shot down the proposal along with France, Russia, and the United States (US), was lost in translation.In London, New Delhi’s lack of appreciation for the UK’s security concerns about troops in Afghanistan and radicalisation at home — both of which necessitate a security partnership with Pakistan — remained an irritant. India’s 2012 decision to purchase the French Dassault Rafale over the UK’s Eurofighter Typhoon fighter jet increased the estrangement.In this context, Brexit became both a reason and an excuse to remain distant as high-level exchanges plummeted. London became busy in its domestic political turmoil and bureaucratic transitions. But whenever it did express interest to augment the relationship, New Delhi refused citing Brexit-related uncertainties.Johnson’s visit offers an opportunity for a reset.Though difficult to achieve in the short-term, both countries have an incentive to explore the viability of a Free Trade Agreement (FTA). For long, India has shied away given London’s emphasis on easy capital flows to and from India, which would hit Indian producers and retailers hard, without entertaining India’s reciprocal demand for liberal labour flows. In the face of a strong anti-immigrant public undercurrent (even if centered on migration from the EU), London has been cagey on the issue of labour flows. But, with their economies under stress due to the pandemic and bad policymaking, both sides are likely to revisit such conditions.New Delhi’s decision to stay out of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), and the ongoing farmers’ protest, will concentrate minds on how to better capitalise on British, and European, economic overtures. The economic contraction this year has raised strategic alarm in New Delhi, ie. India risks reduction in its global geopolitical weight due to reduced economic capabilities. Undoubtedly, FTAs with strategically aligned powers are not panacea for India’s ailing economy. But they offer an alternative as India seeks to reduce economic linkages with China.In addition to economic incentives, London’s sharp downturn in relations with Beijing since the introduction of the draconian national security law in Hong Kong imparts strategic synergy to India-UK relations. The UK’s Integrated Review of Security, Defence, Development, and Foreign Policy 2021 has indicated that London must tilt towards the Indo-Pacific. The aim is to augment the UK’s presence in the Indian Ocean Region and work with powers such as India, Japan, and Australia, along with the EU and the US, to counter China.To this effect, the India-UK Defence Logistics Pact will work as a lubricant in advancing dialogue on other issues. True, India has such pacts with other countries including France and the US, and it remains unclear under what conditions and to what extent India can militarily capitalise on British bases. But, given where these two countries stood just a few years ago, this is a step forward.Collaboration in sectors such as digital technology, the climate crisis, and vaccine development will also see a fillip. India remains a top global exporter of raw materials for the pharmaceutical industry and will play an important role in the mass production of the Covid-19 vaccine. Under intense pressure to avoid another lockdown, having approved the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, and in agreement with India to develop the Oxford vaccine that is yet to be approved, Johnson has a critical interest in ensuring India’s partnership.Finally, there has been a shift away from making this relationship hostage to the “Pakistan question”. In a show of political force — and perhaps interference — the Bharatiya Janata Party’s affiliates in the UK canvassed for Johnson in 2019 elections. By targeting the Jeremy Corbyn-led Labour Party as pro-Pakistan (given Corbyn’s criticism of India on Kashmir), these affiliates succeeded in swaying certain sections of the Indian diaspora away from Labour. It is no surprise that Keir Starmer, the new Labour leader, distanced himself from Corbyn’s position, and is working hard to reclaim Labour’s standing among the Indian diaspora.There are miles to go before this partnership realises its true potential, but it is set to become “poll-proof” as India bets on a post-Brexit UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-is-right-to-bet-on-a-post-brexit-uk/story-UVjFx8pwqSMQw812gBPwLP.html
15-12-2020||News||Pollution: Why every one per cent counts, writes Sunita Narain||Now that the stubble-burning period is over, but air is still polluted and toxic over vast parts of the country, we need to talk about what needs to be done.Three kinds of actions are essential — steps against episodic pollution events like stubble-burning; steps against local sources of pollution, which aggravate the problem; and more transformational action that will bring long-term benefits. All three levels of pollution management are critical. And all sources of pollution need to be addressed.I say this because all contributors to pollution say that they are only one per cent of the problem. So if steps are taken to control diesel from vehicles, car owners will say they are one per cent; when power plants are asked to clean up or shut down, they say they are one per cent. Or when industry is told that the coal that they burn is contributing to the toxic air in the region, they will cry foul and say, what about action against garbage-burning? So, the net result is to point fingers at some other source, away from the action that needs to be taken. This is also the favourite ploy of governments — Centre to state, agency to agency. Pass the buck and make the problem go away.But it won’t. Every winter, we will continue to choke and hurt. Every winter, when the weather turns adverse and pollutants settle close to the ground, even the steps taken in the past few years to reduce pollution will get negated. This is because the sources of pollution will continue to grow — the vehicles on the road will increase; they will get older with each passing year and so more polluting; the numbers of industries will increase.Let us deal with each source. The first is episodic stubble-burning, which starts around October 15, when winter is settling in and the wind turns to bring pollutants from fires to cities of the region, including Delhi. Steps are needed from now till next October to ensure that machines for stubble management are available in every village; that small and marginal farmers get free access to these and that farmers have evidence of the benefits to turn the crop residue back into the land and not to burn it. In addition, there are exciting efforts underway to use the stubble to make compressed natural gas or for power generation. These need to be tracked, prodded, pushed and implemented. What is needed is deliberate steps and careful monitoring — month after month. What is also clear is that post this stubble-fire period, the quality of air in Delhi and the surrounding region remains foul. It ranges between very poor and severe, depending on what meteorologists call the ventilation index — which determines dispersion of pollutants — and wind speed. According to the National air quality index (AQI), exposure to “poor” levels of air is unhealthy and gets more severe as exposure is prolonged and air quality deteriorates into very unhealthy and hazardous.To fix this, in the short-term, each pollution hotspot needs to be managed. Currently, there are some 13 hotspots in the region — identified as those with the highest air pollution levels. The sources of pollution here include construction and road dust, garbage-burning in vacant areas, and industries that spew pollutants from their stacks or congestion points for traffic. The source of pollution here is local. Action has to be taken through local agencies. And it has to be systemic. The reason is that garbage removed one day; or a road paved one day, is then filled again with waste or dug up again. This is where we need maximum governance for maximum gain.But all this will not be enough — it will be like putting out small fires in a blazing forest. We need action at speed and scale. The key is to tackle the problem of coal-burning in the region — in power plants and in literally thousands of industrial units scattered across the legal and illegal parts of Delhi and the region. Delhi’s ban on the use of coal is good. But industries have then moved either to illegal and unauthorised areas in the city or to surrounding states. Here they continue to use coal, for it is the cheapest fuel, as against natural gas, which is doubly and triply taxed so it is unaffordable.We need a second gas revolution in the region — compressed natural gas (CNG) for vehicles brought us the first-generation change. We now need a fuel-switch in all sources for clean air. This includes using clean electricity for powering industry and vehicles. But remember, if the power plant is dirty, then electric vehicles will only mean that we shift the problem from us to them. The airshed is one, so the pollutants will come back to our lungs.This is why air pollution is a great equaliser, and we are all in it together. Every one per cent counts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/pollution-why-every-one-per-cent-counts-writes-sunita-narain/story-kPYxgWkBuT89SpLz1sTU3I.html
15-12-2020||News||Away from the noise, voters continue to repose faith in the BJP, writes Prakash Javadekar||We live in interesting times. The political Opposition in India, which has faced repeated electoral setbacks over the last six years, is sensing an opportunity in the wake of the ongoing farmers’ protests in parts of North India. The leaders of the protest are seeking a withdrawal of the agriculture bills that were discussed and passed in Parliament. Over the last few days, the protests have taken an ugly personal turn, with some people demanding the head of the Prime Minister (PM).In the midst of these protests, what is India’s political barometer saying? Four results, each in a different part of India, give a glimpse of the mood on the ground.First, let us go to Hyderabad, India’s high-tech city. Sometime in mid-November, the Telangana government, in a bid to stun the Opposition, declared December 1 as the date of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. The ploy was clear; catch the Opposition — the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — unprepared and win the polls. The campaign was brief but high-pitched. But the results stunned commentators and promises to change the direction of Telangana politics. The BJP, which had four seats in the 2015-2016 round of polls, climbed up to a record 48. Unlike last time, when BJP and Telugu Desam Party fought the polls together, the BJP went alone this time. Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s tally crashed from 99 to 56. The BJP’s vote share also shot up, winning the support of the poor, middle class and all those affected by the apathy of the state government in the wake of the floods.This win is noteworthy because the BJP was never a force in Telangana. As late as 2018, the principal opposition was Congress. This, combined with the Dubbaka win, puts the BJP firmly in the race to win the assembly polls in 2023. The GHMC polls were held using paper ballots, thus not even offering the EVM excuse to cynics.If the urban expanse of Hyderabad tells a story, so does the rural landscape of Rajasthan. The Congress is firmly in the saddle here and assembly elections are still three years away. Thus, when zila parishad and panchayat samiti polls were held, the view on the ground was that the Congress would sweep. The results, again were stunning. The BJP is in control of 13 districts now and Congress has only five. Be it the regions of the state Congress chief, top ministers and even Sachin Pilot, the Congress performance is underwhelming. In the urban elections that followed too, the BJP’s fight was spirited. Those who voted in Rajasthan were broadly farmers, rural folk, and labourers. Parts of Rajasthan border the sites of the farmer protests too. Yet, the results are there for all to see.The people of Assam were waiting to share their story. The Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) voted recently and in these polls, the BJP and its ally, the United People’s Party Liberal, have won a majority, winning nine and 12 seats respectively. This election saw on-ground coordination between the Congress and All India United Democratic Front, but the voters did not bless them. The voters in the BTC polls included a significant number of tribal voters. Their faith remains unbroken in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), the BJP, and Narendra Modi.Besides expanding in newer areas, in Goa, where the BJP has been in power since 2012, the party has done exceedingly well in the zila panchayat elections. The Congress is not even close to a strong showing. Goa, as we know, has a significant Christian population.From rural area to tribal areas, urban parts to cosmopolitan coastal landscapes, India is giving a message. Diverse electorates, diverse elections are giving the same message — that India’s prime issue in 2020 is development and only a Modi-led NDA can provide it. The PM’s handling of the pandemic, emphasis on economic reform, the support given to the poor have struck a chord with the voters. The Opposition, which wanted to make each of these elections a verdict on PM Modi or the farm bills have had to eat repeated helpings of humble pie. India is moving to an era where the politics of good governance and stability are scoring over manufactured agendas and vested interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/away-from-the-noise-voters-continue-to-repose-faith-in-the-bjp-writes-prakash-javadekar/story-4PRAwCwFAhwXfO4KUhFtBM.html
15-12-2020||News||The menace of social media monopolies||The United States (US) federal government and over 40 state governments in the US are seeking to break up social media giant, Facebook and its subsidiaries, WhatsApp and Instagram. The governments allege that Facebook abused its monopoly powers in stifling competition and distorting the social media industry. Of all the 187 countries that Facebook and its subsidiaries do business in, arguably, India has the most at stake resting on the outcome of this case. However, India’s problems with Facebook and its monopoly subsidiaries are not as much about the economics of free market capitalism but about a more profound issue of social order and harmony.There is an entire Wikipedia page dedicated to lynchings and deaths in India caused by rumours spread on the WhatsApp communication platform. It lists 12 cases of lynchings since 2017 in which 36 Indians have been injured or killed in social violence incited by fake messages spread through WhatsApp. It is an astonishingly dubious distinction for a seemingly innocuous technology platform to be hailed as the perpetrator of violent deaths in a society. Widely-circulated rumours and false news on WhatsApp have caused severe upheavals in Indian society over the past few years. Just as gun violence is an acknowledged abomination in the US, WhatsApp violence in India is now an acknowledged disgrace. Despite all its acclaimed benefits, WhatsApp has turned into an enormous social menace in India.In a meeting with Facebook’s global leadership team in the US in July 2018, I raised my concerns over the misuse of Facebook’s technology platforms in India and urged them to take this issue up seriously. They showed no signs of recognition of the gravity of the situation. Subsequently, in another meeting in October 2018 with the then global CEO of WhatsApp and their India leadership team, I once again raised alarm over WhatsApp’s unwitting complicity in perpetrating social unrest in India and asked them how the company proposes to address it. Facebook’s India team dismissed this concern nonchalantly and waxed eloquent about the immense benefits to Indian society from WhatsApp. The notion that no civilised society should tolerate a single death, even if it means denying benefits to thousands seemed lost on them. The enormous market power and clout that Facebook and its subsidiaries enjoy has lured the company into a false sense of self-righteousness and made them callous about the unintended deep social harm inflicted by their products.WhatsApp is a big social menace primarily because of its ubiquity. Nearly one out of every two adult Indians uses WhatsApp. WhatsApp has become hugely popular in India largely because it was free for the Indian consumer. Indians send as many free WhatsApp messages in one day as the number of text messages they send in a whole month. If WhatsApp charged a fee for every message or revealed the identity of the original sender of a widely circulated message, then perhaps WhatsApp would not be the menace that it is now. But, as the Netflix documentary Social Dilemma reminded us — “if the product is free, then you become the product”.WhatsApp is able to provide its encrypted services to billions of users for free because all its costs are borne entirely by its parent, Facebook. Facebook can pay for the enormous costs of keeping WhatsApp free because it generates a profit of the equivalent of ₹20 crore ($2.7mn) every hour from its sheer dominance and monopoly of the social media industry. So, the fountainhead of “deaths by WhatsApp” in India is Facebook’s monopolistic profits.Monopoly power of big businesses is not always only reflected in economic terms of prices and competition but also in their boorish behaviour as a dominant stakeholder in the larger society. Economists have previously justified big business monopolies if it benefits consumers through better prices and products. Twenty-two years ago, as a product manager at Microsoft, I recall receiving an email from an enraged Bill Gates to all employees about a similar proposal by the then US government to break up Microsoft as a penalty for alleged monopoly behaviour. More than 200 economists wrote a letter to then President Bill Clinton arguing how the average consumer has benefitted through better products at cheaper prices from Microsoft and hence it does not qualify as an abuse of monopoly power. By this argument, a free WhatsApp should be deified as a blessing for consumers. But we know that a free WhatsApp causes deaths in India. The economic method of measuring consumer benefit or harm through the exclusive prism of prices is shallow. It is irrefutable that WhatsApp has caused tremendous social harm to Indian consumers.Facebook’s enduring stream of global monopoly profits helped propel WhatsApp’s domination of the Indian market. If WhatsApp is split from Facebook, it will either be forced to charge for its product or look for alternative revenue streams or raise billions of dollars from new investors. None of these are easy solutions and can disrupt WhatsApp’s status quo. This could potentially break WhatsApp’s dominance in the Indian market, spurring competition for safer platforms and ending its monopoly. Which, in turn, could bode well to reduce social unrest through widely-circulated rumours on one dominant monopolistic platform.India is WhatsApp’s largest market with four times more users than its second-largest market. There is a lot riding for Indian society on the case to break up Facebook and WhatsApp. While the US is seeking to save its cherished free market capitalism, India will be looking to save lives and preserving social harmony. Breaking up Facebook could help prevent the breaking of some Indians’ faces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-menace-of-social-media-monopolies/story-2pn88bQZ6BnjXHbzqKlokO.html
15-12-2020||News||The world is changing. India needs to get its priorities right||With Covid-19, the most common phrase in every webinar on geopolitics is the “new world order”. This phrase is used to describe periods of history with dramatic change in balance of power between nation-states. In its most recent avatar, the new world order has been on the anvil since 2007. China’s hostile and rapid rise, the economic aftermath of the global financial crisis, networked politics over the internet, and most recently the pandemic, together are transforming international politics.What will this new world order look like over the next quarter century? More importantly, how can India shape this emerging order to attain peace and prosperity for all Indians? At the outset, it is important to bring conceptual clarity to the term “world order”. Instead of trying to predict the future, it is useful to conceptualise many possible orders the world might end up in. One way to do this is to visualise these orders at the intersection of major changes in geopolitics and geo-economics. Some foreseeable geopolitical trends include a unipolar United States (US)-dominated world, a co-operative US-China G2, a full-on US-China confrontation, or a multipolar world. Similarly, key geo-economic trends can be thought of along the lines of a global recession, a secular stagnation, a new economic boom, or a technological disruption. The confluence of the geopolitical and geoeconomic trends results in multiple world order scenarios. In each scenario, strategies to maximise India’s national interest can then be worked out.Geopolitically, the pandemic has accelerated the confrontation between the US and China. Geo-economics-wise, it has plunged the world into a recession phase. Taken together, this could create a “race to the bottom” world order with stable geopolitical dynamics — characterised by US-China rivalry — and dynamic geoeconomics — characterised by the emergence of many new economic webs. In this order, the US will likely see countering China as an overriding national priority. Reorienting supply chains to reduce dependence on China will be taken more seriously. Like the global economy, technological governance may splinter into multiple interacting webs with more State oversight. Global bodies such as the UN could become far less important, and regional institutions organised around powerful nation-states could gain prominence.In this world, where distrust with regard to China increases, India can be a part of multiple economic webs and gain from them. At the same time, its ability to shape the world order gets intricately linked with the economics and politics at home. With newer restrictions in global labour flows and thinned out capital flows, India will need to find a new engine of growth such as large-scale manufacturing. Returning to a higher economic growth trajectory then becomes a precondition for India’s emergence as a swing power between the US and China. Without this, India’s global role will decline, forcing it to bandwagon with other powers on less favourable terms.Some other reforms that would serve India in multiple scenarios are implementing labour and factor market reforms, becoming an attractive foreign investment destination, championing the cause of globalisation, and executing three critical military shifts — from land to sea, from the physical to the technological, and from more manpower to more firepower.What also comes up across all reform themes is the urgent need to improve the capacity of the India’s State, which is small where it really matters and overbearing in other ways that are counterproductive. Prioritising the State’s role has never been more important.Finally, we realised that there are many ways to construct world orders. More Indian perspectives about the changing world will enrich the global discourse. India’s current problems can’t be an excuse for insularity. The Arthashastra says, “Policy precedes all action.” We humbly add that policy, in turn, is preceded by an imagination of a desirable future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-world-is-changing-india-needs-to-get-its-priorities-right/story-efnmKpYckKUMegDkrUzf7M.html
