16-12-2020||News||Indian diplomacy’s climate test, writes Syed Akbaruddin||Come 2021, the climate for diplomacy will change. In 2020, the black swan event of the pandemic was unforeseen. In contrast, the pivoting of the global diplomatic agenda towards the climate crisis is visible.Numerous conventional diplomatic issues loom on India’s horizon. They include tackling China’s increasing assertiveness and engaging a new United States (US) administration; reinforcing bonds with our neighbours and strengthening bridges with our extended neighbourhood; bolstering relations with the European Union (EU) and reinvigorating ties with a post-Brexit United Kingdom; countering the perennial pestilence of midnight’s other child; and enhancing our burgeoning ties with developing states globally. However, its the unconventional that may upend all these important goals.When climate takes centre stage of global policymaking, the economic, social and political implications of the solutions to address the transboundary concerns are likely to override all else on the diplomatic agenda. The announcement of John Kerry’s appointment to the new post of special presidential envoy for climate is an indication that US President-elect Joe Biden’s climate agenda is global. Kerry’s assertion that, “America will soon have a government that treats the climate crisis as the urgent national security threat that it is” reflects the thinking that the impact of the climate crisis is becoming more complex.Calls for greater ambition to reach net carbon neutrality by 2050 have gathered steam. The Virtual Climate Ambition Summit held on the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement on December 12 is a precursor to the efforts underway. More than 125 states have committed to the goal of a net zero carbon future by 2050. Others are veering towards it. A majority of the G-20 are on board; 38 countries have declared “climate emergencies” until carbon neutrality is reached. China has provided a goal of 2060 and sees climate diplomacy as an opportunity at resuming the G-2 playbook of the Paris Agreement. The incoming Biden Administration is expected to set its target too. Once the US gets on board, those accounting for 63% of global greenhouse emissions would have agreed to carbon neutrality targets. Despite their announcements, there are gaps between 2050 targets and the policies that these countries have put in place.India is one of the few overachievers in terms of meeting the Nationally Determined Contributions announced under the Paris Agreement for 2030. At the same time, India, as yet, is not in a position to set an economy-wide net-zero target as it needs to sustain economic growth, pull millions out of poverty and provide power to them. Our policymakers are struggling to find solutions to restrain stubble-burning in some regions despite their horrendous impact in nearby regions. The diverse sensitivities that need to be borne in mind in our global engagement will far surpass the concerns our trade negotiators went into Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) negotiations had to take into account. Climate negotiations potentially are more far-reaching for our polity, economy and society. Several are suggesting that our best option is a “No” to more ambitious commitments.However, we need to be cognisant that some are preparing tools of coercive climate diplomacy. EU is eyeing a carbon border adjustment mechanism by 2021. The Biden administration will also look to favour a carbon tax with border adjustments, although whether it can get through such legislation remains uncertain. Kerry will try for a major international breakthrough in his first year. Having witnessed his hectoring approach to promote ratification of the Paris Agreement, caution needs to be our watchword. For a sui generis state such as ours with varied interests, to gather allies with similar climate goals is not easy.The Conference of Parties (COP) 26 in Glasgow next year will not be just another multilateral meeting. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, addressing the Climate Ambition Summit, signaled that, “Centennial India will not only meet its own targets, but will also exceed your expectations”. It is now for our thought leaders and officials to flesh this out and suggest options. These could perhaps be of a sectoral nature and encompass power, transport, agriculture and forests as possible areas for achieving decarbonising target dates.India has set up an Apex Committee for Implementation of Paris Agreement (AIPA) to ensure coordination among 14 key ministries and to engage business and other stakeholders. We will also need to leverage bilateral ties with key players such as the US and EU; espouse common concerns in plurilateral groups such as BRICS which we currently chair; and make tactical alliances where possible. Besides, the thrust towards climate crisis as an international peace and security issue is likely to grow. Diplomacy will inevitably be a tool in addressing the growing importance of the phenomenon. It may be time for the ministry of external affairs to foster greater integration and coherence in the evolving external dimensions of India’s approach to the multi-faceted nature of climate crisis challenges in various forums.The world cannot solve the climate crisis without India’s active participation. While contributing to the global effort, we will need to seek an equitable outcome based on climate justice that also provides for financing and space for our transition. While the policies of the developed countries are the primary cause of this phenomenon, a sustainable global transition is in India’s interests too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/indian-diplomacy-s-climate-test-writes-syed-akbaruddin/story-ogaUjjNgfU4I7EtTO1AsxJ.html
16-12-2020||News||To revive the economy, go back to the grassroots, writes Bhupesh Baghel||These are difficult times. We are in the middle of a pandemic which is claiming hundreds of lives daily even after 10 months of disaster management. The economy is officially in recession, unemployment and reverse migration or ruralisation is a hard reality. Additionally, there is the farm sector crisis and the Centre cutting social sector and welfare spending. In contrast, the stock exchange is at an all-time high. Something seems missing in our reading of the situation. The pandemic has only worsened already deep inequality.The Congress government in Chhattisgarh believes that no economy can prosper by leaving the majority of the rural poor behind. Democracy is the first in the line of fire whenever the economy is in trouble, from the same people who never realised that all economies start at the grassroots.One pivotal argument is that we have been a consumption-driven economy unlike the export-based Asian economies, and for our true potential to be realised, we need to expand consumption patterns across the entire demography. But apart from consumption, our productivity needs to grow, and that means the health and educational standards for the poorest and remotest must improve. For this, we have taken steps to reopen the schools closed in the last 15 years in the Maoist-inflicted areas and launched an extensive nutrition program, Mukhya Mantri Suposhan Abhiyan, which aims at eliminating malnutrition in the state within the next three years. We have brought 67,000 children out of around 500,000 children out of malnutrition within six months. Coupled with mobile medical services of Haat Bazar Clinic, we wish to make healthcare accessible to all. Our special drive in remote areas of Bastar has helped in reducing malaria cases by 65% in just one year.The challenge of this developing state has been to empower the poor and tribals with a sense of dignity and confidence to enable them to enter the modern economic system and market. To do so, we first need to give them some bargaining power, which means they get freedom from the debt trap and have subsistence income. This was successfully made a reality through higher returns of paddy, sugarcane and maize through direct cash support in Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. Under this scheme, about ₹10,000 of cash support per acre of cultivated land is given to those who are growing paddy, sugarcane and maize. This scheme was substantially supported by a sensitive public distribution system (PDS).After taking oath as chief minister two years ago, we began this journey of enabling the grassroots by waiving off ₹9000 crores of farm loans for around 1.8 million farmers, as promised. Implementation of forest rights act (FRA) entitlements is crucial and we have ensured that land rights — both individual and societal — are transferred as a matter of top priority. So far, we have given individual FRA titles to almost 450,000 people, 46 thousand community FRA and over 5 million acres of community forest resource rights. During the pandemic, we realised that the tribal people should be empowered with accessible resources within their vicinity. An increase in the cover of minor forest produce, under minimum support price regime, from seven to 52 helped achieve this objective.The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) has again proven to be a wonderful scheme, creating huge opportunities for migrant labourers who came back after the lockdown mishap. It provided them with some cash to survive and spend on necessities.To strengthen the rural economy, we need to strengthen the rural ecology too. Our flagship programme Narve, Garva, Ghurva, Bari tries to unify ecology and economy, and aims at improving the riverine system, both surface and groundwater availability, stray cattle and village waste management, and small backyard farming to maintain diversity. Along with forest water conservation and increasing the share of fruit-laden trees in the forests, we are trying to firm up the rural productivity which is more democratic in access and not limited to those with capital and resources.To provide the impoverished with the necessary familiarity with the monetised economy, there needs to be a significant source of cash income. Only then will capital be able to streamline labour and make it productive. Our leader, Rahul Gandhi, had rightly advocated for minimum ensured income through Nyay. In these difficult times, the way out for the economy is to invest heavily in the rural system. The ongoing nationwide farmers’ agitation directs us towards the lack of such pro-people initiatives. The agitation shows both the dominance of predatory market forces and how the building blocks of our economy and democracy have been egregiously offered up for exploitation.By surviving the slowdown, Chhattisgarh has developed a new model and proved what Mahatma Gandhi had advocated to be the best way forward - strengthen the villages and poor, the country will become strong automatically. We read in school “durbalanaam balam rajah” — the power of the king or State is the strength of the weak. These are not the times when the State can withdraw under the garb of reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-revive-the-economy-go-back-to-the-grassroots-writes-bhupesh-baghel/story-o7X43jHHOGTOPw2sydoG0N.html
16-12-2020||News||Decoding the DC-Brussels-Beijing geopolitical triangle||Joe Biden’s election as the United States (US) president has led to talk of greater coordination between Washington and Brussels over China. In early November, European Union (EU) foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell was quick to call for “a coherent and robust China stance” between the transatlantic allies. Biden, meanwhile, has promised to consult traditional allies to “develop a coherent strategy” on China.In late November, Financial Times reported that a draft EU Commission paper had called for working with the US to deal with the “strategic challenge presented by China’s growing international assertiveness” with the technology domain being the “the backbone of a wider coalition of like-minded democracies”. This was followed by reports of the EU proposing a new Transatlantic Trade and Technology Council to jointly set standards on new technologies, strengthen technological and industrial leadership and expand trade and investment. None of these reports have been confirmed. But the EU Council highlighted “shared priorities” for Brussels and Washington.At the same time, however, Borrell was keen to point out the need to strengthen European autonomy. This desire lies at the heart of EU-US tensions, particularly after the tumult of the Trump era. Autonomy has emerged as a strategic objective for the EU. Not surprising then that it is one of the spaces around which Beijing has focused its efforts. For instance, Chinese officials have repeatedly emphasised the threat of US unilateralism and a new Cold War undermining EU’s interests. Chinese media and analysts have been dismissing the possibility of a coordinated EU-US action. At the same time, Chinese officials have emphasised the economic opportunities that Beijing has to offer. In an article last week, Zhang Ming, China’s ambassador to the EU, said that “China’s domestic demand is the EU’s external demand, which means a source of growth for the EU”. He added that the two sides had signed an agreement allowing greater market access for European agricultural goods and highlighted that the investment treaty was just around the corner.This has some merit. China pipped the US to become the EU’s largest trading partner through the first half of this year. The trade remains skewed, with European imports outstripping its exports. This does lead to some consternation. However, as a recent study by the Mercator Institute for China Studies argued, cheap Chinese imports free up greater disposable income of European citizens. The researchers found that there were 103 product categories in electronics, minerals, pharmaceuticals, etc, in which the EU “has a critical strategic dependence on imports from China”. The study also informs that on average, China accounted for over 11% of the profits European companies in 2019. That’s not a huge amount, but it is still significant, considering that despite the calls for building supply chain resilience and decoupling, only around 11% of European companies in China say they are thinking about shifting investments to other markets.Irrespective of this economic engagement, there is friction between Beijing and Brussels, which is independent of Washington. This is evident in frustrations over market access and State subsidies, as it was in the European discourse over China’s mask diplomacy. On values, Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s threat to Czech Senate President Milos Vystrcil from the podium in Berlin in September highlighted the challenge. A few weeks after that fiasco, during the China-EU summit, Xi dismissed concerns over Hong Kong and Xinjiang, saying that China didn’t need an “instructor” on human rights.The adoption of the European Magnitsky Act is a manifestation of Europe’s desire to lend teeth to its proposition on human rights. It remains to be seen, however, if the bloc will be using this against Beijing. Borrell has said that he doesn’t want the designation of China as a “systemic rival” to lead to a “systematic rivalry”. Gaining from economic engagement despite the political and strategic gap remains the EU’s challenge in dealing with China. In this, Biden’s victory lends it leverage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/decoding-the-dc-brussels-beijing-geopolitical-triangle/story-8F5zATmd4QSd5yKASAjrPK.html
