18-12-2020||News||1971: A military victory and the birth of a nation||There was deep resentment against the Pakistani establishment among the Bangla-speaking people in East Pakistan, who had been treated as second-class citizens in their own country. The Pakistani army decided to crush the voices of self-determination through a crackdown called Operation Searchlight which resulted in large-scale rape, murder and looting. The flood of refugees into India meant another confrontation with Pakistan.The sense of urgency was heightened when a post at Dalu Haat (on the border of India and East Pakistan in Meghalaya), used by refugees to cross over, was attacked by Pakistani troops. The Border Security Force (BSF), despite significant casualties, fended off the attack. After this, my unit was ordered to immediately move into Meghalaya to look after the border from Baghmara to Mahendraganj. As an intelligence officer (IO), I routinely went with the Mukti Bahini to register targets. The Mukti Bahini initially comprised only students and non-military personnel, had a limited leadership and was fearful of the Pakistani army. But having trained with the Indian Army, it was successful in several missions.In October, we moved to Tripura and were tasked to clear the Belonia bulge. We were to support the Mukti Bahini operating in East Pakistan as part of this. Amid regular attacks by Pakistani artillery and Sabre aircraft, we, along with the Mukti Bahini, gained control of the Belonia bulge by mid-November. We then pulled back into what is now Trishna Wildlife Sanctuary. At the end of November, the unit was tasked to plan a roadblock behind the forward defensive line in an area 10-11 km in depth.It was believed that a Pakistani artillery regiment of 105 mm guns was positioned near Parikot. I was to go behind enemy lines with a Mukti Bahini guide to get information on the location of the guns, and also scout for locations where the battalion could take up blocking positions to cut off the Chauddagram axis. When we reached the enemy positions in Parikot, I could locate the sentries who had to be tackled. However, this would entail the risk of being pursued by the enemy once the bodies were discovered. Fortunately, as I was about to silence the sentries, the guns fired, and this assisted in mapping their locations. My team had around ten jawans and we had to make a 30-km dash back from enemy territory before first light.On December 3, war was officially declared with Pakistan. We received orders to make a daylight attack on December 4 to capture Chauddagram, where the Pakistani positions overlooked the road that went to Parikot and onwards north to Chandpur. I was tasked to lead the assault, which seemed a rash idea as the enemy could see us coming. We were met with heavy enemy fire and suffered casualties. We had no choice but to wait out the counter-attack. On the morning of December 5, we launched an attack on the Pakistani post which we captured.We were told to proceed to Mudaffarganj that was en route to Chandpur. We encountered many Pakistani units as they tried to retreat to Chandpur. We captured a large number of Pakistani officers and soldiers, a risky operation as they often outnumbered us. We had to convince them that they were surrounded by a much larger force. These prisoners of war were handed over to the divisional resources tasked to handle them. Mudaffarganj presented another problem as the Pakistanis had surrounded that area and inflicted casualties on 1/11 GR. Our unit surrounded the Pakistanis and our firing broke their morale leading them to run away towards Chandpur. In the morning, the corps commander arrived in a helicopter and told our unit to rush to Chandpur as the Pakistanis were abandoning it. This called for innovation as we had no transport. We rounded up everything that could move — fire engines, garbage trucks, cars and cycles to assist in our dash. Using this unorthodox method, we captured a large number of Pakistani troops.From Chandpur, we were ordered to join our brigade and move to Chittagong. I was to move before the unit to carry out a reconnaissance mission. I decided to take a shortcut and landed in Comilla town which had not yet been liberated. On spotting my jeep, the locals started celebrating the liberation of the town. Later, I learnt of the risk taken as Comilla was still under Pakistani control. The move to Chittagong had to be through the hill tract. I led the recce through hills to find a route for the unit and brigade which followed the path by cutting bushes to clear a lane. On December 16, we received news of the surrender at Dhaka, came out of the jungles and moved into Chittagong where a surrender ceremony took place.A short swift war, a manoeuvre on foot in which the Pakistani army was outclassed tactically and strategically giving birth to a new nation — this victory has no parallel in military history anywhere in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/1971-a-military-victory-and-the-birth-of-a-nation/story-j08OainfDwS3aMJjt5zFNL.html
18-12-2020||News||In Punjab, the centrality of the mandi system||The stand-off between the government and the farmers on the new farm laws shows no signs of easing. For a long time, the government insisted that the protest was led by middlemen and large farmers only in Punjab, and to some extent Haryana, who were concerned about losing their privileges. However, the expansion of the movement and organised support for it in other regions have defied these claims and left almost everyone surprised. Nevertheless, the mobilisation across all sections of Punjab’s society, even the diaspora, unseen in any other region, in support of these protests warrants an explanation.The mandi has been a major rallying cry for the protests in Punjab. Its importance to agricultural life, as it has developed over the past half a century in the state, cannot be overstated. Under the mandi system farmers bring paddy and wheat to the shop of the commission agent (arhtia) in regulated Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), or mandi, yards for sale. Any amount of these crops within certain quality standards is purchased by the government, through the Food Corporation of India and other state-level procurement agencies, at the Minimum Support Price (MSP) (also known as “open procurement”).This assured purchase at MSP has been the main source of income support for Punjab’s farmers. Of course, larger farmers have benefitted disproportionately more than smaller ones. The former can avail of economies of scale in production and bring larger crop volumes to the mandi. Smaller farmers face higher input costs (for example, costs of renting in machinery) and bring lower volumes of crop (sometimes even lower quality if they are unable to purchase and apply inputs in a timely way). But to say that the mandi system does not benefit the smaller farmers is a bit of a stretch. Even for them, the system provides an important safety net, an assurance that, at the least, they can expect a certain amount of household income through the agricultural year. Expenses and debts can be managed against that.Certainly, as the government constantly reminds us, commission agents have also been key beneficiaries of this system. Commission agents in the grain mandis of Punjab get a commission of 2.5% of total sales from the buyer among the highest in the country. In fact, it is on the basis of this assured transaction that they also extend informal credit to the farmers at very high interest rates. Given that the new farm laws are likely to undermine the mandi system (indirectly, even if not stated explicitly) which is crucial to their business, it is no surprise that they too are supporting the farmer protest.But what is really notable is that protesting farmers too are consistently justifying the role of the agents. Why? To some extent, it is because a small section of large farmers has also become commission agents. But in addition, moneylending by them constitutes crucial financial support for farmers when credit from commercial banks and cooperatives proves inadequate, which is often the case. This is particularly true for smaller farmers, who often have to deal with the harshest interest rates but also have no other source of credit support. There is no reason to believe that the reformed markets in the wake of the new laws will not have middlemen, and farmers worry about whether these new middlemen will extend similar support to them.There are other, less obvious, ways in which the rhythms of Punjab’s local agrarian economy are dependent on the mandi system. It is when the farmers sell their crop that they have the income (or the next round of credit) to pay rent for leased land and pending wages to farm labourers. It is also then that they buy inputs for the next crop and make other kinds of household purchases, ranging from groceries to medicines for the elderly and stationery for the children. Landless rural populations, some of whom still work as farm labourers, also know that the subsidised rations they receive depend on the government’s purchase of surplus wheat and paddy. There is much to be said about the work of some of the state’s more progressive farmer and farm labour unions in creating this awareness and building alliances with other sections of society to broad-base the support for the protest. But even otherwise, it is commonly understood that the mandi system is the lifeblood of Punjab’s agricultural, even small-town economies.All this is hardly to say that the mandi system is devoid of problems and does not need serious reform. I have already mentioned the predicament of small farmers and the contentious role of commission agents. Years of paddy and wheat monocropping — enabled through this system — have severely affected soil fertility, groundwater availability and yields. But equally, efforts towards crop diversification have been half-hearted and ineffective. Meanwhile, non-agricultural employment opportunities are dismal and the state government’s finances are in shambles. So, while the state clutches at straws, the new laws offer nothing to calm the anxieties of its people about life after the mandi system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-punjab-the-centrality-of-the-mandi-system/story-V1QIJJuShlfDIRiaE7ukQJ.html
