29-12-2020||News||For the BJP, it has been a productive year||For historians in the future, 2020 will always be marked as the year of the Great Pandemic, a year when the whole world took refuge behind masks and economies took a spectacular beating. Since last March, normal life as we have known it either came to a halt or was spectacularly redefined. In time to come, the story of the recent past will be divided by pre-Covid and post-Covid. Yet, an aggregate view that highlights change and transformation often obfuscates the deep continuities between two otherwise distinct chapters. This came to the fore during the elections to the Bihar assembly two months ago. The fear that traditional campaign methods would become irrelevant in the face of a fear of the pandemic and that turnout of voters would see a sharp decline turned out to be unfounded. All the preparations for a virtual campaign conducted through smart phones and tablets came to nought as campaigners and voters indicated their clear preference for politics as usual, including mass rallies where social distancing was illusory. Covid should have been the Great Fear, but the political world chose to confront it fearlessly. The year of the pandemic began with a flurry of excitement over the repeal of Article 370 and the enactment of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) that fast-tracked Indian citizenship for those who fled religious persecution from neighbouring countries. It has ended with well-off farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh trying to overturn a range of agricultural reforms. Both movements witnessed a significant mobilisation of sectional interests and both were romanticised by the Opposition parties that had emerged from the 2019 general election battered and bruised. Naturally their target was the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) whose lotus was in full bloom after outright victories in successive general elections. How the BJP has conducted itself in the past year, even as it faced sustained challenges from disparate movements is worth a serious look. The most important aspect is the orientation of the BJP as a party in government at the Centre. The period after 2014 is not the first occasion the BJP has been in power with a charismatic leader at the helm. It was in power between 1998 and 2004, although never with an outright parliamentary majority. On both occasions, the Prime Minister of the day had maintained aloofness from day-to-day politics. Atal Bihari Vajpayee liked to project himself as the great consensus builder, balancing between different pulls and pressures and on a number of occasions taking positions that offended the BJP rank-and-file and the leadership of the RSS. Although Vajpayee was routinely wheeled out during elections, his enduring popularity in the Indian Establishment lay in the belief that he was ‘the right man in the wrong party.’ An unintended consequence of Vajpayee’s projection as a non-partisan leader was the party’s loss of focus. With no real experience of the art of combining its responsibility in government with its role as a political party, the BJP emulated the Congress experience of subordinating the party to the government. Consequently, party units were often reduced to the role of patronage facilitators, resulting in the creation of a large body of disappointed BJP workers. The sangh parivar in turn was miffed that the Vajpayee government left many of its core concerns unaddressed. These were factors behind the listlessness of BJP units during the 2004 election campaign and the consequent defeat. It is to the credit of Narendra Modi that he imbibed the lessons of the 1998-2004 experience and sought to inject the party with a new sense of purpose even while wielding power at the Centre. First, there was a conscious attempt to draw in the party units in the initiatives of the Modi government. During the lockdown and beyond, the entire party was mobilised to disburse relief to the vulnerable sections and even facilitate the evacuation of migrant workers to their home states. This may explain why, despite the magnitude of economic dislocation in the wake of the lockdown and after, the BJP wasn’t a victim of any backlash during the Bihar elections. Secondly, in addressing some of the party’s core concerns such as the repeal of Article 370 and the enactment of CAA, the Modi government was able to establish a very strong emotional connect with the larger saffron parivar. This has ensured that predictable disappointments over patronage have not translated into bitterness against the Centre. Unlike the Vajpayee government which—despite the personal respect the Prime Minister commanded—was viewed with a tinge of detachment, the BJP units all over India view the Modi government as their very own. This profound sense of ownership has contributed to energetic political activity, even during non-election seasons. It is highly significant that Modi’s innings hasn’t recorded any serious spat between the RSS and the government. This was a recurrent feature of Vajpayee’s term.Finally, the tenure of Amit Shah as party president witnessed the transformation of the BJP into a vast election machine. Shah ensured that the BJP treated every election, including local body and panchayat polls, as equally important. More important, equal importance was attached to elections being fought in areas which were outside the BJP’s traditional areas of influence. It is this sustained focus on weak areas that has seen the BJP extending its footprint to West Bengal, the North-east, Telangana and Kerala. To cap it all, the BJP under Shah and now JP Nadda has made it quite apparent that it is willing to enlarge its own political space by accommodating defectors from other parties. This doesn’t mean the BJP has shed all ideological pretensions. It merely indicates that its quest to consolidate its status as the new dominant party is unending. For the BJP, 2020 was just another year in its long march. Swapan Dasgupta is a Member of Parliament, Rajya Sabha The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/for-the-bjp-it-is-has-been-productive-year/story-i5eMaqF59HMql1ARqi1YxL.html
29-12-2020||News||2020: When people spoke truth to power||The year 2020 has ended and Covid-19 is getting the better of us. We have yet to see whether we can reduce the impact of its onslaught and save lives in 2021. The virus is unrelenting and mutates to scare us with yet further onslaughts. It has changed the way we live and interact with each other. The elderly are most vulnerable and quarantined children are forced to grow up in isolation away from school. While the rich and the prosperous carry on their everyday lives, albeit somewhat constrained, the less privileged and the poor do not have this luxury. Quarantine for them has had disastrous consequences.We saw in 2020, the spectacle which shook the conscience of the nation, migrant labourers stoically making their way home. The government stood by watching, oblivious of the consequences and at one time, informed the Supreme Court that there was no one on the streets walking home; that hapless migrants were being taken care of in every way. The reality was different. Our citizens’ outreach, along with that of NGOs, should have shamed the government’s unpreparedness and inept handling of the sudden lockdown and its fallout. Only an insensitive government could have boasted of distribution of free ration for survival of migrants on their long journey home. The painful images of migrants ready to endure extreme adversity will stay with us for long, their stories untold for years to come.The year also saw the president of the most vibrant democracy in the world, Donald Trump, doing his utmost to denigrate the fundamentals of democracy, in a desperate bid to stick to power after losing to president-elect Joe Biden. What goes to his credit was his commitment to change the terms of trade with China. Trump recognised that the global balance of power had shifted and that America needed to protect its national interest by embracing the slogan — “America First”, modifying or rejecting bilateral treaties that, in his perception, hurt America. But in the process, American democracy was diminished. It brought about a Right-wing culture with Trump blaming “them” for the country’s inability to ensure that the fruits of the liberal economic order reach ordinary Americans. Immigrants, who empowered the United States (US) were suddenly portrayed as ones who took away jobs. Though consumers enjoyed the privilege of a variety of choices in accessing goods and services, it also resulted in the US losing its manufacturing capacity to China. Minorities felt uncomfortable and black Americans were targeted. Countries around the world became increasingly Right-wing and the level of tolerance within societies diminished. Those not part of the domestic cultural milieu were viewed with suspicion.Nearer home, 2020 witnessed the juggernaut of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) strangulating institutions. We saw the alacrity with which their well-oiled electoral machinery, by means fair or foul, snatched victory from the jaws of defeat, decimating the opposition state after state. We saw elected governments fall by means that were clearly foul, with those targeted resigned to the inevitability of such an outcome. We saw governors attempting to destabilise elected governments. Eyebrows were raised when courts prioritised certain cases and pushed under the carpet issues which needed urgent attention. On many occasions, the cause of liberty did not find a door to knock at. The police functioned in tandem with their political bosses ensuring that some investigations resulted in the victims being targeted as accused and the accused kept away from the radar of investigating agencies. We are witnessing the National Investigation Agency, the Enforcement Directorate, the Central Bureau of Investigation and the income tax department going after those who chose to raise their voice. We saw an 83-year-old, Stan Swamy, perceived as a threat to the State, being charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and denied essentials for survival by relying on colonial era jail manual prescriptions. We saw justifiable alacrity in dealing with the cause of liberty for some and a lackadaisical and insouciant shrug when dealing with the liberty of others.We also saw the government issuing ordinances in matters of great public importance. The arrogance with which the government discarded the opposition’s demand for a more thorough scrutiny of significant legislations surprises none. Indeed, it is taken to be part of the privilege of a party that dominates the Lok Sabha and has the ability to manipulate parties in the Rajya Sabha. In a sense, the people of India have taken this to be the new normal.The farmers’ agitation that has erupted, raises complex issues that need to be debated and addressed. Protesting students occupying part of a public road were arrested and prosecuted under UAPA. However, in the case of agitating farmers, the government realises that they are not easy targets. This agitation will impact 2021. Its political ramifications will be felt in the years to come. The government has shown no signs of relenting and farmers too are not backing off. The prime minister has stated that we can’t claim that god has made us perfect. That is a rare confession. We know that those who say so, play god and consider themselves infallible as they seek to charter the destiny of 1.2 billion people. Ultimately, it is these people who will determine the destiny of those who have never acknowledged their fallibility. Farewell 2020 with new hopes for 2021. Kapil Sibal is a former Union minister The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/2020-when-people-spoke-truth-to-power/story-EktfzMyxol0tWbmxl5NkOP.html
29-12-2020||News||2021 strategic outlook: India must not yield any ground to China||As the New Year dawns after what seems a long 12 months wracked by death, devastated economies and uncertainty, the global landscape remains in flux. Rivalries between global players will, however, get enhanced. The Covid-19 pandemic, which has caused anti-China sentiment to soar worldwide, highlighted the need for diversified sources of vital supplies such as pharmaceuticals and rare earths. This has prompted countries to accelerate geo-political realignments and develop new supply chains. For India especially, the coming year heralds a phase of new uncertainties, necessitating deft diplomacy accompanied by a firm resolve not to yield ground on issues of sovereignty and national interest. An aggressive China, a malevolent China-Pakistan relationship and the growing strategic cooperation between Russia and China, with its attendant implications, will all be central to India’s strategic policy. Globally, the China-United States (US) relationship is perhaps the most crucial today. How it evolves during Joe Biden’s term will be minutely watched. Any easing of policies followed by the earlier two US administrations will be oxygen to Chinese President Xi Jinping and make him more aggressive. Despite considerable US pressure, Xi has not wavered in his quest to make China a global power rivalling — if not surpassing — the US. Though the incoming Biden Administration is yet to formally articulate its policies, the President-elect has made clear that restoring the relationship with Europe will be a priority. This sentiment has been quickly reciprocated by European capitals. Biden and his nominees for the posts of secretary of state and national security advisor, Antony Blinken and Jake Sullivan respectively, have also indicated that with China they would prefer talks to confrontation. Beijing has responded cautiously, but positively. Several Chinese officials and academics, including China’s foreign minister Wang Yi and ambassador to the US, Cui Tiankai, have in past weeks reiterated the need to repair Sino-US ties, treat each other with “respect” and address common issues like the pandemic and climate change. They, and other Chinese interlocuters, have nevertheless held firm to Beijing’s position on issues where differences exist. Whether this portends a shift in the Biden Administration’s focus away from the Indo-Pacific should soon be visible. Capitals in Asia, and some in Europe, will closely monitor if America reduces its security presence in the Indo-Pacific, decreases engagement with the Quad, and whether it dilutes support to Taiwan, Japan and the Philippines on security issues. Many Chinese experts hold a thinly concealed view that Beijing wields considerable influence among the US power elite, which will again be revived. Recent US media reports mention that China is establishing contacts with persons close to the Biden camp and point to Beijing’s longstanding financial links with the Democrats, including with Biden’s son. Thus far, China’s aggressive foreign policy, its efforts to establish dominance over the South China Sea and the degree of military pressure it exerts to achieve its ambitions in the Indo-Pacific, is limited by US policy. Beijing is upgrading relations with Moscow to form a strong pro-China power bloc in Asia. For India, China is the biggest military, diplomatic, economic and environmental challenge. It is also encroaching on India’s strategic space to establish itself as the pre-eminent power in Asia. China’s leadership, which since 2014 has viewed India as aspiring for a place at the international high table, will increasingly harden its position. Pressures, like the ongoing military confrontation, will continue until Beijing perceives India is willing to acquiesce to its diktat. Beijing will also try to persuade Biden to soften US policy towards Pakistan. As India strives to ensure good relations with the US and Russia, revive its economy and build indigenous capabilities, it is vital that it does not yield ground to China and assertively raises issues that impact its core national interests.Jayadeva Ranade is former additional secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, and president of the Centre for China Analysis and StrategyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/2021-strategic-outlook-india-must-not-yield-any-ground-to-china/story-Olnd9D2TUs9z4lOvNQMcWN.html
29-12-2020||News||In between manhole and machine hole||Workmen, collectively, are indispensable because within their union lies the power of bargain. Sanitation workers not only need new systems of mechanisation but also economic, social and political tools to have an upper hand on the contractors.With the surge of mechanisation, sanitation workers need to be reorganised on a large scale to reinstate a permanent structure in the system. This labour concentration is required to weaken the solidarity of the oppressors who also need severe mechanisation to fix their caste bias.The first question is whose capacity will the Centre build when it seems they don’t even know who these sanitation workers are? Their lack of sociological understanding is evident in their failure of inclusion of sanitation workers in proposed plans devised for their benefit. Another aspect is that if the number of workmen is unknown, any plans of direct monetary support is far away from reality. On the ground the states have always refused to recognise the existing categorisation of sanitation workers, therefore, when it comes to the work of scavenging only sewer cleaners come to mind. Therefore, the missing link between manhole to machine hole transformation is a need for a mobilisation movement so that sanitation workers of different categories can be at the front and centre of decision making. An alliance of all categories will not only help in their realistic recognition but also protect their interests.The second question is what are the concrete steps that the Centre and state will be taking in improving the lives of the one who will be using these machines? How will a minimum standard of the wages be insured? It is true that sanitation workers have fought for themselves through unionisation even before this new introduction of machinery but now it is the time for them to reinstate themselves into a labour movement immediately otherwise the Centre will take over the real social function of their unionisation.Mechanic output realisation has historically given the employers the ability to own the employee. It is also true that when the mass mobilisation of the sanitation workers will become visible political parties will understand the value of taking sanitation workers on board. The fist agglomeration of workmen by NM Lokhande was in response to the draconian Factories Act of 1881 by the British government. It was at this time that the working class realised how strikes can be held to gather actualised concessions. The success of these opened the way for many types of mobilisation.The formation of All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) and Trade Unions Act in the 1920s and then the starting of All India Trade Union Federation mobilised many labourers altogether but rapid politicisation also confused them. Also, when the leaders will become powerful, stained tactics will be used to lure them like the Cawnpore conspiracy case. In the post independent era trade unions in India had a linear weave along with socialist and communist tendencies but post-liberalisation the actual membership tally also started becoming complicated because of the rise of workforce from the informal sector.Sanitation workers in that case will also suffer the same complications as within different categorisations the number of people entering into the septic tanks have many other seasonal occupations. The nature of the Indian labour is that it does not remain in one job for very long. The Indian labour is rooted in the village who migrate heavily to the cities to become a sanitation worker. Therefore, the third question is: To whom the Centre will give training if the sanitation workers who used to enter the septic tanks do not come out in the open? Large degree of labour turnover and lack of adequate provisions for the sanitation workers will start an effect that there will be a possibility that the upper caste men will begin occupying these machines and force the sanitation workers to assist them through manual jobs.Similarly, the fourth question is whose job it will be to ensure the implementation of the usage of this machinery? To whom the training will be given to also fix the machinery? The fifth question is whose insurance it will be that the contractors will not force sanitation workers in semi-urban and rural areas to enter into the septic tanks? Unionisation in this regard has the power to not only protect the sanitation workers but also improve their political standing. This in turn will free them from contractual exploitation and ownership. Sanitation workers will have to take the strict compliance of legal regulation in their own hands.They will have to be more than strike committees and refrain from multiplicity of unions and inter union rivalries only then every death case will haunt the lawmakers for posterity. Now, the Centre will have to understand that India’s sanitation workers need a ‘safai karmachari mitra’ more than a ‘safaimitra.’ Till that time sanitation workers will have to protect their own interest themselves through responsible trade union leadership.Pragya Akhilesh is the secretary of Bhim Safai Karmachari Trade Union and the national convener of Rehabilitation Research Initiative, India(The views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-between-manhole-and-machine-hole/story-LFzxiU2GBpYCElzarq0LtK.html
