01-09-2021||New Delhi||Bids invited to build rail arcades at Chandigarh, Bengaluru stations; ban on sale of beef, alcohol||The railways has floated tenders to build rail arcades at Chandigarh and Bengaluru stations, complete with food courts, entertainment and leisure, but with a caveat for potential bidders: they won’t be allowed to sell beef and alcohol.The tenders floated by the Indian Railway Station Development Corporation Limited (IRSDC) has laid down the dos and don’ts for the bidders who would be expected to create an “experience zone” and a “small city centre” inviting people and travellers to engage and spend quality time.“The space is to be developed as an experience zone with presence of brands,” said the tender document.It also listed 15 segments which could be included such as food and beverage, passenger convenience store, gift books and magazine, handloom and artifacts.It also listed items that would be “banned” for sale at any of the outlets in the arcade. “Tobacco products, wine, beer or any other alcoholic drinks or any other item prohibited by law. Beef and Pork shall not be used in any form in any food items,” it said.The list of excluded items also include raw vegetable or mutton/chicken/fish (Raw), coaching/tuition Classes, tailor shop, vehicle repair, petroleum or its bye-products, construction, hardware and sanitary products. It also said the space cannot be used for advertisement or hoarding space.The last date of online submission of bids is on September 9. The contract for the arcade will be for a duration of nine years.The construction of these arcades is a part of the government’s station redevelopment plans that will transform railway station areas into a Railopolis, a mini smart city with mixed-use development where one can live, work, play and ride, thus attracting huge investment and business opportunities. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bids-invited-to-build-rail-arcades-at-chandigarh-bengaluru-stations-ban-on-sale-of-beef-alcohol-305098
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Top seed Aniruddh Sangra enters tennis semis||Top seed Aniruddh Sangra stormed into boys’ U-16 semi-finals by ousting Parth Sharma 8-0 in the ongoing Roots-AITA National Ranking CS3 Championship today.Hardik Khanduja also marched ahead by defeating Keshav Dangi 8-4, while Anhad Singh Oberai defeated Anuj Pal 8-5. Second seed Akshat Dhull registered an easy 8-4 win over Yash Jindal.In the girls’ U-16 quarterfinals, top seed Vanya Arora defeated Jasmine Kaur 8-2. Second seed Radha Sadra defeated Ayushi Prajapat and Sidhak Kaur defeated Mokshika Yadav by identical scores of 8-1. Rasha Dhaliwal struggled hard before defeating Diya Chaudhary 9-8(7). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seed-aniruddh-sangra-enters-tennis-semis-304670
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rashmi, Sheikh continue to lead after round two in carrom meet||Rashmi Kumari of the PSPB and Mohammed Sheikh of Karnataka continue to lead in the women and men categories, respectively, after the second round of the champions league in the ongoing Indian Online Carrom Challenge.Rashmi scored 36 points in the second round to enhance her cumulative score at 64 (28+36) to stay at the top. Chandigarh’s Nidhi Gupta maintained second place with 83 cumulative points (40+43) and Shainy S of Karnataka claimed the third position with 84 points (48+36) followed by current world champion S Appoorva of LIC at the fourth position with 85 (44+41) points.In the men’s category, Sheikh claimed the top position with a cumulative score to 32 (03+29). He is closely followed by Abdul Rehman of Uttar Pradesh with 33 (18+15) points at the second place and Riyaz Akbarali of Air India at the third position with 47 (19+28) points. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rashmi-sheikh-continue-to-lead-after-round-two-in-carrom-meet-304671
01-09-2021||---||Karandeep, Harendra to tee off at Golconda Masters||Chandigarh, August 31City golfer and PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar will feature in the Golconda Masters Telangana Open 2021 starting from September 2. The championship will be hosted by the Hyderabad Golf Association and the PGTI.Chandigarh’s Harendra Gupta, Yuvraj Singh Sandhu and Harmeet Kahlon will also be a part of the field.The tournament, which carries a prize purse of Rs40 lakh, will witness participation of 129 golfers in all.The top Indian professionals in the fray include Olympian and defending champion Udayan Mane, Rashid Khan, Khalin Joshi, Viraj Madappa and Chikkarangappa S.The foreign challenge will be led by the Bangladeshi duo of Md Zamal Hossain Mollah and Badal Hossain.“We’re excited about resuming the 2020-21 season with the Golconda Masters,” said Uttam Singh Mundy, CEO, PGTI.The PGTI Tour gets back on track after a five-month pandemic induced break. The Pro-Am event will be held tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/karandeep-harendra-to-tee-off-at-golconda-masters-304672
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh unit of AAP protests corruption, hike in taxes by Municipal Corporation||The city unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today held a protest in front of the Municipal Corporation office against “rampant corruption and increase in taxes” by the civic body.The police had to use water cannons to stop AAP workers from marching towards the MC building. AAP leaders claimed that some workers and party election in-charge Chandermukhi Sharma suffered injuries in the police action.AAP Chandigarh co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra and AAP city president Prem Garg strongly condemned the police action. “It is the constitutional right of people to protest peacefully for their demands, but the police want to take away their rights at the behest of BJP leaders,” they added.Chandermukhi Sharma demanded that police “lathicharge” on peaceful protesters without the orders of the Duty Magistrate should be investigated and strict action should be taken against guilty police officials.Slogans were raised against the ruling BJP, the city Mayor and the UT Administration.Meanwhile, officials denied use of “lathicharge” on the AAP protesters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-unit-of-aap-protests-corruption-hike-in-taxes-by-municipal-corporation-304674
01-09-2021||---||RoundGlass Punjab FC signs goalkeeper Lalthuammawia Ralte||Chandigarh, August 31RoundGlass Punjab FC signed goalkeeper Lalthuammawia Ralte for a two-year deal. The 28-year-old Ralte, popularly known as Mawia, has represented the Indian national team and competed in both I-League as well as the ISL for clubs, including FC Goa, Bengaluru FC, SC East Bengal, Kerala Blasters, Northeast United and Shillong Lajong.“I am excited and looking forward to represent this dynamic new club. My goal is to contribute to the team to the best of my ability so that we can challenge for titles. They have signed some excellent players recently in addition to Ashley Westwood as the head coach, and I am looking forward to an exciting season with this ambitious team,” said Ralte.Welcoming the new goalkeeper, the head coach said: “Mawia has always been a dependable shot stopper with excellent reflexes, agility and positioning. As a goalkeeper, he is still approaching his peak.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roundglass-punjab-fc-signs-goalkeeper-lalthuammawia-ralte-304673
01-09-2021||---||Visitors, staff sans vaccine, -ve RT-PCR report denied entry to offices in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 31Several departments of the UT Administration today denied entry to visitors, including its employees, who have not been vaccinated with at least first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine or negative RT-PCR report of the last 72 hours.The Chandigarh Administration has recently ordered that visitors must be vaccinated with at least first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine or have negative RT-PCR report of not more than 72 hours.Sources said officials and visitors were today asked to produce their Covid vaccination proof or negative RT-PCR report at the Estate Office and by a few departments in the UT Secretariat.Those who failed to produce the relevant documents were not allowed to enter the premises, said the sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/visitors-staff-sans-vaccine-ve-rt-pcr-report-denied-entry-to-offices-in-chandigarh-304675
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Plaksha University opens in Mohali||The region today got a first-of-its-kind university, Plaksha University, in Mohali which is offering contemporary undergraduate degrees in artificial intelligence, robotics and cyber-physical systems, biological systems and data science.Classes will start from on October 4 on its 50-acre state-of-the-art campus at the IT City, Mohali. The university, is being set up by more than 60 entrepreneurs and business leaders from across the world, said Karan Gilhotra, founder of Plaksha University, in Chandigarh today.Gilhotra said the university was being set up in collaboration with top universities such as UC Berkeley, Purdue and SRI. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plaksha-university-opens-in-mohali-304676
01-09-2021||---||Chandigarh Home Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta relieved||Chandigarh, August 31After the completion of his inter-cadre deputation period, Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Home), UT, was today relieved.The three-year deputation period of the officer had ended in May, but due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration had sought extension in service for three months for Gupta, a Haryana cadre IAS officer of 1992 batch.The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet had extended the deputation of Gupta for three more months beyond May 31.Meanwhile, the Home Secretary’s link officer, UT Finance Secretary Vijay Namdeorao Zade, a Punjab cadre IAS officer, will look after the departments held by Gupta till further orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-home-secretary-arun-kumar-gupta-relieved-304677
01-09-2021||---||Report persons seeking bribe, says Mohali District Health Officer||Mohali, August 31In view of the coming festival season, the Health Department has again appealed to sweets makers, confectioners, grocery owners, vegetable/fruit sellers, dairy owners, milk sellers and other food business operators (FBOs) to report to the department or its food safety wing if any bribe or money is demanded in the name of any officer of the wing, so that strict legal action can be taken against such violators.Stating this, the District Health Officer (DHO), Dr Subhash Kumar, said shopkeepers could complain against such miscreants which may also be employees of department, on his personal mobile phone number 98766 43047 for immediate redressal of the issue. He said every shopkeeper or even hawker or rehri-farhi wala dealing in food and beverages should register with the Food Safety Wing and get a registration certificate or licence, for which there is no need to visit the department office. Registration certificate or license can be obtained by applying online at www.foscos.fssai.gov.in for which government fee is charged.Dr Subhash Kumar said those who take bribe in lieu of not taking any action, e.g. not collecting samples of food items, were enemies of society and it was very important to identify such elements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/report-persons-seeking-bribe-says-mohali-district-health-officer-304678
01-09-2021||---||Chander Mohan’s advice to Haryana BJP leaders||Panchkula, August 31Instead of mentioning facilities being provided to the Punjab Government in Haryana, the Haryana BJP leaders should advise the Central Government to repeal the three farm laws, otherwise misfortune of the party in the coming Assembly elections can easily be guessed.Stating this, former Deputy Chief Minister of Haryana Chander Mohan suggested that Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar should stop comparing Punjab with Haryana as every state had different conditions.He said Meghalaya Governor Satpal Malik had said that the Chief Minister should apologise for the brutal lathicharge on the peacefully protesting farmers. A similar concern has also been raised by senior leader of the BJP Chaudhary Birender Singh, added Chander Mohan.The former Dy CM said the brutality on farmers in Karnal was a reminder of the British rule.Demanding a judicial probe, Chandermohan said the lathicharge had been ordered at the behest of the CM, so by blaming this lathicharge on the Punjab farmers, he cannot escape from his responsibility. He also demanded a financial assistance of Rs25 lakh to the family of the farmer who died due to heart attack after the incident, besides Rs2 lakh each to the injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chander-mohans-advice-to-haryana-bjp-leaders-304679
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court tells Chandigarh civic body to deposit Rs 2 crore||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh to deposit Rs 2 crore with the “executing Court” after taking into consideration, among other things, the fact that it was unable to provide space for building and operating a transport parking.The direction came on an appeal filed by the MC against M/s Subhash Projects and Marketing Ltd. and other respondents.Admitting the matter, Justice GS Sandhawalia asserted it required consideration. “Keeping in view the fact that the contract was for a project for building and operating a transport parking for a period of nine years 11 months and the appellant-Municipal Corporation was not able to provide space for the said project, it shall deposit a sum of Rs2 crore along with 9 per cent interest from the date of the award i.e. August 8, 2013, with the Executing Court within a period of two months from today. The said amount will be released to the respondent-contractor on furnishing of adequate security,” the Bench ruled. Construction of multi-level parking behind Sahib Singh and sons, Sector 17, Chandigarh, was awarded by the MC to M/s SPML on a BOT basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tells-chandigarh-civic-body-to-deposit-rs-2-crore-304680
01-09-2021||---||Panjab University Senate: Election of six ordinary fellows today||Chandigarh August 31Panjab University has finalised the programme of meetings of various faculties to be held on September 1 for the election of six ordinary fellows to the Senate at the Law Auditorium.The process for electing one ordinary fellow each from the faculty of arts (112 total strength) will be held from 9 am to 10.30 am, from the faculty of medical science (87 total strength) from 10.31 am to 11.45 am, from the faculty of languages (94 total strength) from 11.46 am to 1 pm, from the combined facilities (272 total strength), including dairying, animal husbandry and agriculture, education, business management and commerce, engineering and technology, design and fine arts and pharmaceutical sciences, will be held from 1.01 pm to 4 pm, from the faculty of science (137 total strength) from 4.01 pm to 6 pm and from the faculty of law (53 total strength) from 6.01 pm to 7 pm.The candidates included Prof Anju Suri and Dr Ronki Ram (faculty of arts), Prof Gurpal Singh Sandhu and Dr Rajesh Gill (faculty of languages), Dr Navdeep Goyal and Prof Promila Pathak (faculty of science), Ashok Goyal and Dr Sarvdeep Singh Dhatt (faculty of medical science), Anu Chatrath and Jagjot Singh Lalli (faculty of law) and Dr Keshav Malhotra and Prof Naval Kishore (faculty of combined studies).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-election-of-six-ordinary-fellows-today-304682
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana, Himachal record deficit rainfall in August||Monsoon has not augured well for North India during August this year, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) reporting rains to be heavily deficient in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.Also read: Country likely to receive above-normal rains in SeptemberRain in Punjab has been 56 per cent below the long period average, while in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, it has been below normal by 48 per cent and 44 per cent, respectively. Punjab received 69.9 mm rain in August against the normal of 160 mm, Haryana 82.4 mm, while Himachal received 146.5 mm as compared to the normal of 157.2 mm and 262.3 mm, respectively. Nawanshahr, Faridkot and Bathinda were the only three districts in Punjab that received above normal rainfall in August. SAS Nagar was the worst-hit with a deficiency of 81 per cent.In Haryana, Mewat received surplus rain this month, with the deficiency in other districts ranging up to 83 per cent. In Himachal, rainfall remained below par in all districts, with Lahaul and Spiti in the upper reaches recording a deficiency of 92 per cent, the driest this month. — TNSUneven spreadNew Delhi: The country suffered from uneven monsoon rains in the month of August. While eastern parts of India like Bihar and Assam struggled with floods and swelling rivers, plains of the the northwest, including Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, registered a deficiency ranging between 32 and 56 per cent this month, despite heavy rains in several parts on Tuesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-haryana-himachal-record-deficit-rainfall-in-august-304848
01-09-2021||---||5 elderly persons get enhanced pension certificates in Mohali||Mohali, August 31Five old-age persons were given enhanced pension certificates at the district administrative complex here today.Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner As many as 54,705 elderly, widows, destitute children and Divyang (specially abled) beneficiaries in the district will get a monthly pension of Rs1,500 instead of Rs750. Eligible beneficiaries will get a benefit of Rs8.20 crore per month in the district.Disclosing this, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said under various welfare schemes launched by the state government to ensure the social security of the needy, the state government would now provide an enhanced monthly pension of Rs1,500 instead of Rs750. He stated this after a virtual event held under the chairmanship of Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh regarding the disbursal of certificates of enhanced pensions.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said 54,705 elderly, widows, destitute children and Divyang (specially abled) beneficiaries in the district would get a monthly pension of Rs1,500 instead of Rs750. Eligible beneficiaries would get a benefit of Rs8.20 crore per month in the district.Accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Komal Mittal, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan handed over certificates of enhanced pensions to five beneficiaries - Dilbag Singh, Ranjit Kaur, Nirmal Kaur, Ishar Kaur and Ujagar Singh - during the event in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-elderly-persons-get-enhanced-pension-certificates-in-mohali-304681
01-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Dinesh Mongia to coach Arunachal Pradesh cricket team||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31In what could be a loss for Chandigarh cricket, 44-year-old former India all-rounder Dinesh Mongia has been appointed as the head coach of the Arunachal Pradesh cricket team for the upcoming season.Dinesh Mongia, former Indian all-rounder I was approached by Arunachal Pradesh cricket officials. It’s a good challenge for me. I will try to do something for the betterment of cricket in Arunachal. One of the main challenges will be to take players from the state to the higher level. There’s no dearth of talent in Arunachal and I will try to nurture the players while using my experience.The former left-handed player, who was also a part of the 2003 Indian World Cup team that finished runners-up, had coached local teams of the UT Education Department, colleges and clubs in Chandigarh for several years now.“I was approached by Arunachal Pradesh cricket officials. It’s a good challenge for me. I will try to do something for the betterment of cricket in Arunachal. One of the main challenges will be to take players from the state to the higher level. There’s no dearth of talent in Arunachal and Iwill try to nurture the players while using my experience,” said Mongia, who had announced his retirement from all formats in 2019.Mongia, who represented the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) and a well-known figure of Chandigarh, started his U-19 career with Punjab in October 1995. He played first-class debut in February 1996. After six years, he made his debut for the Indian team againstAustralia in 2001 in Pune. He ended with an aggregate of 57 ODIs and one T20 international. He, however, never played a Test. His first-class record of 121 matches included 21 centuries.“I have to create a formula to make them understand the real cricketing details. Arunachal and some northeast states don’t have very good infrastructure right now, but I need to get them to the ground and get the results,” added Mongia.He meanwhile refused to comment on being asked if he was ever approached by the Union Territory Cricket Association, Chandigarh, or the PCA. Mongia, who stays in Chandigarh, will join the team in coming weeks after completing all formalities.About his careerDinesh Mongia, who represented the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) and a well-known figure of Chandigarh, started his U-19 career with Punjab in October 1995. He played first-class debut in February 1996. After six years, he made his debut for the Indian team against Australia in 2001 in Pune. He ended with an aggregate of 57 ODIs and one T20 international. He, however, never played a Test. His first-class record of 121 matches included 21 centuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dinesh-mongia-to-coach-arunachal-pradesh-cricket-team-304683
01-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Air India denies boarding pass despite valid ticket, penalised||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed Air India to pay compensation to a city resident for causing mental harassment by denying her boarding pass at the airport despite having a valid ticket. The commission also directed the airline to refund a sum of Rs17,377, which was charged extra for issuing a fresh ticket for the next day, to the complainant.Kamla Rani (61), a resident of Sector 22, Chandigarh, in a complaint filed before the commission through counsel Atul Goyal, said she booked a ticket with Air India for Australia on July 16, 2018 after paying a sum of Rs91,085. She alleged that after reaching the Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi, Air India staff refused to issue her boarding pass despite having a valid ticket. It was only after repeated requests, the airline decided to issue a fresh ticket for the next day on charging an additional amount of Rs17,377.After the visit, alleging that the acts of the airline in charging an additional amount of Rs17,377 tantamount to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice, the complainant filed a complaint under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, seeking relief.The commission said a notice was sent to the airline seeking its version of the case. However, nobody appeared on behalf of the airline despite service. Therefore, it was proceeded ex-parte on July 15, 2021.The commission, in the order, said: “The airline did not appear to contest the claim of the complainant and preferred to proceed against ex-parte. This act of the airline draws an adverse inference against it. Non-appearance of the airline shows that it has nothing to say in its defence against the allegations made by the complainant”.The commission said the airline failed to issue the boarding pass in spite of the complainant having a valid ticket and visa. Rather, an amount of Rs17,377 was charged additionally for issuing a fresh ticket for the next day from the complainant, without there being any valid explanation/justification.The commission said the airline had certainly and definitely indulged in unfair trade practice as it ought to have not charged additional amount from the complainant, and propelled this unwarranted, uncalled litigation upon the complainant. In view of this, the airline was directed to refund Rs17,377, pay Rs5,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and 5,000 as cost of litigation to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/air-india-denies-boarding-pass-despite-valid-ticket-penalised-304688
01-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Mask up or face music, Chandigarh Transport Undertaking warns bus drivers, conductors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31Amid the possibility of a third wave of Covid-19, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) has warned bus drivers and conductors of disciplinary action if they failed to wear a face mask.According to an order issued by the General Manager, CTU, it has been observed from CCTV cameras installed in the buses that some drivers and conductors are not adhering to the guidelines issued by the UT Administration with respect to wearing of mask. The conductors are also not ensuring that commuters must wear mask all the times while boarding and travelling in the buses.“It is highly uncalled for keeping in view the UT Administration guidelines in this regard. All crew members are directed to strictly ensure the compliance of wearing a face mask by them as well as commuters immediately,” stated the order. Non-compliance of the orders would lead to disciplinary action, warned the GM.The General Manager stated that a task force had also been constituted to ensure strict compliance of the guidelines and instructions issued by the UT Administration from time to time in order to prevent the spread of the pandemic.The task force comprise of Station Supervisor (H) (Officiating)/Station Supervisor, ISBT-17 and ISBT-43, to ensure strict compliance of the orders and submit the report to the General Manager, CTU, on a daily basis.According to the order, drivers and conductors deployed on buses will have to wear a face mask and conductors will also ensure that passengers should not be allowed to board the buses without wearing a mask. It is further directed that all duty inspectors or station supervisors, ISBT-17 and ISBT-43, and route inspectors strictly enforce the said directions.A few days ago, the UT Administration had directed all CTU buses, long route and within the city, to not allow passengers who are not wearing a face mask.The CTU had recently implemented the Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) on 358 buses running on 59 routes in the tricity so that commuters can get real-time information on movement of buses and timings of their arrival and departure.Under the project, four cameras have been installed inside each bus to monitor the behaviour of the crew and passengers. For the security of the passengers, particularly women commuters, a panic button was also installed for emergency.What order statesAccording to the order, drivers and conductors deployed on buses will have to wear a face mask and conductors will also ensure that passengers should not be allowed to board buses without wearing a mask. It is further directed that all duty inspectors or station supervisors, ISBT-17 and ISBT-43, and route inspectors strictly enforce the said directions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mask-up-or-face-music-chandigarh-transport-undertaking-warns-bus-drivers-conductors-304684
01-09-2021||---||Probe finds 7 colonies illegal in Zirakpur areas||Zirakpur, August 31At least seven colonies in the Gazipur and Nabha areas of Zirakpur have been found to be illegal during the ongoing probe by the administration into irregularities in the construction of housing colonies.Mohali ADC Komal Mittal has found that most of the real estate developers have taken no-objection certificates for small pieces of land and later clubbed these to construct high-rise buildings. Also, most of the colonisers have raised structures on roads earmarked in the master plan in 2010. Officials concerned said the probe was likely to be completed in the next 10-15 days.Officials of the Zirakpur Municipal Council are yet to provide the documents pertaining to several housing colonies which are under the scanner.A month ago, Zirakpur Tehsildar Punit Bansal had sought details of ownership and khasra numbers of 23 constructions under the administration’s scanner from the Municipal Council Executive Officer (EO).Sukhdev Chaudhary, president, Joint Action Committee, and other members had met Mittal and handed over the documents of about 20 colonies to the ADC. Chaudhary said illegal constructions had resulted in a loss of crores of rupees to the exchequer.The Punjab Local Government Department has identified 59 illegal colonies within the Zirakpur Municipal Council limits. However, RWAs said the number was much higher than this.Developers to blameMohali ADC Komal Mittal has found that most of the real estate developers have taken no-objection certificates for small pieces of land and later clubbed these to construct high-rise buildings. Also, most of the colonisers have raised structures on roads earmarked in the master plan in 2010. Officials concerned said the probe was likely to be completed in the next 10-15 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/probe-finds-7-colonies-illegal-in-zirakpur-areas-304686
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||2 arrested for snatching mobile phone in Chandigarh||Foetus found in Sector 40Chandigarh: A foetus was found on a slip road in Sector 40. Passersby saw the foetus and informed the police. A case under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of body) of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. TNS2 bikers snatch mobile phoneChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a mobile phone near the Sector 18/19/7/8 chowk. Complainant Gagan Deep Gautam of Kishangarh reported that one of the suspects snatched his mobile phone and ran towards a biker waiting for him on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. The suspects then escaped towards Sector 18. A case was registered. TNSWater supply to be affectedChandigarh: Due to urgent repair work, water supply will be affected for two days in some sectors of the city. According to the Municipal Corporation, the supply will be affected in Sectors 21-C, 21-D, 20-D, 31-34, 44-56, 61 and 63. — TNSToday3.30 am to 9.30 am Full pressure6 pm to 8 pm Low pressureTomorrow4.30 am to 8.30 am Low pressure6 pm to 8 pm Low pressureAmbala KV alumni attend ReunionChandigarh: As many as 50 students of Kendriya Vidyalaya No. 2, Ambala Cantt, from the batches of 1979-1983 took part in an alumni reunion at Sector 26, Chandigarh. Among the alumni were serving and retired brigadiers, colonels, wing commanders, businessmen, doctors and professors who came from Pune, Mumbai, Lucknow, Delhi, Dehradun and Coimbatore to attend the reunion. They shared their memories of the past 40 years. They also relived the bonhomie of school days while participating in various activities. TNSCollege founder rememberedChandigarh: Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma College, Sector 32, organised a "prarthana sabha" and memorial lecture to pay homage to its founder and former Home, Finance, and Education Minister of Punjab, Dr Pandit Mohan Lal, on his 22nd death anniversary, on its college premises on Tuesday. As many as 57 volunteers donated blood on the occasion. A book titled "A Women Prey to Violation", authored by Dr Dinesh Sharma, was also launched on the occasion. TNS‘Sanskritmayam’held at MCM DAVChandigarh: Riya Pundir, Gracy and Arushi claimed top three positions, respectively, while Pranamaya Joshi and Aditi Joshi bagged consolation prizes during 'Sanskritmayam', a poster-making and slogan-writing competition organised by the Sanskrit department of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, under the aegis of the Character Building Committee. TNSPanel to inspect railway stationChandigarh: A five-member committee will inspect passenger amenities at Chandigarh Railway Station. A source from the station shared that two of the members arrived on Tuesday and the three others were expected to come on Wednesday. The committee will be assessing the services provided to passengers, including cleanliness, catering, waiting halls etc. — TNSTheft reported from houseChandigarh: A theft was reported from a house in Sector 47. A woman reported that a gold chain, four pairs of earrings and three lockets were stolen on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. A case has been registered. TNSEight awarded black beltsPanchkula: As many as eight martial arts players participated in the 9th degree black belt grand event organised by master Bikram S Thapa. The 1st degree black belt test was cleared by Abhay Dhanraj Bansal, Shriam Ranjan, Akshit Kumar, Ayush Kumar, Arjun Gargesh and Yaspal, while Aashima Nidhi and Rosy were presented with 3rd degree black belts. Thapa, founder of Shastrang India Martial Arts, congratulated all participants and winners. TNSFive gatka training centres to come upChandigarh: As many as five gatka training centres would be set up in different sectors of the city to impart free training in accordance with the prescribed rules, said the local authorities. “Gatka competitions will soon be conducted in schools and colleges and the 4th Tri-City Virsa Sambhal (Traditional) Gatka Championship will be held at Sector 34 in January next year,” said Hardeep Singh Butrela, president, Chandigarh Gatka Association (CGA). These decisions were taken during the annual general meeting of the CGA executive held on Tuesday. TNS5-day T-20 tourney kicks off todayChandigarh: The UT Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, has announced the domestic cricket tournament for U-19 age group. UTCA president Sanjay Tandon unveiled the tournament trophy and team jerseys at the Sector 16 cricket stadium. Selectors had shortlisted players and six teams - Rock Zone, Rose Zone, Plaza Zone, Leisure Zone, Sukhna Zone and Terrace Zone. The five-day tournament will start from September 1. The T-20 tournament will be held at Champions Cricket Academy, Landran (Mohali). TNSRock Zone eves log 4-wkt winChandigarh: Rock Zone defeated Plaza Zone by four wickets in the ongoing Women’s UTCA Domestic Tournament. Bating first, Plaza Zone scored 100 runs in 37 overs with the help of Shivangi (29) and Amanjot Kaur (19). In reply, Rock Zone managed to achieve the target in 32 overs. Palak scored 35 runs for the side. In another match, Sukhna Zone defeated Rose Zone by one wicket. TNSRs 29L disbursed to pensionersPatiala: Disbursement of enhanced pension has been done through cheques at all the sub-divisions and blocks, Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit said during a function here on Tuesday. In Patiala, we have over 1.98 lakh beneficiaries who have been extended the benefit of enhanced pension, he said. "Today, about Rs29 lakh have been disbursed to the beneficiaries of various categories," said the DC. Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh was also present in the function. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-snatching-mobile-phone-in-chandigarh-304697
01-09-2021||---||Woman abducts child, arrested in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 31A woman has been arrested for kidnapping a five-month-old child.The police said a woman, who sold balloons near the ISBT in Sector 43 and was residing there with her husband and three sons, reported that a woman, named Pooja, came to stay with them on the intervening night of August 28 and 29. In the morning, the complainant found her six-month-old son missing. She later found that Pooja kidnapped her son with an intention to sell him.A case was registered. The police said the suspect was arrested from Maloya and the kidnapped boy was recovered from her possession.During the interrogation, the suspect revealed that she was a wanderer and had no permanent address.Earlier, she was married to a man residing at Tin Colony, Sector 52, and also had a boy out of the wedlock but later on they separated. Thereafter, she started living with another person, an auto driver at Phase XI, Mohali.She was arrested in a theft case registered at the Sohana police station. After getting bail, she shifted to Ludhiana.The police said the woman had kidnapped the child with an intention to sell him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-abducts-child-arrested-in-chandigarh-304689
01-09-2021||Panchkula||19-year-old jumps from third floor, dies in Panchkula village||A newly married girl reportedly committed suicide by jumping from the third floor of her house in Railly village in Sector 12-A this morning.The deceased has been identified as Mansi (19). She was allegedly being harassed over dowry.According to the information, Mansi was married to Chander, a resident of House No 153 in Railly village. Due to a minor dispute, the husband and wife got caught in a verbal fight and the girl jumped from the third floor at 7.30 am. She suffered severe injuries and was taken to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital where doctors referred her to the PGI. However, she was declared brought dead at the PGI. After this, the body was taken to the Sector 20 crematorium. After receiving the information, the parents of the deceased lifted the body from the pyre. They said they would not allow the cremation till they get justice and took the corpse to their house in Peer Muchalla. They said they would not cremate the body till the police took action against her husband, Chander, her mother-in-law and two sister-in-laws.The mother of the girl alleged that her daughter was harassed for more dowry and that she was murdered. She said Mansi’s in-laws were demanding a car and a motorcycle from them and taunted her daughter over such issues.Deceased’s parents filed a complaint against her in-laws. Vijay Nehra, Assistant Commissioner of Police, said action would be taken in the case as per law. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-year-old-jumps-from-third-floor-dies-in-panchkula-village-304690
01-09-2021||---||Hit by car, 12-year-old girl dies in Daun village||Mohali, August 31A 12-year-old girl died after a “recklessly” driven car ran over the child near a petrol station in Daun village on Monday evening. The child, Palak, was dragged for a distance before the driver fled the spot.Complainant Bhabal Singh, a native of Siwan, said, he along with his five daughters and a relative, were on their way to a gurdwara around 7 pm when a recklessly driven car hit one of his daughters.Sources said the police had not identified the car driver or the registration number of the vehicle till now.A case under sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC was registered at the Balongi police station. Balongi SHO Rajpal Singh said: “The accident happened on the highway near Chuna Bhatti. The police are scanning the CCTV footage of the area to nab the car driver.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-car-12-year-old-girl-dies-in-daun-village-304691
01-09-2021||Amarjot Kaur||2020-21 saw Kalka-Shimla rail route earnings dip 80%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31Battling the blows of pandemic-induced inactivity, the earnings of passenger trains plying on the Kalka-Shimla heritage railway track have nosedived by 80 per cent in the fiscal 2020-21. The total earnings have slumped from Rs8.99 crore in the financial year 2019-20 to Rs1.76 crore in the last fiscal.Before the pandemic, the route, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, made average earnings in excess of Rs9 crore. The figure was Rs8.67 crore in 2017-18 and Rs9.04 crore in 2018-19, revealed data shared by the Ambala Division of Northern Railways with Chandigarh Tribune.The worst hit are the earnings from parcels, which dipped from Rs3.28 lakh to just Rs1,406. Earnings from ‘other coaching earnings’, which means revenue from miscellaneous sources, too fell sharply after the Covid-19 pandemic last year. While the earnings under this section had been Rs96.4 lakh and Rs1.095 crore in 2017-18 and 2018-19 fiscals, this figure fell to Rs66.2 lakh in 2019-20 (the year when pandemic started) and dropped to just Rs14.56 lakh in 2020-21.The passenger earnings fell from Rs8.3 crore in 2019-20 to just Rs1.6 crore. Passenger earnings were Rs7.7 crore and Rs7.9 crore in 2017-18 and 2018-19, respectively.When contacted, GM Singh, Divisional Railway Manager, Ambala, said, “Almost all regular passenger trains were inactive during the pandemic-induced lockdown in March. Then, some trains were back on tracks in a phased manner. We are still running special trains. We would get maximum revenue from Shivalik Deluxe Express (train numbers 52451 and 52452).”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2020-21-saw-kalka-shimla-rail-route-earnings-dip-80-304692
01-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh councillors want more, press for 2 staffers each||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31After seeking a six-fold increase in the rate at which they are paid for attending meetings, fuel for personal cars and vehicles for the Senior Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor, councillors of the cash-starved Municipal Corporation today pressed for another self-serving decision of hiring one data entry operator and a peon each for all 26 elected councillors.The matter was raised during a General House meeting when the agenda regarding the renewal of the contract of 176 employees was discussed. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma sought to know from Additional Commissioner Tilakraj why data entry operators and peons were not hired for the councillors despite the fact that the agenda was approved by the House in 2019.“The establishment is not working,” he remarked. Councillor Arun Sood also raised an objection to the use of the term “attaching” staff with councillors. “Why do you use the word attach in case of councillors and not employ/hire?” he questioned.Councillor Raj Bala Malik said, “Though I do not need staff for myself, but other councillors do. When officers have staff, why can’t we?”Councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali said, “We have to write official letters and send other communication. Being a public representative, we need a data entry operator.”Tilakraj replied, “I have not got any request in this regard so far.” To this, councillors said since the House had approved it, what else did he want.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra told the councillors that the proposal was sent to the Secretary, Local Government (i.e. the Home Secretary), but it had not been approved due to which it could not be implemented yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-councillors-want-more-press-for-2-staffers-each-304694
01-09-2021||---||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation services to go digital: MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra||Chandigarh, August 31The Municipal Corporation today decided to work on making all its services digital.During the House meeting, MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said they would work on making all services digital. “In two months, we will prepare a report regarding it and table it at a meeting in October,” she said.The issue came up when the agenda regarding making water connection-related charges through scanning the QR code was taken up. The MC chief said, “why only one wing, why not all, wherever possible.”The MC House sought a presentation from CREST before okaying the proposal for a floating solar power plant at the Sector 39 waterworks. The House also cleared Rs58.93 lakh for the development of a green belt around judges’ houses in Sector 10-A.Meeting with parking contractors todayWhen leaders of the Opposition raised the issue of smart parking lots, the Commissioner said she had already called a meeting with parking contractors on Wednesday to decide the matter.Missing report on axing of treeIn an interesting case, the MC got a missing report filed with the police in a matter of cutting of a tree.“For the past four months, I have been taking up the issue of registering of an FIR regarding the removal of a tree in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. Instead, the horticulture wing of the MC got a missing report filed, why?” asked councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-services-to-go-digital-mc-commissioner-anindita-mitra-304693
01-09-2021||---||Banwarilal Purohit sworn in as Punjab Governor, Chandigarh Administrator||Chandigarh, August 31Banwarilal Purohit was today sworn in as the Governor of Punjab and Administrator of Chandigarh. The Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Ravi Shanker Jha, administered the oath of office to Purohit at the Punjab Raj Bhawan. Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, the Punjab Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar were present on the occasion.Purohit took the oath in English. Earlier, the Governor designate arrived at a special pandal of the Punjab Raj Bhawan in a ceremonial procession. He was accompanied by the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Earlier in the day, Purohit was given a guard of honour by a contingent of the PAP. He was received by Rana KP Singh, Speaker, Punjab Vidhan Sabha, and Brahm Mohindra and Manpreet Singh Badal, Cabinet ministers of Punjab. Dharam Pal, Adviser to the Administrator, Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner, UT, along with senior officers of the UT Administration, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/banwarilal-purohit-sworn-in-as-punjab-governor-chandigarh-administrator-304695
01-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 6 Covid-19 cases||2 test positive in Mohali distMohali: Two fresh positive Covid cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 68,610. No fresh death was reported, while five patients recovered from the virus. While one case surfaced in Dera Bassi, the other was reported from Mohali (urban). Of the 68,610 positive cases reported so far, 67,506 patients have been cured. TNSFour cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: With the surfacing of four new cases in the past 24 hours, the district Covid count rose to 30,685. The persons affected are a 56-year-old man from Sector 8, a 26-year-old youth from Sector 20, a 54-year-old woman from Sector 8 and a 26-year-old woman from Sector 16. However, no fresh fatality surfaced on Tuesday. The total recoveries stand at 30,295. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-6-covid-19-cases-304696
01-09-2021||Naina Mishra||In August, Chandigarh sees 46% drop in Covid-19  cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31The UT witnessed a decline of 46 per cent in the number of Covid-19 cases in August as compared to July. However, testing has gone up this month by 26.8 per cent.Against 57,984 tests conducted this month, only 0.2 per cent (152 cases) people tested positive for Covid-19. Just like the previous month, the city witnessed only two deaths due to the disease.For every 100 confirmed cases, 0.1 are currently infected and 99 have been cured. In the past one week, 0.25 per cent of samples tested came back positive. For every lakh people in the city, 56,987 samples were tested and 5,522 out of every lakh people tested positive for the virus.Around 15 patients of Covid-19 are admitted to the PGI at the moment, while six patients are recuperating at the GMCH-32. There was no Covid-19 patient at the GMSH-16 this evening.Witnessing a rise in a few parts of the country, the UT Administration is on a high alert and wants to take no chances. “We don’t know when the third wave might come, but all we can do is to prepare ourselves from an imminent danger. The vaccination is being sped up and all necessary arrangements to deal with any patient surge are being made. Everyone must be vaccinated at the earliest and should wear masks in public,” said UT Adviser Dharam Pal.Chandigarh’s first-dose vaccination coverage has reached 110.52 per cent and 42 per cent of the people have been administered the second dose as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-august-chandigarh-sees-46-drop-in-covid-19-cases-304685
