02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Nidhi Gupta slips to fourth position in Indian Online Carrom Challenge||Chandigarh’s Nidhi Gupta slipped to fourth place in the ongoing Indian Online Carrom Challenge.After a solid start, Nidhi could not control her nerves in the 4th, 7th and 8th board and finished the third round with 47 points for a cumulative total of 130 (40+43+47).Rashmi, a former world champion continued to lead the women’s category. In the third round, Rashmi scored 32 points to take her cumulative tally to 96 points (28+36+32). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-nidhi-gupta-slips-to-fourth-position-in-indian-online-carrom-challenge-305181
02-09-2021||Mohali||Patiala boxer Khushi eyeing Paris Olympics||Fresh from her victory in the recently concluded Asian Youth Boxing Championship in Dubai, Khushi today said she was concentrating on her training with an aim to represent India at the Paris Olympics in 2024.“I am a big fan of Marry Kom and want to represent India at the Paris Olympics. I am concentrating on my training...,” said the Patiala girl, who studies at Chandigarh University, Gharuan.Khushi defeated Kazakhstan’s Dana Diday 3-0 in the 75kg category summit clash to clinch the gold medal.“Facing a tough challenge from international boxers needs lots of hard work,” said Khushi.Another Chandigarh University pugilist, Vishal Walia won a gold medal in the 80kg weight category in Dubai.Walia started his campaign with a dominating performance against his Kazakh opponent, while in the final, he defeated Kyrgyzstan’s Akmatov Sanzhar 5-0.“It’s the biggest moment of my career. I am thankful to my coach and my university, which is offering me moral and financial support in the form of scholarship so that I can concentrate on my game,” said the Hisar lad.Pranjal shinesPanchkula pugilist Pranjal Yadav, a student of PML SD Public School, Sector 32, has made the city proud by winning a gold medal in the Asian Boxing Championship in Dubai. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-boxer-khushi-eyeing-paris-olympics-305182
02-09-2021||---||CAG Delhi beat UTCA Chandigarh by 4 wickets||Chandigarh, September 1Arpit Vasavada hit an eye-catching century before Shorya Sanandia claimed a five-wicket haul to help CAG Delhi beat UTCA, Chandigarh, by 47 runs in the opening match of the 26th All India JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament at IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali today.Electing to bat, CAG Delhi were in all sorts of trouble at 0/3 in 2.1 overs. However, a 125-run partnership between Vasavada and Ankit Kaushik for the sixth wicket helped the visitors reach 245 runs in 49.5 overs.Vasavada was dismissed by Bhagmender soon after he completed his century. His 138-ball 100 included 11 hits to the fence.Kaushik made a quick-fire 63 off 67 balls. Jagjit Singh Sandhu was the pick of bowlers for UTCA, claiming 4/50.Defending a modest total, CAG bowlers led by Sanandia bundled out UTCA for 198 runs to register a 47-run win.Sanandia was declared man of the match for his brilliant spell.In another match, Ranstar Cricket Club, Delhi, beat Minerva Cricket Academy at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium in Chandigarh.Put in to bat, Minerva were bowled out for 124 runs in 36 overs. Chetanya Bishnoi claimed 4/19, while Pradeep Prashar bagged 2/30 for Ranstar. Yuvraj Chaudhary (30) was the top scorer for Minerva Academy.In reply, Ranstar Club rode on Aditya Sharma’s 76-ball 71 to reach home in 26.1 overs with four wickets to spare.Rock Zone emerge champsChandigarh: Rock Zone girls beat Plaza Zone by four wickets to win the Women’s UTCA Domestic Cricket Tournament here on Wednesday. Chetan Sharma, chairman, selection committee, BCCI, awarded the winners. UTCA member and former cricketer Vivek Atray, meanwhile, announced that Rama Atray Women’s Memorial Tournament would be restarted from next season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cag-delhi-beat-utca-chandigarh-by-4-wickets-305184
02-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Squad for T20 WC before Sept 10: Chetan Sharma||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1The BCCI will announce the India squad for the ICC T20 World Cup before September 10, said Chetan Sharma, chairman, senior selection committee.The tournament is scheduled to be held in the UAE and Oman from October 17. The final will be played in Dubai on November 14.Sharma, who was in the city to inaugurate the JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament, said the team would be selected considering all aspects.“All the players are in high spirits and every aspect will be considered before announcing the final squad,” said Sharma. “We are expecting to select the squad somewhere around September 10.”“We have perfect bench strength and moreover young players are also performing well. We have good batsmen, bowlers and all-rounders which is a very positive sign.”Sharma, who spent his initial days in Chandigarh and practiced at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium before playing for Haryana, though refused to comment on the captaincy issue.The former India speedster, meanwhile, appreciated the inputs from the National Cricket Academy (NCA) in spotting and nurturing the young talent.“The NCA is doing a very fine job. We have a good number of young players who are rightly guided under the presence of professionals. We have good talent at the grass roots level,” said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/squad-for-t20-wc-before-sept-10-chetan-sharma-305183
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets 13 forest guards, four foresters||To protect and preserve the greenery of the City Beautiful, 13 forest guards and four foresters have been recruited by the UT Department of Forest and Wildlife.“The process of the recruitment — conducting written test, physical efficiency test and medical examination test — was carried out in a transparent manner,” said Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT.In all, 37,980 candidates, including 2,800 women candidates, applied for the posts from across the country. Out of 17 forest executives, two women candidates have also been selected.Dalai thanked the UT Adviser for taking a decision at an appropriate time to conduct the written test following strict Covid protocol. As a result, 18,754 candidates out of total applicants of 37,980 appeared for the written test. Subsequent to the written test, physical efficiency tests and medical examination tests were also conducted for candidates in the merit list.“The posts of forester/forest guards were pending since long and the recruitment will definitely strengthen the department for better protection of flora and fauna,” said Dalai. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-13-forest-guards-four-foresters-305185
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh DGP, Praveer Ranjan approves promotions||The new UT DGP, Praveer Ranjan, today approved the regular and due promotions of 112 policemen, who were promoted to the ranks of Inspector, Sub-Inspector (SI) and Assistant Sub-Inspectors (ASI).While a SI (wireless) was promoted to the rank of Inspector, 61 ASIs were promoted to the rank of SI and 50 head constables were promoted to the rank of the ASI.Besides this, total 692 police personnel’s have also been granted local ranks — ASI (Executive), ASI (Wireless Operators), ASI (Wireless Technical), Head Constables (Executive) — on the pattern of the Punjab Police after the completion of 16, 24 and 30 years of service.“The regular promotions and the personal rank promotions are an important step in keeping up the organisational efficiency. This will not only build up the morale of police personnel but give confidence to those who were awaiting their due promotions,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-dgp-praveer-ranjan-approves-promotions-305186
02-09-2021||Mohali||Mohali hospital management booked in forgery case||The police have booked the management of Grecian Super Specialty Hospital, Sector 69, on the charge of cheating 17 retired Army personnel undergoing treatment for Covid-19 under the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS).The hospital, empanelled with the Western Command under the ECHS, is being probed for allegedly tampering with bills and referral forms of patients. The Army had ordered an internal staff court of inquiry against the hospital. The Central Forensic Science Laboratory also examined the forms in October 2020 for the alleged fraud.On the complaint of the Western Command Composite Signal Regiment Military Station, Chandimandir, an inquiry was conducted by SP (City) Harvinder Singh Virk. “A case was registered against chairman Dr Shivpreet Singh Samra, managing director Dr Shachi Samra and billing head Yogesh Kumar Dhawan on August 27,” said Virk. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-hospital-management-booked-in-forgery-case-305187
02-09-2021||Mohali||Mohali F&CC issues Rs 19.5-cr work orders||Work orders worth Rs 19.5 crore were issued at a meeting of the Finance and Contracts Committee (F&CC) of the MC today. New development resolutions worth Rs9.5 crore were also passed at the meeting. The resolutions mainly include re-carpeting of roads, park works and paver block works. Officials said to ensure that the best quality material is used in development works, a team reviews works being carried out from time to time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-fcc-issues-rs-19-5-cr-work-orders-305188
02-09-2021||---||‘An Inspiring Journey’ — a book on Punjabi University ex-VC Inderjit Kaur Sandhu, released||Chandigarh, September 1Inderjit Kaur Sandhu’s 98th birthday on September 1 was made special with the launch of a festschrift, “An Inspiring Journey”, a collection of 29 articles. She was the Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University, Patiala, from 1975 to 1977, the first and only woman Vice-Chancellor of a university in Northern India in those times.She also served as the first woman Chairperson of the Staff Selection Commission, New Delhi (1980 to 1985).“It took me a lot of years to first find the best way to sum up her journey, which was talk to people she had worked with, she had known and what they think of her,” shared Roopinder Singh, who has put together this unique birthday present for his mother.Gursharan Kaur, wife of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, has written the foreword to the book.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/an-inspiring-journey-%E2%80%94-a-book-on-punjabi-university-ex-vc-inderjit-kaur-sandhu-released-305189
02-09-2021||---||Panjab University Senate poll: Six ordinary fellows from Goyal group elected||Chandigarh, September 1Six members of the Goyal group won the Panjab University’s Senate election of ordinary fellows to the Senate. The elections were held today at the Law Auditorium.In the faculty of arts, Ronki Ram was elected with 53 votes. His rival Anju Suri bagged 47 votes. As many as 101 votes were polled and one was invalid. In the faculty of medical sciences, Ashok Goyal was elected with 47 votes, while his competitor Sarvdeep Singh Dhatt secured 29 votes. A total of 76 votes were cast.Rajesh Gill was elected from the faculty of languages with 48 votes, while his rival Gurpal Singh Sandhu polled 35 votes. Of 94 votes, a total of 83 votes were cast. Keshav Malhotra got 141 votes to get elected from the combined faculty, while Naval Kishore secured 107 votes. Of the registered 2,671 votes, 250 were cast and two were declared invalid.In a one-side affair, Navdeep Goyal was chosen from the faculty of science with 90 votes. His rival Promila Pathak got 38 votes. Of 137 voters, a total of 129 turned up for polling. Later in the evening, Anu Chatrath was elected from the faculty of law with 37 votes. Her competitor Jagjot Singh Lalli polled 10 votes. Of a total of 53 voters, 48 turned up for polling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-poll-six-ordinary-fellows-from-goyal-group-elected-305192
02-09-2021||---||Heckled by protesters, Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar runs for cover||Chandigarh, September 1Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar had to run for his life after he was heckled by some student protesters outside the Law Auditorium on the campus here today.Prof Kumar had come to the auditorium to cast his vote for the election of members of various faculties. As soon as the he came out after casting his vote, he was surrounded by the students.“The VC had to run for his life. He was escorted by the Panjab University security,” said an eyewitness.Prof Kumar was unavailable for a comment.Many student organisations on the PU campus have been protesting in support of their demand for opening of Panjab University and for conducting graduate constituency elections for the Senate.“He was lucky to escape unhurt. Notably, no police complaint was filed till late evening,” said a senior official.This is perhaps for the first time that such kind of incident has been reported on the PU campus.“Such incidents are not good for the image of Panjab University. He was running on a bike after being chased by the protesting students. This incident made clear that something unexpected is coming up on the campus,” the official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heckled-by-protesters-panjab-university-vice-chancellor-prof-raj-kumar-runs-for-cover-305190
02-09-2021||---||Mohali district extends Covid-19 restrictions till September 15||Mohali, September 1The district administration here has extended Covid restrictions till September 15.Only those passengers who are fully vaccinated, or have recovered from Covid, or are carrying a negative RTPCR report not older that 72 hours shall be allowed entry in the district from other states. In case a passenger doesn’t have either of these, RAT testing shall be mandatory, read an order issued by the district administration.Passengers travelling by flights necessarily need to fulfill the requisite conditions.Gatherings shall be restricted to not more than 150 persons indoors and 300 persons outdoors subject to an upper limit of 50 per cent capacity.Artistes/musicians shall be allowed at such functions/celebrations in all areas with due Covid protocols, read the order.All bars, cinema halls, restaurants, spas, swimming pools, coaching centers, sports complexes, gyms, malls, museums, zoos, etc. shall be allowed to operate at a maximum capacity of 50 per cent subject to all the staff present being fully vaccinated or Covid recovered, read the order.However, all users of swimming, sports and gym facilities shall be persons over 18 years who have taken at least one dose of the vaccine.Colleges, coaching centres and all other institutions of higher learning shall continue to open. Only fully vaccinated or Covid-recovered staff and students are allowed to be physically present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-september-15-305172
02-09-2021||---||Sukhna Lake camp celebrates 5,000 vaccination target||Chandigarh, September 1The Health Department of UT and Karan Gilhotra Foundation, in collaboration with United Sikhs and ASR Foundation, today celebrated 5,000 Covid vaccinations at the Sukhna Lake camp.Free vaccination is available at the Sukhna centre from 4 pm to 8 pm.The UT Adviser, Dharam Pal, said he hoped more and more people of Chandigarh would come forward with such initiatives of social cause. He appealed to the residents to get themselves vaccinated. The UT administration will always be at the forefront to support such projects which will help in handling the pandemic situation in an effective manner, he added.Actor Jimmy Shergill lauded the work done by his close friend Karan Gilhotra with the support of the UT Administration and other NGOs. He appealed to the people of Chandigarh to come forward and get vaccinated which is the only way to get protection from Covid. He also appreciated that Chandigarh had got the distinction of being the first city to achieve 100 per cent first-dose target.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhna-lake-camp-celebrates-5-000-vaccination-target-305195
02-09-2021||---||Panel inspects railway stations of of Chandigarh, Mohali, Kalka||Chandigarh, September 1Dirty toilets and a lack of sanitation at the railway stations of the region irked the Public Amenities Committee (PAC), Ministry of Railways, which inspected the railway stations of Chandigarh, Mohali and Kalka today.The committee pointed many issues, including a lack of ATM service, fans, sanitary pad-vending machines and poor security. The committee stated, due to the pandemic, the upkeep of the stations had suffered and suggested many ways which could help in upgrading it.The committee, under the coordination of National PAC member and Northern Railways coordinator Tajinder Singh Sran, comprised Richa Pandey Mishra, Sunita Dyalan and Geeta Thakur. They first inspected the railway station of Mohali. After a short briefing with railway officers, they headed for Chandigarh and Kalka. Sran said: “We looked for amenities related to passengers, cleanliness at platforms, waiting rooms, availability of water, sanitation, public information windows, public address system, booking counters and public safety measures at the platforms.”While inspecting the station, committee members highlighted the need for cleaner toilets and sanitary pad-vending machines, especially at Mohali station.At the city’s railway station, the committee suggested a functioning ATM machine, preferably more than one, for passengers and more fans be installed at the platforms.Meanwhile, in a press statement, Divisional Railway Manager, Ambala Division, Gurinder Mohan Singh, said: “The overall cleanliness at both stations was appreciated by the members. The committee also interacted with passengers and the latter gave positive feedback.RPF reunites runaway children with parentsTwo runaway children were reunited with their parents by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) here on Wednesday. An official of the RPF, Amarjeet Singh said: “We found two kids at the city railway station on Tuesday night. They had eloped from their houses.” At the RPF room, the girl (15), who was in her school uniform, and the boy (16) told this correspondent that they were in love and wanted to live with each other. The girl’s father had arrived at the station. Amarjeet Singh said: “We get many such cases. All seven girls we rescued were accompanied by boys..” RPF is assisted by a city-based Youth Technical Training Society (YTTS).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-inspects-railway-stations-of-of-chandigarh-mohali-kalka-305165
02-09-2021||---||Sector 37 Property Grab: Interim anticipatory bail for Ashok Arora||Chandigarh, September 1A local court has confirmed interim anticipatory bail to Ashok Arora, one of the accused in an alleged property grab case of Sector 37, Chandigarh.Jagdeep Sood, Additional Sessions Judge, pronounced the order after the Police submitted the report that the accused joined the investigation.The court stated: “Inspector Om Parkash has filed a reply/status report that petitioner has joined the investigation and he is not required for further custodial investigation. In view of the entire facts and circumstances of the case, the application is allowed and the order dated August 2 is made absolute.”The court also directed that the petitioner shall comply with the conditions in Section 438(2) of the CrPC and will cooperate in investigation as and when required by the Investigating Officer for the purpose.The court stated that the petitioner was granted the concession of an interim bail and was directed to join the investigation through the order dated August 2.The accused, in the bail application filed through counsel Aanchal Thakur, argued before the court that he had nothing to do with the case and was only a chance witness to the GPA of the owner of the property in dispute.The police has registered the case in March under Sections 452, 331, 344, 365, 386, 419, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 473, 474, 477 and 120-B of the IPC. As per the FIR, some of the accused allegedly sold a house of Rahul Mehta in Sector 37 fraudulently. The police alleged that the accused confined Mehta in a room for a few days and took his signatures on papers after torturing him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-37-property-grab-interim-anticipatory-bail-for-ashok-arora-305193
02-09-2021||Amit Bathla||Former PNB manager gets 4-year imprisonment for graft in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 1A special CBI court in Panchkula sentenced a former Punjab National Bank senior manager to four-year rigorous imprisonment for accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000 from a customer for approving a loan in 2016.The court of special CBI judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg also imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh on the convict.The convict, identified as Dharampal Dhull, the then senior manager of a PNB branch in Kaithal district, had demanded a bribe of Rs18,000 from Sandeep Kumar in lieu of clearing his loan under the Prime Minister Rozgar Yojana Scheme.Dhull later reduced the bribe amount to Rs17,000 and agreed to accept Rs10,000 as the first installment.Kumar, a resident of Pundri in Kaithal, subsequently approached the CBI and filed a complaint against the bank manager to take necessary action.After preliminary verification, the CBI laid a trap and caught the convict red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000 from the complainant.The convict has been sentenced to three-year rigorous imprisonment, along with a fine of Rs50,000, under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and four years, along with a fine of Rs50,000, under Section 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The sentences will run concurrently.The former PNB official (60) pleaded for leniency, stating that he has never been convicted before and “facing the agony of protracted trial since 2016”.However, CBI public prosecutor KP Singh argued for maximum punishment.“In order to check the rampant corruption, it is the need of the hour to give exemplary punishment to the public servant found indulging in corrupt practices,” Singh told the court.The judge observed: “Be you ever so high, the law is above you. One lie is enough to question all truths. But it is the duty of the court to enforce the rule of law and, therefore, to guard against erosion of the rule of law. We all are governed by the rule of law, not by the rule of man.’’He added: “Undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would be more harmful to the justice system to undermine public confidence in efficacy of law and corruption is a hydra-headed monster and it is eating into vitals of the country.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-pnb-manager-gets-4-year-imprisonment-for-graft-in-panchkula-305191
02-09-2021||---||Want to visit Chandigarh Municipal Corporation office? Get jabbed or show -ve report||Chandigarh, September 1Following the UT Administration’s directions, the Municipal Corporation today ordered that only those employees and visitors who are vaccinated (at least one dose) or show a negative RT-PCR report will be allowed to come to the MC office.Anindita Mitra, MC Commissioner We will also start an awareness drive in the city, especially in crowded places. We will hold vaccination camps for vendors in collaboration with the Director, Health Services.As per the Administration’s guidelines, visitor timings should be fixed from noon to 1 pm for meeting MC officials.“In view of the possible third wave, we have taken these measures. It will be beneficial for both employees as well as general public,” said Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma during a press conference today.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said: “We will also start an awareness drive in the city, especially in crowded places. We will hold vaccination camps for vendors, in collaboration with the Director, Health Service.”The CHB, CTU and RLA have already announced such measures following the Administration’s order. Today, formal orders were passed by the corporation.Meanwhile, on protests by the opposition parties, the Mayor said: “They did not see any problem for four-and-a-half years. Now that the MC polls are drawing near, they have started protesting. While we worked during the period, they were nowhere to be seen.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/want-to-visit-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-office-get-jabbed-or-show-ve-report-305174
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man held with pistol, cartridge in Chandigarh||Theft at clinic in Sector 22Chandigarh: A theft was reported from a clinic in Sector 22. Complainant Gaurav Khanna reported that Rs43,000 and some items were stolen from his clinic on the intervening night of August 30 and 31. The police have registered a case at the Sector 17 police station. TNSWoman’s gold chain snatchedChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants, including a woman, allegedly snatched a gold chain in the city. The complainant, a resident of Sector 23, reported that two persons, including a woman riding pillion on a motorcycle, snatched her gold chain near her house. The police have registered a case at the Sector 17 police station. TNSP'kula college gets B++ gradePanchkula: The National Council of Accreditation and Assessment (NAAC) has awarded B++ grade to Government Post Graduate College, Sector-1. "The Sector-1 College has become the only B++ grade government college in the district," a press note stated. TNS233 vaccinated at PECChandigarh: The Covid-19 Care Committee at Punjab Engineering College (PEC) and the Health Department, UT, organised a vaccination drive at the college during which 233 people, including city residents, campus residents, faculty members, students and staff, were vaccinated. The drive was inaugurated by the Director, PEC, Prof Baldev Setia. TNSGupta made Dean (Research)Chandigarh: Medical Superintendent AK Gupta has been appointed Dean, Research, PGI, from September 1 to December 31. Professor Gupta has to his credit the unique distinction of being the longest serving Medical Superintendent considering his association with the PGIMER in the same capacity dating back to 1996. TNS143 more poll stationsMohali: As many as 57 new poll stations have been added to the Kharar constituency (052), while 34 polling stations have been created in the SAS Nagar constituency (053). Fifty two more stations have been devised for the Dera Bassi constituency (112). Assistant Deputy Commissioner (D) Himanshu Aggarwal said 143 poll stations were added to the rationalisation in three Legislative Assembly constituencies in the district. Aggarwal said a special campaign for the registration of voters was also initiated. TNSShuttler felicitatedChandigarh: Devika Sihag, a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, has been awarded Rs80,000 by the Haryana Badminton Association in recognition for exceptional achievements in district and national tournaments. She was felicitated by the Additional Chief Secretary, Haryana. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-pistol-cartridge-in-chandigarh-305196
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit to meet Advisory Council members today||New UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit will hold an introductory meeting with members of the Administrator’s Advisory Council at Hotel Mountview tomorrow.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said no specific issues would be discussed during the meeting and it would be just an interactive session with members of the council.He said the Administrator would also hold a meeting of senior officials tomorrow and a brief presentation would be given to him on the functioning of the Administration.Tamil Nadu Governor Purohit has been given the additional charge of the Chandigarh Administrator until regular arrangements are made. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administrator-banwarilal-purohit-to-meet-advisory-council-members-today-305163
02-09-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula schools reopen for Class IV, V students, 34% show up||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 1Government schools in the district reopened for students of Class IV and V with an overall attendance of 34 per cent. Of the 13,099 students registered in Class IV and V, 4,420 attended physical classes on the first day after a prolonged closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Schools in Morni and Raipur Rani blocks saw the most encouraging response with an attendance of 63 per cent and 52 per cent, respectively. At 26 per cent, Pinjore block had the lowest attendance in the district, according to the data shared by the Education Department.All schools in Panchkula city fall in Pinjore block.Students happy to be backKhushi, a student of Class IV at Government Primary School in Maheshpur, was thrilled to be back to the school after a long break.Like most students belonging to low-income families, online learning had been a challenge for her.After a significant dip in the coronavirus cases in the state, offline classes for students of Class IX to XII resumed on July 16. The physical learning for Class VI to VIII began on July 23. An official in the Education Department said, “According to the SOPs issued by the government, school managements ensured that students followed the Covid protocol such as thermal screening, use of hand sanitiser and maintaining physical distancing. Besides, students were allowed inside the school premises with a written permission from their parents.”He expressed the hope that the attendance would improve in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-schools-reopen-for-class-iv-v-students-34-show-up-305162
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Two test positive in Chandigarh, one dies||2 new cases, no death in P’kulaPanchkula: The district reported two fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,687. The Covid toll remained at 377 with no fresh death. While 30,296 patients have recovered so far, 14 cases are still active. TNS6 more contract virus in MohaliMohali: Six new Covid-19 cases — three from Dhakoli, two from Kharar and one from Kurali — were reported from the district on Wednesday. Two patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-two-test-positive-in-chandigarh-one-dies-305194
02-09-2021||---||Hubby, in-laws face dowry death case in Panchkula||Panchkula, September 1The police have booked the husband and in-laws of a 19-year-old woman who allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the third floor of her house at Railly village in Sector 12-A here on August 26.A case has been filed against Chander (husband), Hemnath (father-in-law), Suman, aka Suhana (mother-in-law), Seela (sister-in-law) and Karan (brother-in-law) under Sections 304-B (dowry death) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 14 police station.The deceased, identified as Mansi, had married Chander on December 12, 2020.“My daughter had been subjected to harassment and physical abuse over dowry by her in-laws. They also threatened to kill my daughter if we failed to give them a four-wheeler,” the victim’s mother Ram Devi stated in her complaint to the police.Devi has termed her daughter’s death a murder.After the police registered a case, the deceased’s family cremated her body at the Sector 20 crematorium today.Demanding immediate action against the victim’s in-laws, her family members had yesterday refused to cremate the body and lifted the corpse from the pyre before taking it to their house in Peer Muchalla.On August 26, the injured Mansi was taken to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, for treatment from where she was further referred to the PGI in Chandigarh. She, however, succumbed to her injuries on August 30. After the post-mortem examination, her body was subsequently taken to the Sector 20 crematorium where the family refused to allow the cremation till the police took action against her husband and in-laws.Inspector Rajeev Miglani, SHO, Sector 14 police station, said, “Our investigation into the matter is underway. No arrest has been made yet.”Body cremated after police register case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hubby-in-laws-face-dowry-death-case-in-panchkula-305156
02-09-2021||---||Chandigarh employees get 15% hike in salary||Chandigarh, September 1All regular employees of the UT Administration will get a pay hike of 15 per cent with the revision of pay scales in pursuance of the recommendation of the Punjab Sixth Pay Commission.A leader of the UT employees’ union said the employees would get an increase between Rs8,000 and Rs16,000 in the monthly salary. The employees will get the hiked salary from October 1.In a notification issued today, the UT Administration stated that the Government of Punjab, on the recommendations of its Sixth Pay Commission, has revised the pay scales of its employees and also framed the Punjab Civil Services (Revised Pay) Rules, 2021, vide a notification dated July 5, 2021. These rules shall be deemed to have come into force on and with effect from January 1, 2016.In pursuance of a notification of the Ministry of Home Affairs dated January 13, 1992, the UT adopted the Punjab Civil Services (Revised Pay) Rules, 2021, with immediate effect in respect of the employees of the UT, already drawing pay on the Punjab pattern, and the deputationists from Punjab.Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the decision of the UT regarding payment of arrears with effect from January 1, 2016, to September 30, 2021, will be taken in due course of time.In case of an employee, who stands promoted during the period from January 1, 2016, to the date of notification of these rules, the option may be exercised within three months from the date of such notification. The option once exercised shall be final.The change||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-employees-get-15-hike-in-salary-305164
02-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh logs 4% growth in GST collection in August this year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1With the easing of Covid-19 restrictions, the UT has registered a 4 per cent growth in gross Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in August this year.According to the Ministry of Finance, the GST collection in the UT stood at Rs144 crore in August, which was 4 per cent higher in comparison to the revenue of Rs139 crore received during the corresponding period last year.However, the revenue generation in August dropped by Rs25 crore in contrast to the GST collected in July this year. With a gross GST collection of Rs169 crore, the UT Administration had clocked a robust growth of 23 per cent in July this year in comparison to the revenue of Rs137 crore generated in July last year.However, the Finance Ministry did not release the state-wise data of the GST collection during January, April, May and June, 2021. In March, the GST collection was Rs165.27 crore, 8 per cent more in comparison to the revenue of Rs153.26 crore generated during the same period last year.The GST collection stood at Rs148.5 crore in February, which was 14 per cent less in comparison to the revenue of Rs172.37 crore during the corresponding period last year. The GST collection stood at Rs158 crore in December 2020, Rs141 crore in November, Rs151.98 crore in October and Rs141.48 crore in September last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-4-growth-in-gst-collection-in-august-this-year-305161
02-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Housing Board e-auction draws a poor response||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 1The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has again received a poor response to an e-auction held for its commercial as well as residential properties on a leasehold basis. The CHB had invited e-tenders for the sale of 149 commercial units and 33 residential units on a leasehold basis and 34 residential units on a freehold basis. The last date for the submission of e-bids was till 10 am today and the bids were opened from 10.15 am onwards.Of the 149 commercial units, the CHB could sell only two units to the highest bidders. The total reserve price of the two commercial units was Rs1.06 crore, while the units were sold for Rs1.09 crore.Similarly, of the 33 residential units, only two units could be sold to the highest bidders. The total reserve price of the two units was Rs89.83 lakh, while the highest bids received against these units was Rs90.85 lakh.The CHB received a lukewarm response to its residential properties on a freehold basis as it could sell eight of the 34 units to the highest bidders. The reserve price of the eight units was Rs4.70 crore and the board received a total revenue of Rs4.80 crore from the auction of these units.An MIG flat in Sector 51 (West) on a freehold basis was sold to the highest bidder for Rs92.25 lakh against the reserve price of Rs90 lakh, while the highest bid for a commercial unit on a leasehold basis in Sector 49-B was Rs56.50 lakh against the reserve price of Rs55.03 lakh. Similarly, an MIG flat in Sector 44-D on a leasehold basis received the highest bid of Rs53.41 lakh against the reserve price of Rs53.39 lakh.The CHB earned a total revenue of Rs6.80 crore from the auction of eight residential units on a freehold basis, two residential and two commercial units on a leasehold basis. The total reserve price of these units was Rs6.66 crore.In an earlier e-auction held on August 10, the CHB had received a total of five e-bids against 151 commercial units and could sell only three units to the highest bidders. Similarly, 15 e-bids were received against 38 residential units and only five units could be sold to the highest bidders.During the past five months, the CHB sold 95 residential properties on a freehold basis in five e-auctions and earned a total revenue of Rs75.40 crore against the total reserve price of Rs70.26 crore, said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB. The board had also earned Rs5.42 crore from the sale of nine residential and Rs7.39 crore from the sale of commercial properties on a leasehold basis, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-e-auction-draws-a-poor-response-305158
02-09-2021||Chandigarh||Municipal Corporation gives Chandigarh parking contractors a week||MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra today gave a one-week deadline to parking contractors to implement the mandatory smart features in all parking lots or else be ready to face penal provisions.Anindita Mitra, MC CommissionerWhatsApp group formedWe have formed a WhatsApp group with the police, the MC JE and the contractors to immediately report violations. The police have been requested to issue challans. For illegal parking, the MC will start towing away vehicles.The MC chief issued the direction during a meeting with the contractors and the officials concerned.The contractors were told to display the rate lists and “No parking” and “No haphazard parking” signboards. They were directed that LED screens should be made functional. A mobile app should be made functional immediately to show real-time slots available in the parking lot.Besdses, they were asked to ensure that attendants wore uniform. Entry of vehicles and “out punching” have to be synchronised and recorded.The MC authorities, in coordination with the police, will remove/tow away wrongly parked vehicles.A daily inspection report, including functional features, will have to be submitted. The contractors were given seven days to implement all features, after which the MC will revisit each parking lot.“We have formed a WhatsApp group with the police, the MC JE and the contractors to immediately report violations. The police have been requested to issue challans. For illegal parking, the MC will start towing away vehicles,” said Anindita.Following the UT Adviser’s objection, the MC had conducted an inspection of all parking lots last week and found several discrepancies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/municipal-corporation-gives-chandigarh-parking-contractors-a-week-305155
02-09-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court extends directions on justice mechanism||Chandigarh, September 1Amid apprehensions of a Covid third wave, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has further extended till September 15 its directions on streamlining the justice delivery mechanism during the pandemic. It includes instructions to the police to desist from arresting the accused, unless necessary for maintenance of law and order situation in a cognisable offence prescribing sentence up to seven-year imprisonment. In all, the Bench extended the operation of nearly 10 commandments initially issued on April 28.Pandemic normsThe directions include instructions to the police to desist from arresting the accused during the pandemic, unless necessary for maintenance of law and order situation in a cognisable offence prescribing sentence up to seven-year imprisonment.The direction came after amicus curiae Anupam Gupta placed before the Bench certain material highlighting the prevailing situation in India and other countries due to the pandemic. The Bench observed it was germane to the issues being examined “and also if the interim arrangements/orders made by this court need to be continued”.The Bench had previously extended the operation of interim orders, directions and protection granted by it or any other tribunal, judicial or quasi-judicial forums subordinate to it. It also included orders requiring compliance by the parties to such proceedings.The Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli added interim orders or directions by the High Court or any subordinate court, meant to operate till further orders, would remain in force till modified, altered or vacated by a specific order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-extends-directions-on-justice-mechanism-305293
