03-09-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Four new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh||Four new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Chandigarh on Friday as the total number of cases reached 65,114.There are 40 active cases in the city as 64,260 people have recovered from the virus.The death toll in the city remains 814.One patient was discharged as per Ministry of Health guidelines.A positivity rate of 0.19 per cent was recorded on Friday as 2,118 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The number of people who have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine is 8,19,310 while 3,19,820 have got both the doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-306015
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man duped of Rs 1.02 lakh||Thieves strike at 2 houses in cityChandigarh: Two house burglaries have been reported from the city. In a complaint, PS Bedi, a resident of Sector 8, reported that jewellery items and Rs4.50 lakh were stolen from his house between August 15 and 31. The police have registered a case at the Sector 3 police station. In another incident, a woman of EWS Colony, Dhanas, reported that jewellery items and cash were stolen from her house on September 1. A case was registered. TNS IAF plans air show in city on Sept 22Chandigarh: The Indian Air Force (IAF) has planned to conduct an air show in the city on September 22 to spread awareness about the force and motivate the youth. According to IAF sources, the famous Surya Kiran aerobatic display team, which flies the red-painted Hawk jet trainer, as well as the Rafael fighter, Chinook heavy lift helicopter and the IL-76 strategic freighter will be part of the show. The show is expected to be of 60-minute duration and will be held over Sukhna Lake. It will be open to public. TNSJalandhar girls win U-19 titleChandigarh: Jalandhar girls defeated Patiala by five wickets on the basis of VJD method in a rain curtailed final to win the Punjab Inter-District Women's U-19 title. The match was reduced to 45 overs a side due to rain. Batting first, Patiala girls scored 163/8 in the allotted overs. Mannat Kashyap (35) and Himani Saini (27) made useful contributions to the total. For Jalandhar, Gulnaaj and Pryanka Mutreja claimed three wickets each. In reply, Jalandhar were batting on 152/5 in 33.1 overs when the rain brought an early end to the match. The team was declared winners on the basis of VJD method. Pryanka Mutreja scored a patient 49, while Khush Naval made a quick-fire 27. TNS300 participate in Fit India RunMohali: As a part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, Chandigarh University, Gharuan, organised a FIT India Freedom Run 2.0 on its campus on Thursday. More than 300 students and staff members participated in the 5-km run with an aim to spread the message of making physical and mental fitness an integral part of everyone’s life. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-duped-of-rs-1-02-lakh-305827
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Nidhi Gupta enters semifinals of  Indian Online Carrom Challenge||Chandigarh’s Nidhi Gupta has made it to the semifinals of the Indian Online Carrom Challenge.In the fourth round today, Nidhi scored 42 points for a cumulative total of 172 (40+43+47+42). She also gained a place to finish third.PSPB’s Rashmi Kumari, a former world champion, along with LIC’s S Appoorva and Shainy S of Karnataka, also advanced to the last-four stage of the competition.The semifinals and final have been rescheduled. The revised itinerary will be announced on September 7, said the organisers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-nidhi-gupta-enters-semifinals-of-indian-online-carrom-challenge-305824
03-09-2021||Mohali||JP Atray Memorial: Pranshu, Pradeep power Ranstar to victory||A half-century each by Pranshu and Pradeep Malik helped Ranstar Cricket Club, Delhi, beat Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association (MPCA) by one wicket in a rain-interrupted JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament match at Maharaja Yadavindra Cricket Stadium here today.Put in to bat, MPCA made 264/8 in 50 overs.Akshit Raghuvanshi (69), Prithviraj Tomar (44) and Aryan Deshmukh (40) did the bulk of scoring for MPCA.Subodh Bhatti (3/41) and Chetanya Bishnoi (3/70) shared six wickets between them.Set a revised target of 250 in 46 overs after a brief interruption due to rain, Ranstar Club reached home in 45.5 overs with just one wicket to spare.Pranshu hit a 60-ball 86, while Malik made a solid 52. Sumit Verma contributed 38 runs to the chase.Delhi boys beat BarodaIn the second match of the day, Delhi Capitals Development Squad beat Baroda Cricket Association by three wickets.The match was reduced to 35 overs a side due to rain.Asked to bat by Delhi Capitals skipper, Baroda were all out for 220 runs in 34.2 overs.Shiva (3/34) and Prerak Mankad (3/41) claimed three wickets apiece for the Delhi side, while Jyotsnil Singh (64) and Shivalik Sharma (55) scored a half-century each for Baroda.Needing just over six runs per over for victory, Delhi Capitals Development Squad made great beginning with Dinesh Mor (49) and Rajesh Sharma (44) stitching a 97-run partnership for the second wicket.Upender Yadav (40) and Mayank Rawat (47) then helped the side achieve the target without any hiccups.Pradeep Yadav (3/45) was the most successful bowler for Baroda. — TNSRose Zone winChandigarh: A fine century by Pratham Sodhi helped Rose Zone record a thrilling 11-run win over Rock Zone in a UTCA DomesticU-19 Tournament match here on Thursday. Batting first, Rose Zone, aided by Sodhi’s 105, made 208/9 in 50 overs. In reply, Rock Zone were all out for 197 runs in 48 overs. Mohit Gupta (67) was the top scorer for the side. In other matches of the day, Terrace Zone beat Sukhna Zone by eight wickets, while Plaza Zone registered a four-wicket win over Leisure Zone. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jp-atray-memorial-pranshu-pradeep-power-ranstar-to-victory-305823
03-09-2021||---||Golconda Masters: Pukhraj, Manu share lead on opening day||Chandigarh, September 2Ludhiana’s Pukhraj Singh Gill and Gurugram’s Manu Gandas scored an identical 7-under 64 to share the first round lead at the Golconda Masters Telangana Open 2021 as the PGTI resumed its 2020-2021 season, at Hyderabad today.While 24-year-old Gill shot the best round of his professional career, 25-year-old Gandas continued his hot streak having posted five top-10 finishes this season.Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar and Chikkarangappa of Bengaluru carded a 67 each to share the sixth spot at the end of the first round.Another city golfer, Harendra Gupta was joint 13th at 68.Meanwhile, Gill and Gandas were one shot ahead of Mysuru’s Yashas Chandra (65).Interestingly, Gill’s younger brother Digraj Singh, who had an eagle-two on the 14th, was tied for fourth with Noida’s Amardeep Malik at 5-under 66.Olympian and defending champion Udayan Mane had forgetful fay as he carded a 74 to finish the opening round at tied 83.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golconda-masters-pukhraj-manu-share-lead-on-opening-day-305822
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cricket Association gears up to host national tournaments||The Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) will host group matches of Vinoo Mankad Trophy, Men’s U-25 State A ODI championship, Vijay Hazare Trophy and CK Nayudu Trophy in the upcoming season.The matches will be played at IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali, Maharaja Yadavindra Singh Stadium, Mullanpur, and Sector 16 Cricket Stadium, Chandigarh.PCA CEO Deepak Sharma said the PCA would be staging Elite A group matches of Vinoo Mankad Trophy from September 20 to October 4.He also informed that the teams would assemble in the city on September 20 and remain in pre-tournament quarantine from September 21 to 25. A bio-bubble will be created with the assistance of the BCCI at teams’ hotels as well as at the venues, he said.All the staff engaged with the tournament, including liaison officers, will stay in quarantine along with the teams.He said the national tournaments to be staged by the PCA would stretch from September 29 to February 25, 2022. — TNSSponsorship rightsTrident Foundation has won the sponsorship rights for Punjab men’s and women’s (senior and junior) teams and PCA’s official website. The group will also be the title sponsor for Punjab Inter-District Senior tournament matches. Trident foundation will also Sponsor Barnala, Mansa and Sangrur district teams. The foundation will be spending about Rs2 crore per year on promoting cricket in Punjab.ItineraryVinoo Mankad Trophy (September 20-October 4)Elite – A (Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Andhra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Odisha)Men’s U-25 State A ODIs (November 16-26)Elite – E (Tamil Nadu, Baroda, Uttar Pradesh, Saurashtra, Chhattisgarh, Puducherry)Vijay Hazare Trophy (November 30-December 14)Elite – D (Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand)CK Nayudu Trophy (January 20-25)Elite – D (Vidarbha, Bengal, Hyderabad, Jharkhand, J&K, Chandigarh)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cricket-association-gears-up-to-host-national-tournaments-305821
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Show-cause notice issued by Chandigarh MC Commissioner to SDO, JE||MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra today served a show-cause notice on the Sub-Divisional Engineer (SDO) and the Junior Engineer (JE) of the Municipal Corporation’s Public Health Division for dereliction of duty, a day after negligence was detected at a construction site of a road gully in Sector 21 here.It was noticed that the construction work of a road gully in Sector 21 was awarded to contractor Vakeel Yadav, who left the dug-up road without putting any signboard around the area to caution the general public. Taking a note of this, the MC chief issued a show-cause notice to officials responsible for this work and directed that a show-cause was also issued to the contractor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/show-cause-notice-issued-by-chandigarh-mc-commissioner-to-sdo-je-305820
03-09-2021||Mohali||Chandigarh cop fires at brother-in-law’s car, arrested||The Nayagaon police today arrested a UT constable for firing a shot at a car of his brother-in-law and smashing its windowpanes at Shivalik Vihar in Nayagaon.The Nayagaon DSP said the incident took place around 1 am on Thursday when constable Sikander Singh, who is posted at a police post at the Punjab and Haryana High Court, was having a party at his residence in Shivalik Vihar where his brother-in-law Ankit was also present. His brother-in-law took away Sikander’s car. After sometime, Sikander called him and asked him to return his car. They both had a verbal spat and abused each other on phone.After the verbal spat, Sikander went to the parking area where Ankit’s car was parked. The cop smashed the windowpanes of Ankit’s car and fired a shot from his licensed pistol at his car and informed his brother-in-law that he had committed the act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cop-fires-at-brother-in-laws-car-arrested-305819
03-09-2021||---||Panchkula Congress protests canecharge on farmers in Karnal||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 2The local unit of the Congress, led by former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, today staged a protest march here against the police lathicharge on farmers in Karnal and amendment to the Land Acquisition Act.They also submitted a memorandum to the Governor through the Deputy Commissioner.“Atrocities on farmers by the BJP-JJP government will not be tolerated. The lathicharge on farmers in Karnal was a testament of how the Khattar government treats our ‘annadata’,” said senior Congress leader Chander Mohan while addressing a press conference.He demanded an independent inquiry into the “brutal lathicharge on farmers to punish the culprits.”He alleged that the state government had decided to ruin the farmers by making amendment to the Land Acquisition Act. “The amendment is for benefitting the capitalist friends of the government,” he claimed. The Congress leader urged the Governor to not to give his nod to the land acquisition bill passed by the state Assembly recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-congress-protests-canecharge-on-farmers-in-karnal-305818
03-09-2021||---||Mohali shows the way in vaccination||Mohali, September 2The district today “scripted history” by administering the first dose of the Covid vaccine to 26,000 people over and above its total adult population.A government spokesman said the total adult population of Mohali district was 7,46,119. The district crossed this vaccination figure on Tuesday and by September 2, it had successfully administered the first dose to 7,73,442 people, i.e. 103.66 per cent.“Mohali has created a record of sorts and is the first district in Punjab to administer the vaccination to more people than its adult population,” said Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health Minister, Punjab. He appreciated the efforts of doctors, nurses, paramedics and officials, who made the feat possible. “Congratulations to all those who made this campaign a success,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-shows-the-way-in-vaccination-305817
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||66K fined for ticketless travel in trains by Ambala Division, Rs 3.5 cr recovered||Around 66,000 commuters were fined by the Ambala Division of the Northern Railways for travelling ticketless and without proper documentation. An amount of Rs3.56 crore was recovered as fine from commuters in August.Gurinder Mohan Singh, Divisional Railway Manager, Ambala Division, said with the decline in Covid cases, trains were running with good occupancy. Thus, the division has paced up checking to render convenience to the authorised travelers.To ensure Covid norms, 248 persons without a mask were also fined, stated a press release.Railway officials said a special emphasis had been laid on curbing the menace of littering among the general public for making the railway stations clean. “For this purpose, regular checks are conducted over the main stations of the division as a result of which, 342 passengers were apprehended under the Anti-Littering Act and Rs67,350 were recovered from them,” the press note added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/66k-fined-for-ticketless-travel-in-trains-by-ambala-division-rs-3-5-cr-recovered-305816
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Transfer of ownership in Chandigarh MC record sought||A delegation of the Property Federation, Chandigarh, today called on Anindita Mitra, who recently joined as the MC Commissioner.The delegation, comprising JD Gupta, chairman, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Tirlok Singh, adviser, Jaspal Kapoor, finance secretary, and Navdeep Sharma, secretary, apprised the Commissioner of the transfer of ownership in the MC record for the purpose of property tax.On parking problem being faced by residents, they said no parking attendant was provided by the contactor. “One person is handling over 100 cars. They are charging entry fee. No space is reserved for senior citizen/handicapped. Capacity of each parking lot is to be fixed/marked. If the contactor gets more vehicles parked, fine should be imposed on him,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/transfer-of-ownership-in-chandigarh-mc-record-sought-305815
03-09-2021||---||Out on walk, woman duped of gold bangles in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 2An elderly woman, who was out on a morning walk, was allegedly duped of gold bangles by a car-borne gang, including three women and a man.Complainant Prem Kaur (75), a resident of Behlana, said a white car stopped next to her near the Airport light point when she was out on a walk. The woman sitting next to the driver greeted her and started a conversation. In the meantime, another woman sitting at the rear seat came out of the vehicle and hugged her. The victim thought they could be her acquaintances. The suspects then left the spot. The victim later found that her two gold bangles were missing. A case was registered at the Sector 31 police station.The car-borne gang of women with a man as a driver has targeted several women in the tricity in the past few years. The suspects make elderly sit in the car on the pretext of dropping them at their home and steal their gold bangles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/out-on-walk-woman-duped-of-gold-bangles-in-chandigarh-305814
03-09-2021||---||Mohali civic body gives job to  wife of deceased sewerman||Mohali, September 2The Mohali Municipal Corporation today gave a job to the wife of sewerman Harpal Singh, who died in the line of duty, here around one and a half months ago.Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu handed over the appointment letter to Balwinder Kaur, wife of Harpal Singh. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Commissioner Kamal Garg and councillor Baljit Kaur were present on the occasion.Two sewermen had died in a mishap while on duty in Mohali. The Municipal Corporation had earlier handed over a cheque for Rs10 lakh to the family of Harpal Singh. He is survived by his wife and three children.Speaking on the occasion, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said though Harpal was not a direct employee of the Municipal Corporation, he was engaged in sewer cleaning work in Mohali. Realising its responsibility and obligation, the Municipal Corporation gave the job of a peon to Harpal’s wife Baljinder Kaur so that she could take care of her children in a proper manner.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said officials were also in talks with the family of another sewerman, who died in the mishap, and his family would be given relief by the corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-civic-body-gives-job-to-wife-of-deceased-sewerman-305813
03-09-2021||---||2 snatchers land in Lalru police net||Mohali, September 2The Lalru police here today claimed to have nabbed professional two snatchers for looting a mobile phone, cash and valuables after injuring two persons with sharp weapon.The arrested accused have been identified as Brijesh Kumar, alias Tira (19), a resident of Taroan village in Chhapra district, Bihar, and presently residing in Gholumajra village, and Ritik Kumar (19), a native of Kukhni village near Indri in Karnal district and presently residing in Prem Nagar, Lalru.The police said they received information that two unidentified persons had attacked Irshad and his brother Sahib Kumar and snatched a mobile phone, cash and valuables from them.On a complaint on Sahib Kumar, a case under Sections 307, 341 and 34 of the IPC was registered against the unidentified accused at the Lalru police station on August 12.On the basis of description provided by Sahil, the police identified the accused. The police conducted a raid on their houses and arrested them on August 31. The police produced them in a court, which sent them to police custody.The police recovered six mobile phones, the knife used in the crime, a motorcycle, 570 grams of ganja and 1,000 sedative tablets from their possession.During investigation, the accused revealed that they had stolen the motorcycle from Dera Bassi on August 11. A case in this regard was registered under Section 379 of the IPC at the Dera Bassi police station. Both accused revealed that they also snatched a mobile phone from a person on August 13. In the meanwhile, a motorcyclist, Pankaj Kumar from Prem Nagar, who was passing through the area, tried to stop them. The duo injured him and fled from the site. A case under Sections 382, 323, 324, 34 and 511 of the IPC was registered at the Lalru Police station in this regard on August 14.The police said Brijesh also injured a cyclist by attacking him with a knife on the chest on December 17, 2018, and a case under Sections 392, 394, 397, 326 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered at the Lalru police station on December 19. The police said further investigations were being on to know about their involvement in more such snatching, looting and theft cases in the area and their accomplices, if any.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-snatchers-land-in-lalru-police-net-305812
03-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Three get 12-year rigorous imprisonment for raping minor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2A Special Court has awarded 12-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) to three persons - Promod Kumar, Vikas Kumar and Ramu - for raping a minor girl in 2018. The court also imposed a fine of Rs20,000 on each accused. The trio will have to undergo RI for one more year in case of non-payment of the fine.The court has also recommended the State Legal Services Authority (SLSA), Chandigarh, to pay a compensation of Rs2 lakh to the rape survivor.The police initially registered a case against an unknown person on a complaint of the mother of the prosecutrix. In the complaint, the victim’s mother said when she brought her daughter to a government hospital for her check-up, the doctor disclosed that she was pregnant. On asking, the prosecutrix disclosed when she went to the bathroom one night, an unknown person came from behind and gagged her mouth. The person took her to a secluded place and raped her.On the basis of the complaint, the police registered a case against unknown persons under Section 376 of the IPC and Sections 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act. When the police recorded her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC, the prosecutrix told that when she went to the bathroom, three accused raped her around two-three months ago. She alleged that earlier also they used to lure her with sweets and money and make her watch obscene movies on their mobile phones. She said due to the fear of her parents, she did not disclose the incident to anyone. All three accused were arrested on the basis of her statement.Aborted foetus of the prosecutrix and blood samples of the victim and the accused were sent to the CFSL. After examining the CFSL reports and hearings the arguments and statement of the witnesses, the court held all accused guilty of offences under Sections 376 (2) (I ), 376(2) (n) of the IPC and Section 6 of the POSCO Act.The court convicted all accused under Section 6 of the POCSO Act - 2012 to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 12 years and pay a fine of Rs20,000 each. In case of default of the payment, the accused will further undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year. The court also recommended a compensation of Rs2 lakh to the victim by the State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, under the victim compensation scheme.Though all accused prayed for leniency, after hearing the arguments the court says “when such heinous crimes are proved, the victim looks upon the court as the saviour of her rights. The court will be failing in its duty if the offenders, who display such unscrupulous conduct, are shown any leniency.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-get-12-year-rigorous-imprisonment-for-raping-minor-305811
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Minor reshuffle in Chandigarh, Debendra Dalai gets charge of CITCO Chairman||Consequent upon relieving of Arun Kumar Gupta, Home Secretary, and Kamal Kishor Yadav, Municipal Commissioner, on the completion of their inter-cadre deputation period, UT Adviser Dharam Pal today re-distributed the charges of various departments among officers.Debendra Dalai (IFS), Chief Conservator of Forests, has been assigned the charges of Secretary Tourism, and Chairman, CITCO. Dr Vijay Namdeorao Zade, Finance Secretary, has been assigned the charges of 21 departments, including Secretary, Planning, Excise and Taxation, Industries, Planning, Home, Revenue, Agriculture, Urban Planning and Engineering.CHB Secretary relievedThe UT Administration on Thursday relieved Radhika Singh, Secretary, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), after the completion of her inter-cadre deputation period with the Chandigarh Administration, to enable her to join her patent state of Haryana.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Housing Board, has been assigned the charges of Secretary Health, Medical Education and Research and Hospitality.In another reshuffle, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, who was relieved from the post of the Director School Education, has been given the charge of Chief General Manager, CITCO, and Additional Secretary, Health and Director AYUSH.Similarly, Rakesh Kumar Popli has been given the charges of Secretary, Chandigarh Housing Board, and Director Hospitality.Pradhuman Singh, Registering and Licensing Authority, has been given the charge of Director Transport-cum-(ex-officio)-Joint Secretary, Transport, and Divisional Manager, CTU.Sorabh Kumar Arora, Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner, has been given the charge of Director, Museum and Art Gallery, and he was relieved from the MC.Palika Arora, who recently joined from Punjab, has been given the charges of Director School Education and Director Higher Education. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-reshuffle-in-chandigarh-debendra-dalai-gets-charge-of-citco-chairman-305810
03-09-2021||---||Indian Oil automates all its 25 outlets in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 2An oil marketing firm - Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) - has automated all its 25 outlets (petrol pumps) in the city. The automated system ensures that right quantity and quality of fuel is dispensed to customers and it also enhances safety at the retail outlet (petrol pump).For example, details of all transactions at the outlet (pump), status of tanks, stock and dispensing units are recorded on a real-time basis on the Retail Automation Central Server, thus limiting the pilferage. The data thus generated is used for generating various reports and MIS for better monitoring over the retail network.“The fuel retailing at the pumps has been automated by digitising, integrating & harmonising the entire operations at the outlets. Various equipment at outlet such as tanks, dispensing units and payment platform have been brought under an automated system, thereby harmonising fuel delivery to customers,” said Sujoy Choudhury, Executive Director and State Head, Indian Oil Punjab State Office.The automation system monitors and controls day-to-day operations at an outlet through a fore court controller. This is achieved through the implementation of checks and balances known as system interlocks, which are helpful in real- time monitoring of various operational parameters at the point of sales.Meanwhile, on September 1, 2021, Indian Oil celebrated its 62nd anniversary. On this occasion, it launched a campaign, “Pure Aur Poora Dono Hee”, which aims at enhanced customer engagement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/indian-oil-automates-all-its-25-outlets-in-chandigarh-305809
03-09-2021||---||16 Punjab BJP leaders violate Chandigarh DM’s order, get notices||Chandigarh, September 2A local court has issued notices to 16 prominent leaders of the Punjab BJP for allegedly violating the order of the District Magistrate, Chandigarh, issued under Section 144 of the CrPC.The court issued the notices after the police presented a challan against the leaders before the court. The leaders who were issued notices are Vijay Sampla, Arun Narang, Master Mohal Lal, Madan Mohan Mittal, Manoranjan Kalia, Dr Baldev Chawla, Ashwani Sharma, Tikshon Sood, Surjit Kumar Jain, Tarun Chug, KD Bhandari, Arunesh Shakar, Dr Saurabh Sharma, Malvinder Singh Kang, Jiwan Gupta and Arvind Mittal.The case of the accused persons was sent to the court by the officer in-charge of the Sector 17 police station, Chandigarh, to face trial in connection with the offence punishable under Section 188 of the IPC.The police have registered the case against all accused under Section 188 of the IPC on a complaint of constable Karmbir Singh, who alleged that all accused were found raising slogans against the Punjab Government on August 8, 2020, near the MC office, Chandigarh. They were going towards the residence of the Punjab Chief Minister, thereby violating the order of the District Magistrate issued under Section 144 of the CrPC on July 9, 2020.In the order, the District Magistrate has prohibited the gathering of five or more persons and raising slogans. Hence, offence punishable under Section 188 of the IPC was made out against the accused. The police also alleged that the leaders were also apprised of the order of the Deputy Commissioner. Despite that, they violated the order. An FIR was registered against the accused. After the completion of investigation, a challan was presented. The court has fixed November 11 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-punjab-bjp-leaders-violate-chandigarh-dms-order-get-notices-305808
03-09-2021||---||Udyam Registration portal: Chandigarh Industries Department sets up help desk for registration of MSME units||Chandigarh, September 2The Department of Industries, UT, has set up a help desk to provide hassle-free services for the registration of existing and new MSME units on the Udyam Registration portal.The Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), Government of India, has launched the Udyam Registration (UR) portal for the registration of MSMEs and advised that all MSMEs, which had registered up to June 30, 2020, have to migrate from the Udyog Aadhaar Memorandum (UAM) to the Udyam Registration as the UAM verification service was dropped with effect from April 1, 2021, but the migration facility was still in place.Important infoHelp Desk Officer: Ishan SharmaMobile number: 8168370115Office phone number: 0172-2679007Contact timings: 10 am to 1 pmAccordingly, the Department of Industries, acting as a single-window facilitation centre in the UT, has set up a help desk to provide hassle-free services for the registration of existing/new MSME units on the Udyam Registration portal. If any person, who is not able to register on the Udyam Registration portal for any reason, he/she may visit the help desk officer at the District Industries Centre, Industrial Area, Phase II, Chandigarh, who will facilitate him/her for the registration process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/udyam-registration-portal-chandigarh-industries-department-sets-up-help-desk-for-registration-of-msme-units-305807
03-09-2021||---||Faculty members condemn Panjab University VC’s heckling, PUTA claims ignorance||Chandigarh, September 2Panjab University faculty members gathered outside the Law Auditorium today to condemn the heckling of Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar.The VC was heckled by protesting students when he was entering a polling booth meant for the election of ordinary fellow for Panjab University Senate yesterday.“The faculty members felt dismayed and prayed for peace and academic environment where teachers can work fearlessly and with dignity,” said a PU spokesperson.“We prayed that the PU remains focused on improving academics. The silence of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) is deafening as they refused to come to the support of PU officials and teachers,” said the spokesperson.PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar, however, claimed ignorance, saying that he had no idea about today’s protest.“I have no idea about today’s protest. I was not even aware about the attack on the VC. It is only through media that I came to know about it… and no one was hurt in the attack, as per media reports. If there is a trust deficit between stakeholders (VC and students), they should meet and resolve the differences,” said Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/faculty-members-condemn-panjab-university-vcs-heckling-puta-claims-ignorance-305775
03-09-2021||---||Times World University Rankings: Panjab University figures among top 10||Chandigarh, September 2Panjab University has ranked seventh among 71 technical and non-technical institutes in India in the latest Times World University Rankings.The university has secured 601-800 global rank.IISc Bangalore, IIT Ropar, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (Mysore), IIT Indore, Alagappa University (Tamil Nadu) and Thapar University (Punjab) rank above Panjab University.The PU though has outperformed Aligarh Muslim University, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Anna University, Birla Institute of Technology and Science (Pilani), University of Delhi, IISER Pune, IISER Kolkata, IIT Patna, NIT Rourkela, Savitribai Phule Pune University, IIT Bhubaneswar.Panjab University has gained substantially in teaching, doctorate awarded to bachelors, doctorate awarded to academic staff, teaching reputation, students to academic staff ratio, research reputation and industry income parameters.PU’s score on international outlook, percentage of international students, and research and citations remained almost unchanged. However, the university witnessed a downfall in institutional income for academic staff.Teaching remained the highest ranked area for the PU with a global rank of 384, while international outlook was the lowest ranked pillar.“I congratulate the faculty and the university staff for a stable performance in international rankings. The teaching standards have remained Punjab University’s strength for many years,” said PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar.He said Panjab University would continue to grow and make progress in the coming years.Dr Ashish Jain, Director, IQAC, said Panjab University had maintained its score and position over the last few years despite tough circumstances all around.“It is only the institutional income which has seen a substantial fall. If we had maintained the income score then ranking would have been even better,” said Jain.“As Panjab University is gearing up for the NAAC inspection, we are sure that the data submitted this time will be a lot more comprehensive and we shall see much better results,” he said.Jain also congratulated the entire faculty and research scholars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/times-world-university-rankings-panjab-university-figures-among-top-10-305774
03-09-2021||Panchkula||Mystery shrouds Barwala youth’s death||A 26-year-old youth from Barwala, who worked as a tempo driver, died under mysterious circumstances at the Civil Hospital yesterday morning.The family of the deceased, identified as Rohit, alleged that he died due to a Covishield dose, which he was administered to him on August 28.His brother Mohit said, “He (Rohit) fell ill and developed chest pain after taking the first dose of the Covid vaccine. We took him to a hospital in Barwala, but his pain dissipated only for a brief period. After he showed no improvement, we rushed him to the Civil Hospital, where he died.” The Civil Surgeon, Dr Mukta Kumar, refuted the allegations, claiming that the Covid vaccine was not the reason behind his death.“He (the patient) was an intravenous (IV) drug user. On August 31, the patient was reported to the psychiatry ward of the Civil Hospital where he was given sedatives to manage his aggressive behaviour,” she said.“We will also examine records to ascertain if he had been receiving treatment at the psychiatry ward for drug abuse,” she added.Reiterating that there was no link between his death and the vaccine, she stated that the post-mortem report of the patient conducted yesterday was awaited.A source in the Health Department said the actual cause of death would become clear after the viscera report was received.“Preliminary examination suggests that the patient had a build-up of excess fluid around the heart (pericardium). It is mainly caused by infection. For further confirmation, we have sent his viscera for examination,” he said.The SHO of the Chandimandir police station, Inspector Arvind, said they had not received any complaint from the family in this regard. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mystery-shrouds-barwala-youths-death-305773
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Biker dies in road mishap in Chandigarh||A motorcyclist died after he was allegedly hit by a truck near Daria on Tuesday night. The motorcycle further hit another motorcyclist, leaving the rider injured.The victim has been identified as Abhay Pratap (25), a resident of Dhanas.Complainant Pardeep reported that a recklessly-driven truck hit the motorcycle being driven by the victim. The victim’s motorcycle hit his bike, following which both of them fell on the road.The police were informed and both victims were taken to the GMCH, Sector 32, where Abhay succumbed to the injuries.The police said the truck driver had been identified as Mohinder and a case registered. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-dies-in-road-mishap-in-chandigarh-305772
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 2 fresh Covid cases||The UT reported two fresh Covid cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 65,110. The death toll remained at 814. Two patients were cured of the disease. TNS Four infected in Mohali, no deathMohali: Four new cases of Covid surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 68,620. No fresh death was reported, while three patients recovered from the virus. Among the new cases, two each were reported from Dhakoli and Mohali. Of the 68,620 positive cases reported so far, 67,511 patients have been cured. There are now 49 active cases in the district. The toll stands at 1,060. TNSNo new case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported no fresh Covid on Thursday. The district has 13 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-2-fresh-covid-cases-305771
03-09-2021||Mohali||In Mohali, Sundays only for second jab at government centres||The Mohali Health Department has earmarked every Sunday only for the second dose of the Covid vaccine at all government vaccination centres across the district. The first dose will be given on all days except Sunday.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, and the Covid vaccination nodal officer, Dr Vikrant Nagra, said the Punjab Government had recently issued instructions that the beneficiaries would be given only the second vaccine dose every Sunday.They said a large number of people in the district were delaying the second dose. Therefore, Sunday had been earmarked only for the second dose. They said there was no shortage of vaccine in the district.Dr Adarshpal Kaur said teachers of schools and colleges or other educational institutions would be given the second dose of Covishield after a period of 84 days.She said the district administration had issued instructions to ensure vaccination of the teaching and non-teaching staff of all government and private schools, colleges, coaching centres or other educational institutions and students above 18 years of age by September 30. Parents of school and college students would also be encouraged to get vaccinated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-sundays-only-for-second-jab-at-government-centres-305743
03-09-2021||---||Chandigarh railway station gets five-star certification||Chandigarh, September 2The Chandigarh railway station has been awarded a five-star “Eat Right Station” certification for providing high-quality, nutritious food to passengers, becoming the fifth station in the country to get this recognition.The other railway stations with this certification are the Anand Vihar Terminal railway station, Delhi, Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, Mumbai, the Mumbai Central railway station and the Vadodara railway station.What it meansThe five-star rating indicates exemplary efforts by stations to ensure safe and hygienic food is available to passengers.‘Customers our focus’We at the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation place the ‘customers’ at the centre of our services. The certification is a testimony to our best-in-class services for passengers. — SK Lohia, MD & CEO, IRSDCThis certification is granted by FSSAI to railway stations adhering to standard food storage and hygiene practices for passengers.The station is awarded a certificate upon a conclusion of an FSSAI-empanelled third-party audit agency with ratings from 1 to 5.The five-star rating indicates exemplary efforts by stations to ensure safe and hygienic food is available to passengers.“We at Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) place the ‘customers’ at the centre of our services. This certification is a testimony of the IRSDC’s sustained and collaborative approach to provide best in-class services to passengers. We are thankful for this recognition and are committed to setting benchmarks in the operation and maintenance of railway stations in India,” said SK Lohia, Managing Director and CEO, IRSDC.The certification is part of the “Eat Right India” movement — an effort by FSSAI to transform the country’s food system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-railway-station-gets-five-star-certification-305742
03-09-2021||Chandigarh||Keep up pace of projects, Banwarilal Purohit asks Chandigarh officials||New UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit held a meeting with all administrative secretaries and head of departments in the presence of Adviser Dharam Pal here today.The secretaries gave a presentation and briefed the Administrator about the ongoing projects. While going through the presentations, the Administrator appreciated the work done by all allied departments and asked them to keep up the pace of the ongoing projects.The Administrator shared his experience with the officers and emphasised: “Transparency, efficiency and time management are the key to good work. The working of our departments is the reflection of our Administration. We must work in a manner that the public is benefited without any hassle.”Present among the officers were Praveer Ranjan, DGP, Dr Vijay Namdeorao Zade, Finance Secretary, Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner, Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Vinod P Kavle, Secretary, Food and Supplies, Yashpal Garg, CEO, Chandigarh Housing Board, SS Gill, Secretary (Personnel), along with other senior officials of the Chandigarh Administration.Later, Purohit, along with Dharam Pal and other senior officials, held an introductory meeting with members of the Administrator’s Advisory Council.For improving the effectiveness of the Council, Purohit asked the authorities to hold Council’s meeting in two parts. Of the 10 sub-committees of the 60-member council, a meeting of the members of five sub-committees should be held on one day, the members of the remaining five sub-committees should be held the next day, he stated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/keep-up-pace-of-projects-banwarilal-purohit-asks-chandigarh-officials-305741
03-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Centre clips Chandigarh Administration's wings on aviary project near Sukhna Lake||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2The Central Government has clipped the wings of the UT Administration on an aviary project coming up at Nagar Van (City Forest) near Sukhna Lake till relevant approvals are received.In a letter dated August 24, 2021, to the Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, stated that it has been brought to the notice of the Ministry that the UT Administration has purchased several exotic birds and is in the process of setting up and inaugurating a zoo in Chandigarh.Officers satisfiedA team of officers from the Central Zoo Authority has already visited the site and expressed satisfaction over the facilities created at the aviary. — Debendra Dalai, Chief Wildlife Warden, UT“The purchase and proposed inauguration of the zoo has not been done as per the laid down procedure,” stated the Assistant Inspector General of Forest (Wildlife), and requested the Chief Wildlife Warden to discontinue the process till the time all necessary approvals are granted by the competent authority and refrain from formal opening of the impugned zoo.However, Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said: “Subsequent to this letter, a team of officers from the Central Zoo Authority already visited the site and expressed their satisfaction over the facilities being created at the aviary.”The team visited the site on August 27, and after inspection, they were satisfied with the project. He said they were hopeful of getting a formal letter from the authorities in this regard soon.Being established on more than four acres by the UT Forests and Wildlife Department, the aviary will have 1,470 exotic birds of 46 species.The aviary will have a separate enclosure for aquatic and terrestrial birds. The heights of the enclosures have been designed keeping in view the flight of the birds.In a representation to the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) on August 9, RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association, has sought necessary action regarding caging of birds at the proposed aviary. The association demanded necessary directions as per various rules for making of aviaries, procurement and safe-keeping of birds, ensuring their fundamental rights to fly free.In response, the AWBI issued a letter to the Forest Department, Chandigarh. In reply to the letter, the UT Forest Department, through a letter dated August 18, clarified that the department has developed two walk areas through aviaries at Nagar Van within the city limit for housing exotic birds only, which are commonly bred in India.The procurement of exotic birds was done only from registered, reputed and authentic sellers/breeders/suppliers and not from any grey market. These supplies are registered with the Animal Welfare Board of Tamil Nadu and also registered on PARIVESH portal of the Ministry.Before selecting the sellers, a committee consisting of officers from different departments and the Forest Department cross-verified all details and sources of birds were traced by physically visiting the facilities on site.These exotic birds are housed for nature education and for all non-commercial usage or public displays. It was also submitted that all necessary approval of the competent authority has been taken for the project and none of the rules, guidelines or laws have been violated in the process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-clips-chandigarh-administrations-wings-on-aviary-project-near-sukhna-lake-305740
03-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Vandals take cycle project for a ride in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2In another blow to the much-hyped public bike-sharing project, several cycles have been damaged or vandalised.About 150 complaints of vandalism have been received in a month by the company. The firm found that some miscreants had tried to open its parts, some deliberately damaged it and at some places, two persons were seen on cycles meant for a single rider. Seats and lights of some of the cycles have been stolen.‘3-4 plaints daily’Every day, we get three to four complaints of vandalism. In a month, about 150 complaints of vandalism of bikes have been reported from different parts of the city. — Abhinandan, Operations in-charge‘Police help sought’The company has requested the local police to increase patrolling around the docking stations. It has also asked its staff to keep an eye on miscreants. In a visit to a Sector 29 docking station, it was seen that the outer layer of tyres of cycles had come off.In one case, two unlocked cycles were found abandoned last month. During a field visit, MC SDO AK Dhadwal found them and called up the police and the MC. The cycles were dumped at the MC store, but the firm is clueless about the GPS-enabled bikes.“Every day, we get three to four complaints of vandalism. In a month, about 150 complaints of vandalism of bikes have been reported from different parts of the city,” said Abhinandan, who is looking after the smart bike operations in the city.In the wake of such incidents, the company has requested the local police to increase patrolling around the docking stations. It has also asked its staff to keep an eye on miscreants. In a visit to a Sector 29 docking station, it was seen that the outer layer of tyres of cycles had come off.Earlier, after facing glitches with the Smart Bike app, cycle rides under the project, which was launched on August 12, were made free till September 10. However, till now, the glitches have not been fixed.RK Garg, a social activist, said: “I had a terrible experience with the public-bike sharing. In Sector 27, there are five cycle docks. This morning, I went to a dock with three cycles — one out of order and two under maintenance. At a few docks, no cycles were there. I booked one with the mobile app, but faced hiccups in starting and ending the ride.”In the first phase, 1,250 bicycles at 155 docking stations were launched in the city. However, glitches in the mobile app still trouble the users.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vandals-take-cycle-project-for-a-ride-in-chandigarh-305739
