05-09-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 2 new cases of Covid-19||Chandigarh on Sunday reported two new cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of cases to 65,121.The death toll in the city remains 814.A positivity rate of 0.10 per cent was recorded as 2,020 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The number of active cases is 40 as a total of five patients have been discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.As many as 64,267 people have recovered from the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-2-new-cases-of-covid-19-307119
05-09-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Special event held for scouts at GMHS, Mauli colony||Chandigarh, September 5A three day Parvesh and Sopan camp organised at G.M.H.S, Mauli colony concluded on Saturday.A press release issued here said that the participants learnt various activities during the camp which was held under the guidance of Chandigarh unit of Bharat Scout Guide. The activities included first aid (caring for injured person till they receive medical care), poster making, dance etc. On the basis of the activities conducted, the scouts and guides were awarded with ranks.The special guests motivated the scouts by sharing their life experience and also guiding them on making good choices and taking responsibility for their actions so that they are prepared for their future life as an independent person.The program ended with the closing in ceremony with the flag down ceremony and group photograph. A feedback from the students about the camp was followed by the note of thanks presented by the Head of the school. On this note the young scouts concluded a memorable and knowledgeable Scouts & Guide camp.Among chief guests who attended the event included Jai Bhagwaan and Hari Pal Yadav from association of Bharat Scouts & Guides, Chandigarh and school Headmistress Parveen Malik.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/special-event-held-for-scouts-at-gmhs-mauli-colony-307089
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Burglars strike at Sector 42 house||Pedestrian hit, Car driver heldChandigarh: The police arrested a car driver for hitting a pedestrian near the Sector 33 fuel station on September 3. Constable Joginder of the Sector 34 police station reported that a car driver, Amit Kumar of Ambala, hit a pedestrian, who was then taken to the GMCH-32 for treatment. The suspect was arrested in the case and later released on bail. A case under Section 279 and 337 of the IPC was registered at the Sector 34 police station. TNSSec 19 postman’s bicycle stolenChandigarh: Miscreants stole a cycle of a Sector 19 postman and fled with 25 Speed Post letters and eight registered letters from near a branch of the SBI in Sector 7 here on September 3. A Sector 27 resident, Kanchan Dhiman, reported that an unknown person stole his bicycle. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered. TNSFoundation adopts playerChandigarh: Aushim Khetrapal of the Shirdi Sai Foundation, which has adopted 10 para-athletes who went to Tokyo Olympics, has now announced to adopt para-sprinter Vinay Kumar, who won a bronze medal at the 2019 World Para Championships and 2018 Asia Para Games.“It will help me to continue my game. I was earlier doing small jobs to run my house and I didn’t even have time for games. Now that I am getting support from the foundation, then I will be able to start my game again. I am thankful to Shirdi Sai Foundation,” said Kumar. TNSFraud accused surrendersMohali: Jalalabad resident Surinder Kamboj, who was absconding for the past six years in a Rs30-lakh plot fraud case, surrendered in a Kharar court on Saturday. The suspect had filed a bail plea, but the court sent remanded him in judicial custody. Complainant Abhimanyu Batish, a Mohali resident, said he bought a plot from the suspect in Nayagaon in 2015 for Rs30 lakh, but later came to know that the suspect had forged the documents to claim the ownership of the land. When he asked for his money, the suspect evaded him and went absconding. TNSAdministrator greets teachersChandigarh: On the eve of Teacher’s Day, UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit extended his heartiest greetings and best wishes to teachers for their dedicated service towards building a harmonious society. He said teachers were the real nation builders as they shaped the future of every child and moulded them into a responsible citizens. TNSMan arrested in theft caseChandigarh: Amit Kumar, a resident of Maloya colony, was arrested in a theft case registered on July 20. Manoj Kumar, a resident of Maloya, reported that an unknown person stole his bag containing a purse, a PAN card, a DL, a credit card and an ATM card from the Shastri Market in Sector 22 here on July 20. A case was registered. TNSThree held for gamblingChandigarh: The police arrested Raghubir Singh, Satish Kumar and Ram Saroop, alias Jony, while gambling near a park in Sector 22 here on Friday. A sum of Rs5,300 was recovered from their possession. A case under the Gambling Act was registered against them. They were later released on bail. TNSWomen’s hockey Olympians awardedChandigarh: Life Insurance Corporation, Chandigarh unit, awarded women’s hockey Olympians Reena Khokhar and Monika Malik, who were part of the Indian team that finished fourth in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics with a cash award of Rs10 lakh each. A run - Fit India Freedom Run 2 - was organised to mark LIC’s 65th anniversary and insurance week celebrations. The local office is conducting a number of events. Harvinder Singh, Senior Divisional Manager, Chandigarh, along with other officials and the two Olympians, participated in the run at Sukhna Lake. TNSFarmer leaders join protestChandigarh: Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni (BKU-Chaduni) and Surjit Singh Phool (BKU-Krantikari) attended the ongoing protest by Panjab University student political units to extend solidarity for conducting Senate election of the registered graduate constituency. They assured students that they were not alone in their struggle against the PU authorities. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/burglars-strike-at-sector-42-house-306947
05-09-2021||---||Emphatic 104-run win for Rock Zone||Chandigarh, September 4Ishmeet Singh and Dushyant helped Rock Zone to an emphatic 104-run win over Sukhna Zone in a league match in the ongoing UTCA Domestic Cricket Tournament (U-19) on Saturday.Batting first, Rock Zone scored 327 runs with the help of Dushyant (118) and Ishmeet Singh (108). In reply, Sukhna Zone scored 223 runs in 40 overs with the help of Harnoor (68). Yashasvi Agarwal clinched three wickets, while Shivansh and Paras shared two each for the bowling side.In another match, Rose Zone beat Plaza Zone by 165 runs. In a third match, Terrace Zone outclassed Leisure Zone by eight wickets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/emphatic-104-run-win-for-rock-zone-306946
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||JP Atray Tourney: HPCA lads log 42-run victory over PCA Colts||The Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) defeated PCA Colts by 42 runs (VJD method) in the ongoing JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament for Trident Trophy, today.The match was reduced to 30 overs side due to rain. Batting first, HPCA scored 179/8 in 30 overs. Prashant Chopra (71 off 68 balls) was the main scorer for the side. Rohit Gulati (4/43) was the pick of the bowlers. In reply, Punjab posted 148/8 in allotted 30 overs. Pukhraj Mann and Ramandeep Singh scored 31 runs each for the side. Ayush Jhamwal and Akash Vashisht claimed three wickets each for the bowling side.In another match, Minerva Cricket Academy and MPCA shared a point each. Batting first, Minerva scored 197/7 in 37 overs before the rain stopped the play. The MPCA was given a revised target of 201 runs in 37 overs through VJD method.In reply, the MPCA was bundled out for 200 in 37 overs and the match was tied. Both teams shared two points each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jp-atray-tourney-hpca-lads-log-42-run-victory-over-pca-colts-306945
05-09-2021||---||Rainforest Challenge: Kabir, co-driver Dushyant emerge winners||Chandigarh, September 4Kabir Waraich and co-driver Dushyant Khosla of Gerrari Offroaders, Chandigarh, clinched the coveted Overall Champions Trophy at the Rainforest Challenge (RFC) India 2021.They have won the 7th season with a total score of 2,155 out of 2,600. As the RFC India 2021 champions, they have won a free entry to the RFC Global Series Finale to be held in Malaysia. The overall second position was secured by Anand V Manjooran (co-driver Vishnu Raj) of KTM Jeepers of Kerala with 2,144 points.Dr Mohammad Fahed VP (co-driver Rajeev Lal) of Team Gulf First from Kerala claimed the third spot on the podium with 2,014 points. Sam Kurian Kalarickal (co-driver Sacharia Saji) of RT Off-Road Club from Kerala finished at the fourth position with 1,836 points, while Cedrick Jordan DaSilva of Goa (co-driver Daljit Singh) bagged the fifth spot with 1,824 points.“This is a dream come true for me, but it is yet to sink in. I have participated in all editions of RFC India. While I managed to get a podium finish in the first two editions, the Champions Trophy had always eluded me. In fact, this year was also quite dramatic. The person who was originally supposed to be my navigator broke his leg two days prior to the competition,” said Waraich.The competitors had to undertake 26 special stages or challenges that tested their driving and vehicle recovery skills, team spirit, along with their physical and mental strength under extreme off-road conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rainforest-challenge-kabir-co-driver-dushyant-emerge-winners-306944
05-09-2021||---||Minister hands over cheques for development works in villages||Mohali, September 4Punjab Health and Family Welfare and Labour Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Punjab government had fulfilled 422 out of its 547 poll promises, while 52 promises had been partially fulfilled and 59 were yet to be fulfilled.Balbir Singh Sidhu stated this while addressing people after handing over cheques for development works in various villages of the Mohali Assembly segment. He said with this, the Punjab government, led by Capt Amarinder Singh, had fulfilled 90 per cent of its promises.Talking about the development works of the town, he said the Punjab government had sanctioned a grant of Rs13 crore for development works of 56 villages of the district. He said these grants would be used for works, including construction of dharamsalas, community centres, streets and drains, fencing of cemeteries, etc., in villages of the constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-hands-over-cheques-for-development-works-in-villages-306943
05-09-2021||---||3 POs held in Rs2.05-cr fraud case||Chandigarh, September 4The Economic Offences Wing of the Chandigarh Police arrested three proclaimed offenders (POs) - Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Zirakpur, and Jatin Kumar and Amit Kumar, residents of Sector 67, Mohali, - in a fraud case amounting to Rs2.05 crore. The trio, members of a family, was evading arrest for the past several years.Complainant Amrinder Singh, a resident of Sector 34, alleged that accused Ashok Kumar, Rajesh Kumar, Jatin Kumar, Amit Kumar, Sachin and Amar were intentionally running their family business in the name of M/S Kumar Trading Company from SCF No. 1. The suspects started committee business and giving interest on money on a day-to-day basis by floating various schemes in the shape of draws.The suspects cheated the complainant of Rs2.05 crore. Later, they fled after closing their business and vacating their rented accommodation. During investigation, Ashok Kumar was arrested on August 18, 2018, and the remaining suspects were evading arrest and were declared proclaimed offenders on January 25 this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-pos-held-in-rs2-05-cr-fraud-case-306942
05-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||MACT, Chandigarh, awards Rs13.87-lakh relief to accident victim’s kin||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 4The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, has directed an insurance company, a driver and an owner of a vehicle to pay Rs13,87,349 compensation to the wife and two children of a person who died in a road accident in 2015.The claimants filed a claim petition under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, seeking compensation from the driver and the owner of a vehicle, which was allegedly involved in the accident, and an insurance company.The petition was filed by Satinder Kaur, wife of deceased Sukhram Singh, a resident of Ratha Khere village, Gulla tehsil, Kaithal district, Haryana, through advocate Arvinder Pal Singh.In the petition, Satinder said the accident took place when Sukhram was going towards his house on his motorcycle on June 10, 2015. When he reached near the Bhakra canal, Nayagaon road, Samana, a car coming from the Khaga side rammed into his motorcycle.As a result, Sukhram fell on the road and suffered serious head injuries, a fracture of neck/backbone and other multiple injuries. The victim was admitted to various hospitals, but he succumbed to his injuries on October 31, 2015.The claimants alleged that the accident took place due to rash and negligent driving by the car driver and claimed a compensation of Rs50 lakh.The counsel for the claimants said Sukhram Singh died due to the injuries suffered in the road accident. The counsel for the respondents vehemently opposed the claim petition.After hearing the arguments, the tribunal directed the insurance company, the owner and the driver of the vehicle (car) to pay Rs13,87,349 compensation to the claimants jointly and severally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mact-chandigarh-awards-rs13-87-lakh-relief-to-accident-victims-kin-306941
05-09-2021||---||Chandigarh court dismisses anticipatory bail plea||Chandigarh, September 4Rajeev K. Beri, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, has dismissed the anticipatory bail of a person, Deepak Verma, in a cheating case.The case was registered on a complaint of a woman, who alleged that she was cheated of Rs40,73,000 by unknown callers. The applicant is facing charges of allegedly receiving Rs45,000 from the woman.The counsel for the applicant contended that the applicant had been falsely implicated in this case. He had no concern with the alleged occurrence. There was no allegation against the applicant, except that he had received Rs45,000 in his bank account. This applicant neither allured anyone in this regard nor demanded this amount from anybody.The additional public prosecutor opposed the bail application by submitting that a widow had been made a victim in this case by the accused, including the applicant. He said fraudulent callers active in the area of Delhi-NCR cheated complainant Baljeet Kaur of Rs40,73,000. She kept depositing amount in different bank accounts as per the advice of callers.Call details and ownership details of those phones brought out that, among other recipients, the applicant was also one who had received Rs45,000. He said two accused had been arrested. The duo had disclosed that they were running such a racket in the Delhi-NCR area. The remaining accused were yet to be arrested and the recovery of amount was yet to be effected. He said the applicant would be required for custodial interrogation for the purpose of recovery of amount and to find out the modus operandi.After hearing the arguments, the court, in its order, said: “The FIR reveals details as to how the complainant, Baljeet Kaur, was cheated of huge amount (Rs40,73,000) on the advice of fraudulent callers. Time and again she would receive calls and would act as per their advice and transfer the amount in different bank accounts. One of the recipient accounts was that of the current applicant. He admittedly received a sum of Rs45,000. Allegations are that he is one of the members of a gang of fraudulent people working in the area of Delhi-NCR. It is not, therefore, only a matter of recovery of Rs45,000 from him. Rather, it would prima facie be relevant to bring out the modus operandi of this applicant and co-accused in committing the involved offence. These circumstances and the nature of allegations do not warrant that the applicant be admitted to anticipatory bail.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-dismisses-anticipatory-bail-plea-306940
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||FOSWAC takes up issue of theft cases with Chandigarh SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal||Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) today raised the issue of thefts and snatchings with UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal during its executive committee meeting held at Sector 36 here today.SSP Chahal assured them of regulating the beat system, controlling beggars at cross points. He was also in the favour of installing gates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foswac-takes-up-issue-of-theft-cases-with-chandigarh-ssp-kuldeep-singh-chahal-306939
05-09-2021||Mohali||Residents protest auction of shamlat land||Satnam Singh Dao, president of the Punjab Against Corruption, and residents of Chandpur village held a protest against the bidding of the shamlat land to be held on September 7 by the government to give the village land to a private organisation at cheap rates.Led by Satnam Singh Dao, the villagers also met Sanyukt Kisan Morch leader Balbir Singh Rajewal and demanded steps to stop the process of handing over the village land to a private organisation at throwaway prices. He informed that 86 acres in Chandpur would be grabbed on the pretext of giving the same to the organisation for blind people as was done in Balongi village where land had been given to a gaushala.He said the market value of the land was worth over Rs500 crore, which was allegedly being grabbed by leaders of the ruling party by setting up fake institutions and putting pressure on the panchayats and in connivance with panchayat members.He warned the government if the auction of the village land was held, they would intensify their protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-protest-auction-of-shamlat-land-306938
05-09-2021||Surinder Bhardwaj||Three arrested in bank theft case||Fatehgarh Sahib, Sept 4With the arrest of three persons, the district police claimed to have solved the theft case at the Raipur Majri branch of UCO Bank on the intervening night of August 28 and 29.The suspects have been identified as Arshdeep Singh, alias Ashu, Gursewak Singh, alias Kinda, and Rupinder Singh, alias Vijay. A rifle, 12 cartridges, a network router device and a motorcycle involved in the crime were seized.They have also admitted to have been involved in three theft cases earlier in the district.The police also arrested nine peddlers and recovered 650-gm heroin, 25,000 intoxicant tablets, Rs1.25 lakh drug money, a pistol, four cartridges, two I-20 cars, two motorcycles and an Active scooter.Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Sandeep Goel said the thieves broke the outer boundary wall of the bank building and entered the strong room. They remained in the bank for two hours, but they could not break the strong room locks.They took away the 12-bore double barrel gun of the security personnel kept in the strong room and network router device, but could not break the cash chest and locker chest.He said a SIT was constituted that succeeded in arresting the three suspects and recovered the stolen goods. He said that during preliminary interrogation, they admitted that they had also committed three more thefts in the district.The SSP held a meeting with managers of all the banks in the district and directed them to ensure proper lighting, security gadgets, hooters, CCTV cameras and other security devices in working condition. He suggested constructing a four-feet wall in front of the entrance of ATM rooms. He ensured security from the police side and urged them to invest in self-security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-arrested-in-bank-theft-case-306937
05-09-2021||---||Villagers protest property tax notices in Mohali, want civic amenities||Mohali, September 4Outraged over notices sent by the Municipal Corporation regarding property tax, residents of Kumbhra village, Sector 68, here, staged a protest against the Punjab Government and the MC.Led by social activist Balwinder Singh Kumbhra, the protesters also burnt an effigy of Mayor Amarjit Singh Jiti Sidhu and Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg.Addressing the protesters, Kumbhra said no facility was being provided to the villagers. He said the village was in dire need of basic amenities. He said during the last meeting of the MC, the Mayor and other councillors had increased their salaries, the entire burden of which fell on the common man.He said villagers would not pay the property tax unless the MC provided the same facilities to the villagers as was being provided to the residents of Mohali city.He said villagers would not pay property tax unless facilities such as playground, school, college, park, community centre, sewerage system, water supply and sanitation are provided to children in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/villagers-protest-property-tax-notices-in-mohali-want-civic-amenities-306936
05-09-2021||Panchkula||3 of family die in Barwala accident||Three of a family were killed and one was injured in an accident near Air Force Station on the Barwala-Dera Bassi road in Barwala this evening. The incident took place around 7:40 pm.Sunil (35), his wife Neeraj (32) and two children, aged three and six years, were on their way from Dera Bassi to Barwala when their bike rammed into another two-wheeler. They were rushed to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where the doctors declared three of them dead. Meanwhile, Neeraj was stated to be out of danger.Assistant Sub-inspector Mukesh Kumar, in charge of the Barwala police post, said they were yet to record the statements of the injured and eyewitnesses. “A case will be registered and further action taken accordingly,” he said. — TNSPillion rider killedZirakpur: A youth died after the motorcycle he was riding pillion hit a stationary tractor-trailer on a road near the Airport light point at Chhat village here on Friday afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Sunil Kumar (21), a native of Unnao, UP. On the complaint of the victim’s brother Sonu Kumar, the police have registered a case against the unidentified driver of the tractor-trailer. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-of-family-die-in-barwala-accident-306935
05-09-2021||Panchkula||Man attacked with meat cleaver in Panchkula, 2 nailed||A 27-year-old man from Indira Colony, Sector 17, was allegedly attacked by two men with a meat cleaver at Labour Chowk on Friday evening. Both suspects have been arrested.Sunil Kumar, who works as a labourer, alleged that his neighbor Baljeet, along with an aide, accosted him at the Labour Chowk at around 9 pm and attacked with a meat cleaver on his head.In his police complaint, Sunil stated that Baljeet had entered into a verbal spat with him earlier around 3 pm. “To take revenge, Baljeet, along with his friend Jagjeet, confronted me at the Labour Chowk. Soon, Baljeet caught hold of my arms while Jagjeet hit me on the head with a meat cleaver. Before fleeing, the suspects also threatened to kill me,” the FIR stated, quoting the complainant.Meanwhile, the victim was rushed to the nearby Sector 16 police post where he insisted cops to register his complaint before taking him to a hospital for treatment.After registration of the FIR, cops took him to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 in a police vehicle. A case was registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (causing hurt), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 34 (common intention) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The suspects were produced in a local court today, which sent them to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-attacked-with-meat-cleaver-in-panchkula-2-nailed-306934
05-09-2021||---||Rain leads to traffic snarls  in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, September 4An hour of heavy rainfall threw the normal life out of gear in the Zirakpur area today morning.Streets and internal roads were waterlogged, restricting the movement of residents in and around the area after 9 am.The Chandigarh-Delhi highway witnessed traffic jams for kilometres from Patiala chowk to Singhpura chowk for close to three hours. The Zirakpur-Patiala road was clogged with rainwater and serpentine queues of vehicles for around two kilometres. Traffic moved at a snail’s pace on all main roads till noon. The traffic movement on the Zirakpur-Panchkula road was also affected near the Paras Downtown square.“The internal roads in the VIP Road area, Gazipur and Dhakoli among others were clogged with slush and rainwater at several places,” said Balwinder Sahni, a shopkeeper on the VIP Road.At Patiala chowk, shopkeepers said waterlogged road and heavy traffic jam dented their business in the morning. However, it was back to normal in the afternoon with telltale signs of morning rain.In Dera Bassi, heavy rainfall clogged the roads and affected the traffic movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-leads-to-traffic-snarls-in-zirakpur-306933
05-09-2021||---||Nitin Yadav to be new Chandigarh Home Secretary||Chandigarh, September 4Nitin Kumar Yadav, a 2000-batch IAS officer of the Haryana cadre, will be the new Home Secretary of Chandigarh. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the proposal of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for inter-cadre deputation of Nitin Kumar Yadav from the Haryana cadre to the AGMUT cadre (Chandigarh segment) for a period of three years or until further orders, whichever is earlier. The post is reserved for a Haryana cadre IAS officer.After completion of inter-cadre deputation, Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Home), UT, was relieved on August 31.The three-year deputation period of the officer had ended in May, but due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration had sought extension in service for three months for Gupta, a Haryana cadre IAS officer of the 1992 batch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nitin-yadav-to-be-new-chandigarh-home-secretary-306932
05-09-2021||---||Draft policy on nursing homes in residential areas of Chandigarh framed||Chandigarh, September 4Backed by local MP Kirron Kher, the UT Administration has finally unveiled the draft order for opening of nursing homes in the residential areas and invited suggestions/objections, if any, within 30 days.For allowing use of residential buildings into nursing homes sites, the authorities have put several conditions in the policy. As per the policy, a nursing home shall be allowed to function from a residential building only with the permission of the Chief Administrator, UT. An application for permission shall be made by the allottee of the building.It also states that the maximum four nursing homes would be permitted in a sector. Initially, the number of sites in the city should not be more than 30, excluding the existing ones.According to the draft order, permission shall be granted only to those having a plot measuring not less than 500 sq yd located on V-4, V-5 or V-6 road in the sector and that such a use will not create any undue traffic or other problems in the locality.Eligibility for applying for fresh permission to set up nursing homes should be only to specialists such as MD, MS, MDS, BAMS, etc.The existing nursing homes wishing to expand would be allowed by the way of clubbing of plots under same ownership and having continuous zoning of the adjacent plots. Each such building should have a parking space for vehicles equal to the number of indoor beds plus two. If there are no indoor beds, there must be a parking space for at least five cars.The feasibility of nursing home, number of beds, requirement of parking needs and availability of parking space shall be determined by the Chief Administrator.The draft states that adequate arrangements for disposal of hospital waste must be made by the owner. No chemist shop shall be allowed on the site premises.Charges for the conversion of a residential plot into a nursing home will be decided in a due course of time.MP Kirron Kher had last year sent a proposal to the UT Administration to allow opening of nursing homes in residential areas. The Administration had, in 2005, discontinued the provision allowing new nursing homes in residential areas.Salient featuresChief Administrator to take final callFeasibility of the nursing home, number of beds, parking needs and availability of parking space to be determined by the Chief Administrator on the advice of a committee.Parking spaceEach building should have a parking space for vehicles equal to the number of indoor beds plus two. If there are no indoor beds there must be a parking space for at least five cars. The parking space shall be inside the building. In case of parking space outside the building, it shall be within 200 m from the plot. No parking will be allowed along roadside.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/draft-policy-on-nursing-homes-in-residential-areas-of-chandigarh-framed-306931
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees five cases of Covid||4 test +ve in MohaliMohali: Four new cases of Covid surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, no death was reported while seven patients got the better of the virus. — TNSNo new case in PanchkulaPanchkula: For the third consecutive day, the district saw no fresh Covid case, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,687. The toll too remained at 377. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-five-cases-of-covid-306930
05-09-2021||---||Panchkula vaccinates all eligible persons as per 2011 Census||Panchkula, September 4Panchkula has claimed to have crossed a major milestone of vaccinating 100 per cent of its eligible population with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to the data shared by the District Health Department.According to the estimates of the Health Department (based on 2011 Census), a total of 3,86,553 (above the age of 18) persons were eligible under the vaccination programme and 3,88,384 people have taken at least their first shot, which is 100.47 per cent of the target.In figuresAccording to the estimates of the Health Department (based on 2011 Census), a total of 3,86,553 (above the age of 18) persons were eligible under the vaccination programme and 3,88,384 people have taken at least their first shot, which is 100.47 per cent of the target.The district had exceeded its target due to migratory population from neighbouring states, said health officials.Nearly 44 per cent (1,69,845 people) of the targeted population have also taken the second shot.District Immunisation Officer Dr Meenu Sasan said they had administered a total of 5.58 lakh doses in the district so far, out of which 3.88 lakh were the first doses.“We are aiming to administer the maximum second doses now,” she said, urging people who have already taken their first dose to not skip their second dose.“As we brace for the third wave, everyone should be fully vaccinated,” she stated.When asked if estimated numbers could be unrealistic as they were based on 2011 census and the current population (in 18 plus category) would be much higher, Dr Sasan said numbers could vary, but they will ensure everyone received both doses.The district vaccination programme faced many hurdles since its inception for the general public on March 1, with the drive slowing down on several occasions due to the shortage. However, the district adopted measures to vaccinate all eligible by starting mega drives, special vaccination mobile vans in urban slums, dedicated camps for beggars and the homeless.On Saturday, as many as 4,801 people were vaccinated across 36 sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-vaccinates-all-eligible-persons-as-per-2011-census-306929
05-09-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid-19 vaccine: City Beautiful not on Centre’s list of 100% first dose coverage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 4The Centre has not yet acknowledged Chandigarh’s claim of vaccination of 100 per cent target population with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had recently released data pertaining to states with more than 85 per cent coverage of the 18-plus population with the first dose.As per the Centre’s data, states that have attained 100 per cent coverage of eligible population with the first dose include Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Himachal Pradesh. The states that have covered more than 85 per cent target population with the first dose include Tripura, Ladakh, Daman & Diu, Lakshadweep and Mizoram. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also hailed the efforts of the Himachal Pradesh Government in achieving the 100 per cent first dose target.Meanwhile, UT Adviser Dharam Pal said: “The Centre has not included Chandigarh among states and Union Territories that have achieved 100 per cent target for first dose. This is because the base population for the 18-plus group of Chandigarh is not correct with the Central Government. We have raised this issue again with the Centre.” Chandigarh had completed the 100 per cent target for the first dose on August 14. Till now, the Union Territory’s first dose coverage stands at 112.93 per cent, as it has vaccinated 94,333 people more than the 18-plus target population of 7,28,822.Fact file||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-vaccine-city-beautiful-not-on-centres-list-of-100-first-dose-coverage-306928
05-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Hospitality Department sacks ‘surplus’ outsourced staff||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 4In a major decision, all outsourced staff of the UT Hospitality Department working at other places not under the purview of the department have been removed with immediate effect.Sources said a day after joining as the Secretary, Hospitality, Yashpal Garg took a slew of measures to improve the functioning of the department. After reviewing the working of the department, the Secretary took certain decisions to boost the income of the department.According to the order issued by the Secretary, the outsourced staff working at the places outside the purview of the Hospitality Department to be disengaged with immediate effect and the outsourcing agency to be informed that wages of such persons will not be paid for the period after September 4, 2021. Further, staff on deputation and working at the places outside the purview of the department are to be repatriated to his/her parent department.To recover the pending bills, it was decided that the outstanding bills for stay and food etc against the officers/officials to be pursued and a copy be sent to them with a request to make payments within 15 days, otherwise interest to be levied at 12 per cent per annum and the amount will be deducted from their salary.In another major decision, it was ordered that bill outstanding against different departments of the UT Administration, Punjab and Haryana governments and other agencies to be pursued and in case of any outstanding amount for period prior to March 31, 2021, is not cleared within 30 days, then the department would not be able to provide further services to the particular department or organisation. Amount pending against various departments was in lakhs, said the sources.To check the use of facility by non-eligible persons, it was ordered that a statement of all private guests who had stayed at UT Guest House-1 during the month of August on the recommendation of different officers to be compiled in a week. Thereafter, a random verification will be carried out to confirm their bona fides and authenticity of the recommendation, stated the order.In a strict warning, it was also decided that exemplary action would be taken against the official concerned if he/she was found providing free service from either of the UT Guest Houses.To bring in efficiency, the smart attendance management system using face recognition has also been introduced in the UT State Guest House-1 and UT State Guest House-2. All officers/officials deputed at either of the UT Guest Houses will have to mark their attendance using the smart attendance system in the morning and evening from September 10. However, it was decided that the salary of the month would be released only for those officers/officials who have registered in the system.In case, due to some unavoidable reasons of a particular day, if an officer/official gets little late, then he/she shall compensate for the delay while leaving late in the evening on that particular day.If it is found that a person has left office after marking attendance without permission, then action would be taken.Other decisions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hospitality-department-sacks-surplus-outsourced-staff-306927
05-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cops use water cannons at SAD (Sanyukt) workers||Senior leaders and workers of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) led by former Finance Minister and MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa today gheraoed the residences of Punjab and Haryana Chief Ministers in Chandigarh.The party workers raised slogans against PM Narendra Modi, Capt Amarinder Singh and Manohar Lal Khattar over the recent lathicharge on farmers. The Chandigarh Police tried to stop the protesters from entering the residence of both Chief Ministers by setting up barricades and using water cannons, leaving many workers seriously injured, who had to then be rushed to a hospital.The party leaders even got engaged in a tussle with police officials in a bid to break the barricading, after which some leaders, including Dhindsa, were detained by the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-use-water-cannons-at-sad-sanyukt-workers-306729
05-09-2021||Mohali||Vigilance cop ‘linked’ to Sumedh Saini probe attacked in Mohali||The Balongi police have registered a case against unidentified persons over alleged assault on a constable posted in the FIO wing of the Punjab Vigilance Bureau’s headquarters in Mohali.The cop, Varun Kapoor, is part of the VB team probing the disproportionate assets case against former Punjab DGP Sumedh Saini, said sources. Kapoor suffered injuries in the attack that took place on the Landran Road on September 2 when he was returning home in a car after work.At Chappar Chiri, two suspects on a motorbike stopped him on the pretext of seeking directions. As he rolled down the window, the suspects allegedly pulled him out of the car and assaulted him with batons and rods. The assailants threatened him with dire consequences, said sources. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vigilance-cop-linked-to-sumedh-saini-probe-attacked-in-mohali-306739
