06-09-2021||---||Chandigarh reports one new Covid case||Chandigarh, August 30Chandigarh reported only one new Covid-19 case over the last 24 hours, a bulletin showed.The UT has 35 active Covid-19 cases, with an average positivity rate of 0.16 per cent in the last seven days, a health bulletin from the Chandigarh administration showed on Monday.Chandigarh’s fatality count stands at 814.  Chandigarh also reported six recoveries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-new-covid-case-307549
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man arrested with heroin in Chandigarh||Cyclothon held at Sukhna LakeChandigarh: Desh Bhagat Radio organised a Cyclothon to promote fitness among city residents at Sukhna Lake here on Sunday. Mayor Ravi Kant, along with Dr Sandeep Singh, Director, Desh Bhagat Radio, flagged off the rally. As many as 400 people took part in the event. Among others, Mahesh Inder Singh, Deputy Mayor, and Sanjay Kumar, Deputy General Manager, State Bank of India, also took part in the Cyclothon. TNSTennis meet begins todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) will organise CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis U-18 Tournament from September 6 to 8. As many as 50 players have signed in for the main draw events. Players from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh are taking part in the tournament. Main draw matches will be played at the CLTA Complex, Sector 10, on September 6. TNSSchool principal honouredChandigarh: Monica Chawla, Principal, St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, has been honoured with the CBSE Honour for Excellence in Teaching and School Leadership for the academic year 2020-21. She served as the district training coordinator, CBSE, COE, Chandigarh, and conducted 170 trainings sessions. TNSProperty fest organisedMohali: TDI organised “The Great Property Fest” at TDI Smart City, Mohali, to showcase an array of residential and commercial projects. Around 1,000 buyers and investors visited the event and showed interest in the 14 projects showcased. Projects shown at the event were Park Street, Sector 118, Mohali; South Ex-II, Sector 117, Mohali; Golf Link, Sector 118, Mohali; Golf Residency, Sector 118, Mohali; Wellington Heights, Sector 117, Mohali; Chitrakoot, Sector 92, Mohali; TDI Business Centre, Sector 118, Mohali; and Sapphire Floors, Sector 110, Mohali. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-heroin-in-chandigarh-307355
06-09-2021||---||Arush’s ton guides Terrace Zone to trophy||Chandigarh, September 5A brilliant ton by Arush Bhandari (156 runs) helped Terrace Zone to beat Rock Zone by 34 runs and win the first edition of the UTCA Domestic U-19 Cricket Tournament, today.Terrace Zone won all its five league matches in the tournament. Batting first, Terrace Zone scored 301 runs in the allotted 50 overs. Down to 49/3 in 12 overs, the side got a major boost as Bhandari posted 156 off 150 balls. Sohail Khan (49) was another notable scorer for the side. Paras clinched four wickets for the bowling side.In reply, Rock Zone posted 267 runs before getting all out in 47 overs.Efforts by Harmanpreet (105) and Paras (63) went in vain. Khan bagged four wickets for the bowling side. In another league match, Sukhna Zone beat Plaza Zone by 58 runs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arushs-ton-guides-terrace-zone-to-trophy-307354
06-09-2021||---||Golconda Masters: Manu lifts maiden trophy, Karandeep finishes runner-up||Chandigarh, September 5Gurugram’s Manu Gandas put up a stoic performance on the final day to lift his maiden professional trophy at the Golconda Masters Telangana Open 2021, at Hyderabad Golf Association (HGA) Course.Gandas (64-58-64-64), overnight leader by five shots, turned in a card of 2-under 64 featuring four birdies and two bogeys to end up with a tournament tally of 22-under 250. The 25-year-old Gandas collected a cheque worth Rs6,46,600 to move up from eighth to fourth in the PGTI Order of Merit. His total earnings for the season now read Rs24,12,350.Chandigarh’s Karandeep Singh Kochhar (67-64-63-59) shot the day’s best score of 7-under 59 to jump three spots and finish runner-up at 19-under 253. The 22-year-old Kochhar has now further extended his lead in the PGTI Order of Merit as his season’s earnings stand at Rs42,95,130.Kochhar’s flawless round, the lowest of the day, saw him make all greens in regulation. The two-time winner this season sank a 30-feet birdie on the 15th and landed his tee shot within two feet of the pin for a tap-in birdie on the 18th. “I’m proud of my effort as I didn’t get any practice in 10 days prior to this event because I was unwell. A runner-up finish in that context is special,” said Kochhar.Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa (67-63-61-63), 2019 winner, ended third at 18-under 254 following a final round score of 3-under 63. Bengaluru’s Khalin Joshi (61) and Noida’s Amardeep Malik (65) claimed tied fourth place at 16-under 256. Hyderabad’s professional Mohd Azhar finished tied 24th at 5-under 267. Milind Soni won the trophy for the best performance by an amateur as he ended tied 38th at 1-under 271. Tej Gangavarapu, other Hyderabad-based amateur to make the cut, closed the week in 51st place at 5-over 277.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golconda-masters-manu-lifts-maiden-trophy-karandeep-finishes-runner-up-307353
06-09-2021||---||JP Atray Tourney: Seven-wicket win for Ranstar Club||Chandigarh, September 5Ranstar Cricket Club logged a seven-wicket win over DDCA in the ongoing 26th All-India JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament for Trident Cup, today. DDCA skipper won the toss and opted to bat at IS Bindra PCA Stadium, Mohali.The side posted 196 runs before getting all out in 49 overs. Opener Sarthak Ranjan and Hiten Dalal were back to pavilion off Priyanshu Vijya Ram’s attack. Down to 1/2 in 1.5 overs, Vaibhav Khandpal and Khitij Sharma helped the side to recover by putting up a 102-run partnership for the third wicket. Sharma was caught by P Malik off left-arm spinner Harshik Kaushik for 38 off 73. Jonty Sidhu then joined Khandpal. However, he only added 19 runs before falling prey to Harshit Kaushik.Khandpal continued his innings and scored a brilliant 110 off 120 balls inclusive of nine boundaries and one six before being caught by substitute Sagar off Priyanshu Vijya Ram.DDCA innings folded soon after being bowled out for 196 in 49 overs. Ram (3/33), Harshit Kaushik (3/49) and Subodh Bhatti (2/22) were the main wicket takers for the bowling side.In reply, Ranstar Cricket Club chased the target by scoring 198/3 in 34.5 overs. Keshav Patel (76), Malik (66) and Chetnya Bishnoi (22) were the main scorers for the side. Tejas claimed two wickets for the bowling side.In another match, CAG Delhi recorded a six-wicket win over Delhi Capital Development Squad. Bating first, Delhi Capitals posted 273/7 in 50 overs. Openers Kedhar Devdhar and Rajesh Sharma added 65 runs for the first wicket before the latter was caught by Manoj Singh off Shourya for 26. Delhi Capitals then lost Dinesh Mor (9) and Prateek Mankad (4) to get reduced to 91/3 in 21.2 overs. Devhdhar was next to go after being caught by Manoj Singh off Pankaj Rao for 34.Thereafter, Upender Yadav and Maynak Rawat stitched a 133-run partnership for the fifth wicket. It was broken after Yadav was caught by Sahoura off Rao for a well-made 58 off 69. Rawat went to score a brisk 90 off 79 before being caught by Ankit Kaushik of Rao. Rao (3/57) remained the pick of the bowlers, while Karan Kaila claimed two wickets.In reply, CAG scored 275/4 in 49 overs with the help of a brilliant ton by Arpit Vasavada (106 off 116 balls inclusive of nine boundaries) and Ankit Kaushik’s unbeaten 82 off 90 balls studded with seven boundaries. Rahul Gehlot claimed two wickets for the bowling side.In the third match, RBI Mumbai defeated Chhattisgarh by 71 runs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jp-atray-tourney-seven-wicket-win-for-ranstar-club-307352
06-09-2021||---||Youth arrested with three pistols, bulletproof jacket||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, September 5The police arrested a youth and recovered three pistols, 11 live rounds and a bulletproof jacket from him on the night of September 2 near here.The suspect has been identified as Vikram, alias Bunty, a resident of Ambala Cantonment. A case under the Arms Act was registered against him at the Dera Bassi police station on September 3.The police said the suspect was arrested during a checking while he was coming from the Ambala side and going towards Zirakpur in an SUV. He was produced in a court, which sent him to three-day police custody.The police said further investigations might lead to important disclosures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-arrested-with-three-pistols-bulletproof-jacket-307351
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Social worker, others join AAP||Ramchandra Yadav, a social worker from Dhanas, along with his colleagues joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) at Dhanas (EWS flats) here today.Speaking on the occasion, Ramchandra said: “Earlier, I used to work for the betterment of people through NGOs, but did not go to any political party. The way AAP is working for public interest in Delhi and contributing to the lives of every section of society, I have decided to join the party with my entire team.”Chandigarh co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra, Chandigarh state president Prem Garg and election campaign committee in-charge Chandramukhi Sharma formally inducted all these persons in the party.AAP’s senior leader Vikram Singh Pundir welcomed Ramchandra and his entire team and called for getting rid of the BJP and the Congress in the coming Municipal elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-social-worker-others-join-aap-307350
06-09-2021||Open house||Make sure contractors comply with all terms of contract||Development only on paperSmart facilities are for the comfort of the people. The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) and its contractors have no vision to give better facilities to residents. The MC should first ensure cleanliness, polite behavior of its staff and separate parking for senior citizens. Chandigarh has its own identity. From the past few years, the City Beautiful has seen development only on papers to get points from the Central government.Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhRemove unauthorised vendorsPaid parking at many markets can ensure optimal use of space. Two and four-wheeler parking has to be separated and strictly imposed. The MC should remove unathorised vendors occupying parking space. Only one way entry and exit should be allowed in all parking lots. There will be adequate parking space if the MC takes such steps. Owners' parking their vehicles outside marked spaces should be challaned. Also, the MC can reduce paid parking lots in the city. The civic body can start a dedicated helpline to address parking-related grievances of residents in the city.Col PS Gill (retd), ChandigarhQUESTIONLaunched after much delay, the public bike sharing project in Chandigarh has been taken for a ride by troublemakers, who have vandalised bicycles. What needs to be done to check such incidents and make the project successful in the UT?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comMC should conduct regular inspectionChandigarh Municipal Corporation does nothing practical. There is a wide gap between precept and practice. All terms and conditions should be clear to contractor concerned before giving him contract for managing parking lots. Strict action should be taken if the contractor does not fulfil conditions. The civic body should inspect parking lots at regular intervals to ensure smart facilities for residents.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliOnly tall claims, nothing on groundDespite loud claims about introduction of smart facilities at select places in the UT, there has been no significant change in parking lots. Vehicles are parked haphazardly at non-designated places with no attendants to guide or help hassled public in most parking spaces. Parking lots are not maintained properly as heaps of garbage are lying here and there. No e-slips are issued at some parking lots to vehicle owners. The authorities need to regulate and ensure that all norms relating to smart parking like provision of attendants to guide vehicle owners, ensure proper parking and cleanliness are complied with. The MC should initiate action against contractors violating norms and guidelines agreed upon at the time of the allocation of the contract.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaUse small cars in crowded placesDespite many hassles, vehicle owners are paying increased parking charges for the so-called smart facilities, which are just not there. Shortage of space for parking vehicles has added to commuters' woes. Owners are often asked to leave their vehicles in neutral mode to ensure manoeuvrability. The MC must focus on creating more space by constructing multi-level parking in a phased manner in order to accommodate more vehicles. Till then, owners can do well in their own interest by using smaller cars when headed for crowded places in the City Beautiful.SC LUTHRA, ChandigarhCivic body should manage parkingIt would be certainly better if the MC allots parking lots to contractors, who have good credentials. Otherwise, the MC can manage parking lots by itself and ensure continuous smart amenities for the public. Quite often it is observed that contractors leave before the term of their contract ends. So, the civic body can handle parking lots and provide smart facilities to commuters.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhTake contract amount in advanceCivil body's efforts for smart parking lots have failed because of vested interests. Most elected representatives are shopkeepers or businessmen, who don't want to paid parking in city markets. The MC should allot only one parking lot to a contractor in a sector. Contract amount can be taken in advance or through bank guarantees. In case of any default, parking lot should be allotted to other contractor. Parking lots management should never be given to shopkeepers. Maximum vehicles in parking lots belong to shopkeepers. They don't want to pay for 24 hours parking.Ashok Kumar Goel, PanchkulaCan’t run away from responsibilitiesThe Chandigarh Municipal Corporation must take a stern action against all defaulting contractors and immediately blacklist those, who do not comply with orders. The Covid-19 pandemic has come as a blessing in disguise for all such people, who will make lame excuses to save their skin. The MC must not listen to such contractors and make them provide smart features to the public in parking lots. They all are bound by contracts. Therefore, they can't run away from their responsibilities.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurNo supervision of any projectThe fact is that the MC has failed in all projects. Its aim is to collect money from city residents. There is no supervision in any project. The contractors don't sufficient staff to manage parking lots. There are only two persons, one for collecting money at the entry and other to collect slips from vehicle owners at parking lot exit. Nobody is there to check how people park their vehicles. We all are irresponsible persons. So, people park their vehicles according to their own convenience. Parking lots are not clean as garbage is strewn here and there.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhAn app can save timeWhile giving contract to an agency/individual smart features at parking lots are not taken into consideration by the civic body. A vehicle owner should be able to know through an app whether free parking is available or not at a particular place/market. There should be a provision for paying online parking fee like fast tag to avoid chaos and save time. The app should assign available parking lot number and direct vehicle owners towards it.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliEarn revenue through other meansBusinessmen in the UT have suffered economically and mentally due to increase in online shopping trend and Covid-19 pandemic. Frequent lockdown and curfew have added to their woes. The Municipal Corporation should provide free parking to boost trade in the UT. Also, the MC should make efforts to earn revenue through other means like digital advertisement.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliSingle Company can manage parkingSmart parking system can be managed by a single company in Chandigarh. There should be provision for online parking fee payment to curtail rush at the entry. No slips should be issued to vehicle owners at parking lots. Automatic boom barriers can be installed at parking lots to ease the flow of traffic. Besides, parking charges should not be hiked.Anita Tandon, KhararStop issuing parking slipsThe Municipal Corporation can take help of architects to design the smart parking in the city. Contractors have just installed smart boards at parking entrance. Rest, everybody knows how four or two-wheelers are parked inside. The corporation should stop the practice of issuing slips as not all paid parking staff is equipped with e-ticketing machines. Officials from the corporation should inspect parking lots at regular intervals to ensure that vehicle owner get smart facilities.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhRs5 for two-wheelers, Rs10 for carsParking charges for two and four-wheelers should not be more than Rs5 and Rs10, respectively. City residents often feel that they avail parking facilities at higher rates. Besides, parking charges should always be in the denomination of Rs5. It'll save time of vehicle owners and prevent chaos at the entrance of parking lots.Kuldeep Singh, ChandigarhDeploy only trained staff at parking lotsSmart facilities are not provided at parking lots due to lack of supervision and regular checks by the Municipal Corporation. Parking facilities must be streamlined in the UT. The civic body must ensure that contractor provides all facilities to the public as mentioned in the contract. Owners' park vehicles at their own will as the contractor's staff does not assist them. Only trained and fully equipped staff should be deployed at parking lots.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliPeriodical inspection by civic body a mustBefore opening parking lots for the public, the Municipal Corporation must ensure that all smart features are provided by contractors. The MC must conduct periodical inspection of parking lots in the UT. Contractors should be penalised if they breach contract.AK Jindal, PatialaEasy to draw plan, tough to implement itIt is easy for officials to draw up a plan in the cool comforts of their rooms, pass on the job to a contractor by allocating contract, claim they are earning hefty revenues, but forget implementation of contractual terms by both parties. It's not the first parking contract, wherein conditions have breached. In the past, all such parking contracts were breached with immunity. Most contractors left the job midway. All officials did nothing except hiking parking fee. The new Chandigarh Adviser has warned the MC about the loot. The MC can at least ensure that until all smart parking facilities are available as per the contract, old rates are charged from vehicle owners.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhDon’t depend on contractorsAs the City Beautiful has highest density of vehicles per household, it becomes essential for the Municipal Corporation to facilitate residents with smooth and effective transportation system. The MC should not totally depend upon contractors. The civic body should give contract only to manage parking spaces and keep a constant watch on their maintenance and smart facilities available at the spot. Appropriate action should be taken in case contractors fail to comply with directions.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliEmphasis on capability, not commissionDespite hiking parking charges no smart facilities are provided to vehicle owners not even mandatory security in the UT. Most staff of the contractor concerned is rude and careless. The public has to endure their 'dadagiri' as there are no longer any free parking lots. While awarding contracts, all that matters to the authority concerned is connections or commission and not contractor's capability to handle the job. The Municipal Corporation must keep strict vigil not only while giving contracts, but afterwards too so that the public is not fleeced and contractors provide smart facilities.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhAttendant at every 50 metresOne has to make frequent rounds of a 'smart' parking lot in Chandigarh to find a space for parking. For, you enter the parking lot only to pay, but not to be facilitated to find a parking space. No one comes to help despite the fact that a parking attendant has to be there at every 50 metres to guide and help you park your car. Haphazard parking is another problem. In a smart facility, people should book their parking space using the app and pay for it online. Ever since people have been asked to pay Rs12 and Rs6 for four and two-wheeler, respectively, there have been hassles. People have to search for Rs2 and Rs1 change. This creates traffic snarls at the entry point.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliAttendants must wear uniformThis issue is a long-pending issue. Not even one of the 89 paid parking in the city has smart facilities. Haphazard parking is another issue. Contractor concerned should ensure two and four wheelers are parked at designated spots in parking lots. Attendants should wear uniform and help owners park their vehicles in lots.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaTighten noose on contractorsThe piecemeal measures adopted by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) have ended up in a fiasco as smart features were not provided at parking lots by contractors. The MC needs to tighten the noose around defaulting contractors in order to provide smart facilities to people at parking lots. There should be zero tolerance towards contractors defaulting wilfully on providing facilities. Strictest punishment should be awarded to erring contractors, who throw norms to the wind.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhAward contract at low ratesThe Municipal Corporation should give contract of parking lots at low rate. It will enable contractors recover investment. Subsidised passes can be provided for multiple parking to residents. Contractor should hire trained staff for better management of parking lots.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhTraffic flow can be streamlinedThe authorities should provide smart facilities at all parking lots of the UT. This will make Chandigarh a smart city and end long queues of vehicles whose owners wait to buy parking ticket at the entry of parking lots. It will streamline the flow of traffic. Besides, the problem of overcharging by contractors will be taken care of.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhPrepare a roadmap for smart facilitiesThe Municipal Corporation should first prepare a roadmap for providing smart parking facilities in the UT. Afterwards, paid parking lots can be converted into smart parking facilities with the help of expert contractors. Smart parking includes use of sensors, street lights, navigation systems and online payment platforms to relay information to drivers and attendants.Adish Sood, Amlohsector-wise parking charge for mc officialsContractors should be given a time-bound target to provide smart features in parking lots. If any contractor fails to achieve target he should be fined and his contract cancelled. The terms of the contract should be easy and workable. Parking lot infrastructure should be provided by the MC and its maintenance undertaken by contractor. Civic body officials should be given charge of specific parking lots in the city.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, CHANDIGARHChallan for wrong parkingParking space is woefully short as per the present requirements of the city. The problem gets aggravated as people park vehicles haphazardly, which creates problems for commuters and leads to traffic congestion. Combined efforts by the authorities and the public can minimise parking problems. Residents can click pictures of vehicles parked at non-designated spots and send these to authorities concerned, which can issue challans to owners. Smart parking is feasible if people don't mind shelling out more. But, parking charges should not be exorbitant.Charu Malhotra, Mohalipro-people solution need of the hourThe MC has already abdicated its responsibility. Every work is assigned to contractors and akin to this are parking lots. The MC needs to come up with some long term solution having pro-people vision to provide smart facilities. Now, for burdening residents, the parking rate has been enhanced from Rs5 to Rs6 for two-wheelers and from Rs10 to Rs12 for four-wheelers. The parking lots should be maintained by the MC itself. This would certainly enhance the income of the cash-starved MC and create more employment avenues. Besides, this will reduce traffic congestion.SK Khosla, ChandigarhSituation grim on weekendLack of parking space in the city creates unnecessary mental agony for residents. The situation is much grimmer on the weekends when families are out for shopping and dining. There are hardly any extra parking slots in sector markets. Sometimes parking attendants are at the receiving end when people hurl abuses at them. So, the city needs smart parking lots. Lot of fuel and time is wasted while searching for parking. The UT Administration should go ahead with smart parking apps that send data about free and occupied parking places on the web/mobile. The main idea is to use Internet, artificial intelligence (AI) and ultrasonic sensors to display available parking places in the city on the web/mobile app for residents.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/make-sure-contractors-comply-with-all-terms-of-contract-307349
06-09-2021||---||Morni man booked for negligent driving||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 5The police have booked a Morni resident, Ashok Kumar, on the charge of negligent driving that led to an accident killing three members of a family in a road accident in Barwala on Saturday evening.A 35-year-old man and his two children, aged three and six, died, while his wife suffered injuries after two motorcycles collided near the Air Force Station.The police said they were yet to arrest the suspect. He (the suspect) also suffered injuries in the mishap and was undergoing treatment at the hospital.The deceased were identified as Sunil, his son Navneet and daughter Rishu. Sunil’s wife Neeraj (32) received serious injuries in her right leg.Neeraj, in her statement to the police, said the incident took place when they were returning to their accommodation at a brick-kiln in Dera Bassi where they used to work.They had gone to Barwala to purchase medicine for their children, she told the police. A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304-A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by rash or negligible act endangering human life) and Section 184 and 185 of the Motor Vehicle Act at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/morni-man-booked-for-negligent-driving-307348
06-09-2021||---||Camp for scouts, guides concludes at government school||Chandigarh, September 5A three-day Parvesh and Pratham Sopan programme was organised by Government Model High School (GMHS), Mauli Colony, under the guidance of the local unit of Bharat Scout and Guides from September 2.Scouts and guides learnt various activities during the camp, including first aid and caring for the injured person till medical care was available. Scouts and guides also learnt poster making and dance on the occasion. They were also awarded ranks on the basis their performance in activities conducted at the camp.On day two, state official from the Association of Bharat Scouts and Guides, Chandigarh, Hari Pal Yadav, along with senior scout master and head of the school, unfurled the flag.Yadav apprised participants about history of the scout and guide programme in India.The valedictory function included flag-lowering ceremony and feedback from scouts and guides about the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/camp-for-scouts-guides-concludes-at-government-school-307347
06-09-2021||---||PUTA members stage protest||Chandigarh, September 5Five representatives of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA), including Dr Mritunjay Kumar, Prof Amarjit Singh Naura, Prof Supinder Kaur, Dr Nitin Arora and Indu Dhawan, sat on fast during a protest here today.The PUTA members were protesting against the Punjab Government for the implementation of the Seventh UGC Pay Scales and withdrawal of orders for delinking the UGC pay scales.Prof JK Goswamy, former secretary, PUTA, lauded the efforts of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers' Organisation (PFUCTO) leadership for their decision to intensify the protest against Punjab Government’s decision.Prof Goswamy also exuberated confidence in a successful outcome of this struggle, stated a press release. All constituents of PFUCTO would participate in the chain fast at the same venue on a rotation basis, the press release added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-members-stage-protest-307346
06-09-2021||---||MCM, Chandigarh, celebrates Teacher’s Day||Chandigarh, September 5Celebrating the inimitable contribution of teachers to nation building, the Character Building Committee of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, celebrated Teacher’s Day with ‘Ehsaas’, an event to honour teachers’ spirit to nurture and devotion towards their profession.The event included showcase of gratitude and release of a celebratory video.Students showcased their gratitude and respect for their teachers by making articles/cards that were displayed during celebrations.Meanwhile, teachers were also honoured at the Sector 33 BJP office for their contribution to the teaching profession here on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mcm-chandigarh-celebrates-teachers-day-307345
06-09-2021||---||Baltana residents block railway track, say expedite underpass project||Zirakpur, September 5A group of people staged a protest against the Chandigarh Administration and the railway authorities for delaying the construction of an underpass near Harmilap Nagar, Raipur Kalan, at railway gate number 123 on the Chandigarh-Ambala track here today.The protesters, led by Pratap Singh Rana, president of a joint action committee for the welfare of Baltana residents, were demanding an early construction of an underpass at the crossing so as to end harassment to commuters as well as area residents. The protesters laid down on the track, delaying the Kalka-Delhi Janshatabdi for over 10 minutes. Police force reached the spot and removed the protesters from the track.Zirakpur Municipal Council president Udayvir Singh Dhillon too reached there and sought an early resolution of the matter.‘Daily hassle for commuters’Office-goers, schoolchildren and ambulances have to wait at the level crossing for a long time in the morning and evening hours. There are close to 36 housing societies here, residents of which are directly hit. — Raj Kumar Sharma, a resident of Harmilap NagarProtesters said as long as senior railways officials do not come to the site and resolve the long-pending issue, their protest would continue indefinitely on the road.Rana said the protest was carried out against the UT Administration and railway officials after they promised that the construction of the underpass would begin in three months. “After our protest, the Ambala DRM met us at the railway station today and assured us that the construction work will begin in six months,” Rana said.As the railway crossing falls in the Chandigarh area having a boundary with Baltana, the construction work of an underpass at the railway gate involves clearances from various departments, including railways, the UT Administration and the Punjab government, leading to the delay. Several interstate meeting have been held during the past six years in this regard but failed to bring any fruitful result.“Office goers, schoolchildren and ambulances going to and fro Panchkula, Chandigarh and Baltana have to wait at the crossing for a long time in the morning and evening. There are close to 36 housing societies here, residents of which are directly hit,” said Raj Kumar Sharma, a resident of Harmilap Nagar.The Mauli Jagran police, the Zirakpur police, the Government Railway Police and the Railway Protection Force personnel were present at the spot, said a cop on duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/baltana-residents-block-railway-track-say-expedite-underpass-project-307344
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 2 new cases of Covid-19||The city on Sunday reported two cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. A total of five patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNSSix test positive in Mohali districtMohali: Six new cases of Covid-19 have been reported during the past 24 hours here, taking the case tally to 68,634. No death was reported from the district till Sunday evening. Four patients were cured of the disease. — TNSPanchkula logs one casePanchkula: The district on Sunday reported just one fresh coronavirus case after a gap of three days, taking the case tally to 30,688. While 30,302 patients have been cured so far, nine cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-2-new-cases-of-covid-19-307343
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||MC starts pruning overgrown trees in Chandigarh||The Municipal Corporation has started pruning trees covering street lights. The move follows the August 30 Chandigarh Tribune report, ‘City roads go dark as overgrown trees envelop street lights’.Branches of trees cover the lights leaving roads in darkness. Overgrown trees were pruned in Sector 32 and 33 today.“It was a long pending issue and residents were inconvenienced due to it. Non-illuminated roads facilitated snatchings and petty crimes,” said Jagdeep Mahajan, president of the Sector 32 and 33 welfare society.Though the city roads are covered by LED light points, some roads remained dark after dusk as overgrown trees covered the light points. There are several such spots in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-starts-pruning-overgrown-trees-in-chandigarh-307342
06-09-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh goes slow on vaccination after 100% first dose coverage||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 5The pace of vaccination has slowed down in the UT in the past few weeks after it achieved 100 per cent target of administering first dose of Covid-19 to eligible beneficiaries, a weekly trend analysis on the CoWin portal revealed.As a majority of residents in the City Beautiful have been jabbed with the first dose, the focus has now shifted to administering them the second dose. The gap between the first and second dose is a minimum of 84 days.From August 14 to August 20, a maximum of 72,741 vaccine doses were administered in the UT. The weekly doses have dwindled since then, as 51,732 doses were administered from August 21 to August 27. Similarly, a total of 52,101 doses were given from August 28 to September 3.At present, the seven-day average of vaccination in the city is 7,605 doses. As many as 5,096 doses were administered on Sunday.So far, around 45 per cent of the UT population has been fully immunised. The first dose coverage of the Covid-19 vaccine stands at 113.35 per cent. “A total of 95,000 doses have been received for September. We have enough doses to vaccinate our residents,” said Manjit Singh, Immunization Officer of the UT Health Department.Night camps for inoculating beggarsThe UT Health Department is organising night camps to vaccinate the vulnerable section. We have also vaccinated many beggars even though they didn’t have Aadhaar cards. We will intensify the drive to vaccinate those who have been left out. — Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-goes-slow-on-vaccination-after-100-first-dose-coverage-307341
06-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Modern cargo complex to come up at Chandigarh international airport||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 5Industrialists have a reason to cheer as an integrated cargo complex is coming up at the Chandigarh international airport here which would handle domestic as well as international cargo, including perishable items. It is likely to become functional in November.The cargo complex would have five sheds with a covered area of about 2,500 sq m for storing perishable and non-perishable items. The Chandigarh international airport would become the second airport in North India after Delhi to have 2,500-metric tonne cargo facility.Ajay Bhardwaj, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh International Airport Ltd., said a total of five sheds had been constructed and of these, one pre-fabricated shed with a capacity of 450 sq m would be for perishable items. He said the cargo complex would be equipped with the latest facilities, including a cold room, reefer van, fork lifts, scissors lift, pallets, user-friendly weighing scales, for smooth functioning. The cargo would also be equipped with high-security equipment such as CCTV cameras and X-ray machines.Ajay Bhardwaj said the total cost of the project was Rs11.5 crore. Civil work had been completed. The paved area is about 7,500 sq m while the green area would be about 4,500 sq m. The airport is at present handling predominantly belly cargo in the domestic sector only, he added.Various airlines, including Air India, Indigo, Vistara and Go Air, are doing self-handling of cargo. Only domestic facility for common screening is available and other functions are done by the airlines themselves.Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industries Association, said this would boost the industrial growth in the region. Earlier, the industrialists had to transport their goods to Delhi and Mumbai airports for sending these abroad. But with the cargo facility coming up at the local airport, not only the industries of Mohali but also Dera Bassi, Ludhiana and Jalandhar would benefit.‘Will boost industrial growth in the region’Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industries Association, said this would boost the industrial growth in the region. Earlier, the industrialists had to transport their goods to Delhi and Mumbai airports for sending these abroad. But with the cargo facility coming up at the local airport, not only the industries of Mohali but also of Dera Bassi, Ludhiana and Jalandhar would benefit.Salient features of the projectCargo capacity: 2,500 metric tonneProject cost: Rs11.5 crorePaved area: 7,500 sq mGreen area: 4,500 sq m||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/modern-cargo-complex-to-come-up-at-chandigarh-international-airport-307340
06-09-2021||Chandigarh||SC Collegium recommends 4 names for elevation as Punjab and Haryana HC judges||More than a year after the names of five advocates were forwarded by the Punjab and Haryana High collegium for elevation as Judges, the Supreme Court Collegium has recommended four names. Once appointed, the number of high court judges will go up to 49 against the sanctioned strength of 85, provided the process is completed before the retirement of sitting Judges.Collegium recommends 82 more names for appointment as HC judgesAvailable information suggests the names of advocates Vikas Suri, Vinod Sharma Bhardwaj, Pankaj Jain, and Jasjit Singh Bedi were cleared by the Supreme Court collegium in its meeting held on September 1. The names were finalised and forwarded by the high court collegium in August last year. These were further forwarded by the Centre to the Supreme Court as late as April this year.The process of appointing judges is lengthy and time-consuming. Once cleared by the states and the governors, the file containing the names with intelligence bureau reports is placed before the Supreme Court when it meets. The names cleared for elevation are then sent to union law ministry before their warrants of appointment are signed by the President. The process can take several months, if not taken up on a priority basis. Already seven judges have retired this year and another Judge is scheduled to retire in December. Another five Judges are retiring next year.The problem of plenty continues to be a matter of concern for the high court. National Judicial Data Grid — the monitoring tool to identify, manage, and reduce pendency of cases — indicates the pendency of 4,51,237 cases in the high court. Out of the total pendency cases in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, 1,68,028 are criminal matters, predominantly involving life and liberty.Otherwise, 77,282 or 17.13 per cent of the total pending cases are up to a year old; 1,14,694 or 25.42 per cent are pending between one and three years; 86130 or 19.09 per cent are pending between 10 and 20 years, and 9905 or 2.2 per cases are awaiting adjudication for last 20 to 30 years.To make the matters worse, the high court is expected to witness an unmanageable flood of litigation once it reopens for normal “physical” operations.  Available information suggests a substantial number of cases, filed but yet to be numbered, are lying in the high court registry to be taken up upon the resumption of physical hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sc-collegium-recommends-4-names-for-elevation-as-punjab-and-haryana-hc-judges-306701
