07-09-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Retired Chandigarh cop kills wife by banging her head on floor||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 7 A retired Sub Inspector of Chandigarh Police on Tuesday allegedly killed his 60-year-old wife by banging her head on floor repeatedly in their Phase-XI house here.Suspect Kartar Singh, 65, locked the room from inside but was arrested from near the body of his wife two hours later. The deceased has been identified as Kuldeep Kaur.Eyewitnesses said suspect Kartar was grieving on the blood-splattered floor near the body when police broke open the door. A case of murder has been registered against him.In 2017, Kartar had shot at his brother-in-law who owned an eatery in Sohana. He had come out on parole recently. Sources said the suspect allegedly used to threaten his brother and wife often.Sources said the duo was feuding over a court case in which the deceased’s wife was a witness. The couple had been arguing since morning after their youngest son, employed in Mohali SSP’s office, left for work. When neighbours heard the commotion from the house, they informed the son to come and calm down the matter. He sent an acquaintance to inquire into the matter who later told him about the incident. The couple’s eldest son is presently in Australia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/retired-chandigarh-cop-kills-wife-by-banging-her-head-on-floor-307947
07-09-2021||Mohali||Roots-AITA Championship: Sahej beats Rabian, marches ahead||On the opening day of the Roots-AITA CS (7) National Ranking Championship, Sahej Kaur defeated Rabian Dullet 6-0, 6-1 to march ahead in the girls’ U-18 category. Jasmine Kaur defeated Palak Malvia 6-4, 7-5, while Paavni Panwar ousted Agam Parmar 7-5, 6-1. Vanshika Yadav also moved ahead by defeating Ananya Sharma 6-2 6-3 and Sanmitha Harin outplayed Anusha Johhkar 6-0 6-3.Janhavi Chougule also logged an easy 6-0, 6-0 win over Shivika Sharma and Sejal Rana defeated Sara Rajesh Rebecca 6-3, 7-6(7).In boys’ U-12 category, Heet Kandoriya defeated Jay Ravindra 6-4, 6-4 and Sarthak Jaglan sweat hard before defeating Harsh Marwaha 6-4, 4-6(10-4). Kirtarth Singh defeated Hridiyansh Upadhyay 6-1, 6-1 and Himanish Brinda defeated Harman Singh 6-0, 6-0. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roots-aita-championship-sahej-beats-rabian-marches-ahead-307698
07-09-2021||---||Top seeds sail into tennis quarterfinals||Chandigarh, September 6Top seed Navya Verma from Punjab sailed into boys’ U-18 quarterfinals on the opening day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament.In the pre-quarterfinal, Verma defeated local contender Keshav Dangi 8-1. Second seed Haryana’s Aditya Chauhan ousted Anirudh Sangra 8-5, third seed Lakshya Gupta defeated Arpit Garg of Punjab 8-5 and fourth seed Haryana’s Upnishad Bhardwaj outplayed Aryan Jolly 8-1. Arnav Bishnoi also marched ahead by defeating Punjab’s Shantanu Nagrath 8-3, Suryansh Nagar ousted Pravar Sgarna 8-0, Yashashvi Balhara outplayed Agnivesh Bhardwaj 8-7(5) and Sankalp Satyan Nair defeated Tarun Sharma 8-2 in other pre-quarterfinal matches.In the girls’ U-18 pre-quarterfinals, top seed Riya Kaushik managed to defeat Sanvi Garg 8-6, while Rahika Vasudeva outplayed Radha Sadhra 8-3. Anahat Pannu also moved ahead in the quarters by defeating sixth seed Ananya Dogra 8-3. Fourth seeded Anusha Verma defeated Mankirat Kaur 8-2, Khushleen Kaur outplayed Pratishtha Sharma 8-3, Milli Pandit of Chandigarh overpowered Angelina Singh 8-2, Vanya Arora ousted Mehakpreet Kaur 8-0 and Gursimrat Kaur outplayed Agrima Gandhi 8-6 in other matches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seeds-sail-into-tennis-quarterfinals-307699
07-09-2021||---||JP Atray Tourney: UTCA get the better of Baroda||Chandigarh, September 6The Union Territory Cricket Association, Chandigarh, got the better of Baroda Cricket Association by seven wickets in the ongoing 26th All-India JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament for Trident Cup, today.After winning the toss, Baroda skipper opted to bat. The side posted 217 runs before getting all out in 48.5 overs. Parth Kohli (77 off 87 balls, including four boundaries and five sixes) was the main contributor in the total. He was supported by Prikshit Pattidar (31 off 44 balls, with two boundaries). Arpit Singh (3/48) was the pick of the bowlers, while Bhagmender Singh and Jagjit Singh Sandhu took two wickets each for the bowling side.In reply, the local outfit posted 221/3 in 45.3 overs. Taranpreet Singh (72 off 93 balls, seven boundaries and two sixes), Amit Lubhana (57 off 72 balls, two boundaries and two sixes), Arjit Singh (39 off 53 balls, one boundary and two sixes) and Kunal Mahajan (32 off 37 balls, five boundaries) ensured the team’s win. Mohit Mongia (2/42) was the most successful wicket taker for the bowling side.In another match, Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) garnered four points by registering a 181-run win over Bihar XI. After winning the toss, Bihar put HPCA to bat. HPCA lads posted 304/7 wickets in 50 overs.Digvijay Rangi (66 off 86, four boundaries and two sixes), Ekant Sen (40 off 56 balls, five boundaries) and Akash Vashisht (42 off 30 balls, four boundaries and two sixes) contributed a major share in the team’s total. Sasheem Rathour claimed three wickets for the bowling side, while Mangal Mahrour took two.In reply, Bihar XI was bundled out for 123 runs in 35.5 overs. Sasheem Rathour (27) and Mangal Mahrour (24) were the main contributors in the chase. Left-arm spinner Akash Vashisht claimed a five-wicket haul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jp-atray-tourney-utca-get-the-better-of-baroda-307700
07-09-2021||Chandigarh||Property Grab Case: Chandigarh court denies anticipatory bail||A local court has rejected the anticipatory bail application of Shekhar, one of the accused in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37, Chandigarh. Shekhar’s name is included in the FIR registered in this case on March 2. In the bail application filed through advocate Arun Vohra, Shekhar claimed that he was innocent and had nothing to do with the case. However, the public prosecutor strongly opposed the bail.After hearing the arguments, the court rejected the anticipatory bail application of the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-chandigarh-court-denies-anticipatory-bail-307701
07-09-2021||Mohali||Licence of 2 seed stores suspended in Mohali||To ensure supply of quality agrochemicals and seeds to farmers, the chief agriculture officer has suspended the licence of two seed stores of the district under Section 7 of the Seed Act 1966.Disclosing this here today in a review meeting, Assistant Deputy Commissioner (G) Komal Mittal said the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare was conducting regular checking of pesticide, fertiliser and seed stores throughout the district to ensure quality agrochemicals and seeds supply to farmers.During the drive, irregularities were found at M/s Thuha Pesticides and Seed Store, Zirakpur, and Rohit Fertilisers, Kurali. The department had already suspended the licence of these firms and further action had also been initiated.Pointing out that quality seeds were helping in increasing the productivity of crops, she emphasised that no spurious agrochemical or seed would be allowed to be sold in the district.Assistant Deputy Commissioner (D) Dr Himanshu Aggarwal, Assistant Commissioner (G) Tarsem Chand, SDM Kharar Aakash Bansal, SDM Mohali Harbans Singh, SDM Dera Bassi Kuldeep Bawa and Chief Agriculture Officer Rajesh Kumar Raheja were among those present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/licence-of-2-seed-stores-suspended-in-mohali-307702
07-09-2021||---||Bribery case: CBI nabs two Postal Department engineers in Ambala||Ambala, September 6The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested two engineers of the Postal Department in a case of bribery.As per the release issued by the CBI, a case was registered on a complaint against the Assistant Engineer (Civil), Postal Civil Sub-Division, Ambala Cantonment. The complainant, a contractor, alleged that he had completed the work of the post office, MDG Building, in Kaithal and the post office building, Gulha, Kaithal. He met the Assistant Engineer (Civil), Postal Civil Sub-Division, Ambala, in his office and requested him to release the remaining payment amounting to Rs94,000. The accused allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs10,000 in lieu of releasing the remaining payment to the complainant.The CBI laid a trap and caught the accused while demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs10,000.During further enquiry, it was also revealed that the bribe was to be shared with the Executive Engineer. Subsequently, he was also apprehended. Searches were conducted on the premises of the accused in Ambala and Delhi, which led to the recovery of incriminating documents.The accused were produced before a court in Panchkula, which remanded them to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bribery-case-cbi-nabs-two-postal-department-engineers-in-ambala-307703
07-09-2021||---||Zirakpur: Day after protest on railway tracks, Railway Protection Force books leader, 35 others||Zirakpur, September 6A day after a protest demonstration at Harmilap Nagar, Raipur Kalan, on the Chandigarh-Ambala track, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) today booked Pratap Singh Rana and 35 unidentified persons for obstructing running of train and entering the Railways premises with mala fide intention to destroy the property.The protesters, led by Rana, president of a joint action committee for the welfare of Baltana residents, were protesting against the UT Administration and railway officials, demanding early construction of an underpass at the crossing so as to end harassment to commuters as well as area residents. The protesters laid down on the track, delaying the Kalka-Delhi Janshatabdi for close to 10 minutes. Police force reached the spot and removed the protesters from the track.RPF inspector Amarinderjit Singh said, “A case was registered against Pratap Singh Rana and 35 other unidentified persons under Sections 147 and 174-A of the Railways Act at the Chandigarh railway police station on September 5. The investigation in the case is going on and more persons are likely to be named in the case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-day-after-protest-on-railway-tracks-railway-protection-force-books-leader-35-others-307704
07-09-2021||---||Provide suitable place for langar: Chandigarh Administration to PGI||Chandigarh, September 6The UT Administration has asked the PGI to provide a suitable place for serving free food to attendants of poor patients on its premises.During a surprise visit to the area today, UT Adviser Dharam Pal noticed that langar was being served to poor patients and their attendants by the roadside outside the PGI.To avoid rush of people and distribution of free food by various organisations on the footpath, he said they had asked the PGI authorities to provide a suitable place for the distribution of langar on the campus where vans carrying food could also be parked.Earlier, the hospital authorities had turned down a proposal of NGOs to serve food to attendants of poor patients inside the premises.UT Finance Secretary Vijay Namdeorao Zade, Municipal Commissioner Anindita Mitra and Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar accompanied the Adviser during his surprise visit.Slow smart meter work irks Dharam PalUT Adviser Dharam Pal expressed displeasure over the slow pace of installation of smart electricity meters in the city. Even after nearly five years, not even 50 per cent of the work had been completed, he said, adding that he would shortly take up the issue at a meeting with the Secretary, Power, over the delay in the implementation of the project.Nearly 30,000 smart meters are to be installed in Sector 29, 31, 47 and 48, and Faidan, Ram Darbar, Hallo Majra, Raipur Kalan, Makhanmajra and Daria villages and the Industrial Area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/provide-suitable-place-for-langar-chandigarh-administration-to-pgi-307705
07-09-2021||---||2 tricksters land in Chandigarh police net||Chandigarh, September 6The UT police have arrested two tricksters, who used to swap ATM cards and withdraw money from the accounts of gullible people in the guise of helping them operate ATMs. The accused had cheated a 70-year-old Dhanas resident of Rs50,000 recently.The complainant, identified as Sagar Chand, a resident of Milk Colony, visited an ATM booth of HDFC Bank on July 1 to withdraw money. The accused swapped his ATM card and later withdrew Rs50,000 from his account. A case was registered at the Sarangpur police station.Inspector Lakhbir Singh, SHO of the Sarangpur police station, said surveillance near ATMs was increased after the incident and information about the accused persons was gathered. The accused, identified as Kuldeep Kumar, alias Guddu (29), a resident of Dhanas village, and Rajat (23), a resident of Jhujhar Nagar, Mohali, were later arrested.The SHO said the accused used to target elderly persons, women and even minors visiting ATMs, who didn’t know how to operate an ATM. They used to ask for the PIN from people and swap their ATM cards. The accused then used to visit another nearby ATM and withdraw money from the victims’ bank accounts.The police said a total of 15 swapped ATM cards had been recovered from the accused. They were produced in a court, which sent them to remand till September 9.Modus operandiInspector Lakhbir Singh, SHO of the Sarangpur police station, said the accused used to target elderly persons, women and even minors visiting ATM booths, who didn’t know how to operate an ATM. They used to ask for the PIN from people and swap their ATM cards. The accused then used to visit another nearby ATM and withdraw money from the victims’ bank accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-tricksters-land-in-chandigarh-police-net-307706
07-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Now, get OPD registration for GMSH-16, Chandigarh, at Sampark centres||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 6To avoid rush at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, patients can now get their OPD registration done at Sampark centres on the payment of a nominal fee.The decision was taken after Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Health, UT, visited the OPD and emergency wards of the GMSH-16.“There was a huge rush for OPD registration and it was difficult to maintain the social distancing. During the day, a total of about 1,800 OPD registrations were done at the GMSH-16,” he said.To streamline the process, it was decided that online registration to be encouraged and a separate window be provided at the GMSH-16 so that online registered patients can get barcode-printed OPD card without any hassles from the separate window.Providing further relief to the patients, he said OPD registration would be allowed at sampark centres on the payment of a nominal fee by the patients. After discussion with the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC), it was found feasible and the nominal charges might be somewhere around Rs10 per registration.In addition to online registration, the existing system of walk-in registration would continue at the GMSH-16, he said.He said a front desk would be provided in the GMSH-16 so that all information about the indoor patients was available at one place and the visitors need not to run around.To tackle the possible third wave of Covid-19, a meeting would be convened with private hospitals to encourage them to set up oxygen generation plants in their hospitals on a priority. All available information and agencies that can be contacted for installation of oxygen generation plants to be provided to private hospitals during the meeting, he added.e-office module of NICTo avoid physical movement of file, the UT Health Department has decided to introduce e-office module of NIC so that movement of physical files could be discontinued after providing required hardware, software and training. “We should make efforts to complete this within two-month period,” said Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Health, adding that an IT cell would be created at the GMSH-16 and e-hospital module to be implemented on a priority.GMCH-32 to provide 33% more online slotsTo accommodate more patients, the UT Health Department has decided to increase online OPD slots at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, by 33 per cent. The decision was taken after UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg visited the OPD and emergency wards of the GMCH-32 today. Garg also interacted with the Director-Principal, Medical Superintendent and other senior doctors/officers of the hospital.To speed up the work, it was also decided that files to be sent to the Health Secretary through e-office module. Firstly, five e-files will be sent through e-office within this week. “From next week, all those files that do not require concurrence from the Finance Department or Personnel Department to be sent through e-office,” he said.Challans for stagnant waterThe UT Health Department has decided to intensify inspections and issue challans where breeding of mosquitoes is noticed due to stagnant water/non-cleanliness. “Government buildings should also be inspected and in case of similar issues, challans to be issued against the government department concerned,” said Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Health.Attendants of indoor patients to be provided dormitoryThe UT Health Department has decided to provide dormitory accommodation to attendants of indoor patients of the GMCH-32 and the GMSH-16 at the UT Guest House No. 2 (earlier known as Panchayat Bhawan) on a priority basis. “The Director Hospitality will provide such accommodation, out of the available 100 dormitories, on the basis of documents relating to indoor admission and identity proof of attendants,” said Yashpal Garg, UT Health Secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-get-opd-registration-for-gmsh-16-chandigarh-at-sampark-centres-307707
07-09-2021||---||PCA appoints coaches, support staff  for senior, age group teams||Chandigarh, September 6The Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) has appointed professional coaches and support staff for different age group teams for the upcoming season.The cricket advisory committee (CAC) under the chairmanship of Bhupinder Singh Senior interviewed and appointed the staff.PCA Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Deepak Sharma informed that the coaches would be joining different Punjab teams this week.He further said the PCA U-19 squad would also be visiting Gwalior to play practice matches against MPCA U-19 team before competing in the national tournament for Vinoo Mankad Trophy.AppointmentsMen's senior teamSurendra S Bhave (head coach), Gagandeep Singh (bowling coach), Sandeep Sawal (fielding coach), Niraj Karam Chandani (physiotherapist), Jatinder Billa (trainer)Men's U-23Sunil Saggi (head coach & bowling coach), Ankur Kakkar (batting coach), Harminder Singh Pannu (fielding coach), Ram Babu Shaw (physiotherapist), Sanjeev Chowdhury (trainer)Men's U-19 teamVineet Kumar Sharma (head coach & bowling coach), Munish Sharma (batting coach), Chandan Madaan (fielding coach), Manish Kumar (physiotherapist), Tejeshwar Dyal Singh (trainer)Men's U-16 teamRavneet Singh Ricky (head coach & batting coach), Love Ablish (bowling coach), Harmeet Singh Bansal (fielding coach), Chirag Pandya (physiotherapist), Yadwinder Singh (trainer)Women's senior & U-23 teamsMadhu Kapoor (head coach), Baljeet Kaur Johal (assistant coach), Lakhbir Singh (fielding coach/trainer), Rakhi Darne (physiotherapist)Women's U-19 teamSaroj Sharma (head coach), Ashutosh Sharma (assistant coach), Gurpreet Kaur Attili (trainer), Vishakha Rathi (physiotherapist)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pca-appoints-coaches-support-staff-for-senior-age-group-teams-307708
07-09-2021||---||Accused Dagar Katyal declared proclaimed offender in Panchkula industrial plot allotment scam||Panchkula, September 6A special ED court here today declared accused Dagar Katyal a proclaimed offender (PO) in the industrial plot allotment case.Katyal, who is the son of Sunil Katyal, former commissioner of the Right to Service Commission, Haryana, didn’t appear before the court despite repeated non-bailable warrants issued against him.Former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda is the main accused in the case.The court also ordered that an FIR be filed in the concerned jurisdiction under Section 174A (proclaimed offender) of the IPC.In the last hearing in July, the court had ordered that notices seeking his presence be pasted outside his residence in Panchkula.The court had noted: “Residing in the US, Katyal is intentionally and deliberately avoiding the process of law and is absconding.”The court had also separated the trial of Katyal from the trial of other accused in the case.The case pertains to alleged irregularities in the allocation of 14 industrial plots worth more than Rs30 crore to former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s acquaintances in Panchkula in 2013.To probe the alleged irregularities, the Haryana Vigilance Bureau had registered an FIR in 2015. Later, the case was transferred to the CBI, following which the CBI and the ED registered their respective cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-dagar-katyal-declared-proclaimed-offender-in-panchkula-industrial-plot-allotment-scam-307709
07-09-2021||---||Submit report on telcos’ ops, Panchkula civic body told||Panchkula, September 6Panchkula legislator and Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today directed the Municipal Corporation to submit a detailed report on the mobile towers installed and underground cables laid by various telecom companies in the city.Gupta had received several complaints from the residents claiming that telecom companies didn’t fill the pits in front of their houses, which they dig for laying of underground cables.He directed the civic body officials to ensure the report submitted to him contains the details of revenues received from the telecom companies and dues owed by them.The MC officials have also been told to mention in the report whether prior approval was taken by the telecom companies for laying underground cables.According to the details available, 292 mobile towers of various telecom companies stand across the city at present.Gupta, this afternoon, presided over a meeting of officials of various departments at the PWD Rest House in Sector 1 to review the progress of development works in his constituency.Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal were also present in the meeting.Gupta also directed officials to make permanent arrangements for the small vendors in the rehri markets of Sector 7, 9, 11 and 17, who have been paying rent to Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) for the last several years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/submit-report-on-telcos-ops-panchkula-civic-body-told-307710
07-09-2021||---||Nearly 3K smart ration cards issued in Mohali since April||Mohali, September 6The Mohali District Administration generated 2,916 new smart ration cards between April and September this year for the distribution of ration under the National Food Security Act.The number of smart ration card holders in the district has now gone past 1.10 lakh.Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Komal Mittal said with the concerted efforts of the Food and Supplies Department, the administration had carried out a campaign to provide smart ration cards to the families enrolled under the National Food Security Act.She said over 1.18 lakh cards had been issued so far to over 4.53 lakh beneficiaries in Mohali district.During a meeting to review the progress of the Food and Supplies Department, Mittal said the biometric authentication ensured food grain distribution to the actual beneficiary.She said the intra-state portability feature of the card empowers a beneficiary to collect ration from a fair price shop of his/her choice. It marks the end of the age-old monopoly of depot holders, Mittal added.She informed that smart ration cards could also be used to get food grains from fair price shops through e-PoS machines.Mittal said a smart ration card can be swiped on the e-PoS machine to fetch the details of the family after which the biometric authentication of the family member would be done.The Food and Supplies Department has also supplied 820 Covid relief packets to patients during the last three months, she added.Assistant Deputy Commissioner (D) Dr Himanshu Aggarwal, Assistant Commissioner (G) Tarsem Chand, Kharar SDM Aakash Bansal, Mohali SDM Harbans Singh, Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa and District Food and Supplies Officer Shefali Chopra were present in the in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nearly-3k-smart-ration-cards-issued-in-mohali-since-april-307711
07-09-2021||---||Chandigarh: Double delight for DAV College athletes||Chandigarh, September 6DAV College, Sector 10, has bagged the two most prestigious trophies of Panjab University for general excellence in sports.While the DAV men’s team bagged Sir Shadi Lal Championship Shield and the women lifted PL Bains Trophy for the 2019-2020 session.DAV men bagged 13 championships, 10 runner-up positions and two second runner-up positions in different individual and team competitions to claim the top position.In the women’s section, the college won seven titles and an equal number of runner-up positions. They also finished third in three championships.In all, DAV College won a record 20 championships, 17 runner-up positions and five second runner-up positions in the Panjab University inter-college tournaments for the 2019-20 session.This is the best performance of the college in the field of sports since its inception.Meanwhile, the college organised a felicitation ceremony to acknowledge the efforts of its sportspersons, here today.Sarpreet Singh Gill, Education Secretary, UT Administration, who is also an alumnus of DAV College, was the chief guest on the occasion.DAV College alumnus Nishad Kumar, who bagged the silver medal in the men’s high jump competition at the Tokyo Paralympic Games, was the guest of honour.Five alumni of DAV College, including gold medallist javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, were part of the Indian contingent for the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-double-delight-for-dav-college-athletes-307712
07-09-2021||---||Chandigarh school bus operators seek 2-year exemption in road tax||Chandigarh, September 6Hit hard by the pandemic, members of the Chandigarh School Bus Operators Welfare Association (CSBOWA) today sought help from the UT Administration to overcome the crisis.The apex body of nearly 500 school bus operators of Chandigarh and tricity region urged the Administration to exempt them from road tax.Manjit Singh Saini, president, CSBOWA, said their operations had come to a complete halt due to which it had become difficult for the bus owners as well as the staff, including drivers and conductors, to survive.The association demanded that Chandigarh school buses should be exempted from road tax for the period between March 2020 and March 2022.The association also urged that the Administration to waive off the late fee and penalty on road tax/fitness test as the Union Ministry of Roads and Transport had already agreed on extending the validity of documents up to September 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-school-bus-operators-seek-2-year-exemption-in-road-tax-307713
07-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Fly from Chandigarh to Jodhpur, Ranchi from October||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 6Come October, the Chandigarh international airport will add Ranchi and Jodhpur to its operations list.As per the information, new flights connecting Ranchi in Jharkhand via Patna and Jodhpur in Rajasthan will be included in the winter schedule, which will be released in the second week of October.The airport will also resume its flight to Jammu and Patna, which will further be extended to Ranchi.Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Ajay Bhardwaj said they would resume operations to Jammu and Patna.After a halt at Patna, the flight will depart to Ranchi, he said.We will also be adding direct flights to Jodhpur, said Bhardwaj.The ‘bubble flights’ to Sharjah and Dubai, which had been discontinued after the second wave of Covid hit the country, would also be resumed from the first week of October.While 24x7 operations at the Chandigarh airport became a reality in April 2019, no new flights had been added to the roster since then.Bhardwaj said at present 32 flights were being operated by four airliners – Air India, Indigo, Go Air and Vistara – for various destination from the Chandigarh airport.The flight from Chandigarh to Sri Patna Sahib would operate six days a week.Indigo Airlines had started a direct flight from Chandigarh to Patna Sahib in March last year but due to Covid restrictions, the operations were stopped.In January this year, the flight was resumed but it was stopped again in March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fly-from-chandigarh-to-jodhpur-ranchi-from-october-307714
07-09-2021||---||Watch out! Strays on prowl in Khuda Lahora||Chandigarh, September 6Panic gripped Khuda Lahora villagers after four persons were bitten by stray dogs in the past 10 days.According to the local residents, two of the dogs from a pack of five-six canines, have turned very aggressive.Gurminder Singh, an activist We called up the MC, but officials said after sterilising the dogs they will drop them at the same place. It doesn’t solve any purpose. They will again start biting people.Jashandeep Singh, a Class 12 student, has become the latest target of the dogs. A day before yesterday, Jashndeep’s 12-year-old neighbour was bitten. While last week, two others, including a vegetable vendor, was attacked.“Last night while I was returning home from gurdwara a dog suddenly pounced on me and bit me on my leg. I went to the GMSH-16, where I was administered a couple of injections. Now, I have been told to visit Sector 38 dispensary for getting the remaining dose of medicine,” said Jashandeep, adding that the same dog had bitten the vegetable vendor last week.Gurminder Singh, a local activist, said: “This pack of dogs is sparing no one, they are attacking everyone, especially those carrying some bag or some goods. In the past 10 days, four people have been attacked. Two dogs from the pack are particularly very ferocious and must be dealt with immediately as residents are living in fear.”“We called up the MC, but they said after sterilising the dogs they will drop them at the same place. It doesn’t solve any purpose. They will again start biting people,” he said.“I asked MC officials to keep the dogs in a dog pound, but was I was told that they had no dog pound. If we will take some action against dogs, the activists and NGOs will target us. What do we do?” Gurminder asked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/watch-out-strays-on-prowl-in-khuda-lahora-307716
07-09-2021||Mohali||Man held with stolen scooters in Mohali||Teachers sit on hunger strikeChandigarh: Teachers from the Chandigarh District Council of the Punjab & Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) staged a protest on the Panjab University campus here today in support of the chain huger-strike call given by the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO). The teachers are demanding implementation of the 7th UGC Pay Commission recommendations by the Punjab Government. President of the Chandigarh District Council Dr Madhu Sharma of GGDSD College, along with various other teachers sat on a hunger strike at the PU campus today. TNSWorkshop on clean energyChandigarh: The Dharat Suhavi Environment Society of Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, organised a workshop on ‘Combating Carbon Footprints’ on Monday to celebrate Akshay Urja Diwas. Dr Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Department of Forests and Wildlife, UT, spoke about renewable energy and climate change and the need to switch to clean sources of energy. A week-long celebrations of Akshay Urja Diwas, sponsored by the Chandigarh Renewable Energy Science and Technology Promotion Society, started on August 28. The event also marked the launch of The Eco Scouts, a student wing of the society. TNSTwo held with fake currencyChandigarh: The UT police have arrested two persons while possessing fake currency worth Rs40,000 and two knives. According to the police, the accused, Ashwani (36), a resident of Sector 7, and Subhash (32), a resident of Sector 25, were arrested from the parking of the cremation ground in Sector 25 while possessing fake currency and knives. The fake currency was in the denomination of Rs500. A case has been registered. TNSNayagaon man duped of Rs50KChandigarh: Two unknown persons cheated a Nayagaon resident of Rs50,000. Complainant Prem Lal reported that the suspects took the cash from him after befooling him outside PNB Bank in Sector 16. The police have registered a cheating case. TNSSector 35 eatery manager bookedChandigarh: The UT police have booked the manager of Midnight Chef Restaurant, Sector 35, here, for keeping the eatery open beyond the permissible time limit. The police said manager Brij Bhushan Shukla was booked under Section 188 of the IPC. TNSMan ends his life, wife, kin bookedPanchkula: A 32-year-old man from Ambala allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in Kalka. The police have booked his wife, her family members and a middleman on the charge of abetment to suicide on a complaint of the victim’s brother. In his complaint, Deepanshu, younger brother of the victim Abhishek, alleged that his brother was distressed after his wife separated from him. According to the complainant, they got married in December 2017. He alleged that his brother ended his life “due to harassment by his wife Madhu, her brothers Sunny and Sonu and her mother”. As per police officials, a letter corroborating the complainant’s claim has been recovered from the victim’s pocket. A case was registered. TNSStaff protest outside MC officeChandigarh: Employees and workers of the UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation protested outside the corporation building on Monday. The police had barricaded the area outside the MC building. The protesters wanted to march to the Governor’s house in support of their long-pending demands. However, they were not allowed and they handed over a memorandum of their demands to SDM Tejdeep Saini. The protesters demanded that there should be a secure policy for outsourced employees and sanitation work should not be given to a private company. Their demands also included timely pension, insurance for all employees and filling of regular posts. The protesters warned that if their demands were not met, they would hold a silent protest in front of the Governor’s house on September 21. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-stolen-scooters-in-mohali-307715
07-09-2021||---||Codiv-19: Chandigarh to get 2.95L doses of vaccine in September||Chandigarh, September 6The city will receive 2.95 lakh vaccine doses in September. The vaccine will be provided in three batches, each containing 98,600 doses.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said, “This is the first time that Chandigarh is going to receive doses in large numbers. We used to get a batch of 20,000 doses only and thus it was difficult for us to plan long term. Now, with over 98,000 doses, we can plan ahead for a week.”In August, Chandigarh had received 2,79,160 doses, while 2,19,160 doses were given by the Centre in July.Around 89,140 doses were given to the UT in June.The city has vaccinated 8,31,313 people with the first dose, which translates into 113.91 per cent, while 3,32,531 people have received both doses. The coverage of the second dose stands at 45.5 per cent.So far, Chandigarh has administered 11,63,844 vaccine doses (first and second dose).UT sees one caseChandigarh: The city on Monday reported one case of Covid-19 and no death due to the infection. A total of six patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNS3 infected in MohaliMohali: Three fresh Covid cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,637. No fresh death was reported, while two patients were cured of the disease. 4 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported four fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,692. The Covid toll remained at 377. As many as 12 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/codiv-19-chandigarh-to-get-2-95l-doses-of-vaccine-in-september-307680
07-09-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||2 playful Bengal Tiger cubs a huge draw at the Chhatbir zoo||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, September 6Two Bengal Tiger cubs born on May 8 this year were displayed at the Chhatbir zoo for the first time yesterday. The playful cubs got a good response from visitors and were a huge draw among children. After the reopening of zoo with the Covid protocol, the facility saw 4,600 visitors, the maximum in a single day, yesterday. The highest footfall in a single day, however, was recorded on January 2017 when 13,235 visited the zoo.Chhatbir zoo Director Naresh Mahajan said, “The cubs were displayed for the first time and were a huge attraction. It was also for the first time that the cubs were exposed to visitors, and they were playful. After some time, they were withdrawn for relaxation and then reintroduced.”Diya, a white tigress, had delivered two Bengal Tiger cubs at the Chhatbir zoo on May 8. Diya is an eight-year-old white tigress, while the sire is a Bengal Tiger, Aman, aged nine. Diya had delivered three cubs in 2019. The zoo authorities did not officially disclose the names of the cubs.A zoo official said the duo was now on a normal diet and ate whatever the mother ate. They were having a healthy and good growth, they said.The official said the newly inaugurated Dinosaur Park and Otter House were also drawing a good number of visitors.Dinosaur Park exhibits lifelike interactive robotic models of the now extinct animal. It has been developed as an interactive and entertaining zoo education activity which will provide scientific awareness about the animal.The zoo authorities have created a naturalistic exhibit with see-through glass so that the visitors can enjoy the playful underwater movements of otters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-playful-bengal-tiger-cubs-a-huge-draw-at-the-chhatbir-zoo-307679
07-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Need-based changes: Allottees hope to get respite from Chandigarh Housing Board||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 6Thousands of allottees hope to get some relief from the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) on regularisation of building violations in flats and one-time settlement on the Delhi pattern as the board will take up the issue in a meeting of the Board of Directors to be held on Wednesday. Allottees, under the banner of the Makan Bachao Samiti, have been demanding regularisation of need-based changes/additional construction made in residential units allotted by the CHB.Other issuesOut of nearly 70,000 houses constructed by the CHB so far, need-based changes have been made in about 60,000 in which nearly 20 per cent population of the city resides.The samiti stated that several factors were responsible for making additional constructions such as expansion in family, undersized rooms, kitchens and bathrooms and EWS houses in Sector 56 and Dhanas had no kitchens when the dwelling units were allotted.Another reason for making need-based changes was the eligibility policy of the CHB for allotment of houses. As per the policy, a dwelling unit shall be allotted only to the person who does not own a house in the tricity nor does the person’s spouse or minor children. “When an allottee is debarred from applying for a larger house, he/she is left with no option but to create additional space in his/her existing dwelling unit,” stated the samiti.The samiti stated that a number of amnesty schemes had been floated by the authorities all over the country. On such scheme was issued by the Municipal Corporation (MC), Delhi, in 1998-99 with an objective of providing relief to the allottees. It also earned substantial revenue, as demolition of nearly 5 lakh unauthorised structures was not an easy task for the MC, Delhi.The samiti demanded that the CHB may follow the example of Delhi to redress the grievances of nearly 60,000 allottees and could get handsome amount in the form of charges for regularising the violations.It was also demanded that all punitive actions initiated by the CHB like demolition and issuing notices for cancellation of allotment of the unit should be suspended. The board should charge reasonable compounding fee for regularisation of construction, the samiti stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/need-based-changes-allottees-hope-to-get-respite-from-chandigarh-housing-board-307681
07-09-2021||---||RBI cash-laden truck pile-up leaves 4 hurt in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 6Four persons, including two UT cops, were injured after two rashly driven trucks carrying RBI cash met with an accident on the road separating Sector 28 and 26 on Madhya Marg. A woman constable was trapped in a truck that rammed into another truck. It took two cranes, a team of firefighters and the police to rescue the constable from the wrecked truck.The police said five trucks, after loading cash from the railway station, Chandigarh, were heading to the RBI in Sector 17. After crossing the Transport light point, one of the trucks applied brakes. However, two trucks coming from behind failed to apply brakes and collided.One of the trucks, being driven by Tajinder and accompanied by Constable Ram Singh, rammed into a truck from behind. Another truck, being driven by Gurbej, who was accompanied by woman Constable Pavita, rammed into the truck being driven by Tajinder.The occupants of both trucks were trapped inside following which two cranes were rushed to the spot.While both truck drivers and Constable Ram Singh were rescued, the woman constable could be rescued after great difficulty as her legs were stuck. The woman constable’s legs were crushed in the accident. She was rushed to the PGI.Traffic had to be diverted at the Transport light point as the rescue operation took over an hour. Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO of the Sector 26 police station, said the trapped woman constable was rescued in around 50 minutes. “The traffic on the road was also diverted to avoid any traffic snarls and inconvenience to the commuters,” the SHO addedThe police said a case against both truck drivers had been registered on a complaint of Constable Ram Singh at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rbi-cash-laden-truck-pile-up-leaves-4-hurt-in-chandigarh-307678
