08-09-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 3 new cases of Covid-19||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported three new infections of Covid-19 as the total number of cases reached 65,138.A positivity rate of 0.13 per cent was recorded as 2,244 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The death toll in the city remains 815.The total number of active cases is 31 while 64,292 people have been cured till date.A total of 17 patients have been discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-3-new-cases-of-covid-19-308444
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man arrested with heroin||Panjab university Senate electionsChandigarh: After receiving the government's node for setting up pooling booths, the Panjab University Senate election of registered graduate constituency is likely to be held on September 26, said Vikram Nayyar, Registrar-cum-Returning Officer. The date has been issued in anticipation of the approval of the Vice-President of India and Chancellor, PU, and also subject to approval of Uttrakhand which is among one of the states where election of this constituency is to be held while adhering to the Covid-19 protocols, he said. TNSContest marks teacher’s dayChandigarh: Jasmeen, Vanshika and Janvi claimed first three positions, respectively, at a competition on "Works and Life of Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan" organised by the philosophy department of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36. The competition was held to mark the birth anniversary of the country's former President, scholar and philosopher, Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, which is observed as Teacher's Day. TNSAwareness drive on eye donationChandigarh: Department of computer science and applications and the NSS unit of Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, here organised an online "Eye Donation Awareness Campaign" in collaboration with Government Medical College, Sector 32, and Netra Foundation. The event commenced with a short video presentation by Sharanya Jain, founder and president of the foundation. Sharanya is a student of tenth standard at Carmel Convent School, who started this non-profit organisation for the betterment and uplift of visually impaired children. TNSPolice interact with residentsChandigarh: The UT police held an interaction with senior citizens residing in Burail, Sector 45, here on Tuesday. Burail police post in-charge Sub-Inspector Sudesh Kumar sought suggestions from residents to ensure better policing in the area. The police said meetings with area residents would be held regularly. TNSTricity Sports Academy winChandigarh: Tricity Sports Academy defeated Vidisha XI by 48 runs on the opening day of the DE U-17 Cricket Tournament on Tuesday. Batting first, Tricity Sports Academy scored 161 runs before getting all out in 37 overs. In reply, Vidisha XI posted 113 runs before getting all out in 28.5 overs. TNSNaisha moves to tennis quartersChandigarh: Top seed Naisha Garg defeated Paavni Panwar 6-1, 2-6(10-8) in the pre-quarterfinals of the girls’ U-12 category in the ongoing Roots-AITA National Ranking Championship being played at Roots Tennis Academy. Second seed Reet Arora outplayed Sanchari Malkandi 6-0, 6-3, while Vasundhara Bhosle defeated Vanshika Yadav 7-5, 6-4. Jasmine Kaur defeated Sanmitha Harin 6-4, 7-5 in some other matches. Third seed Ekam Kaur moved ahead by defeating Janhavi Chougule 6-4, 6-4 and Miraya Aggarwal beat Tamanna Nair 6-3, 6-2. TNSGolf tourney begins todayChandigarh: The TATA Steel Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) will hold the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship at the Panchkula Golf Club from September 8 to 11. The tournament will be played on enhanced prize money of Rs50 lakh. The Pro-Am event will be played on September 12. The championship will be held at the Panchkula Golf Club for the third year in succession and will be the second event since the resumption of the 2020-21 season. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-heroin-308308
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Harshdeep defeats Aakash in 48-kg bout||Harshdeep defeated Aakash in the 48-kg bout on the opening day of the 44th Senior State Men and 20th Women State Boxing Championships at the Sector 42 Sports Complex here today.Mandeep marched ahead by defeating Nikhilesh in the 54-kg bout, while Parshant ousted Lakshya Oberai, Rohan Lamba defeated Rohit Narwal, Yadwinder ousted Shubham and Vishal Sharma overpowered Pawan Kumar in the 60-kg bouts. Sourabh defeated Mohammed Zakki and Rohit Kumar defeated Abhishek Giri in the 63.5-kg event. Viney Chauhan, Anish Kumar,Vishal and Rahul also won their respective bouts.Players awardedThe Chandigarh Amateur Boxing Association honoured local boxers, who won laurels at the national and international levels, along with coaches. Vivek Dahiya, Neha, Diya Negi, Rachita Dudy, Anu Rani, Mehak Mor, Lovleen Kaur, Parampreet Singh, Neha, Sushant Kapoor, Krishpal and international boxer Rohit Chamoli were given cash awards. Coaches, including Dronacharya awardee Shiv Singh, Bhagwant Singh, Hardeep Singh, Virender Dandi, Joginder Singh, Bhuvan Singh, Vikash Dahiya, Jai Hind and Sahil Jaswal, were also awarded. Kuldeep Chahal, SSP, Chandigarh Police, and DSP Charanjeet Singh awarded the winners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harshdeep-defeats-aakash-in-48-kg-bout-308307
08-09-2021||---||RoundGlass Punjab FC sign three players||Chandigarh, September 7RoundGlass Punjab FC (RGPFC) signed three players - John Johnson, Kurtis Guthrie and Travis Major - to further add strength to their squad for the upcoming season.Johnson, a graduate of Middlesbrough FC Academy, has predominantly played as a centre-back, but is also comfortable playing right-back and in defensive midfield. The 32-year-old has previously played for Indian clubs Bengaluru FC and ATK Mohun Bagan and English clubs Northampton Town and Middlesbrough among others.“It is exciting to be part of the Indian football, especially an ambitious club like the RGPFC. I have played under Ashley (Westwood) earlier. So, I understand his expectations and style of play,” said Johnson.Guthrie, a 28-year-old forward who has played his entire career in England, has played in the highly competitive English Football League and English Football League for Accrington Stanley, Forrest Green Rovers, Colchester United, Stevenage, and Port Vale.“I can’t wait to wear the RGPFC and play in India. After having played in England all my life, I know this is going to be an exciting adventure in my career and I’m looking forward to it,” said Guthrie.Major, a 31-year-old centre-forward, has played in Australia’s A-League and National Premier Leagues NSW for Central Coast Mariners and Blacktown City, respectively. He has also played in the Hong Kong Premier League Club for TSW Pegasus and Southern.“I can’t wait to play for Head Coach Ashley and be part of this dynamic team. I look forward to scoring goals to help the team win as many matches as possible,” said Major. These three signings come in the wake of other stellar additions to the squad, including CK Vineeth, Robin Singh, Ashis Pradhan, Kean Lewis, Gurtej Singh, Shankar Sampingiraj and Rino Anto.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roundglass-punjab-fc-sign-three-players-308306
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||JP Atray Tourney: UT Cricket Assn log four-wkt win||The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, logged a four-wicket win over Delhi Capital Development Squad in the ongoing 26th All-India JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament for Trident Cup.The visitors posted 235/8 in 50 overs with the help of Rajesh Sharma (62), Prerak Mankad (58), Mayank Rawat (29) and Kedar Devdhar (33). Bhagmender Singh (3/24) was the successful wicket taker for the bowling side.In reply, UTCA scored 236/6 in 49.1 overs. Taranpreet Singh (42) and Shivam Bhambri (44) contributed 92 runs for the first wicket. Thereafter, Gaurav Puri scored unbeaten 75 off 78 balls, while Rahul Sharma added unbeaten 27 off 44 balls to help the local side record win. Shiva Singh claimed three wickets, while Pulkit Narang took two for the bowling side.In another match, UPCA defeated PCC-Mohali by three wickets to garner four points. After winning the toss, UPCA put PCC Mohali to bat.PCC Mohali lost their opener Nehal Wadhera for 4. Abhijeet Garg scored 103 off 112 (10 boundaries and two sixes), while Naman Dhir posted 40 off 48. PCC could score 254 runs in 50 overs. Yash Dayal (4/34), Akeev Khan (3/56) and Karan Sharma (2/29) were the main wicket takers for the bowling side.In reply, UPCA scored 255/7 in 49.3 overs with the help of Akashdeep Nath (87), Abhishek Goswami (44) and Sandeep Tomar (43). Barinder Sran, Gurnoor Brar and Prerit Dutta claimed two wickets each for the bowling side.In the third match, Players XI Delhi defeated PCA Colts by five wickets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jp-atray-tourney-ut-cricket-assn-log-four-wkt-win-308305
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Top seeds Navya, Riya make it to tennis finals||Top seed Navya Verma will face second seed Aditya Chauhan in the boys’ U-18 final on the concluding day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament on Wednesday.In the semi-finals played today, Punjab’s Verma defeated local contender and third seed Lakshya Gupta 9-2, while Chauhan struggled hard before defeating fourth seed Haryana’s Upnishad Bhardwaj 9-8(5).In the girls’ U-18 semis, top seed Riya Kaushik defeated eighth seed Khushleen Kaur 9-1 and second seed Radhika Vasudeva ousted third seed Vanya Arora 9-3.Earlier in the boys’ quarterfinals, Verma defeated Arnav Bishnoi 9-4, Gupta blanked Suryansh Nagar 9-4, Bhardwaj outplayed Yashashvi Balhara 9-5 and Chauhan registered a 9-4 win over Sankalp Satyan Nair.In the girls’ U-18 category, Riya logged an easy 9-4 win over Anahat Pannu of Punjab, Khushleen defeated Anusha Verma 9-5, Vanya ousted Milli Pandit 9-1 and Rahika Vasudeva defeated Gursimrat Kaur 9-2. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seeds-navya-riya-make-it-to-tennis-finals-308304
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research celebrates annual day||National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR), an autonomous institute of the Ministry of Education (MoE), here celebrated its 54th Annual Day today. It was established in 1967.Minister of Education (MoE) Dharmendra Pradhan inaugurated an AR/VR lab and laid the foundation stone of a building which will house faculty residences.Pradhan, while delivering his inaugural address, urged the faculty for their support and contributions to an effective and timely implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) as well as for a transformational contribution to the Digital Mission, Unnat Bharat, Atam Nirbhar Bharat and the Swachh Bharat Mission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-institute-of-technical-teachers-training-and-research-celebrates-annual-day-308303
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Indian hockey players appreciate doctor’s help||Indian hockey players Harmanpreet Singh and Gurjant Singh, along with Dr Manit Arora, who treated them to overcome injuries, interacted with the media today.Satisfied with the line of treatment at Fortis Hospital, Mohali, Gurjant said: “Dr Arora has helped several hockey players like me recover from injuries.”Hockey Team Vice-Captain Harmanpreet Singh had swelling and pain in his knees which restricted his performance on the field. He approached Dr Arora. An MRI revealed that he was suffering from a tissue (ACL) injury. He was operated on. Following rehabilitation, he returned to the team camp in a span of five months in December last year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/indian-hockey-players-appreciate-doctors-help-308302
08-09-2021||---||Two fraudsters nailed by Chandigarh police||Chandigarh, September 7Two fraudsters have been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police for allegedly duping a man of Rs50,000 after befooling him.The complainant, Prem Lal, had reported that two suspects had taken cash from him outside the PNB in Sector 16 on August 26.The suspects had lured the victim on the promise of profit and handed him a bundle of paper wrapped in a cloth in exchange for his money.The police said they analysed the modus operandi of the suspects and managed to nab them. They have been identified as Mohammad Rasool (36) and Parmod Dass (30), both residents of Bihar.The police said the suspect had also cheated Mahesh Kumar of Rs29,000 outside the PNB at Burail in February 2020.The police said during interrogation, the suspects disclosed that they had duped many people in Panchkula, Pinjore, Mohali, Zirakpur and Baddi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-fraudsters-nailed-by-chandigarh-police-308301
08-09-2021||Mohali||30-bed hospital in Phase 3B1 to be thrown open to public by November: Punjab Health Minister Sidhu||A 30-bed hospital being upgraded from a dispensary in Phase 3B1 here will be thrown open to public by November this year.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu announced this while inspecting the ongoing work of the hospital building. He was accompanied by Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi.Balbir Singh Sidhu gave strict instructions to officials to complete the work in a time-bound manner. Any negligence in this work would not be tolerated.Sidhu said in order to provide better healthcare facilities to people, infrastructure in Mohali was being strengthened on a large scale. The 30-bed hospital would have two operation theatres, five private rooms, a general ward and an OPD, besides specialist doctors.Meanwhile, Sidhu also visited the nine acres of land cleared by GMADA in Sector 66 where a new civil hospital is to be set up. It may be recalled that a medical college would be constructed on the site of the old Civil Hospital located in Phase 6 here. He also directed the authorities to start the construction work of the civil hospital as soon as possible. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-bed-hospital-in-phase-3b1-to-be-thrown-open-to-public-by-november-punjab-health-minister-sidhu-308300
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Year on, Chandigarh cops register murder case||Over a year after a property dealer died under mysterious circumstances, the UT police have registered a case of murder against an unknown person.The complainant, Navneet Dhillon, a resident of Sector 40, in her complaint to the police, stated that on July 4 last year, she received a call from her husband Brijesh Negi’s friend, who informed her that Brijesh was not feeling well and was taken from Sector 63, Chandigarh, to a private hospital in Mohali. Brijesh was with his friends in Sector 63 when he fell sick.The complainant reached the hospital where her husband later died. She raised a suspicion and informed the police following which an autopsy was conducted at the GMCH, Sector 32.After an investigation, the police have registered a case under Sections 302, 328 and 120-B of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/year-on-chandigarh-cops-register-murder-case-308299
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC’s online services in Hindi also||For the ease of city residents, all online services related to the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation will be in English and Hindi language also.Commissioner Anindita Mitra asked the officers concerned to execute the same within one week.“Officials and officers will put more efforts to promote Hindi in the office and all communications/public notices to city residents, including vendors and other licence-holders, will be served in the Hindi language also,” she said.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, who formally launched the “Hindi Pakhwara” at the MC building today, along with Mitra, said the possibilities would be explored to create “Hindi Vibhag” in the corporation to promote the Hindi language in the office. The Mayor said water bills should be in both languages i.e. English as well as Hindi.While addressing senior officers and heads of various wings of the MC, the Mayor said programmes would be organised during the Hindi Pakhwara scheduled to be held from September 7 to 21. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mcs-online-services-in-hindi-also-308298
08-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||INSO leader Pardeep Khatkar’s ‘murder’: All accused walk free||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 7A local court has acquitted all 12 accused arrested in a five-year-old alleged murder case of INSO leader Pardeep Khatkar, who, along with his friends, was allegedly attacked by a group of youths in Sector 44 here on January 8, 2016.The victim succumbed to his injuries around six months after the attack following which a murder case was registered against the accused. Those acquitted have been identified as Sachin Nehra, alias Dholia, Raghav Sood, Jitender Singh, alias Jeetu, Harjeet Maan Singh, Virender, alias Veeru, Sunny, Harvinder, alias Herry, Amandeep, alias Aman, Gaurav Singh Rana, Narinder Gujjar, Sanjeev Malik and Sanjay Kumar, alias Boxer.The police had arrested the accused after registering an FIR against them for the offences committed under Sections 147, 148, 149, 323, 325, 307, 427 and 506 added with 302 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Sector 34 police station here on January 8, 2016.The case was registered on a complaint of Mohinder Singh, a resident of Seenk village, Panipat district, Haryana. In the complaint, Mohinder alleged that on January 8, Pardeep, along with others, came to the District Courts, Sector 43, for hearing in a case. After the hearing, they went to Sector 44 where the accused allegedly attacked them with sharp weapons. Pardeep Khatkar received serious injuries and later succumbed to his injuries on June 17, 2016.The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial when charges were framed against them in the court. The prosecution examined more than 21 witnesses. When examined under Section 313 of the CrPC, the accused pleaded innocence and claimed that they had been falsely implicated in the case.After hearing the arguments, Additional Sessions Judge Anshu Shukla said complainant Mohinder Singh died. Hence, he did not come to the witness box to prove the allegations against the accused. The court said the complainant, Mohinder, was the best witness to substantiate the allegations levelled by him against the accused, but he could not appear in the court. Hence, the prosecution case failed on this score alone.After the death of the complainant, the entire prosecution story was relied upon the testimony of prosecution witness Prince Cheema, but he did not support the prosecution version. The witness did not identify the accused persons.He categorically stated that when they were having juice in the Sector 44-D market, some persons attacked them suddenly from behind. He also said he fell unconscious and did not know who had attacked him. He cannot identify any of the accused present in the court.This witness did not identify the accused persons present in the court. In these circumstances, there is virtually no evidence on record to link the accused with the crime. As a result of the aforesaid discussion, it is held that the prosecution had utterly failed to prove the charges against the accused. As a result, the accused are acquitted of the charges framed against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inso-leader-pardeep-khatkars-murder-all-accused-walk-free-308297
08-09-2021||---||Chandigarh's Sector 52 gets civil dispensary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 7Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma inaugurated a civil dispensary at a rehabilitation colony in Sector 52 here today. Around 35,000 residents of the area will be able to avail of its benefits.The Mayor said it would serve the rural areas of Kajheri village, EWS/Rehabilitation Colony and Electricity Colony, Sector 52, and provide cost-effective treatment to people.He said the dispensary would also be used to carry out regular check-up of staff working with the Municipal Corporation.Elaborating on the features and facilities at the civil dispensaries managed by the MC, Commissioner Anindita Mitra said two dispensaries in Sector 49 and 50 were being managed by the PGI and medicines were provided to these dispensaries by the office of the Director, Health Services, Chandigarh. Process had been initiated to sign an arrangement with the PGI on a similar pattern for this dispensary also.She said there were two doctor rooms, an ANM room with a store, an injection room, a laboratory, a store and a registration room with a pharmacy store at the civil dispensary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-sector-52-gets-civil-dispensary-308296
08-09-2021||---||Smart electricity meters: Chandigarh to finish installation work by early next year||Chandigarh, September 7After a prolonged delay, the UT Administration has set a target to complete the pilot project of installation of smart electricity meters in the city by early next year.The project was allotted to government-owned Regional Electricity Corporation (REC) in 2016. So far, nearly 50 per cent of the work could be completed.Irked over the slow pace of work, UT Adviser Dharam Pal today took up the issue in a review meeting on the status of smart metering with the Secretary, Ministry of Power.“We have invited the CMD of the REC to come and sort out the issues leading to delay in the completion of the project,” said UT Adviser Dharam Pal. He said they wanted to complete the project by January or February next year.Nearly 30,000 smart meters are to be installed in Sectors 29, 31, 47 and 48, and Faidan, Ram Darbar, Hallo Majra, Raipur Kalan, Makhanmajra, and Daria villages and the Industrial Area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/smart-electricity-meters-chandigarh-to-finish-installation-work-by-early-next-year-308295
08-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Political patronage behind flourishing drug racket: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that political patronage provided to drug peddlers in some cases was one of the reasons behind the flourishing drug racket. As a result of the political benefaction, the police turned a blind eye to their activities.In its detailed order, the Bench observed several factors were responsible for the flourishing drug racket. “In some cases, political patronage is provided to drug peddlers. Due to which, the police turn a blind eye to their activities”.Justice HS Madaan added on occasions when such peddlers got involved in cases under the Act, they manage to escape arrest and punishment by exercising influence with the investigation and law enforcement agencies, making use of lacunae in the enforcement of law.Justice Madaan further added such type of drug peddlers were careful enough not to carry contraband. They, rather, used poor persons for transportation and delivery of drugs to the consumers. Most of them were drug addicts.When a carrier was caught and took the supplier’s name before the police, he managed to escape by getting best legal assistance and taking advantage of loopholes in the system, putting up a straight face, denying his involvement in drug peddling and coming up with a plea that the statement of co-accused was inadmissible in evidence against him.Such type of pleas was accepted many a times. Resultantly, it became next to impossible to trace the hierarchy in the drug racket. Except for small-time carriers, persons actively involved in the drug racket, the suppliers and the controller at the top did not even get identified or detected.The Bench asserted: “When on a few occasions, the investigating agency tries to make little progress in the investigation by going a step further towards the culprits after interrogation of the carrier, proceedings in most of the cases come to a halt there since such persons do not join custodial interrogation and manage to evade arrest.”Justice Madaan added they simply denied their involvement in the racket, when they joined investigation couched in comparative safety of pre-arrest bail. The investigating agency, as such, cannot do much in the matter.The custodial interrogation was definitely elicitation-oriented. The investigating agency, getting little opportunity to have custodial interrogation of the supplier and other persons connected with drug trafficking, could not reach the big fish running the drug racket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/political-patronage-behind-flourishing-drug-racket-hc-308294
08-09-2021||---||PGI gurdwara committee expresses gratitude to PM||Chandigarh, September 7Members of the Sikh community today thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Central Government for bringing three holy forms of Guru Granth Sahib to India from troubled Afghanistan by a special plane with dignity and establishing them in a gurdwara at Tilak Nagar, New Delhi.They conveyed their gratitude through Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood in the presence of party’s national spokesperson RP Singh.City BJP spokesperson Kailash Chand Jain said on the auspicious occasion of first Prakashotsav Day of Guru Granth Sahib, a programme was organised at Gurdwara Sahib, PGI, Sector 12, where “kirtan darbar” was decorated by Sikh sangat and a langar was organised.On behalf of the gurdwara committee, it was said the entire Sikh community was thankful to PM Modi for the work done by him to bring India safely and respectfully the three holy forms of Guru Granth Sahib, while respecting the sentiments of the Sikhs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-gurdwara-committee-expresses-gratitude-to-pm-308273
08-09-2021||---||Air Chief RKS Bhadauria visits Chandigarh IAF station, alma mater||Chandigarh, September 7Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, Chief of the Air Staff, visited Air Force Station here on September 6, which coincided with the 60th anniversary of the air base. On his arrival, he was received by Air Cmde Tejbir Singh, Air Officer Commanding, Air Force Station, Chandigarh.The Chief of the Air Staff reviewed the ongoing capability enhancement and infrastructure upgrade initiatives at the station. He appreciated the role played by personnel of the station in accomplishing the heavy lift and air maintenance tasks in general and undertaking rapid air mobilisation during the contingency in eastern Ladakh.He also visited Kendriya Vidyalaya, Sector 47, as a mark of gratitude for his alma mater and teachers. Earlier in the day, he addressed principals of 130 Air Force schools across the country through the virtual mode.He also presented the airframe of a decommissioned MiG-21 fighter aircraft to the school, which has been installed in the institute’s forecourt. A number of his classmates were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/air-chief-rks-bhadauria-visits-chandigarh-iaf-station-alma-mater-308272
08-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Now, get occupancy info at paid parking lots in Chandigarh before entry||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 7After the Municipal Corporation (MC) pulled up paid parking lot contractors and gave them a week to introduce smart features at the facilities, the latter have started doing the needful.Screens have been put up at the entrance to several facilities, displaying the live occupancy of parking space. The screens are displaying the occupancy of spaces for two-wheeler, four-wheeler, tourist bus and cab/taxi/three-wheeler. Earlier, screens were put up at a few lots, but remained non-functional.As per a senior MC official, 80 of the total paid 89 parking lots have put up functional screens. The nine remaining parking spaces are not working at present.Parking ratesAs per the parking contract, if the smart features are introduced, rates will be charged on an hourly basis, i.e. these will be doubled every four hours. At present, Rs12 and Rs6 is the fee for four-wheelers and two-wheelers, respectively, for full day at all paid parking lots, except those outside city malls. The rates are to be increased by 20 per cent per year, according to the contract.The screens help visitors get an idea about how much space is available inside the parking lot before entering it. In case the space is not available, they could move to the neighbouring parking lot.However, it is yet to be seen how attendants are going to implement it on the ground as some parking lots, especially in sectors 17, 22 and 35, are always overcrowded.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said, “I have got all security people briefed and trained again. I have ordered that all personnel be given whistles and extra manpower be deployed in addition to those at the entry/exit points to manage the internal areas of parking lots. Also, a WhatsApp group has been created so that people not abiding by the parking rules are immediately challaned by the police.”The MC Commissioner had given the parking contractors a week’s deadline for implementing all smart parking features. These features will be verified by an MC team on the ground this week following which further action will be taken. Earlier, the UT Adviser and later the General House of the MC had raised the issue of non-implementation of smart features.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-get-occupancy-info-at-paid-parking-lots-in-chandigarh-before-entry-308270
08-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two contract virus in Chandigarh, one fatality||10 found infected in Mohali, no deathMohali: Ten fresh Covid cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,647. No new death was reported, while nine patients recovered from the virus. There are now 44 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,060. — TNSOne case, no death in Panchkula distPanchkula: One case surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 30,693. No fresh death was reported. A 40-year-old man of Sector 19 was found infected. Of the 30,693 positive cases reported so far, 30,303 patients have been cured. There are now 13 active cases. The death toll stands at 377. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-one-fatality-308268
08-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||10 institutions to be sealed over property tax default in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 7The Municipal Corporation is all geared up to seal the buildings of 10 big institutions that have reportedly not deposited the property tax even after being served 72-hour notices.Two buildings each of government offices, schools, showrooms, hotels and factories will be sealed. The instructions in this regard were given by Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal at a meeting of the Revenue and Realisation Committee held at the office of the corporation here today.As many as 14 important issues were discussed in the meeting. Officials informed the Mayor that tax worth several crores was yet to be recovered. The Mayor then instructed the officials concerned to seal the buildings with tax arrears of Rs5 lakh or more.Goyal also instructed the officials to snap the connection of towers of mobile companies that did not deposit the fee.He said till now, out of the total 292 towers, fee had been deposited for only 37. He told the officials concerned to give a 48-hour notice to the violating mobile companies. He said if the five big companies, including Jio, Vodafone, Idea, and Airtel, did not deposit the fee on time, 10 of their connections would be discontinued in the next three days.The Mayor said the MC was yet to collect the fee worth crores from these companies for laying cables and added that the companies did not even take permission before laying mobile lines in many sectors and industrial areas. He directed the XEN to take action against them.He said parking fee would be introduced for spaces in the Sector 14 and Sector 20 markets. He said Rs10 would be charged for a day and tenders would be floated. He said the DC’s office has instructed withdrawing the fee for parking spaces of Sector 8, 9 and 10 markets.He said the tender process for evening street food in Sector 8 would soon be started. Instructions have also been given to submit the drawing of the evening food street in Sector 20, 26 and MDC in September.The Mayor further told officials to serve notice on those who had not deposited the development charges and demolish their properties if they still did not submit the fee. He said there was no approval for commercial buildings in villages and they would be demolished. He directed the officials to initiate steps for the collection of funds through advertisements to increase the income of the MC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-institutions-to-be-sealed-over-property-tax-default-in-panchkula-308267
08-09-2021||---||Submit report before HC within week: SC||Chandigarh, September 7Just over a month after the UT Administration was rapped for skirting the “vital issue” regarding the sale of independent floors in the city before directing the holding of a fact-finding exercise, the Supreme Court has ordered the authorities to submit a report before the Punjab and Haryana High Court within a week. The High Court was also asked to proceed with the hearing of the petition on the issue after taking into account the report and hearing the parties. “The High Court is requested to adjudicate the dispute in the writ petition at the earliest, preferably within two weeks from today,” the Supreme Court added.The apex court Bench of Justice L Nageswara Rao, Justice BR Gavai and Justice BV Nagarathna asserted that the direction issued by the High Court on conducting a physical survey of the properties, to be identified by the Estate Officer with transfer of shares, was stayed. The order was passed on August 9 while observing that the pendency of the special leave petition would not deter the High Court from continuing the hearing of the writ petition.Issuing the directions, the Bench added that it was informed that the survey had been completed and the authorities had to submit the report on its basis to the High Court.The High Court Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri had earlier scanned newspaper advertisements to find out whether floor-wise sale of dwelling units was contemplated. Finding no less than two dozen such advertisements in the Sunday edition of newspapers, the Bench had not only rapped the UT Administration, but also directed the holding of the exercise under the UT Chief Architect’s supervision.The Bench had observed that it thought of scanning the advertisements as the court was seized of the matter and discovered 24 advertisements in the Sunday edition “scouting for purchasers /investors for separate floors/independent floors”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/submit-report-before-hc-within-week-sc-308266
08-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court orders closure of Hotel Mountview’s rear wall entry||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 7One wing of the UT Administration has defied the other. CITCO has conceded before the Punjab and Haryana High Court that access to a gym and spa facility at Hotel Mountview from a gate in the rear boundary was unauthorised. Taking a note of the conceded position, the High Court has directed the closure of the entry.As the petition filed by the Residents Welfare Association and other petitioners against CITCO and other respondents came up for resumed hearing, the Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri took note of the fact that counsel for CITCO, on a specific query, conceded that it had applied for permission to the UT Administration for creating an entry in the rear boundary wall of the hotel for providing direct access to the gym and spa facility. But the permission was still awaited. “In other words, it stands conceded before us that the entry permitted from the rear boundary wall of the hotel as on date is unauthorised,” the Bench asserted. In its detailed order, the Bench also took note that a request had already been made for the closure of the gate as it was in violation of the approved zoning plan. The request was made vide a memo, dated June 30, 2020, issued by the Chief Architect, UT Department of Urban Planning, to the CITCO Managing Director. It was reiterated vide another memo, dated January 12.“We are inclined to direct the first respondent-CITCO to ensure that the access granted to the gym and spa facility from the gate in the rear boundary wall be stopped forthwith and till further orders. It is so directed. Such interim directions are being issued keeping in mind that there will be access in any event to the gym and spa facility from the main entry/gate of Hotel Mountview, Sector 10, Chandigarh,” the Bench observed.Referring to an application for impleadment by a private party granted lease to operate the gym and spa facility, the Bench observed that an objection had been raised that the gate/entry from the rear boundary wall had been functional since January 2019.The Bench added that even if that was so, such access from the rear boundary wall of the hotel would not lend legitimacy merely on account of efflux of time, in the light of candid admission by CITCO. The case will now come up for hearing in October last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-orders-closure-of-hotel-mountviews-rear-wall-entry-308265
08-09-2021||---||Eight canines attack dog lover in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 7A Sector 11 woman, who is a dog lover, had a harrowing time last night when a pack of eight stray dogs reportedly surrounded and bit her.Beenu Mann, who has two pet dogs, was attacked by stray dogs around 11 pm on Monday when she was walking outside her house. “I had stepped out of my house as I had received a call from the USA and the mobile network was weak inside,” she said.“Suddenly, two dogs started barking at me. I even tried to communicate with them and shoo them away. However, more stray dogs joined the two and attacked me. The canines surrounded me from all sides and started biting my legs and foot. I kept struggling for about 15 minutes as there was no one around. I am tall so they could only attack my legs. I was all sweating,” she shared.“They would have eaten me if not for the man coming from other side who shooed them away with stones. Such dogs often chase cyclists and other commuters and are a danger to people,” she added.Beenu said she thought the dogs knew her and would never attack her. She appealed to the MC to look after the stray dog menace.Senior Deputy Mayor and area councillor Mahehinder Singh Sidhu said: “Theoretically, sterilisation of all dogs in the city and its surrounding areas has to be done within a few days to contain the stray dog population, but practically it is not possible. Everyone’s involvement is necessary to help in identifying and sterilising their area stray dogs. Also, dog enthusiasts should adopt strays and keep them lovingly as pets at home rather than feeding them in public places, which sometimes endangers the passersby.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-canines-attack-dog-lover-in-chandigarh-308264
08-09-2021||---||21-yr-old shot dead by friend in Pinjore||Panchkula, September 7A 21-year-old youth was allegedly shot dead by his friend at Royal Gazebo Lounge late last night. The police visited the spot and started investigations.The victim has been identified as Ansh Choudhary, a native of Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. He was residing at a rented accommodation with his family in Sector 38, Chandigarh.Kandhir Singh, father of the victim, said his son was working in a company at Rajiv Gandhi Technology Park for the past three months. He said around 5 pm, Ansh informed his mother that he would have dinner with his friend Bhaskar, a resident of Rattpur village near Pinjore. He said Ansh’s mother then received a call from the Pinjore police station that Ansh’s bullet-ridden body was found at the lounge. He said Ansh was selected in Merchant Navy three months ago and was to join after getting the second dose of the Covid vaccine.Pinjore SHO Rampal Singh said at the hotel, where the two friends had gone for dinner, Bhaskar took the pistol of hotel manager Randeep Singh, alias Raju, a resident of Bitna Road in Pinjore, and shot at Ansh, who died on the spot. He said the police team collected the samples from the crime scene. He said both accused had been arrested and recovered a bullet shell from the spot.The Pinjore police have registered a case against both suspects, Bhaskar and Randeep Singh, on the complaint of the father of the deceased.The police said CCTVs were installed at the lounge, but they were not functional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/21-yr-old-shot-dead-by-friend-in-pinjore-308263
08-09-2021||---||Retired cop, a murder bid convict, kills wife in Mohali||Mohali, September 7A former Punjab Police head constable, who had retired from the UT while on deputation, allegedly killed his 69-year-old wife by repeatedly banging her head against the floor at their house in Phase XI this morning.After the incident, suspect Kartar Singh Riar (70) locked the room from inside but was arrested two hours later from near the body of his wife. The deceased has been identified as Kuldeep Kaur.Eyewitnesses said Gurdaspur native Kartar was sitting on a blood-splattered floor near the body when the police broke open the door.Sources said the duo had strained relations. The couple had been arguing since morning after their younger son, employed in the Mohali Police Headquarters, left for work. When neighbours heard commotion from the house, they informed the son. He sent an acquaintance to the house, who informed him about the incident.“On a complaint of the deceased’s son, a case of murder has been registered. The body was sent to the Phase 6 Civil Hospital for autopsy,” said Mohit Singla, SHO, Phase XI.In 2017, Kartar had shot at his brother-in-law, Tirlok Singh, over a familial dispute. He was later convicted in an attempt-to-murder case. After a truce was struck by the couple, Kartar had come out of the jail after four years on a parole four months ago, said the police. The couple’s elder son is in Australia at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/retired-cop-a-murder-bid-convict-kills-wife-in-mohali-308262
