09-09-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh reports one Covid death, 4 new cases||Chandigarh, September 9Chandigarh on Thursday reported one death due to Covid-19 even as four new cases were added to the tally, according to a media bulletin.A 92-year-old Covid positive woman, a resident of Manimajra who was treated at GMSH-16, died, taking the total number of deaths due to virus till date to 816.The total number of active cases stands at 28.Six patients have been discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per MoHFW guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-covid-death-4-new-cases-308888
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||50-yr-old man held with opium||Shoolini varsity office in PanchkulaPanchkula: Shoolini University has established a modern and swanky regional office at Panchkula. "Apart from housing certain back-office operations and providing space for meetings and conferences, the facility will have an advanced ed-tech and technology centre," stated a university release. Trustee and director Nishtha Shukla Anand, who heads the office, said: "We hope to enable counselling and placement support through this centre." The tricity office, located at Sector 6 here, will also work as a counselling centre to help students. TNSDadu Majra to get rid of leachateChandigarh: In what will provide some relief to the local residents, leachate will finally be removed from manholes and the dumping site in Dadu Majra. Leachate often flows onto the road and also enters streets during rain. The Municipal Corporation has invited bids for e-tendering of the work. The corporation had invited e-tenders earlier also but did not get the desired response. Now, bids can be submitted from September 9 to 20. TNSAnurag elected MIA presidentMohali: Executive Committee of the Mohali Industries Association unanimously elected Anurag Aggarwal as its president, Vivek Kapoor and Jagdeep Singh as vice-presidents and Rajeev Gupta as general secretary among other office-bearers on Wednesday. TNSGGDSD boxers win titleChandigarh: GGDSD College, Sector 32, won the overall trophy of the Chandigarh State Men Boxing Championship held at Sports Complex, Sector 42, on Wednesday. The team of the college bagged the title with 34 points. Coaching Centre, Sector 56, claimed the runners-up spot with 31 points. In the women's category, the Sector 56 team clinched the title scoring 13 points. The Sector 32 college team scored 12 points to claim second position. TNSNavya, Riya clinch titlesChandigarh: Top seed Navya Verma of Punjab drubbed second seeded Aditya Chauhan of Haryana 6-2 6-2 to win the boys' U-18 title on the concluding day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament here on Wednesday. In the girls' U-18 final, top seed Riya Kaushik registered a 6-3 7-5 win over second seeded Rahika Vasudeva. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-yr-old-man-held-with-opium-308734
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||CAC eyeing to revamp cricket at all levels in Punjab: Reetinder Singh Sodhi||The newly formed cricket advisory committee (CAC) of the Punjab Cricket Association is eyeing to revamp the sport in the state – from junior to senior level.The committee led by former Indian cricketer Bhupinder Singh (Senior) also includes former India international Reetinder Singh Sodhi and Harpreet Kaur.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Sodhi, who played 18 ODIs for India, said Punjab cricket had a bright future. “Things have been streamlined to some extent. We have a panel of professional coaches and our support staff are equally good in their field,” said Sodhi.“We are not only eyeing the Ranji Trophy, but are also trying to have a desired output in the junior circuit,” he said.On his appointment in the CAC, Sodhi said he’s excited to play the new role. “I have been part of cricket for so many years and this is completely a new role. It’s a huge responsibility to which I am completely committed. It’s payback time and I will give my best.”Sodhi also appreciated PCA president Rajinder Gupta. “He is keen on promoting cricket,” said Sodhi. “Offering desired pay packages will not only bring accountability but will also inspire everyone to perform at their best.”“Gupta comes in with a rich experience and his contribution will surely improve cricket at the district level,” said Sodhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cac-eyeing-to-revamp-cricket-at-all-levels-in-punjab-reetinder-singh-sodhi-308733
09-09-2021||Panchkula||PGTI Players Championship: Chandra dominates Day 1 at Panchkula||Yashas Chandra set the bar with a top-notch 7-under 65 in the opening round of the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship at the Panchkula Golf Club here today.The 26-year-old Mysuru golfer, who finished tied-11th on the PGTI last week, continued his good run with an error-free effort at one of his favoured venues.Reigning PGTI Order of Merit champion Rashid Khan of Delhi carded an impressive 5-under 67 to close the opening day in tied 2nd place along with Kolkata’s Sunit Chowrasia and Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat.“I’ve played well at the Panchkula Golf Course in the past and that kind of helped heading into this week. I finished fourth here back in 2019 having shot a 7-under in one of the rounds. I also made three eagles in my opening round at the same event,” said Chandra.Two-time Asian Tour winner Khan mixed six birdies with a bogey during his 67. His round featured some quality approach shots and up and downs. He closed the day with a 15-feet birdie conversion on the 9th.Chowrasia too had six birdies and a bogey while Veer Ahlawat sank seven birdies against two bogeys to share second place with Khan.Chandigarh’s Ranjit Singh was the highest-placed tricity golfer at 5th place with a card of 68.Eight players, including the Chandigarh trio of Karandeep Kochhar, Abhijit Singh Chadha and Amritinder Singh, are bunched in tied 6th place with a total of 69.Bengaluru duo of Chikkarangappa and M Dharma, Kolkata’s Shankar Das, Mhow-based Om Prakash Chouhan and Delhi’s Kartik Sharma also shared the sixth place.Defending champion Akshay Sharma of Chandigarh and Gurugram-based Manu Gandas, winner on the PGTI last week, shared the 26th place with a card of 72. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgti-players-championship-chandra-dominates-day-1-at-panchkula-308732
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||DDCA beat MPCA by 145 runs||Ayush Badani and Jonty Sidhu scored a half-century each before Pardeep Sangwan claimed a four-for to help DDCA register a 145-run against MPCA in a JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament match here today.Opting to bat, DDCA had a poor start as they lost opener Sarthak Ranjan early. He was caught by wicketkeeper Harsh Gawli off Ritwik Diwan on naught.Manjot Kalra (23) and Priyansh Arya (42) stabilised the DDCA innings with a 76-run partnership for the second wicket. However, a couple of quick wickets put the side back foot and it was left for Badani and Sidhu to take DDCA to a respectable total.The duo added 129 runs for the fifth wicket before Sidhu was dismissed by Arshad Khan on 95. Badani left soon after, caught by Yash Dubey off Khan on 60.Vijan Panchal then wielded the long-handle, smashing 22 off 8 balls as DDCA achieved reached 332/7 in 50 overs.Left-arm medium pacer Khan scalped 3/73 for MPCA, while Ritwik Diwan, Omkarnath, Adhir Partap Singh and Aman Badharia took a wicket apiece.MPCA, in reply, had a disastrous start, losing both their openers inside the first three over.While Sidharth Patidar (0) was caught by Kalra off Sangwan, Dev Barnalay fell to the pacer on one as MPCA slumped to 6/2.Rishab Chouhan and Anil Morya stitched a 71-run partnership for the third wicket. But with Chouhan falling to Tejas Baroka on 37, MPCA lost their way and were bowled out for 187 runs in 35.3 overs.Morya made 34 runs, while Badharia contributed 45 runs to the chase.Sangwan returned figures of 4/21. Baroka claimed three wickets, while Badani accounted for two wickets.HPCA in finalIn another match, HPCA beat Players XI Delhi by five wickets to seal a spot in the final.Both teams had won two league matches each before today’s encounter.Electing to bat, Players XI Delhi were all out for 181 runs in 49.2 overs as they lost wickets at regular intervals and failed to build any momentum.Prashant Chopra claimed three wickets for HPCA, while Digvijay Rangi and Akash Vashisht bagged a couple of wickets each.Skipper Jeevanjot Singh and Sumit Mathur made 39 runs each for Players XI Delhi.In reply, HPCA romped home in 32.2 overs with Ankit Kalsi hitting a solid 50 and Chopra contributing 40 runs to the chase. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ddca-beat-mpca-by-145-runs-308731
09-09-2021||Dera Bassi||Market razed in Dera Bassi||The Municipal Council today razed 13 shops near bus stand. The shopkeepers opposed the MC’s decision to demolish the “khokha market”, said to be around 33 years old.A Duty Magistrate, Judge Jagjit Singh, said: “Today’s proceedings were carried out after a hearing. The market was illegal.”Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma said: “The Congress-ruled city council is bullying the poor. Covid has already made life difficult for people but they do not care for the poor.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/market-razed-in-dera-bassi-308730
09-09-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Mata Gujri College, Fatehgarh Sahib, teachers stage sit-in for UGC pay scales||On the call given by the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union, teachers of Mata Gujri College staged a sit-in against government and demanded UGC pay scales here today.Addressing the protesters, Dr Bikramjit Singh Sandhu, district president of the union, said, “The Punjab Government is not serious about higher education. Various states have already implemented the UGC pay scales, whereas the Punjab is yet to do so despite the fact that 50 per cent of its share has to be contributed by the Centre.”“The state government has ruined future of the teaching community. Moreover, the new staff is being recruited on contract at meager salary for three years. Moreover, the government never implemented already conceded demands, which reflects its anti-teacher attitude,” he added. He demanded that the UGC pay scale should be implemented. The decision to de-link salary with the UGC pay scale should be withdrawn and the Security of Service Act be implemented for teachers working on uncovered posts, he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mata-gujri-college-fatehgarh-sahib-teachers-stage-sit-in-for-ugc-pay-scales-308729
09-09-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib: Can’t supply bricks on government rates, says association||The District Brick Kiln Owner’s Association has expressed its inability to supply bricks for government development works on Deputy Commissioner (DC) rates as the prices of coal, diesel and petrol have shot up.Addressing mediapersons, president of the District Brick Kiln Association Prem Jindal said, “At present, in the international market the rates of coal have almost doubled. Earlier, coal was available for Rs10,000 to Rs12,000 per tonne. Now, its price has increased to Rs18,500 to Rs20,000 per tonne.”“At the same time, the rates of petrol and diesel have also gone up resulting in increase in carriage fare. So, the price of bricks will be higher and in the coming days may go up considerably,” said Jindal.“We are unable to supply bricks for government development works on the fixed DC rates as it will cause us losses and we will be forced to shut kilns,” said Jindal.The association urged the Centre to start its own coal mine or provide them coal on subsidy so that they could reduce rates of bricks.If the government did not provide any relief to the industry most of the kilns would close, Jindal added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-cant-supply-bricks-on-government-rates-says-association-308728
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Labour Department launches drive to mobilise unorganised workers||The Labour Department here has started awareness camps to mobilise the unorganised workers to get themselves registered on the e-Shram portal.The camps were organised at Community Centre, Mauli Jagran; Community Centre, Bapu Dham; Community Centre, Maloya; Street Vending Zone, Sector 15; and City Livelihood Centre, Sector 25. The programme which started on September 6 will run till September 11.The department made an appeal to all unorganised workers to get themselves registered on the portal.The Ministry of Labour and Employment has launched e-Shram portal - www.eshram.gov.in - for creating a comprehensive National Database of Unorganised Workers.The database will be seeded with Aadhaar and it will consist of name, occupation, address, educational qualification, skill types, family details, etc. for optimum realisation of employability and to extend the benefits of the social security schemes to the workers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-labour-department-launches-drive-to-mobilise-unorganised-workers-308727
09-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Property grab case: Accused Saurabh Gupta files civil suit to cancel sale deed of house||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, September 8The alleged property grab case of Sector 37 here has witnessed a new twist as Saurabh Gupta, who purchased the property, has filed a civil suit in a Chandigarh court seeking the cancellation of the sale deed of the house.The court has issued notices to accused Khalendra Singh Kadyan, Arvind Singla, Satpal Dagar and Gurpreet Singh, besides Rahul Mehta for filing the reply by September 16.A notice has also been issued to HDFC Bank.Gupta is one of nine accused named by the Chandigarh Police in an FIR registered in the alleged property grab case on March 2.In his application Gupta claimed that he was unaware of the dispute and was a victim of cheating.He said had he known about the dispute, he would not have invested over Rs3 crore in the property.The FIR was registered against Sanjiv Mahajan, Saurabh Gupta, Khalendra Singh Kadyan, Arvind Singla, Ashok Arora, Satpal Dagar, Rajdeep Singh, late Surjit Singh and Shekher.As per the FIR, some of the accused took possession of the first floor of Rahul Mehta’s house in March 2017. The accused had allegedly taken Mehta’s signatures on papers after torturing him. He was later abandoned in Gujarat.The police said an imposter of Mehta was produced before the office of the Sub-Registrar at the time of the execution of the sale deed of the house.The police claimed that a GPA of House No. 340, Sector 37, Chandigarh, was first executed in April 27, 2017 in favour of Arvind Singla and another accused Khalendra Singh Kadyan.As per the chargesheet, when the lease hold right of the house was transferred on the basis of the alleged fake documents, the accused, including Singla, started a search for a prospective buyer with the aim of earning huge profit.The chargesheet stated that Singla then allegedly approached Manish Gupta and he prepared the sale agreement in the name of his brother Saurabh Gupta.The other accused allegedly took Gurpreet Singh to the Sub-Registrar’s office on March 1, 2019 and presented him as Rahul Mehta and got the GPA cancelled, stated the chargesheet. On the same day, sale deed of the house was executed in the name of Saurabh Gupta through Gurpreet Singh posing as Rahul Mehta.Since the beginning, Saurabh Gupta has been claiming that he is a victim and was unaware of the dispute regarding the house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-accused-saurabh-gupta-files-civil-suit-to-cancel-sale-deed-of-house-308726
09-09-2021||---||Aerotropolis project, Mohali: Online allocation of letters of intent begins||Mohali, September 8Housing and Urban Development Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria today started the online issuance of letters of intent (LoIs) to the land owners whose land has been acquired for the Aerotropolis project under the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA).Starting the process at PUDA Bhawan by digitally issuing a letter of intent to a land owner, the minister said the land owners would receive an SMS containing a link, by clicking on which they would be able to download the letter. Now, they are no longer required to do the rounds of the GMADA office to obtain the letter.Under the project, GMADA has acquired around 1,650 acres of land for the development of pockets A, B, C and D. The project is coming up in the vicinity of the international airport here. The owners of about 1,460 acres had opted for land pooling to whom the LoIs are now being issued online. All LoIs are expected to be issued in next 30-40 days.Tenders worth approximately Rs215 crore for the execution of various civil, public health and electrical services would be floated soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aerotropolis-project-mohali-online-allocation-of-letters-of-intent-begins-308725
09-09-2021||---||100 companies to take part in job fairs||Mohali, September 8Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) Himanshu Aggarwal today reviewed arrangements for the Seventh Mega Job Fair at Dera Bassi Government College. The even will be held tomorrow.Dr Aggarwal said these fairs would ensure employment to a maximum number of youth under the flagship Ghar Ghar Rozgar mission of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. He also allotted the work related to the job fairs to officers of various departments.More than 100 leading companies would be participating in the job fairs that would conclude on September 17. The job fairs would be held at Government College, Dera Bassi, on September 9, at CGC, Landran, on September 11, at Rayat Bahra College, Kharar, on September 14 and at Government College, Phase 6, Mohali, on September 17.Job aspirants can register on the website www.pgrkam.com to participate in these mega job fairs. If an aspirant is not able to registered on the website, then he can avail of on-the-spot registration facility. They can also contact the district employment bureau, Mohali, SDMs and BDPOs offices for further information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-companies-to-take-part-in-job-fairs-308724
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara varsity awarded A+ NAAC rating||Chitkara University has been awarded A+ rating by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) which places it among 5 per cent higher education institutions (HEI) in India to be granted such a coveted grade.The university scored a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 3.26 on 4 point scale, said officials concerned here today. “The curricula are developed following standardised procedures and are revised at regular intervals by taking a feedback from all our stakeholders. The local, regional and global developmental needs regarding employability and entrepreneurship are considered while designing a course,” said Dr Madhu Chitkara, Pro Chancellor.“The university practices Global Week for students/faculties exchange programme with foreign academic institutions,” said Dr Archana Mantri, Vice-Chancellor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-varsity-awarded-a-naac-rating-308723
09-09-2021||---||Panjab University campus likely to open next week||Chandigarh, September 8Panjab University is likely to open its campus from next week, Dean Students Welfare (Women) Prof Meena Sharma said here today.The campus is expected to be open in a phased manner, starting with final year post-graduate students of some of the science departments, said Prof Sharma.Sources claimed that the students would be asked to produce a negative Covid test report or they should have taken at least one dose of the vaccination.It has also been decided to assess the number of students willing to come for offline classes, before taking a final call on the opening of other departments for students, said a source.Facing protest by various students’ organisations, the Panjab University administration was expected to open the campus in the last week of September.“Our indefinite protest will continue till the PU authorities release the exact schedule for the reopening of campus for students. There should be no bar between science and social sciences. This schedule must also include the hostel accommodation,” read a statement issued by the protesting students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-campus-likely-to-open-next-week-308722
09-09-2021||Mohali||Non-permanent teachers end sit-in outside PSEB||Members of the Contractual Teachers’ Union ended their 85-day sit-in outside the office of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) and the Education Department in Phase 8 after the Punjab Government acceded to some of their demands.The officials said initially, 8,393 posts would be filled and after that the remaining 5,000 teachers would be accommodated.The teachers, who had been camping on the roof of the building for the past 85 days, came down. However, their demonstration would continue peacefully till all teachers are regularised. On June 16, temporary, non-permanent and ad hoc teachers unions began a dharna demanding regularisation of service and a hike in salary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/non-permanent-teachers-end-sit-in-outside-pseb-308721
09-09-2021||---||Ex-SSC officers seek pro-rata pension, medical facilities||Chandigarh, September 8Former Short Service Commission (SSC) officers today reiterated their demand for grant of pro-rata pension as well as facilities for medical treatment on similar lines as are being given to regular defence service officers.Speaking to mediapersons here today, several released SSC officers said they had met the Defence Minister as well as the Chief of Army Staff several times in this regard, but even after many years their efforts had gone in vain.The SSC officers said the provision of medical treatment in military hospitals was arbitrarily withdrawn in 2009. Though the Chandigarh Bench of the Armed Forces Tribunal directed the Ministry of Defence in 2010 to restore the facilities, the order has been challenged before the Supreme Court, where it is still pending.Demanding that the status of ex-servicemen be granted to released SSC officers, they said they also lost out other benefits such as reservation for their wards in admission to educational institutes and resettlement schemes.They averred that If this discrimination continues, it may have an adverse impact on talented youth getting attracted to SSC, which is the need of the hour to cover up a big shortage of officers in Armed Forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-ssc-officers-seek-pro-rata-pension-medical-facilities-308720
09-09-2021||---||Claim can’t be denied on basis of fake driving licence, says panel||Chandigarh, September 8An insurance company cannot deny claim of the insured vehicle on the ground that the driver was in possession of a fake driving license, observed the Consumer Commission while directing the insurance firm to pay the claim amount to the complainant.The commission also directed the company to pay Rs15,000 compensation to the complainant for causing him mental agony and harassment, besides paying Rs7,000 as litigation expenses.Ramesh Chand, a resident of Kalka, in his complaint had said his transport vehicle was insured with United India Insurance Company Limited under a policy which was valid from August 12, 2016 to August 11, 2017.Chand said he hired a driver, namely Saran Dass, with a valid driving licence issued by the Government of Nagaland. The licence was valid till April 21, 2018. An NOC for its renewal had also been issued by the DTO, Tuensang, Nagaland.The insured vehicle met with an accident at the Sangla Valley in Kinnaur Hills. As a result, the vehicle was totally damaged and driver died on spot.An FIR was registered on September 26, 2016 at the Sangla police station Sangla in Himachal Pradesh.The insurance company repudiated claim vide letter dated October 16, 2017, stating that driver of the vehicle – Sharan Dass – did not possess a valid driving license at the time of accident.The driving license was found to be fake as no record was available with the DTO, Tuensang, Nagaland.Chand approached the commission. The insurance company in its reply stated that the driving license of the driver was found to be fake. Therefore, the claim of the complainant was repudiated.The commission said though the driver was found to have possessed a fake driving licence, it was not a valid reason for denying the claim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/claim-cant-be-denied-on-basis-of-fake-driving-licence-says-panel-308719
09-09-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Rs 20-lakh heritage manhole  cover left unattended in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8A member of Heritage Items Protection Cell (HIPC) of the UT Administration has raised the alarm over the safety of a heritage manhole cover that has been left unattended in Sector 21 here.In a letter to the MC Commissioner, Anindita Mitra, Ajay Jagga has highlighted that the heritage manhole cover, the estimated cost of which is about Rs20 lakh, was seen ‘sans heavy frame, lying over drain hole, is completely exposed to theft’. He has called for urgent action to protect the heritage item.When contacted, Jagga said: “I saw this manhole cover lying unattended at Sector 21. I didn’t mention the exact location in the letter and otherwise for the safety of this heritage item. Since manhole covers are now the responsibility of the MC, it should take immediate and necessary action to protect the heritage of this city.”There are nearly 2,000 cast iron manhole covers in the city, with an impression of Chandigarh map, which were designed by French architect Le Corbusier. In December 2019, the MC had approved the proposal of replacing these covers with cemented ones at an approximate cost of Rs75 lakh. This was done in view of protecting the heritage of the city.When informed about the heritage manhole cover and Jagga’s communication, Anindita replied: “I am not aware of any such correspondence, that doesn’t mean that the correspondence is not received. A corrective action will be taken immediately, tomorrow itself. I shall fix responsibility of people who have been casual in exercising their duties. I’m of the opinion that no development in this city can happen which doesn’t go with the ethos of City Beautiful.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-20-lakh-heritage-manhole-cover-left-unattended-in-chandigarh-308718
09-09-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI patient count up, reaches 50 pc of pre-Covid numbers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here is now attending to 5,000 patients daily, which is 50 per cent of the footfall witnessed during the pre-Covid times.Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, around 10,000 patients visited the PGI for treatment as well as for OPD services daily. The OPDs were completely shut down on March 19, a day after the first Covid-19 case surfaced in the city. The institute then shifted focus to teleconsultation services.Till now, teleconsultation has remained the initial point of contact among patients and doctors. Patients are evaluated first through teleconsultation. Only those requiring further evaluation and examination are called to the OPDs by appointment.Some patients, who do not have access to teleconsultation facility, also visit the institute physically and such patients are attended to by doctors in the OPDs.Recently, the PGI resumed online appointments for outdoor patients with a cap of 30 patients per department to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. This facility can be accessed from the institute website. This is in addition to various modalities of elective outpatient services currently being provided at the institute.Dr Naveen Pandey, in charge of OPD Administration, PGI, said: “Out of 5,000 patients the institute is attending to, 2,500 are physically coming to the various departments. The patients are accompanied by their attendants as well. There is a footfall of 8,000 people at the PGI even now. The serological testing conducted on patients suggests that the positivity rate is low among the community right now.”Patients are being attended to through teleconsultation and physical OPDs as well. Doctors are working overtime because teleconsultation takes double the time.”Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, said: “We are attending to over 5,000 patients daily through teleconsultation and physical OPDs. We are gradually approaching towards pre-Covid stage in terms of patient load. Physical consultation is very important for patients. In days to come, we will increase the capping from 30 to 50 patients who will visit OPDs physically.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-patient-count-up-reaches-50-pc-of-pre-covid-numbers-308717
09-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Golden boy Neeraj Chopra eager to visit Milkha Singh’s house in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8Having fulfilled legendary sprinter Milkha Singh’s wish of seeing an Indian athlete climb the podium at the Olympics, star javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra is now eager to visit the Milkha household here along with his gold medal.Chopra became the first Indian athlete to win a gold medal in the Olympics after he topped the podium with a throw of 87.6m in Tokyo early last month.The 23-year-old had dedicated his medal to Milkha Singh, who died of Covid in June. Though Milkha was not able to see Chopra stand right on top of the Olympics podium, the Haryana athlete had made sure that the world remembered the sprinter in his hour of glory.“I dedicate this medal to Milkha Singh. I hope he’s watching over me from wherever he is,” Neeraj had said soon after winning the gold medal.Later, while responding to a tweet by former Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, Chopra had said: “Mera bhi sapna tha ki Milkha Singh ji ki wish puri kar paun. Bas yehi umeed hai ki woh jahan bhi hai, ye dekh kar khush hue honge.”Meanwhile, Chopra, who was in the city today expressed his helplessness at not being able to visit Milkha household yet. However, he ensured that he would visit the house very soon.“I wanted to visit Milkha Singh’s house soon after winning the medal. However, I am yet to go there. It’s my duty to take this gold medal to his house,” said Chopra.“Had he been alive, he would have been proud of me. It’s disheartening that he’s not among us, but his inspiring words will always inspire me to give my best. I am a bit late, but this medal will surely visit the Milkha Singh’s house,” he added.Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi said he would accompany Chopra to the Sector 8 house.“I had spoken to Jeev Milkha Singh, he was out of the country playing some championship. As soon as he comes back, we would accompany Chopra to Sector 8,” said Sodhi.“Dad waited so many years for this to happen. His dream has finally come true with India’s first athletics gold. I am crying as I tweet this. And I am sure dad is crying up above. Thank you for making this happen,” Milkha’s son and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh had wrote after Chopra dedicated his medal to the ‘Flying Sikh’.“Before coming here, Neeraj had asked if we could visit Milkha Singh’s house... I promised to schedule the visit as soon as possible,” said Sodhi.Chopra was in the city today for the second time after winning the gold medal in Tokyo. Last month, he had visited the city to meet Haryana Governor, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and other officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golden-boy-neeraj-chopra-eager-to-visit-milkha-singhs-house-in-chandigarh-308716
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||Three new cases of Covid-19 in Chandigarh, no fatality||The city on Wednesday reported three cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. A total of 17 patients were cured of the disease. — TNSFour more found infected in MohaliMohali: Four new Covid-19 cases, one from Kharar and three from Mohali, were reported on Wednesday. Two patients recovered from the virus. Of the 68,651 cases reported so far, 67,545 have recovere. The active case count has reached 46. The death toll stands at 1,060. — TNS4 fresh cases in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district reported four fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,697. The Covid toll remained at 377. While 30,309 people have recovered from the disease so far, 11 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.73 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-no-fatality-308715
09-09-2021||Amit Sharma||Actress Alankrita Sahai robbery case: Suspect has a criminal past||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8One of the suspects, who robbed a model-turned-actress at knifepoint at her house in Sector 27, has a criminal past. The police investigation has revealed that the suspect, Arjun, has several cases registered against him in Punjab.Also read: Actress Alankrita Sahai robbed of Rs 6L at knifepoint in ChandigarhPolice sources said the suspect was also convicted in a case of burglary. “He was lodged at the Ropar jail and was released in May 2021,” the sources added.The suspect was earlier lodged at the Patiala jail also in another case.Aged around 23, the suspect is a native of Nepal and lives alone in Kharar. His mother is a domestic help, who works at a house in Panchkula and lives there only. The police are scrutinising the call detail records of the suspect’s mobile phone to trace him. People who were in contact with the suspect are also being questioned by the police.Meanwhile, raids are being conducted in Mohali, Kharar and the surrounding areas. The footage of CCTV cameras installed in Sector 27 and neighbouring sectors is being scrutinised to check whether any vehicle was used in the crime.On Tuesday, the victim was alone at her house when three suspects, who had their faces covered, barged into the house. The victim was kept hostage at knifepoint and robbed of Rs6 lakh and another Rs20,000, which a suspect withdrew from her account using her ATM card.The police said the victim had identified Arjun as one of the four suspects who visited her house on August 30 to drop furniture she had purchased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/actress-alankrita-sahai-robbery-case-suspect-has-a-criminal-past-308714
09-09-2021||---||Punjab ex-cop in two-day police remand for wife’s murder||Mohali, September 8A retired Punjab Police head constable, who allegedly killed his 69-year-old wife, was produced in a court today and sent to two-day police remand.The post-mortem of the victim, Kuldeep Kaur, was conducted at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6. The police have sent viscera samples for a forensic examination.Sources said there were injury marks on the chest, one side of the head and neck. The injury mark on the head was due to a blunt object. There are strangulation-like marks on the neck. The nature of injury in the chest was not clear yet, said sources.The suspect, Kartar Singh Riar (70), allegedly killed his wife by repeatedly banging her head against the floor at their house in Phase XI yesterday morning. The suspect was arrested two hours later. He was sitting near the body.The couple had strained relations for a long time, the police said. Presently, the victim was staying with his son in Sector 66 while the suspect was living in his Phase XI house. The incident took place when the latter had called the former to his house to sort out the issue.In 2017, Kartar had shot at his brother-in-law Tirlok Singh over a familial discord. He had recently come out of jail on parole in the attempt to murder case. The police said the victim was a witness in the case, which led to further bitterness between the couple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-ex-cop-in-two-day-police-remand-for-wifes-murder-308713
09-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||No offence by adults in live-in sans divorce: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that no offence would apparently be made out if two adults were in a live-in relationship without being divorced from their spouse. The High Court also refused to agree with a judgment that said a spouse was not entitled to protection with regard to relationship with another person without obtaining a divorce.The ruling by Justice Amol Rattan Singh came on a protection petition against the State of Punjab and other respondents. The Bench was told that the petitioner-man was married. He had filed a divorce petition, which was dismissed. An appeal against the order was filed by him before the High Court, which was still pending. In an order passed during the hearing of the appeal, it was observed by the High Court that there was no chance of reconciliation.Petitioner’s divorce plea was junkedThe ruling by Justice Amol Rattan Singh came on a protection petition against the State of Punjab and other respondents. The Bench was told that the petitioner-man was married. He had filed a divorce petition, which was dismissed. An appeal against the order was filed by him before the High Court, which was still pending. In an order passed during the hearing of the appeal, it was observed by the High Court that there was no chance of reconciliation.The counsel submitted that the petitioners were in a live-in relationship and were apprehending danger to their life and liberty. Even the police were harassing the petitioners.Justice Amol Rattan Singh observed that the petitioners were directed by a co-ordinate Bench to address arguments in terms of a judgment by the Allahabad High Court. The counsel, in response, submitted that it was observed a spouse was not entitled to protection qua a relationship with another person without obtaining a divorce.Justice Amol Rattan Singh added that he found himself unable to agree with the judgment, especially in view of the fact that the Supreme Court had struck down Section 497 of the IPC on adultery as unconstitutional and violative of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India.“Consequently, prima facie at least at this stage, no offence would seem to have been committed by the petitioners, they being adults in a live-in relationship with each other, whether or not any divorce petition is pending before this court, which of course it is in the present case…,” added Justice Amol Rattan Singh.Before parting with the case, the Bench directed the Senior Superintendent of Police concerned to ensure that the life and liberty of the petitioners was duly protected. “A very adverse view to be taken by this court in case the petitioners are again harassed by the SHO on account of any live-in-relationship that they have with each other,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-offence-by-adults-in-live-in-sans-divorce-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-308712
09-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Let’s wait & watch, say experts, term air purifiers a costly affair||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8Controlling the source of pollution is more important than piecemeal solutions like installing air purifiers, believe environment experts.The UT Administration has taken an initiative to install an air purification tower at the busy Transport Chowk in Sector 26. However, experts believe that only time will tell how effective it will be in controlling air pollution in the area.The air purifier, installed at no cost to the Administration, was commissioned yesterday. The junction has one of the highest traffic volumes in the city. The pollution level in the area is also one of the highest in the city.Also read: Chandigarh gets country’s tallest air purifierPollution comes from vehicles and construction of buildings in the form of particulate matter like methane, carbon dioxide and dust particulate, which can create a lot of health problems for people like respiratory illness.Dr Ravindra Khairwal, Additional Professor, Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGI, said, “We need to control air pollution at source or along the pathway as installation of air purifiers will be a costly affair.”Some experts though opine that the authorities should regularly monitor the quality of air in the surrounding area. If the tower was found to be effective in reducing the air pollution substantially, the experiment should be replicated in other polluted areas such as industrial areas, bus stand, near hospitals and traffic signals.A professor at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, said the tower was commissioned just a day ago and it was too early to say anything on its success. “We have to wait and watch before coming to any conclusion,” he said, adding that if the tower succeeded in reducing the air pollution as mentioned within a radius of 500 metre, such units could be set up at a distance of 6 km to reduce air pollution level in the city.An official of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee said with installation of the tower, the air quality around Transport Chowk would improve considerably.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lets-wait-watch-say-experts-term-air-purifiers-a-costly-affair-308711
09-09-2021||Amit Bathla||The same old story — Bumpy rides on potholed roads in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 8For the past many years, pothole-ridden roads have become a regular feature in the city, dubbed as “Paris of Haryana”.Despite the fact that the MC spends approximately Rs5 crore every year on the upkeep of roads, these continue to provide a bumpy ride to commuters year after year.After the recent rain, the condition of roads turned from bad to worse in many localities such as the housing board entry road, the road separating Sector 7 and 8 and the main road near Suraj Theatre in Sector 1.Following repeated complaints and mounting pressure, the Panchkula Municipal Corporation took up some patchwork on roads and fill potholes.However, for residents, the “quick fix solution” of the civic body is “too little and too late”. They say it will not bring any comfort for motorists in the long term.Surprisingly, in March this year, the district administration had directed road construction agencies to identify seven stretches of 5 km each and develop them as “model roads” free of accidents.However, this target will remain a distant dream until the authorities find a long-term solution to keep roads in shape. Facing criticism for the “negligent attitude” of the civic body, Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal of the BJP went into a damage-control mode.“We have been constantly keeping a track of pothole-ridden roads, which require immediate attention, and patchwork is being carried out. Already, a number of bad patches have been repaired and potholes filled across the city,” he said.“The rainy season has brought to a halt development works and road repairs. After the rainy season gets over, the hot-mix plant will be made functional and will start work on recarpeting of roads across the city. Keeping the weather forecast in mind, we expect to start work from next Monday,” Goyal said.Asked about his views, MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh made similar comments. Gian Chand Gupta, Haryana Speaker and MLA from the Panchkula constituency, could not be contacted for his remarks.SK Nayar, president, Citizens’ Welfare Association, said, “A spell of rain will wash away the temporary patchwork on roads and potholes will resurface. Instead, the Municipal Corporation should adopt a scientific and permanent solution to ensure roads are not damaged by rain and plying of heavy vehicles. If the MC can waste lakhs of rupees in the name of beautification, can’t it ensure smooth roads for motorists?”“All roads should be repaired before the monsoon as a delay makes their condition worse,” he added. RK Aggarwal, president, Panchkula Vikas Manch, said, “The contractor entrusted with the task to repair the roads should be held accountable.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/the-same-old-story-%E2%80%94-bumpy-rides-on-potholed-roads-in-panchkula-308710
09-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Residential property tax: Chandigarh MC caught on the wrong foot||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 8The MC has been caught on the wrong foot as it has been issuing water supply disconnection notices to residential property tax defaulters for two years.This is despite the fact that there is no provision to snap the water supply connection in the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, as extended to the UT. Realising its folly, the MC has now discontinued the practice of sending notices.“We have stopped sending notices as there is no provision in the Act. We are now studying the Act to finalise what action is to be taken in case of payment default. Attaching property or car can be considered,” an official said.The MC started issuing such notices at the time of Additional Commissioner Anil Kumar Garg, who was earlier heading the property tax division. As many as 500 notices were issued last year to house property tax defaulters. As many as 300 of them had cleared the dues. Later, the remaining 200 were served notices again and water meter disconnection was on the cards. These 200 households alone owe about Rs50 lakh to the civic body.The property tax branch of the corporation has collected about Rs43 crore revenue from commercial and residential property tax in the current fiscal. About 1,200 commercial tax defaulters and about 1,000 residential tax defaulters have been issued notices to clear their dues. The MC has recently attached four commercial properties for failing to clear their dues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residential-property-tax-chandigarh-mc-caught-on-the-wrong-foot-308709
09-09-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board slashes reserve price of its leasehold properties||Chandigarh, September 8In view of a lukewarm response to its recent e-auctions, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to reduce the reserve price of its vacant commercial and residential properties on a leasehold basis by 20 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, for the next e-tenders.The decision was taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors, which was chaired by Dharam Pal, UT Adviser-cum-Chairman, CHB.The last three e-auctions for leasehold properties had received a tepid response.Only two units each were sold out of 149 commercial and 33 residential properties on September 1. The CHB could sell only three of the 151 commercial properties and five of the 38 residential units put up for auction on August 10. Similarly, nine of the total 156 commercial properties and two of the 11 residential properties offered by the board were auctioned on July 1.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB, said after detailed deliberations, it was decided to restore the allotment of residential units, which was cancelled due to building violations, in case the appeal of the allottee concerned was pending before the board, provided the violations were removed by December 31, 2021, and applicable revival/restoration charges were paid.To allow further need-based changes in residential units, the board constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the Secretary, CHB, comprising members of the departments concerned of the UT Administration. “During the process, the committee may consult the nominated members of the board, RWAs and other stakeholders for some innovative solutions,” said the CEO. The report of the committee would be placed before the board for consideration and decision, he added.Thousands of allottees have been demanding regularisation of need-based changes/additional construction made in residential units and a one-time settlement on the Delhi pattern. Of the nearly 70,000 houses constructed by the CHB so far, need-based changes have been made in about 60,000 houses in which nearly 20 per cent population of the city resides.In another decision, the engineering cost estimate of Rs643.64 crore for the General Housing Scheme at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology (IT) Park has been approved in principle. The tentative cost of the flats would be worked out after the plan approval committee (upper) gives its nod to the detailed drawings, said the CEO.The board has also decided to fill 40 vacant posts of clerk through direct recruitment, and to enhance the existing ceiling of medical reimbursement to the retired employees from Rs50,000 per annum to Rs1 lakh per annum. The staff quarters for the employees would be renovated on the lines of improvement specifications of the houses of the UT Administration, he added.Meanwhile, UT Adviser Dharam Pal stated that there was a need to get the market in Sector 61(Kajheri) where all commercial units were lying vacated assessed by some experts for exploring different options. “Since the whole market is lying unsold for more than 20 years, we need to revisit the whole plan. There may be many options like converting it either in a single plot or redevelop it as office-complex, etc,” he added.Other decisions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-slashes-reserve-price-of-its-leasehold-properties-308708
09-09-2021||Chandigarh||4.5 lakh cases pending, not 7L, says Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has claimed that around 4.5 lakh cases were pending before it and not seven lakh, as reflected earlier on the National Judicial Data Grid due to a software mismatch.High Court Registrar (Vigilance)-cum-PRO Vikram Aggarwal said the earlier figure of seven lakh was due to a mismatch between “Case Information System” and “Integrated Software for High Court”. As a result, the disposal of cases was not being reflected on the NJDG.“The requisite data synchronisation has been done. The current pendency is around 4.5 lakh cases. This figure is expected to come down further once the softwares are fully synchronised,” the Registrar said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-5-lakh-cases-pending-not-7l-says-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-308521
09-09-2021||---||Chandigarh gets country’s tallest air purifier||Chandigarh, September 7To mark the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies, the tallest air purification tower of the country was inaugurated by UT Adviser Dharam Pal here today.The Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) had taken an initiative to install the tower at Transport Chowk, Sector 26.This is the highest air purifier of India, which will cover around a 500-metre radius around Transport Chowk. Polluted air enters the inner casing of the mist chamber, wherein a number of mist nozzles spray water in the form of mist on the polluted air. Heavy polluted air particles are drained into a drain tube, which collect in a water tank. Fitted with a system to suck polluted air through inlets, particulate matter (PM) 2.5 and PM 10, along with various oxides of sulphur and nitrogen, are filtered by the purifier and the purified air exhausted in the environment.This purifier has been installed by Pious Air Pvt Limited without any cost to the UT Administration. It will also operate and maintain it for five years without any cost.According to the company, with the commissioning of the tower, the air quality around Transport Chowk will improve substantially. It is estimated that about 1.5 lakh vehicles ply on this chowk every day. The trial found that air pollution in and around Transport Chowk has come down by 70 to 80 per cent. The temperature around the chowk is also expected to drop by 10-12 degrees below the rest of the city.According to the manufacturer, the air purifier is a 24-metre-high tower-like structure, which will clean 3.88 crore cubic ft of air from the surrounding environment.The tower will pull in polluted air from the surrounding environment and release clean air into the atmosphere. A board installed at the tower will display how much polluted air is being sucked by the tower and also how much clean air has been released into the atmosphere.Among those present on the occasion were Debendra Dalai, Secretary, Environment, Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner, and other senior officers of the Administration.Followed by the inauguration, a water sprinkler machine was also flagged off by UT Adviser Dharam Pal. The sprinkler will be used to wash roadside plants and also to suppress dust along the roads. A bicycle rally of around 100 students from prominent schools of the city was also flagged off by the Adviser to raise awareness among the public to curb air pollution and sensitise them to use bicycle as their local mode of conveyance.A prize distribution ceremony was held at Paryavaran Bhawan, Sector 19-B, Chandigarh, to distribute prizes among the winners of a poster-making competition on the theme of the International Day of Clean Air for Blue Skies this year i.e. healthy air, healthy planet.How it worksPolluted air enters the inner casing of the mist chamber, wherein a number of mist nozzles spray water in the form of mist on the polluted air. Heavy polluted air particles are drained into a drain tube, which collect in a water tank. Fitted with a system to suck polluted air through inlets, particulate matter (PM) 2.5 and PM 10, along with various oxides of sulphur and nitrogen, are filtered by the purifier and the purified air exhausted in the environment.Also read: Let’s wait & watch, say experts, term air purifiers a costly affair||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-countrys-tallest-air-purifier-308261
09-09-2021||---||Actress Alankrita Sahai robbed of Rs 6L at knifepoint in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 7In a broad daylight incident, three miscreants allegedly robbed model-turned-actress Alankrita Sahai of Rs 6 lakh at knifepoint at her house in Sector 27.One of the suspects has been identified by the victim. The police said the complainant had shifted to the city around a month ago. She and her parents had rented the second floor of the house and the victim’s parents were out of the city for the past 10 days.Sources said the victim was alone at the house and had kept the door open for her maid when three suspects suddenly entered the house around 12.30 pm. One of the suspects picked a knife from the house and threatened her. The victim was also allegedly assaulted by the suspects.They took her ATM card and asked its PIN following which a suspect went to a nearby ATM kiosk and withdrew Rs20,000 from her account. He then returned to the house. In the meantime, the victim pushed a suspect and managed to lock herself in a room. The suspects then went to the balcony and tried to enter the room through a window. Then the victim locked herself in the washroom.The suspects kept demanding money from her and even tried to break the exhaust fan of the washroom. Fearing for her life, the victim threw Rs6 lakh out of the room following which the suspects escaped the spot after scaling the rear wall.The police were informed about the incident and an investigation was initiated. The footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area was scrutinised.The police claimed that the victim had identified one of the suspects. “One of the suspects involved in the crime had visited the victim’s house to deliver furniture which she had recently purchased,” said a policeman.The victim had ordered furniture from Manmohan on August 3. Manmohan had further given the order to Sharanhit of Rama Industries in Mohali and on August 30, four persons from Rama Industries had visited her house to deliver the furniture. A case was registered at the Sector 26 police station. Sources said the police raided the house of one of the suspects, who was at large.Also read: Robbery suspect has a criminal past||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/actress-alankrita-sahai-robbed-of-rs-6l-at-knifepoint-in-chandigarh-308260
