10-09-2021||---||Punjab and Haryana HC asks litigant to plant trees instead of imposing costs||Saurabh MalikTribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10In an exceptional order, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered a litigant to plant 75 trees by way of imposing costs.The direction by Justice Arun Monga of the High Court came in a case where the petitioner claimed that his right to file a written statement before a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal had been struck off due to its non-filing on time.Taking up the petition filed through counsel Saurav Bhatia, Justice Monga asserted the writ petition was allowed subject to costs assessed at Rs.10,000. By way of imposition of costs, the petitioner would plant 75 trees of deciduous and perennial nature of any variety such as Neem, Amla, Gulmohar and Alstonia in the vicinity of his residence.Justice Monga added the plantation would be carried out under the supervision of the District Horticulture Officer concerned. He would give a letter of proof to the MACT on the carrying out the plantation drive in accordance with the Court orders.Justice Monga added the Court below would ensure compliance of the direction. In case of default on the petitioner’s behalf, High Court Registry would be at liberty to place the matter before the Bench again for reporting non-compliance. The proof of plantation was also directed to be furnished by the petitioner in the Registry, along with supporting letter from the horticulture department.The Bench was during the course of hearing told that the petitioner had filed his written statement in an earlier round of claim petition, which was dismissed as withdrawn. Though he prepared the written statement in the second claim petition, he could not file it on time leading to passing of the impugned order vide which his defence has been struck off. Bhatia added the petitioner was 90 per cent disable and unable to walk and could not even attend the Court hearings in person. He was necessarily dependant on his counsel and others to follow up his interest.Justice Monga added the Court was of the view that the interest of justice would be met if one more opportunity was granted to file the written statement subject to certain costs. The non-filing did not appear to be deliberate, borne out from the earlier round of litigation where the petitioner had already filed his written statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-asks-litigant-to-plant-trees-instead-of-imposing-costs-309319
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||One arrested in snatching case||55-year-old man commits suicideChandigarh: A man, identified as Babu Ram (55), reportedly committed suicide by hanging at his house in Sector 25. The police were informed about the incident following which cops shifted the body to the mortuary at the GMSH, Sector 16. Meanwhile, an inquest proceeding has been initiated into the matter. TNSLifting carcasses: MC starts helplineChandigarh: The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has started a helpline for complaints regarding lifting carcasses. It has awarded the contract for lifting carcasses from within the limits of the corporation. People can register their complaints on helpline number 0172-2787200 and email-id mohmcc-chd@nic.in. The contractor will not charge any fee for this service. People are, therefore, requested not to pay any fee to the contractor or its employee. TNSMega Job Fair: 484 get jobsMohali: The 7th Mega Job Fair kick started under the Punjab Government's flagship programme Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission here on Thursday. Inaugurating the job fair at Government College Dera Bassi, SDM Kuldeep Bawa said four job fairs were being organised in the district to facilitate employment to more than 50,000 youth of the district from September 9 to 17. More than 700 candidates attended the job fair today. Deputy Director DBEE Meenakshi Goyal said prominent employers like ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Pukhraj, Zomato, Swaraj and Nahar, participated in the job fair and provided jobs to 484 youngsters. She said 75 youngsters had been selected for skill training and 56 were shortlisted for self-employment opportunities. TNSChain hunger strike at PUChandigarh: Members of the Government College Teachers' Association (GCTA) and PUTA on Thursday participated in the ongoing chain hunger strike under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers' Organisation (PFUCTO) at PU. The teachers condemned the insensitive attitude of the Punjab Government towards their demands. TNSVirtual session on wellnessChandigarh: The office of the Dean (Girl students), Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, organised a virtual session on “Women’s wellness during Covid-19”. Dr Sunaina Bansal, a gynaecologist, was the speaker at the event. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-arrested-in-snatching-case-309118
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Reet-Naisha clinch title||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reet-naisha-clinch-title-309117
10-09-2021||---||Nihal steers PCC to victory||Chandigarh, September 9Punjab Cricket Clots (PCC) defeated Chhattisgarh by five wickets in a JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament match here today.Put in to bat, Chhattisgarh made 226/9 in 50 overs. Amandeep Khare (54), Ahustosh Singh (52) and Shashank Chandrella (48) made useful contributions to the total.Barinder Sran, Prerit Dutta and Krishan Alang scalped two wickets each, while Gurnoor Brar and Sumit Sharma bagged one wicket apiece.In reply, PCC rode on Nihal Wadhera's 98-run knock to reach home in 46 overs. Naman Dhir made 35 runs.Despite winning this match, PCC could not make it to the semifinal as they had lost to UPCA. Both UPCA and PCC recorded two wins each. However, PCC having lost to UPCA in an earlier league encounter lagged on the head-to-head count.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nihal-steers-pcc-to-victory-309116
10-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh cricketer Uday to play for Mizoram||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 9After spending 16 years with Punjab and three years with Chandigarh, seasoned wicketkeeper-batsman Uday Kaul has decided to move to Mizoram to play the dual role of a player and mentor for the North-East side.The 34-year-old will not only feature in the Mizo squad, but will also act as a mentor to the team for the upcoming domestic season.Kaul, who had an illustrious career at the Punjab Cricket Association, had joined the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA) in 2019.“I think it is the right time to let the city youngsters come forward and play. Also, I have been asked to play a dual role, as a player and a mentor, for the Mizoram squad. Considering my future, I believe this is the best opportunity for me,” said Uday, the elder brother of speedster Siddarth Kaul.Uday has represented India Blues, India A, India U-17, India U-19 (Young Cricketers), India U-19, Kings XI Punjab, and North Zone at various stages of his career, besides playing for Punjab at U-14 and U-16 levels.For the last three years, he has been part of the UTCA senior squad. In his last outing for Chandigarh, Uday had scored 148 runs against Manipur at Kolkata in a Ranji Trophy Plate Group tie.“I have no regrets. I have sailed through even the worst of times with ease. I always believe that moving on with a positive thinking helps a person grow. Belonging to a cricketers’ family, I have been raised under a very motivational environment,” said Uday.“Everyone (UTCA officials) is happy with my decision to shift to another state. And this will surely help me gain the experience of a lifetime,” he added.The wicketkeeper-batsman has played 102 First-Class and 69 List A matches and has 24 centuries to his credit.Recently, Uday attended the BCCI’s Level-2 coaching programme.“This is just an addition to my career. I cleared the Yo-Yo test for three years and managed to perform equally well. Clearing the Level-2 was a step to keep open my future options,” said Uday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cricketer-uday-to-play-for-mizoram-309115
10-09-2021||Panchkula||PGTI Players Championship: Veer fires 62, ends Day 2 as clubhouse leader||Veer Ahlawat shot an extraordinary 10-under 62 to open a massive seven-shot lead and end the second day as clubhouse leader at the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship after heavy rain and thunderstorm delayed the start of play at the Panchkula Golf Club here today.The 25-year-old Gurugram golfer got going with four straight birdies from the 4th to the 7th as he kept landing it within four to eight feet of the flag thanks to his brilliant hitting. Ahlawat continued the trend on the back-nine by picking up six more birdies.Ahlawat, however, could not break Mandeo Singh Pathania’s course record of 9-under 63 from 2009 as the rule of “preferred lie” is in place this week.Noida’s Amardeep Malik struck a solid 7-under 65 with eight birdies and a bogey to be placed second in the clubhouse at a total of 8-under 136.Chandigarh’s Ranjit Singh (68-69) was third in the clubhouse at 7-under 137 while veteran Harendra Gupta (71-67) was fourth at 6-under 138.Out of a total field of 124, only 59 players completed their second round due to the delayed start. The remaining 65 players with unfinished second rounds will resume play at 7 am tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgti-players-championship-veer-fires-62-ends-day-2-as-clubhouse-leader-309114
10-09-2021||---||Minor, 2 others held for vehicle thefts||Mohali, September 9The police today claimed to have arrested three persons, including a minor, and recovered 16 two-wheelers from their possession.The arrested accused have been identified as Sunny, a native of Bheeshanpur village in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, and presently residing in Phase 2, Mohali, Parvinder Singh, a native of Attari village in Amritsar district and presently residing at Randhawa Road in Kharar, and a minor.The police said a team of the Phase 8 Industrial Area police post, led by in-charge Sub-Inspector Satwinder Singh, arrested Sunny and a minor boy and recovered three Activa and a motorcycle from their possession.A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC was registered at the Phase 1 police station on August 18 this year.The police said during investigation in another case registered under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC at the Phase 1 police station on September 2, they arrested Parvinder Singh and recovered 12 Activa scooters from his possession.The police said the accused had sold two scooters to his neighbours stating that he used to purchase impounded vehicles by the police at lesser rates and later sold them to the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-2-others-held-for-vehicle-thefts-309113
10-09-2021||Mohali||Nigerian woman jailed for smuggling heroin||A court today sentenced a Nigerian woman to 10-year rigorous imprisonment for smuggling heroin in Mohali.Additional District and Sessions Judge Harjit Kaur Kaleke also imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh on the convict, Joye Cheeka Ozuma Niger. In case of default of payment, the convict will have to further undergo one-year imprisonment.Following a tip-off, the Special Task Force (STF), Mohali, had arrested the Nigerian woman, Joye Cheeka Ozuma, in May 2018 from near the Nature Park in Phase IX here and recovered one-kg heroin from her.The STF team, under the supervision of Inspector Ram Darshan and ASI Avtar Singh, was present in Phase IV, Mohali. It got a tip-off that a woman was entering Mohali with one-kg heroin. The team immediately laid a trap near the Nature Park in Phase IX here and stopped a Nigerian woman for checking.On checking, the police recovered one-kg heroin from her possession. She came to India on the business visa in 2015 and used to sell readymade garments in Delhi, Noida and Tripura. In order to earn extra money, she entered into drugs smuggling business. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nigerian-woman-jailed-for-smuggling-heroin-309112
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Battle of Saragarhi discussed||The core committee of the All India Defence Brotherhood (AIDB), Punjab chapter, met here today to discuss the ways and means to generate awareness among youth about the epic Battle of Saragarhi and also discuss the challenges posed by Taliban to India’s national security.Speaking about the Battle of Saragarhi, that was fought on September 12, 1897, Brig KS Kahlon (retd), AIDB's state president, said India's history was replete with many examples of perseverance, astounding bravery and sacrifices made by its people while safeguarding the integrity and unity of the country and one such event was this battle which was fought by 21 soldiers of 36 Sikh Battalion (now 4 Sikh) against thousands of Pathans in the North Western Frontier Province, now in Pakistan and a breeding ground of Taliban.On learning of this unparalleled action, the British Parliament rose in unison to pay homage to the Indian soldiers. Each of the 21 of soldiers were posthumously awarded the Indian Order of Merit, then the highest gallantry award authorised to Indian soldiers.Stating that this year would mark the battle's 125th anniversary, Brig Kahlon appealed to the Prime Minister to issue a special stamp and coin to commemorate the heroic deeds of the Saragarhi martyrs.He also appealed to CM Capt Amarinder Singh to assign the task of strengthening and activating village defence platoons, particularly in the border districts, to the Guardian of Governance functionaries so as to plug loopholes in the internal security. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/battle-of-saragarhi-discussed-309111
10-09-2021||---||Farmers hold protest rally near DC office in Mohali||Mohali, September 9Hundreds of farmers today held a protest rally near the District Administrative Complex against less compensation being given to them for the land being acquired by the government for construction of roads. The protesters raised slogans against the Punjab government and demanded that they should be given compensation on the prevailing market rate.Farmers from different parts of the state reached the rally site in tractor-trailers, thus blocking all roads leading to the complex. Due to the rally, people had to face problems in getting their works done at various government offices located in the complex. A huge traffic jam was witnessed at Sohana village and its surrounding areas. The police had to face a tough time in diverting the traffic.Addressing the protesters, farm leaders Sonia Mann and Dr Karamjit Singh Chilla said the Central Government was acquiring fertile land for the construction of highways and other roads, but the compensation being given to farmers for these land was meagre. The farmers should be compensated as per the market rate and the Punjab government should take up the matter with the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-hold-protest-rally-near-dc-office-in-mohali-309110
10-09-2021||Amarjot Kaur||The Tribune impact: Heritage manhole cover replaced with concrete one||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 9The local Municipal Corporation (MC) swung into action on Wednesday night after the new Commissioner Anindita Mitra was intimated about the heritage manhole cover lying unattended in Sector 21.Following The Tribune report on the manhole cover, which was spotted by a member of the UT Administration’s heritage panel, the cast iron manhole was replaced by a cemented one.When informed about the heritage item, Anindita assured quick action and the repair work began this morning itself.The MC chief said, “We have the heritage manhole cover safely with us and replaced it with a cemented one. Our public health wing is also looking for more such manhole covers to see if they are safe.” She added that the MC would now work in coordination with the heritage committee of the UT Administration. “We will put this entire agenda of heritage manholes before the heritage committee and find ways to preserve and conserve these.”On Wednesday, Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Items Protection Cell (HIPC), had raised the alarm over the safety of the cover which was designed by Swiss-French architect Le Corbusier. In a communication sent to the MC Commissioner, Jagga had highlighted that the price of the manhole cover was estimated at Rs 20 lakh and could easily be stolen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/the-tribune-impact-heritage-manhole-cover-replaced-with-concrete-one-309109
10-09-2021||---||Register for GMSH OPD at Sector 15 Sampark Centre||Chandigarh, September 9People can now visit the Sampark Centre in Sector 15 to get OPD registration card made for check-up at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 here.The UT Department of Information Technology has launched the service at the Sector 15 centre on a pilot basis, from 8 am to 11 am. On its successful run, the service will be made available at other Sampark Centers in the city.Now, citizens can get their OPD registration done at the Sector 15 centre by paying Rs10.With the launch of the service, the cumbersome process of standing in a queue at the hospital to get an OPD card made will be eased to an extent.Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Health, UT, clarified that there would be no change in the existing system of walk-in registration for availing the OPD service at the GMSH-16. Vinod P Kavle, Secretary, Information Technology, said, “This is a citizen-friendly initiative, which would make the process of OPD registration more accessible and efficient for public. As per the mandate of the Government of India to provide hassle-free services to citizens, the Department of IT is ready to start other services of the hospital through Sampark centres like payment of fee for medical tests.”Nitika Pawar, Director, Information Technology, said, “Sampark centres are fully equipped to minimise the burden of the Chandigarh Administration by extending more and more government services to the citizens under the single-window system.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/register-for-gmsh-opd-at-sector-15-sampark-centre-309108
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Adviser Dharam Pal opens new facilities at Sector 32 hospital||To commemorate 30 glorious years of the GMCH, Sector 32, UT Adviser Dharam Pal congratulated the faculty and staff for their valuable contribution to providing quality healthcare and managing the Covid-19 pandemic well.He drew attention towards healthcare requirements such as shortage of doctors and adoption of hygiene and sanitary practices. He also emphasised the importance of research. A cultural programme was organised.The UT Adviser inaugurated various facilities, including VRDL Lab, Skill Lab, Respiratory ICU and Pulmonary Medicine OPD. Prof Jasbinder Kaur, Director-Principal, highlighted the achievements of the GMCH in the past one year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-dharam-pal-opens-new-facilities-at-sector-32-hospital-309107
10-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh court acquits three in ‘robbery’ case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 9A court has acquitted all three accused arrested in an alleged robbery case registered by the UT police in 2018. The accused were acquitted after the police failed to prove charges against them and the complainant did not recognise them during the trial.The police had registered the case against Sachin, Shanny and Jaswinder Singh under Sections 392 and 34 of the IPC on a complaint of Arun Kumar, a resident of Small Flats, Mauli Jagran.In his complaint, Arun said he was working with Bhatia Gas Agency, SCO 13, Sector 20-D, Chandigarh, as a driver. He said when he was going from the Iron Market Chowk to the Tribune Chowk in a cylinder delivery vehicle on October 6, 2018 around 5 PM, two boys wearing helmets came on a motorcycle. They parked their motorcycle in front of his auto. They asked him about way to Zirakpur. In the meantime, one of the boys allegedly put a knife to his stomach and another one put hand on his mouth. One more boy came from behind and forcibly took Rs3,000 from him. He also snatched two mobile phones from the victim before fleeing from the spot.During investigation, the police arrested all three accused. They also recovered a knife from Jaswinder Singh, alias Vicky. After the completion of investigation, a challan was presented against the accused in the court. After finding a prima facie case, the accused were chargesheeted under Section 392 read with Section 34 of the IPC to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.The police examined Arun as witness. Thereafter, prosecution closed the evidence.After hearing the arguments, Puneet Mohinia, Judicial Magistrate (First Class), Chandigarh, said the complainant could not identify the three accused present in the court. The witness was subjected to cross-examination by the public prosecutor with the permission of the court, but the prosecution failed to elicit anything material to prove the case. Hence, the prosecution failed to discharge its onus of proving the case beyond shadow of doubt. As such, the accused persons namely Sachin, Shanny and Jaswinder Singh were acquitted of the charges framed against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-court-acquits-three-in-robbery-case-309106
10-09-2021||Mohali||Be more vigilant  to prevent dengue,  say health officials||The District Health Department has advised residents of Mohali district to take precautionary measures to protect themselves from dengue and water-borne diseases these days.Issuing an advisory, Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur and District Epidemiologists Dr Vikrant Nagra and Dr Harmandeep Kaur, in a joint statement, urged people of the district to be more cautious and vigilant to prevent dengue and water-borne diseases.The health officials said residents need to be more vigilant and cautious these days as there was a fear of aedes aegypti mosquito breeding till the end of November. They also warned people against water-related diseases such as diarrhoea, cholera, typhoid and hepatitis A and E during the rainy season. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/be-more-vigilant-to-prevent-dengue-say-health-officials-309102
10-09-2021||---||Charges framed against SBI official, 3 others in graft case||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 9A special CBI court here today framed charges against four persons, including an assistant manager, New Officers Colony branch of the State Bank of India, Patiala, in a 2013 graft case.The charges have been framed against Gurpreet Singh (41), a resident of Hasanpur, Sangrur district, Punjab; Naresh Kumar (51), a resident of Rajpura, Patiala; Ashok Kumar (42) and Shilpa Rani (33) of Bhatia Colony, Fatehabad, Haryana, under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code, Section 13 (1) (d) read with Section 13 (2) of the PC Act, 1988, and Section 66 read with Section 43 of the IT Act, 2000.According to the CBI, in 2013, Gurpreet Singh opened an account with Uttarakhand Gramin Bank, Balawala, Dehradun, after impersonating as Neeraj Kumar, Engineer-in-Chief, Haryana Public Health Engineering Department, Panchkula.The agency stated: “He (Gurpreet Singh) submitted forged documents and then entered into a conspiracy with others.”The co-accused include Naresh Kumar, who was posted as the assistant manager, New Officers’ Colony branch of the State Bank of India, Patiala; Ashok Kumar, Shilpa Rani and Jarnail Singh (approver). The CBI said even the mobile number used by Naresh Kumar for coordinating with other co-accused was bought using forged documents.The Court of Special Judge, Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI, observed that: “They all dishonestly accessed the account, used fake and forged cheques in 2013 and 2015 and fraudulently withdrew Rs13.53 crore from an account of Engineer-in-Chief, maintained with the State Bank of India, Sector 10, Panchkula, in the name of Kumar.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charges-framed-against-sbi-official-3-others-in-graft-case-309101
10-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali MC panel passes work orders worth Rs60L||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 9The Finance and Contract Committee of the Mohali Municipal Corporation today passed work orders worth Rs60 lakh brought specially for various development works in Sector 76 to 80 here.The F&CC also brought new resolutions of more than Rs3 crore for various development works in various areas falling under the Municipal Corporation.The meeting was held under the chairmanship of Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu. Prominent among others present in the meeting included Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, members Jasbir Singh Manku, Anuradha Anand, Commissioner Kamal Garg, Joint Commissioner Harjit Singh Dhillon and SE Sanjay Garg.Speaking after the meeting, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said the entire area from Sector 76 to 80 was earlier under GMADA and was lagging behind in terms of infrastructure. After the Municipal Corporation took over the area, he took special interest in initiating development works here and tried to strengthen the infrastructure.The Mayor said resolutions worth crores had been passed for the industrial sector and the residential area in Sector 74. Works for cleaning and maintenance of parks and roads had been started.Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said similar efforts were being made for the development of Mohali as a whole and works in various sectors were going on in full swing. He reassured the people of Mohali that there would be no shortage of funds for development works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-panel-passes-work-orders-worth-rs60l-309099
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Tribune employees donate blood to mark death anniversary of Sardar Dyal Singh Majithia||As many as 75 units of blood were donated by employees of The Tribune Trust and their family members at a camp organised by The Tribune Employees’ Union to mark the death anniversary of The Tribune Trust founder Sardar Dyal Singh Majithia.Also read: Remembering our founder — Sardar Dyal Singh MajithiaThe camp, organised in association with the Department of Transfusion Medicine, PGI, was inaugurated by Justice SS Sodhi, Trustee of The Tribune Trust, who highlighted the importance of blood donation, especially at a time when the pandemic has hit such noble initiatives. Justice Sodhi honoured Rajan Raikhy for donating blood and platelets 182 times.President of The Tribune Trust NN Vohra, in his message, said: “Ready availability of assured blood in every hospital is crucial for saving lives. The noble tradition must be kept up. I compliment the employees for coming forward to voluntarily donate blood”.Rajesh Ramachandran, Editor, The Tribune, remembered the founder and spoke about his life and achievements, while congratulating the union and its office-bearers for regularly organising such camps. Swarajbir, Editor, Punjabi Tribune, and RK Singh, Editor, Dainik Tribune, too spoke.Vinay Verma, General Manager, The Tribune Trust, exhorted the employees to come forward for such social causes.Anil Kumar Gupta, president of The Tribune Employees’ Union, said this was the 52nd blood donation camp organised by the union. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tribune-employees-donate-blood-to-mark-death-anniversary-of-sardar-dyal-singh-majithia-309060
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees one death, four new cases of Covid||Seven test positive in Mohali districtMohali: The district reported seven fresh cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 68,658. Meanwhile, no fatality due to the virus surfaced while five more patients have been cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one each came from Gharuan and Boothgarh, two from Kharar and three from Mohali. No case was reported from Dhakoli, Dera Bassi, Lalru, Kurali and Banur. So far, 67,550 patients have been cured in the district while 1,060 have died. TNSTwo fresh cases in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district reported two fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 30,699. The Covid toll remained at 377. While 30,309 people have recovered from the disease so far, 13 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.72 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-one-death-four-new-cases-of-covid-309059
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University to reopen in phased manner from September 13||Panjab University has announced to open its campus in a phased manner from September 13.It has been decided to first allow final year postgraduate students from the Department of Physics, Chemistry, University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, and Dental College.Prof SK Tomar, Dean Student Welfare, PU, said keeping in mind the limited accommodation in the hostels (single accommodation rule due to Covid), PU has allowed limited students to stay on campus from September 13.However, students will need to fulfill certain conditions, including consent from parents mentioning that their ward will follow all the SOPs/directions issued by the Centre and the university from time to time.They also need to submit an undertaking through the chairperson of the department concerned that if the situation demands, they will vacate the hostel and leave the university accommodation.Also, students must have either received both doses of vaccine or at least one dose of the vaccine with a negative Covid-19 RTPCR test report not older than 72 hours of reporting to hostel for accommodation.Students also need to take care that for the time being single accommodation will be provided and as and when the situation will be normal, rooms will be allotted as per previous practice on merit basis, said Tomar.Tomar further said in view of the government’s direction, single room accommodation would be provided to the students. Therefore, it may not be possible to provide hostel accommodation to all hostel seekers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-reopen-in-phased-manner-from-september-13-309025
10-09-2021||---||Panjab University 23rd among Indian universities||Chandigarh, September 9Panjab University has climbed three spots to 23rd place in the National India Rankings (NIRF 2021) released today.The university has also gained six places in the overall category to be ranked 38th.This year, the PU achieved a score of 50.12 on perception in the university category in contrast to 42.39 last year.The university scored 48.88 points in teaching, learning and resources, 40.86 in research and professional practices, 71.57 in graduation outcomes, 53.49 in outreach and inclusivity, and 37.31 points in perception in overall category.UIPS retains 2nd rankThe University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) has been ranked No. 2 among the pharmacy institutions across the nation for the third consecutive year.UIPS chairperson Prof Indu Pal Kaur attributed the feat to the institute’s rich heritage, globally acclaimed faculty, state-of-the-art infrastructure, great teamwork and excellent research outcomes.The high prowess in publications (350), high quality research output in terms of patents (Granted: 8; Published & Field: 6), technology-transfers to industry (6), grants and academics and collaborative outputs are the main strengths of the UIPS, she said.The top ranking institute is just 0.53 points ahead of the UIPS, said Prof Indu.VC expresses gratitudePU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar congratulated the faculty, research scholars and the staff. “The PU has very recently performed well in the Times Rankings and now have done well in the NIRF rankings. I congratulate the UIPS, which has over the years retained its second spot in the country in terms of its excellence,” said Prof Kumar.Dr Ashish Jain, Director, IQAC, also congratulated the entire faculty and the IQAC team for working tirelessly.“The improvement in the university ranking is largely due to improvement in the perception of the university which essentially can be credited to continued efforts of its faculty and university as a whole with a very positive outlook,” he said.Poor showThe PU’s Department of Law slipped 12 places to 27th spot in the latest rankings. The department scored 45.62 points in comparison to 51.11 points scored last year.In the newly added ‘research’ parameter, the PU ranked 28th with 48.71 points.The PU’s University Business School, meanwhile, failed to make the rankings list this year. Last year, the school had been ranked 42nd with 47.22 points.The PU also did not qualify for the rankings for dental institutions. Last year, the Dental Department had bagged the 28th position with 53.09 points.CU shinesChandigarh University (CU), Gharuan, performed well in the NIRF rankings. The university attained an overall rank of 77 with a score of 44.62 points. It also maintained 52nd rank among the universities.In engineering, the university attained 61st rank with 45.01 points. It outclassed Punjab Engineering College (PEC), which attained 70th position with 42.62 points, and Panjab University, which is ranked 89th with 40.16 points.Chandigarh University is also the only institution in the tricity to find a place in the Management NIRF Rankings 2021. The institute gained 45th rank with 48.57 points.A Mixed bagNIPER bags fourth positionNational Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Mohali, has been ranked 4th among 351 participating pharmaceutical institutions in the NIRF India Rankings. NIPER is preceded by Jamia Hamdard, Panjab University and BITS Pilani. Last year, the institute was ranked 3rd. NIPER scored 74.52 points, while Jamia Hamdard got 78.52 points.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-23rd-among-indian-universities-309024
10-09-2021||Panchkula||Man posing as Major nabbed in Panchkula||A man has been arrested for allegedly trying to gain entry into the Chandimandir Cantonment by posing as a Major.The suspect has been identified as Ganesh Bhatt, a native of Uttarakhand.The police also seized a car used in the crime and recovered an Army uniform and a pair of boots from him. The incident had taken place on September 3 around 10:40 pm.According to the police, the suspect, who identified himself as Major Ganesh of Indian Army, stopped his car at a gate and told security officials to let him enter. “When a constable on the duty asked the suspect to show his identity card, it made him uneasy and he started making excuses. When the entry was refused, he went inside the car and rammed the vehicle into the security barrier. After the failed attempt, he sped away,” the police said.The guards immediately informed the police about the incident. A case was registered under Sections 131 (abetting mutiny or attempting to seduce a soldier, sailor or airman from his duty), 170 (personating a public servant), 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC.He was produced in a local court today, which sent him to two-day police custody. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-posing-as-major-nabbed-in-panchkula-309023
10-09-2021||Panchkula||Ex-GM of BSNL gets 4-year jail for graft||A special CBI court here today sentenced a former senior general manager (GM) of BSNL to four years in jail for accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh in the year 2014.The court of special CBI judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg also imposed a fine of Rs10 lakh on the convict, Chanderhas, the then senior GM, Telecom District (BSNL), Karnal.Chanderhas had demanded a bribe of Rs3 lakh from Yashpal, a junior telecom officer of BSNL, office of Divisional Engineer, Karnal, in lieu of reducing the penalty in a chargesheet against him. Chanderhas later reduced the bribe amount to Rs2.75 lakh and agreed to accept Rs2 lakh as the first installment.Yashpal then approached the CBI. A trap was laid and the convict was caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs2 lakh from the complainant.The convict has been sentenced to three-year rigorous imprisonment, along with a fine of Rs3 lakh, under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, and four years in jail, along with a fine of Rs7 lakh, under Section 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Both sentences will run concurrently.Chanderhas pleaded for leniency, stating that he had never been convicted before and was “facing the agony of criminal trial since 2014”. However, CBI public prosecutor KP Singh argued for the maximum punishment.The court observed: “...one lie is enough to question all truths. But it is the duty of the court to enforce the rule of law and, therefore, to guard against erosion of the rule of law. The duty of the court is that any anti-corruption law has to be interpreted and worked out in such a fashion so as to strengthen the fight against corruption.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-gm-of-bsnl-gets-4-year-jail-for-graft-309022
10-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Deadline over, haphazard parking still the norm at paid facilities in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 9Even after the week’s deadline set by the Municipal Corporation for parking contractors, haphazard parking and lack of attendants can still be seen at many parking lots, an MC inspection report submitted to Commissioner Anindita Mitra has found.According to the report, “haphazard parking was found in the evening at major parking sites...in major parkings such as Elante, Sukhna Lake, Sector 35 B & C, 43, 20, 22, 26 and the MOH and Sahib Singh lots in Sector 17. Though staff were deployed inside, but they were without whistles and sticks. In small parking lots, no staff was deployed”.Chandigarh Tribune observed that lack of adequate staff leads to chaotic scenes as there was no one to guide the drivers amid a huge rush of vehicles.The report mentioned that improvement was needed with regard to parking kiosks, barricades, cones and chains put up at the parking lots.However, the report pointed out that several other smart features mentioned in the contract were in place.Two parking contractors, who manage 89 sites, had complied with most of the basic parking features such as e-ticketing, LED display, e-payment, staff wearing uniform at most sites and boom barrier (at required sites), it added.The UT Adviser had earlier raised the issue. Later, the Opposition in the General House of the MC had also raked up the issue of smart features not having been introduced.Mitra then tightened the noose around the contractors and gave them a week to implement the features.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deadline-over-haphazard-parking-still-the-norm-at-paid-facilities-in-chandigarh-309021
10-09-2021||Mohali||Widow ends life in front of male friend in Zirakpur hotel||A 32-year-old woman, Sangeeta, a resident of Mauli Jagran in Chandigarh, reportedly committed suicide at a room in a hotel in Zirakpur in front of her male friend, who was in an inebriated state. He has been identified as Sandeep Kumar.Jashanpreet Singh, ASI and in-charge of the Baltana police post, said the victim was a widow. She was in a relationship with a man from Una in Himachal Pardesh, who works in a hotel in Ludhiana.The suspect had booked a room in the hotel in Zirakpur on September 7 for night stay. He came from Ludhiana and both went to the hotel. Today, he visited the reception of the hotel to borrow a knife. He took the knife and returned to his room. However, the hotel staff, on suspicion, followed him and repeatedly knocked at the door of the room. After some time, he opened the door. He told the staff that his “lover” was not fine and went out on the pretext of calling an ambulance and fled.‘Used to molest her’On a complaint of Neelam, deceased’s sister, the police have registered a case under Sections 306 and 323 of the IPC. The police recovered three bottles of countrymade liquor. The body was handed over to family members after a postmortem.ASI Jashanpreet Singh said Neelam told them that her sister’s husband had died two years ago and she was living alone. He said during the past nine to 10 months, her sister was in relationship with Sandeep and he was allegedly molesting her on the pretext of marriage.ASI Jashanpreet Singh said Sandeep had an altercation with the woman over the issue of getting married and he took liquor. She hanged herself from the ceiling fan in his presence. He was drunk. In the morning, when he saw her hanging, he fled from the scene.On a complaint of Neelam, deceased’s sister, a case has been registered against Sandeep Kumar for abetment to suicide. The police recovered three bottles of countrymade liquor. Jashanpreet Singh said Neelam told them that her sister’s husband had died two years ago and she was living alone. He said during the past nine to 10 months, her sister was in relationship with Sandeep and he was allegedly molesting her on the pretext of marriage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/widow-ends-life-in-front-of-male-friend-in-zirakpur-hotel-309020
10-09-2021||Chandigarh||Banwari Lal Purohit regular Governor of Punjab, order silent on Chandigarh Administrator||In a fresh order issued today, the President appointed Banwari Lal Purohit as the regular Governor of Punjab. However, the order did not mention about the regular charge of the UT Administrator.As per the previous order, he was given the additional charge, both as the Governor of Punjab and UT Administrator.A senior UT official said he was given the additional charge of both Punjab and the UT, but now he was given the regular charge of Punjab and it seemed the order would also apply to the UT Administrator. City residents have been demanding the appointment of a full-fledged Administrator for the UT by divesting the Punjab Governor of this charge. However, the MHA had recently clarified that the Centre had neither taken any decision on divesting the Punjab Governor of the responsibility of the UT Administrator nor any such proposal was under consideration. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/banwari-lal-purohit-regular-governor-of-punjab-order-silent-on-chandigarh-administrator-309019
10-09-2021||---||Parliamentary panel inspects health infrastructure in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 9The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare today visited the PGI and the Health and Wellness Centre, Dadu Majra, and inspected the healthcare infrastructure and patient care offered by the institute and health centres in the city.The committee is chaired by Prof Ram Gopal Yadav.In view of a possible third wave, members of the committee reviewed the plan of the local health administration to tackle the pandemic.They also asked health officials about the ongoing vaccination drive, the number of hospitals in the UT and the staff strength. The other agenda included cancer-related funds for poor at the PGI and implementation of the Ayushman Bharat scheme.At the Dadu majra health centre, UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg and the Director, Health Services, welcomed the committee members. The panel subsequently took a round of the health centre to inspect the health services.The PGI Director, Prof Jagat Ram, said, “Members of the committee were happy with the facilities being offered to patients at the institute.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parliamentary-panel-inspects-health-infrastructure-in-chandigarh-309018
10-09-2021||Amit Bathla||NIRF rankings 2021: For fourth year in a row, PGI second best in the country||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 9For the fourth year in a row, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) here has been ranked second after the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings in the medical category announced by the Ministry of Human Resource Development.The institute scored 82.62 points overall out of 100, showing an improvement of 2.56 points from last year.Meanwhile, the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, has slipped to the 29th position from the 25th last year.As many as 118 medical institutions from across the country were assessed on the basis of five factors: Teaching, learning and resources (TLR), research and professional practices (RP), graduation outcome (GO), outreach and inclusivity (OI) and perception (PR). The PGI got 83.23 points in TLR, 86.31 in RP, 88.27 in GO, 64.04 in OI and 76.73 in PR.Except for outreach and inclusivity, the institute improved in all parameters. Last year, it had scored 66.08 points in the OI parameter.PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram told Chandigarh Tribune, “Not only has the PGI retained its second position but it has also improved its overall score by over two points. It’s a combined team effort of the faculty and staff. Each member of the PGI family deserves to be congratulated for contributing towards achieving the feat.” He added, “We aim at bagging the top spot next year by improving in the areas of deficiency.” The PGI Director expressed his gratitude towards the Central Government “for extending wholehearted support to the institute”.Institute also improved overall score: DirectorNot only has the PGI retained its second position but it has also improved its overall score by over two points. It’s a combined team effort of the faculty and staff members of the institute. Each member of the PGI family deserves to be congratulated for the feat. — Dr Jagat Ram, PGI Director||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nirf-rankings-2021-for-fourth-year-in-a-row-pgi-second-best-in-the-country-309017
10-09-2021||Vibha Sharma||PGI Chandigarh second-best medical college after Delhi’s AIIMS, says Ministry of Education's annual ranking||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, September 9The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras retained its top spot among institutes while the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, ranked the best among research institutions in the country, according to the sixth edition of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced by Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan today.The PGIMER, Chandigarh, ranked second in the category of Medical Education and Panjab University, Chandigarh, which bagged the second place in the Pharmacy category, ranked 38th in the ‘Overall’ list of 100 institutions in the country.According to NIRF ranking, AIIMS, Delhi, got the top spot in Medical category.In the University category, Panjab University got the 23rd rank among the 100 on the list.In the university category, Patiala-based Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology ranked 26, University of Kashmir (48), Chandigarh University (52), Guru Nanak Dev University (53), Lovely Professional University (62), University of Jammu (66), Maharshi Dayanand University (78), Central University of Punjab (84), Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (88), Solan based-Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences (89), Ashoka University (95), Dehradun-based Graphic Era University (98) and University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (100).Among the B-Schools, IIM-Ahmedabad topped the list while Jamia Hamdard emerged the top institution for pharmacy studies.In the colleges category, Miranda House in Delhi bagged the first rank, followed by Lady Sri Ram College for Women, Delhi, and Loyola College, Chennai. Otherwise too, colleges in Delhi dominated ranking with as many as five making to the top 10.Pradhan said a robust and a role model ranking framework will serve as India’s contribution to the global learning landscape “We must ensure that our ranking framework emerges as a benchmark not only in the country, but also globally, especially for the developing economies”, he said while urging for regional ranking frameworks.“NEP provides us with an opportunity to internationalise our education system. We must work collectively to bring more and more institutions under our rankings framework and also establish India as a preferred global study destination,” Pradhan said.As many as 4,030 unique institutions offered themselves for ranking under “overall”, category-specific and / or domain-specific rankings for India Rankings 2021, according to the ministry.In all, 6272 applications for ranking were made by these 4030 unique applicant institutions under various categories / domains including 1657 in Overall Category, 1143 in Engineering, 659 in Management, 351 in Pharmacy, 120 in Law, 111 in Medical, 78 in Architecture and 1802 in General Degree Colleges.Highlights*IIT Madras retained 1st position in Overall Category as well as in Engineering for the third consecutive year.*IIS Bengaluru topped the University as well as Research Institution category introduced for the first time*IIM Ahmedabad topped in Management subject*AIIMS got the top slot in Medical for the fourth consecutive year.*Jamia Hamdard topped Pharmacy for the third consecutive year.*Miranda College retained 1st position amongst colleges for the fifth consecutive year.*IIT Roorkee bagged the top slot for the first time in Architecture subject displacing IIT Kharagpur.*National Law School of India University, Bangalore retained first position for in Law for the fourth consecutive years.*Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal, secure 1st position in Dental category.Rankings of institutions from NorthOverall ranking (list of 100)1. IIT Madras, Tamil Nadu2. Indian Institute of Science, Karnataka3. IIT Bombay, Maharashtra7. IIT Roorkee, Uttarakhand31. IIT Ropar, Punjab38. Panjab University, Chandigarh40 Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali45. Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Punjab77. Chandigarh University, Punjab78 Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Punjab81. Lovely Professional University82 Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi, Himachal85 Guru Nanak Dev University, PunjabArchitecture (list of 25)1. IIT Roorkee, Uttrakhand12. Lovely Professional University Punjab16. Chandigarh University Punjab21. Chitkara University Punjab23. National Institute of Technology, Hamirpur, Himachal24 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, J&KMedical (list of 50)1. AIIMS, Delhi2. PGIMER, Chandigarh26. Dayanand Medical College, Punjab29 GMCH, Chandigarh35. Maharishi Markandeshwar, HaryanaLaw (list of 30)1. Indian Law School of India University, Karnataka16 Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Law, Patiala, Punjab21. Army Institute of Law, Punjab24 Lovely Professional University, Punjab25 University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Uttarakhand27 Panjab University, ChandigarhManagement (list of 75)1 IIM Ahmedabad, Gujarat11 MDI, Haryana14 IIT Roorkee, Uttarakhand28 IIM Rohtak, Haryana33. IIT Kashipur, Uttarkhand37. Lovely Professional University, Punjab42. Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Punjab45. Chandigarh University, Punjab46 University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Uttarakhand54. Chitkara University, Punjab67 IIM AmritsarPharmacy (list of 75)1. Jamia Hamdard, Delhi2. Panjab University, Chandigarh4. Indian Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Mohali18. Punjabi University, Patiala, Punjab23. Lovely Professional University, Punjab27 Guru Jambeshwar University of Science and Technology29. ISF College of Pharmacy, Punjab31 Maharishi Dayanand University, Haryana34 Maharishi Markandeshwar, Haryana35. Chitkara University, Punjab36 Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences, Himachal51. Chandigarh University, Punjab57. Amar Shaheed Baba Jujhar Singh Memorial College of Pharmacy, Punjab58. Kumaun University, Nainital, Uttarakhand63. Chandigarh College of Pharmacy Landaran, PunjabResearch (list of 50)1. Indian Institute of Science Karnataka7. IIT Roorkee Uttarakhand28. Panjab University, Chandigarh38 Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Punjab44. Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali49 IIT Ropar, PunjabColleges (list of 100)1. Miranda House38 I.C. College of Home Science, Hisar78 Government Home Science College, ChandigarhEngineering (list of top 100 of 200)1. Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Tamil Nadu6. Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, Uttarkahnd19. Indian Institute of Technology Ropar, Punjab23 Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology Patiala, Punjab41. Indian Institute of Technology Mandi, Himachal49 Dr. B. R. Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar61 Chandigarh University66 Lovely Professional University, Punjab69 National Institute of Technology Srinagar, J&K70 unjab Engineering College (Deemed to be University), Chandigar79 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, J&K89 Panjab University97 The Northcap University, Gurugram Haryana99 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarh-second-best-medical-college-after-delhis-aiims-says-ministry-of-educations-annual-ranking-308840
