12-09-2021||Chandigarh||80-year-old woman dies of Covid in Chandigarh; 5 new cases||Chandigarh reported five new Covid cases, taking the infection count to 65,154.With the death of an 80-year-old woman, the fatality count reached 817, the bulletin said, adding the number of active cases in the city stands at 30.The overall recoveries from the infection has reached 64,307, it added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-year-old-woman-dies-of-covid-in-chandigarh-5-new-cases-310208
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||JP Atray Memorial: Ranstar Club, HPCA in final after semis get washed out||The first semifinal of JP Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament between Ranstar Cricket Club Delhi and UPCA at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 26, here was abandoned due to rain.Earlier, Ranstar Cricket Club had put in UPCA to bat after the match was reduced to 20 overs a side. However, the tie was later called off due to incessant rain.Ranstar Club having secured three wins in the league stage as compared to UPCA’s two eased into the final.The second semifinal at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium between HPCA and CAG Delhi was also called off after various attempts by the ground staff to get the match started.HPCA advanced to the final on a better performance in the league matches. The side had secured three wins, while CAG Delhi had just two wins to its credit.The final will be played at IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jp-atray-memorial-ranstar-club-hpca-in-final-after-semis-get-washed-out-309886
12-09-2021||Panchkula||PGTI Players Championship: Chikka finishes on top as Veer slips to 2nd spot||Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa S saved his best for the last as he shot a 7-under 65 — the day’s joint best score — in the final round to win the TATA Steel PGTI Players Championship here today.Chikkarangappa (69-65-69-65), who began the day in 3rd place and three shots off the lead, put up a determined performance on the last day to end up with a total of 20-under 268, two shots ahead of the rest at the Rs50-lakh event.The 27-year-old had nine birdies and a double-bogey to show on his card as he wrapped up his 15th career title and 14th win on the PGTI.“I putted really well today and my sharp short-game on the last six holes made all the difference,” said Chikka.Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat (67-62-71-70), the leader for the last two days, was unable to hold on to his overnight two-shot lead as he fired a 70 to finish at 18-under 270 on a day that witnessed a constant light drizzle.Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu (72-67-66-67) had the best result among the tricity golfers. The 24-year-old struck a 67 on Day 4 to take 3rd place at 16-under 272.Noida’s Amardeep Malik (71) closed the week in 4th place at 15-under 273, while Chandigarh golfer Ranjit Singh (68) finished 5th at 14-under 274.Karandeep Kochhar, also from Chandigarh, shared 6th with Gurugram’s Kartik Sharma and Om Prakash Chouhan of Mhow at 13-under 275 along.Kochhar though continues to maintain his lead in the PGTI Order of Merit with season’s earnings of Rs44,48,380.Chandigarh’s Bishmadpal Singh Seerha, the lone amateur to make the cut, took the honours for the best performance by an amateur after he finished tied-36th at 2-under 286. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgti-players-championship-chikka-finishes-on-top-as-veer-slips-to-2nd-spot-309887
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Poshan Maah: DC stresses importance of healthy lifestyle||Government College of Yoga Education and Health in collaboration with Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development, organised a state-level function to celebrate the 4th Poshan Maah.On the occasion, Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar appreciated the concerted efforts of the college in spreading the message of holistic nutrition.He stressed the importance of nutrition and healthy lifestyle and particularly talked about the immense need to contribute towards the betterment of women and children. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poshan-maah-dc-stresses-importance-of-healthy-lifestyle-309888
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration urged to implement Apartment Act||After the Supreme Court directed the UT Administration to submit a report on the sale of independent floors before the Punjab and Haryana High Court within a week, members of the Property Federation Chandigarh have requested the Administration to implement the Apartment Act in the city.In a memorandum submitted to the UT Adviser, the federation stated that the Apartment Act should be implemented in the city to give relief to small and medium families. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-urged-to-implement-apartment-act-309889
12-09-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula teacher booked for hurting religious sentiments||The local police have booked a former teacher of Jainendra Public School, Sector 1, for allegedly hurting the religious sentiments of the school management committee members.An FIR has been filed against Poonam Thakur under Section 295-A, 298, 420, 447 and 120 B of the IPC at the Sector 7 police station on the complaint of school secretary Tarun Jain, said the police.Jain alleged that on August 14, Thakur, in collusion with other teachers, came to the office of the management committee and used filthy language against the members. She also spoke wrong against their religion, he said.“The management committee had found that Thakur had not performed her duties properly and some type of irregularities, mischief and embezzlement was there in the accounts. On August 14, the management committee suspended her with immediate effect,” Jain told the police.“The decision was communicated to her on August 15. Despite that she wrongfully entered the office of the principal by lodging a frivolous complaint with regard to a theft in the school with a mala fide intention to remain in possession of the office of principal so that the evidences of irregularities could be managed,” Jain added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-teacher-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-309890
12-09-2021||---||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya honours Punjab schools||Mohali, September 11Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya today presented the FAP State Awards 2021 at Chandigarh University, Gharuan.The event was hosted by the Federation of Private School and Association of Punjab.Gurukul Grover Crenza Senior Secondary School Patran (Patiala); Dream Public School, Ramgarh Sikri, Talwara (Hoshiarpur); Premjot Public Senior Secondary School Kapurthala; Dayanand Aadarsh Vidyala Hoshiarpur; and Angel World School, Morinda, were awarded for the best infrastructure.Noted Punjabi writer and poet Dr Surjit Patar received the Lifetime Achievement Award for his contribution in the field of Punjabi literature. Environmentalist and social worker Balbir Singh Seechewal was given the Lifetime Achievement Award for his contribution in the field of environment protection.The Governor also conferred Award of Honor to India hockey players Harmanpreet Singh, Rupinderpal Singh and captain Manpreet Singh, who were part of the bronze medal winning team at the Tokyo Olympics.“Punjab is a progressive state in every field, including education,” said Dattatreya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-honours-punjab-schools-309891
12-09-2021||---||Nitin Kumar Yadav to join as Chandigarh Home Secretary soon||Chandigarh, September 11The Haryana Government has relieved Nitin Kumar Yadav, a 2000-batch IAS officer, from the post of Director General, Supplies and Disposals, and placed his services at the disposal of the Chandigarh Administration. Yadav is likely to join the UT Administration as the Home Secretary next week.The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has recently approved the inter-cadre deputation of Nitin Kumar Yadav from the Haryana cadre to the AGMUT cadre (Chandigarh segment) for a period of three years or until further orders, whichever is earlier. The post is reserved for a Haryana cadre IAS officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nitin-kumar-yadav-to-join-as-chandigarh-home-secretary-soon-309892
12-09-2021||---||Sec 27 robbery: Victim’s AirPods recovered||Chandigarh, September 11The UT police have recovered Apple AirPods of the model-turned-actress, who was robbed at knifepoint at her house in Sector 27.The police said while fleeing, one of the suspects, Sunil, alias Sunny, alias Bihari, also took the victim’s Airpods. He would be produced in a court tomorrow.DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh said raids were being conducted to nab the remaining two suspects. “We are hopeful of arresting them soon,” Gurmukh Singh said.On September 7, the victim was alone at her house when three accused, who their faces had covered, barged into the house.The victim was kept hostage at knifepoint and robbed of Rs 6 lakh and another Rs20,000, which a suspect withdrew from her account using herATM card. The victim had identified one of the suspects, who had come to deliver furniture at her house a few days before the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-27-robbery-victims-airpods-recovered-309893
12-09-2021||---||Mystery shrouds Ambala man’s death, three booked||Ambala, September 11The Ambala police have booked three persons on charge of culpable homicide after a man died under mysterious circumstances.The deceased has been identified as Sahil Rana, a resident of Babyal village, Ambala Cantonment. He used to work in the Merchant Navy in Dubai. A case under Sections 120-B, 304 and 328 of the IPC was registered against Monty Rana, Suraj and Ashish at the Mahesh Nagar police station today.Sahil’s father Ashok Kumar, in his complaint to the police, stated that his son used to come home on holiday after nine months.“Sahil informed me over phone that he would be reaching home on September 6, but he didn’t come. When we tried to contact him, his mobile was switched off. On September 7, Monty Rana, a resident of our village, came to our house and informed that Sahil was unwell and he is admitted to Rotary Club Hospital in Ambala Cantonment. My younger son Paras, along with his friends, went to the hospital, where he was informed that Sahil was lying dead,” he said.Ashok said when he, along with his brother, reached the hospital, the doctor informed them that Sahil was brought there on September 7. Earlier, he was admitted to Healing Touch Hospital in Ambala City.“We came to know that when Sahil reached Ambala on September 6, Monty Rana, Suraj and Ashish, all residents of same village, made him sit in their car. Following an old rivalry, they gave him some poisonous substance or drug overdose and kept roaming with him. After Sahil’s health deteriorated, they got him admitted to Healing Touch Hospital. My son has been killed under a well-planned conspiracy”, said Ashok.Suresh, SHO of the Mahesh Nagar police station, said: “A case has been registered and the matter is being investigated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mystery-shrouds-ambala-mans-death-three-booked-309894
12-09-2021||---||18 days on, stolen one-year-old child reunited with family in Mohali||Mohali, September 11Eighteen days after two bike-borne youths took away a one-year-old boy from the hands of his grandmother on the Airport road near City Centre here, the police have reunited the child with the family.Parents of the child work as labourers, while his grandmother Manju Devi runs a roadside tea stall.The police have arrested two persons identified as Mangal Kumar (21) and Shyam, residents of Mau in Unnao, Uttar Pradesh, and presently residing in shanties nearby Kumbhra village. The suspects were arrested after people saw a child under suspicious condition at their house near Baba Deep Singh School in Kumbhra on September 7.During investigation, the police found that Mangal had allegedly stolen the child for his sister Sunila, who is a mother of five daughters. She also had some medical problems, the police said.The police have also recovered the motorcycle used in the crime. Shyam works as an AC mechanic and was arrested on September 8.The duo came on a motorcycle around 7:30 pm on August 24 and asked Manju Devi, who runs a roadside tea stall, for two cups of tea. The elderly woman initially refused as she had no milk, but the duo insisted, the police said, adding that while the woman was busy preparing tea, one of the suspects remained seated on the bike with the ignition on.After finishing the tea, the other suspect asked the woman to hand him over the child in her lap as he wanted to play with him. While the woman got busy with her work, the duo slipped away with the child, they said.It was the toddler’s brother and sister who alarmed the elderly woman about the incident. The CCTV footage collected from nearby houses showed the duo wearing helmets escaping the scene with a child tucked in between. The police later released the sketches of the suspects which helped in cracking the case, the police said.Two in police netThe police have arrested two persons identified as Mangal Kumar (21) and Shyam, residents of Mau in Unnao, Uttar Pradesh, and presently residing in shanties nearby Kumbhra village. The suspects were arrested after people saw a child under suspicious condition at their house near Baba Deep Singh School in Kumbhra on September 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-days-on-stolen-one-year-old-child-reunited-with-family-in-mohali-309895
12-09-2021||---||Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu shown black flags at Landran||Mohali, September 11Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had to face the wrath of farmers and youth when he visited Landran village here to lay the foundation stone for street drainage work and give grants for various development works.Despite rain, farmers gathered at the village and showed black flags to Sidhu. They also did not allow the minister to speak on the stage, forcing him to wrap up his programme in minutes.Young farm leaders Geetinder Singh Gill, Jaspal Singh, Bikker Singh, Jagtar Singh and Gurpreet Singh (both panches), Brij Mohan Sharma, Gurinder Singh and Kamal Landran said there was a huge outcry among farmers. On an appeal of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, all political activities in villages had been suspended.Though Harcharan Singh Gill, sarpanch of the village, tried to explain the situation to the farmers and urged them not to create obstacles in the way of development, the farmers kept on showing black flags to the minister.Geetinder said they were not against development and had made it clear to the sarpanch that no matter how many foundation stones were laid and grants checked, political activities would not be allowed in the village due to the peasant struggle. In view of the urgency of the time, Sidhu, under strict police surveillance, laid the foundation stone for the construction of streets and drains at a cost of Rs17 lakh in just 10 to 15 minutes and left the village. He also gave a grant of Rs11 lakh for the cremation ground and the dharamshala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-shown-black-flags-at-landran-309896
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Property Grab Case: Accused’s plea against probe agency junked||A Special Court here has dismissed the plea of Khalender Singh Kadian - one of the accused arrested in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37, Chandigarh - saying that it can’t direct the police to carry out investigation in a particular way.“Police officials cannot be issued any direction to carry out investigation in a particular way at the asking of the one of the accused,” observed Judge Jagdeep Sood.Kadian in his application on July 12 had alleged that the police was trying to put pressure on two other accused in the case - Ashok Arora and Daljeet Singh - to depose falsely against him and others. He had urged the court to issue necessary directions to the Chandigarh Police in view of his apprehension.Kadian alleged that despite getting the opportunity, the police were not executing non-bailable warrants against Arora and Daljit Singh due to mala fide intention.He also claimed that co-accused Arora was hand in glove with the investigating agency.In its reply, the special public prosecutor opposed the application saying that it was based on assumption and presumption.Arora has already filed for anticipatory bail. The application (by Kadian) has been filed with an ulterior motive to prevent him (Arora) from disclosing the facts regarding the case, the public prosecutor added.After hearing the arguments, the court observed: “The present application has been filed by the applicant as he apprehends that the investigating agency is not arresting Arora and Daljit Singh in order to exercise influence upon them to make a false and wrong statement against the applicant and the co- accused.”“The applicant also apprehends that co-accused Daljeet Singh, alias Rubal, had also been used by the investigating agency to implicate the co-accused persons and for this purpose his anticipatory bail was not opposed,” the court observed while dismissing Kadian’s plea. “The present application does not carry any merit and stands dismissed,” it said. — TNSThe ApplicationKhalender Singh Kadian - one of the accused arrested in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37, Chandigarh - in his application on July 12 had alleged that the police was trying to put pressure on two other accused in the case - Ashok Arora and Daljeet Singh - to depose falsely against him and others. He had urged the court to issue necessary directions to the Chandigarh Police in view of his apprehension.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-case-accuseds-plea-against-probe-agency-junked-309897
12-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||6 years on, woman gets justice in cheating case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 11Bhavna, a resident of Baltana, Mohali district, got justice in the National Lok Adalat held today. A travel firm refunded a fee of Rs25,000 charged from her in the name of a free holiday coupon.Bhavna, in an application filed before the Permanent Lok Adalat, Chandigarh, through advocate Gaurav Gupta, said she got a call from a representative of Country Club and Hospitality Ltd mentioning that she had won free membership and six nights and seven days holiday package voucher from the company as per the promotion policy.She was asked to collect the voucher from the Branch Office, Sector 9, Chandigarh. She, along with her husband, visited the company’s office.The complainant alleged that at the time of collecting the free holiday offer voucher, company’s sales executive charged Rs25,000 for the membership and the holiday voucher of six nights and seven days. She alleged that the company also signed a membership agreement on August 1, 2015. After a few days, she realised that the company befooled her as she was told that she would be provided with a free membership and free holiday voucher. However, the respondent charged Rs25,000 for the same.She requested the company to refund the fees through an email dated August 13, 2015. Though the respondent (travel firm) assured to refund the amount, she did not get the money yet.After hearing the arguments, Shyama Dogra, chairman of the Permanent Lok Adalat, in the order, said “in view of the order passed by this court, the matter has been settled amicably. Counsel Gaurav Gupta informed that the applicant had received Rs25,000 from the respondent. Therefore, he wants to withdraw the case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-years-on-woman-gets-justice-in-cheating-case-309899
12-09-2021||---||2,117 cases settled in Mohali district||Mohali, September 11As many as 2,117 cases were disposed of by various Benches during the National Lok Adalat held here today.The cases were disposed of by virtue of compromise and a total of Rs70,48,05,198 awards were passed by 15 Lok Adalat Benches. Covid protocol was strictly followed during the National Lok Adalat.On the instructions of Justice Ajay Tewari, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court and Executive Chairman, Punjab State Legal Services Authority, the National Lok Adalat was organised under the guidance of RS Rai, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Mohali.For the successful conduct of the Lok Adalat, RS Rai held meetings of judicial officers, presidents and secretaries of the Bar Associations, Mohali, Dera Bassi and Kharar, and officials from banks, Electricity Department, Labour Department, insurance companies, etc., to sensitise them about the National Lok Adalat. They were also motivated and instructed to identify maximum number of cases that could be taken up in the National Lok Adalat and make maximum efforts for disposal the of the same in the Pre-Lok Adalats and National Lok Adalat.Baljinder Singh Mann, Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Mohali, made the people aware of the benefits of the Lok Adalat. He said the award passed by the Lok Adalat was final and binding upon the parties. Lok Adalats are a boon to the litigating public where they can get their disputes settled fast and free of cost amicably.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-117-cases-settled-in-mohali-district-309901
12-09-2021||---||7,515 cases disposed of at Lok Adalat in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 11A total of 7,515 cases were settled at the National Lok Adalat held at the New District Courts Complex in Sector 43 here today.As many as 15 Benches, headed by serving judicial officers, were constituted in the District Courts. Criminal compoundable cases, cases under Section 138 of the NI Act, bank recovery cases, MACT cases, matrimonial disputes, labour disputes, arbitration matters, other civil cases, municipal matters and traffic challans were taken up and disposed of with the consent of the parties.In addition to this, 41 cases involving an amount of Rs80,64,946 were disposed of by the Permanent Lok Adalat (Public Utility Services).A Special Jail Lok Adalat was also held on the premises of Model Jail, Chandigarh. In the Special Jail Lok Adalat, a total of 81 cases were taken up and 59 were settled.Justice Jaswant Singh, Executive Chairman, State Legal Services Authority, Gurbir Singh, District and Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, Puneesh Jindia, Member Secretary, State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, and Ashok Kumar Mann, Secretary, District Legal Service Authority, Chandigarh, thanked the general public for making this Lok Adalat a success. They appealed to people to resolve their disputes through Lok Adalats as these provide quick and economical justice.In view of the pandemic, necessary directions regarding the safety of litigants, staff and judicial officers of the court were followed during the Lok Adalat.Consumer cases worth Rs11,78,38,782 were also settled at the National Lok Adalat held in the Consumer Commission. A total of 127 cases were taken up by the State Consumer Commission and two District Commissions. Out of the total cases taken up, over 50 per cent cases were settled. As many as 41 cases were taken up in the State Commission and 29 were settled, while 41 cases were taken up in the District Commission-1 and 24 cases were settled. Out of the 45 cases taken up in the District Commission-2, 27 cases were settled.A Lok Adalat was also organised under the chairmanship of Anshul Berry, Additional District and Sessions Judge-cum-Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal and Labour Court, Chandigarh. As many as 21 cases involving an amount of Rs24,07,335 were settled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-515-cases-disposed-of-at-lok-adalat-in-chandigarh-309902
12-09-2021||---||Electric bus completes one month of trial run in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 11After a one-month trial run of the first electric bus, the UT authorities have asked the manufacturing company to make some technical changes in the bus. The electric bus was flagged of by former UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on August 11.Officials of the Transport Department said a lot of 19 buses, which was to arrive by month-end, would arrive with the changes suggested to the company.The officials said the department was satisfied with the bus after a trial run of a month. The department has identified some minor shortcomings and informed the company. The department had suggested to change the place of fire extinguishers, which were originally placed under the seat, and make some improvements in electric display boards. The company has assured the department that it would send 19 buses with these changes by the end of this month.However, a decision on running the buses for the general public in October would be taken after the arrival of 19 buses on September 30 and another 20 by October. The procurement of another 40 electric buses is under process and is expected to be received by next year.The department of heavy industries, Government of India, has sanctioned 80 electric buses under the Phase-II FAME India Scheme.For the first lot of 40 buses, an agreement has been signed with M/s Ashok Leyland for 10 years. The model of the contract is gross cost contract and scope of operator/company includes procurement of buses, installation of adequate number of chargers, maintenance of buses, providing of driver for 10 years.Changes suggested by Transport DepartmentOfficials said the Transport Department had identified some minor shortcomings and informed the company about these. The department had suggested to change the place of fire extinguishers, which were originally placed under the seat, and make some improvements in electric display boards. The company had assured the department that it would send 19 buses with these changes by the end of this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/electric-bus-completes-one-month-of-trial-run-in-chandigarh-309898
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 4 test positive in Chandigarh||2 contract infection in Mohali districtMohali: Two persons tested positive for Covid during the past 24 hours, taking the district tally to 68,663. A case each came from Kharar and Mohali. No case was reported from Dhakoli, Boothgarh, Dera Bassi, Lalru, Kurali, Gharuan and Banur. Meanwhile, no death was reported from the district till Saturday evening while six more patients were cured of the disease. So far, 67,558 patients have got the better of the disease while 1,060 succumbed to it in the district. There are 45 active cases. TNSNo fresh case in P’kulaPanchkula: The district reported no fresh coronavirus case on Saturday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,701. The Covid toll too did not change and remained at 377. While 30,309 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 15 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.72 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-4-test-positive-in-chandigarh-309900
12-09-2021||Dera Bassi||Biker dies in hit-and-run in Dera Bassi||Man arrested with heroinChandigarh: The police arrested a Sector 29 resident, Ranjit Singh, Kalsi, 35, after 7.5 gm of heroin was recovered from his possession on September 10. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. TNSSnatchers flee with banglesChandigarh: A Sector 43 resident reported that four unknown women in a white car sped away after snatching her gold bangles on September 10 while she, along with her sister, was on morning walk. A case under Sections 379-A and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. TNSYouth held for stealing bikeChandigarh: Constable Jile Singh, posted in the Traffic Wing, arrested Sunit (20), a resident of Jagatpura, while stealing his motorcycle near the PWD store in Sector 49 here on September 10. A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered at Sector 49 police station. TNSBiker injured in road mishapChandigarh: Sushil Kumar, a resident of Sector 38, reported that his brother Gurparsad, working as a security guard in Hotel Mountview, was injured after his bike hit a ‘negligently’ parked SUV on the road dividing Sector 10 and 11 on September 7. “The car was parked in a negligent manner without any parking lights,” he alleged. The injured person was admitted to the PGI. A case has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. TNSLabourer falls off building, diesDera Bassi: A construction labourer died after he fell from an under-construction building of Silver City Themes Apartment in Ward No. 19 here on Friday evening. The worker, identified as Salman, was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, from where he was referred to the PGI. He died on his way to the PGI. The Mubarikpur police took the body into their possession and sent it for post-mortem examination. No police complaint has been lodged. TNSBlood donation camp heldChandigarh: A blood donation camp was held in Sector 22 here on Saturday. The camp was organised by the All-India Mobile Retailers’ Association and the Chandigarh Mobile Traders’ Association. The camp was conducted by staff of Ivy Hospital, Mohali. TNS522 get jobs in 2nd mega fairMohali: As many as 522 youngsters got jobs during the second Mega Job Fair, which was organised at Chandigarh Group of Colleges, Landran, on Saturday. More than 700 candidates attended the job fair held under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission of the Punjab Government, said SDM Mohali Harbans Singh. TNSPUTA members protestChandigarh: PUTA president Prof Nishan Singh Deol, along with Dr Avneet Pal Singh and Dr Rakesh Kumar, participated in the ongoing chain hunger strike by the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations here on Saturday. Dr Gurmeet Singh and Dr Dharminder Singh from Punjab Agricultural University Teachers Association (PAUTA) also participated in the strike. The protesters are demanding implementation of revised UGC pay scales. TNSMayin, Jasmine emerge winnersMohali: Third seed Mayin Dingankar upset second seed Aarav Dhekial 6-2 7-6(3) to win the boys’ U-12 title on the concluding day of the Roots-AITA CS (7) U-12 National Ranking Championship here on Saturday. In the girls’ U-12 final, Jasmine Kaur registered a 6-4 2-6 6-1 win over fourth seed Miraya Aggarwal. TNSCricket trials from todayChandigarh: Chandigarh Cricket Association (affiliated to Haryana Cricket Association) will conduct trials to select U-14 and U-16 teams at SD School, Sector 24, on September 12 and 13. The trials will start at 10 am on September 12 and 3 pm on September 13. The dates for U-19 trials will be announced later, said the sports body. TNSHarminder, Anjali triumphChandigarh: Harminder Singh defeated Mukesh Kumar 21- 17 21-18 to win the gold medal in the men’s singles category on the concluding day of the 1st UT Inter-Departmental Tournament at the Sector 42 Sports Complex here on Saturday. In the women’s category, Anjali from Health Department won gold medal after defeating Poonam from Education Department 21-13 21-16 in the final. TNS263 traffic slips issued to bus driversChandigarh: The police have issued 263 traffic slips to passenger bus drivers for various violations during a special drive from August 16 to date. Drivers were challaned for wrong stopping, violation of lane driving/zig-zag driving, etc. During the drive, drivers and conductors of roadways' buses were also made aware of the traffic rules. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-dies-in-hit-and-run-in-dera-bassi-309905
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Estate Office JE suspended for misconduct||The UT Administration has placed the services of a junior engineer (JE) posted in the Building Branch of the Estate Office under suspension over misconduct.According to an order issued by the Chief Engineer-cum-Special Secretary, Engineering, UT, the JE, Navdeep, entered the room of the Establishment Section of the office of the Chief Engineer-cum-Special Secretary, Engineering, on September 8, at about 1.45 pm during the lunch break and clicked pictures of confidential documents using his mobile phone. He was caught red-handed by an official posted in the section and also on a CCTV camera installed in the room. On account of his misconduct, the Chief Engineer placed the official under suspension with immediate effect. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/estate-office-je-suspended-for-misconduct-309907
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||Send pics of work done, Chandigarh Municipal Corporation field staff told||In a first, all officials and workers of the local Municipal Corporation will now have to submit ‘before’ and ‘after’ pictures in their work progress report.In order to ensure responsive and effective services to the city residents, MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra today directed them to submit their work progress report along with photographs on the Google Forms on a daily basis.She said in the progress form, the field staff and officials concerned would have to upload ‘before’ and ‘after’ photographs of the work done.“This is to ensure 100 per cent compliance of the assignments given to the field staff. This will not only help in record-keeping, but also become an important tool for submitting assignments and getting response from the field staff,” said the Commissioner.She said necessary directions had been issued to the senior officers to impart training to their subordinate staff on filling in the form. After the field staff would submit their field reports, their seniors would be able to immediately check these on their phones.The Commissioner said all officials had been directed to fill in the form during every field/site inspection /visit. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/send-pics-of-work-done-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-field-staff-told-309906
12-09-2021||Chandigarh||2 Chandigarh Police Department staffers held in Rs 1.1-crore salary scam||The Crime Branch arrested two employees of the Chandigarh Police in an alleged Rs1.1-crore salary scam.The suspects have been identified as Balwinder Kumar, a junior assistant and then in charge of the salary branch; and Surjit Singh, a Home Guards volunteer. Both were posted in the salary branch of the UT police. They allegedly siphoned off Rs1.1 crore using multiple fraudulent means, revealed a CAG audit on a request of the Police Department.A case under Sections 420, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 13(1)(b) and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at the Sector 3 police station on February 25, 2020, in this regard.The case pertains to disbursement of excess salary to some employees of the UT police. A SIT was constituted to probe the case being handled by the Crime Branch. A special team conducted the audit of accounts with regard to the salary of the Chandigarh Police personnel, which pointed out an excess payment of more than Rs1.1 crore. During the course of investigation, Balwinder, who dealt with the salary of constables and head constables of the UT police, was arrested. Another suspect, Surjit Singh, was also arrested for his connivance as he worked as a conduit between the dealing hand and the beneficiary, said the police.The suspects were arrested on September 10 and produced before a court today, which sent Balwinder to three-day police remand and Surjit to one-day police custody. The police said more arrests were likely in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-chandigarh-police-department-staffers-held-in-rs-1-1-crore-salary-scam-309903
12-09-2021||Mohali||Closing in on 2 killers of SOI leader Vicky Middukhera: Mohali Cops||The police claim to have identified two of the four killers of SOI leader Vicky Middukhera. Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said: “Two of the four assailants are gangsters involved in various incidents in the past. One of them belongs to Haryana while the other is from Delhi. Our teams are actively pursuing them and it is just a matter of time that they will be nabbed.”Whether the murder is a case of contract killing or personal rivalry is yet to be established, he added.Middukhera was shot dead in broad daylight in Mohali on August 7. Four armed men fired around 10 bullets at the young leader in the Sector 71 market around 10.30 am before fleeing the spot. He tried to run away from the spot when two youths opened fire at him, but the assailants fired more bullets at him.From Day 1, the police have been probing the case from the gang-war angle among others. The police believe Lucky Khuda Lahora, a gangster lodged in a jail of Armenia, to be one of the prime suspects. They have been conducting raids in Haryana, Delhi and other places and rounding up suspects to get leads. The police have questioned several gangsters and suspects lodged in various jails of Punjab. Now, they have shifted their focus on to gangsters active outside Punjab. “Two of them are not from Punjab; the identity of the other two is being worked out,” he said.After the incident, the police said the assailants were spotted in CCTV footage in which they were fleeing in a white car towards Delhi on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway near Ambala. Hours after the murder, the Davinder Bambiha group had claimed they murdered Middukhera over personal reasons. A day later, the Lawrence Bishnoi group vowed to avenge his death.Middukhera had played an active role in supporting Bishnoi and Nehra in student politics around 2010. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/closing-in-on-2-killers-of-soi-leader-vicky-middukhera-mohali-cops-309904
12-09-2021||Aman Sood||Commuters brave traffic snarls as agitators block Patiala roads||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 11Local commuters and the ones passing through the city are facing a harrowing time with traffic snarls being reported on almost all roads. Agitators have blocked some roads permanently.Last night, traffic jams stretching up to 5 km were witnessed on the Sirhind road where traffic coming from Chandigarh and Sirhind side was diverted.Agitators have erected tents at two protest sites while the district administration has turned a blind eye to the encroachment. Contractual employees of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), contractual employees of various departments, police recruits awaiting joining and teachers are on strike in Patiala.“It took me three hours to reach from Chandigarh to my house in Patiala. To cover the last 6 km in Patiala, it took me around two hours. There was no policeman to manage the traffic. Even buses and trucks were using that narrow Sirhind road,” said a former IAS officer.“People in the hometown of the Chief Minister are suffering every day due to regular blockades by various associations. It is high time the government starts bothering about the common man on road,” he said.Another commuter, Ashim Gupta, told The Tribune that earlier, it would take 15 minutes to reach the bank from his house. But these days, it took him an hour to reach there. “Fuel prices are rising and it is sheer harassment being faced by the public in Patiala. The government is not acting tough and agitators block roads at will,” he said.“The agitators come to Patiala since they want to be heard in the CM’s home constituency. But since the CM is not here, only residents of Patiala are being troubled,” he added.The police are under pressure regulating traffic and ensuring law and order at dharna sites in the city. Owing to inability on the part of the government to take decisive action against agitators, all major roads stand blocked.“A majority of agitators are demanding regular jobs or are upset with the government on some pretext or the other. If we get clear directions, we can stop all such agitations,” said a police officer, preferring anonymity.Patiala SDM Charanjit Singh said: “We have asked the traffic police to put up more traffic signage boards on the Sirhind bypass. Moreover, we are planning to deploy more traffic marshals on the stretch to manage traffic movement. Besides, people, who want to go to Chandigarh , should use the Sangrur bypass.”Traffic advisoryThe administration has stated that the Patiala-Rajpura road from Urban Estate Chowk to Choura Road Chowk would be closed to traffic from Sunday for construction of a flyover in front of the new bus stand. People coming from Chandigarh/Rajpura side are advised to divert from Urban Estate Chowk to the Sirhind bypass. Those coming from Patiala and going to Rajpura/Chandigarh side can take route via Sirhind bypass/Baddi Nadi road.Royal City protesters’ favouriteAccording to the data collected by The Tribune, 1,153 dharnas or agitations had been held in Patiala from March 1 to August 31. Of these, 57 were state-level dharnas, for which the district administration had to call additional force from other districts and even reserve battalions. Several police personnel and agitators were injured during protests. On an average, the district police and local residents are troubled by around 200 agitations per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commuters-brave-traffic-snarls-as-agitators-block-patiala-roads-309908
