13-09-2021||---||8 injured as Haryana Roadways bus rams into stationary truck in Punjab's Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, September 13Eight people were injured in a bus-truck collision near Dera Bassi on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway in the wee hours of Monday.The injured were rushed to the Dera Bassi hospital from where six patients with serious injuries were referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. Two patients were discharged after the first aid, said Dera Bassi SMO Sangeeta Jain.Dera Bassi SHO Kamal Juneja said, ''The incident took place around 3.20 am when a Haryana Roadways bus of Gurugram depot rammed into a stationary truck on the highway. Police have impounded the vehicles and are investigating.''The left front side of the bus was badly damaged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-injured-as-haryana-roadways-bus-rams-into-stationary-truck-in-punjabs-dera-bassi-310521
13-09-2021||---||Zirakpur: Diarrhoea outbreak in Peermuchalla?||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, September 12Fifteen patients were hospitalised and 138 cases of patients with diarrhoea-like symptoms reported from the Peermuchalla area of Zirakpur today, the health authorities said.‘Most of them migrants’We have stationed water tankers in the area. Most of the cases reported on Sunday were of migrant labourers. We are not ruling out the possibility of cholera, diarrhoea or dengue. — Kuldeep Bawa, SDM, Dera BassiSeveral patients are reported to have been admitted to the Sector 6 hospital in Panchkula. Most of the cases reported are of migrant labourers residing in a locality near a sawmill. There was a beeline of patients and attendants and a panic-like situation in the Dhakoli hospital, eyewitnesses said.For info on health or diseaseHelpline number 104Water contamination is suspected to be the cause of large-scale diarrhoea-like symptoms among patients. The water supply to the area has been stopped after the Health Department raised the alarm.“The department is conducting a survey to ascertain the number of patients with diarrhoea-like symptoms in the area. Blood samples and stool samples are being taken to ascertain the cause. Water samples from the affected areas will be taken tomorrow to confirm the nature of contamination,” said Dr Pommy Chatrath, in-charge, Dhakoli hospital.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said, “We have stationed water tankers in the area. Most of the cases reported today were of migrant labourers. There is no case in housing societies till now. We are not ruling out the possibility of cholera, diarrhoea or dengue.” The incident comes a month after a three-year-old girl, Sunaina, and a 30-year-old mason, Ravinder Kumar, died and hundreds of residents complained of diarrhoea-like symptoms in the nearby Baltana area of Zirakpur. Despite a cholera outbreak, the administration failed to identify erring officials.Civil Surgeon visits Mubarikpur campThe Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, visited the affected area of Trivedi Camp and gave instructions to health officials after reviewing the situation. Residents of the village complained that drinking water was contaminated. Three persons have died under mysterious circumstances at Trivedi Camp village, Mubarikpur, in the past one week. The deceased have been identified as Muskan (16), Paranjal (17) and Inderjit Singh (45). All of them complained of fever and abdominal pain. A fever survey was conducted. Water samples were taken from water supply lines in the affected area and reports would be available soon. The water supply to the affected area had been snapped, said Civil Surgeon. She also visited the Health and Wellness Centre at Mubarikpur and reviewed work of the staff and enquired about the survey. Dera Bassi SMO Dr Sangita Jain and health teams are keeping a close watch on the sick.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-diarrhoea-outbreak-in-peermuchalla-310343
13-09-2021||---||3 Panchkula cops suspended for thrashing lawyer||Panchkula, September 12Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa today placed under suspension three policemen for alleged “misconduct and negligence in duty” after they allegedly misbehaved and beat up a Punjab and Haryana High Court lawyer in police custody.The suspended policemen have been identified as exemptee Head Constable (EHC) Virender Singh, Constable Dilbag Singh and Constable Iqbal Khan.The lawyer, Deepak Aggarwal, alleged that the policemen took him into illegal custody while he asked them to take action against his neighbour, who had parked a scooter at his parking spot outside his house in Sector 4.The policemen had reached the spot after receiving a “Dial 112” complaint from the lawyer over the parking issue. Handa also ordered a departmental inquiry against two policemen, including the Sector 2 police post in-charge, “for not reaching the spot of occurrence”. ACP Raj Kumar will lead the investigation.An FIR filed against the lawyer at the Sector 5 police station for allegedly thrashing a constable and tearing his uniform was also cancelled, confirmed senior police officials.The FIR had been registered against the lawyer under Sections 186 (obstructing a public servant in the discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from the discharge of his duty) at the Sector 5 police station.ACP Vijay Kumar Nehra said they had received a formal complaint from the lawyer and appropriate action would be taken against the erring policemen after verification of facts.A free and fair investigation would be conducted into the matter, he stated.Constable Dilbagh Singh, one of the policemen who was placed under suspension, had alleged that the lawyer misbehaved with him, assaulted him and tore his uniform in a drunken state while he was being taken to a police station in a police vehicle.A medical examination of the suspect was conducted at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, said the police.Chanchal K Singla, honorary secretary, Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association, issued a statement after the incident, condemning the police behaviour against the lawyer.“Our member Deepak Aggarwal was illegally taken into custody when he was writing a complaint against a wrongdoer while sitting in his office. He had called the police by dailling police helpline 112. The police officials suddenly picked our member, manhandled him, beat him up and thereafter lodged a false and fabricated FIR by alleging that our member obstructed a police official from performing his duty,” the statement read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-panchkula-cops-suspended-for-thrashing-lawyer-310344
13-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Deadline over, glitches in Chandigarh's bike-sharing project remain||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 12The deadline to fix glitches in the much-fancied public bike-sharing project got over today, but users in the city are still facing issues. Many of them are not able to end or start a ride through the SmartBike app on most occasions. While trying to open the lock of cycle, they get messages like “under maintenance” or “battery not charged”.Also read: Open House: How to stop troublemakers from vandalising smart bicycles in Chandigarh?Vijay Kumar, a user at the Sector 16 docking station in front of the GMSH, today repeatedly tried to open the lock, but in vain. “The app is showing a message that the cycle is under maintenance. Even calls made to the customer care are not being answered,” lamented Vijay.A regular user, Lipika of Sector 24, said, “It is very rare that cycles get unlocked and locked without any issue. I have tried almost all the docking stations near my residence and got a poor response.”It has been observed that many docking stations are without bicycles these days. In a random check today, Chandigarh Tribune found that there was not even a single cycle at the Sector 16 and 15 docking stations. In Sector 10, there was a single cycle, which too had a damaged tyre. At the Sector 20 docking station, there was only one cycle. However, sufficient cycles were available at Sukhna Lake.“The agency operating the project might say that cycles are away for rides, but one wonders why these are not visible much on roads,” said a cyclist. The then UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had launched the first phase of the project on August 12 with a total of 1,250 bicycles at 155 docking stations.Within a few days of the launch, there were several problems in the app and cycles were also getting damaged, thus Chandigarh Smart City Limited had asked the firm to fix the issues by September 12 and not charge users till then.Earlier, a user had to pay Rs10 plus GST for using a bicycle for half an hour. An official concerned said, “We will review it on Monday and then issue further orders.”The company’s city head Abhinandan Malhotra has always termed it a mobile phone network issue, which could not be the reason at so many docking stations.Unlike the City Beautiful, the neighbouring city of Panchkula provides bicycles at half the rate in the city and is successfully running the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deadline-over-glitches-in-chandigarhs-bike-sharing-project-remain-310345
13-09-2021||---||Linesman electrocuted in Panchkula||Panchkula, September 12A linesman died while another was seriously injured after they suffered an electric shock while repairing a fault at Devi Nagar in Sector 3 here.The victim, identified as Desraj, was engaged by a contractor, Jitender, on behalf of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN). He died on the spot. The other linesman, Devender Sharma, was taken to the PGI where his condiotion continues to be serious, said Umed Singh, ACP, Panchkula. The ACP said, “We have not filed an FIR in the matter as yet. The statement of the victim’s father has also absolved anyone of any crime. The statement of the second victim, who is still at the PGI, is yet to be recorded.”The victim’s post-mortem was conducted today and the body was released to his family. On April 6 this year, an assistant linesman of the UHBVN was killed after receiving an electric shock while repairing a fault at Barwala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/linesman-electrocuted-in-panchkula-310346
13-09-2021||Impose fine on troublemakers||Open House: How to stop troublemakers from vandalising smart bicycles in Chandigarh?||It’s sad that in a city like Chandigarh where literacy ratio is so high, but troublemakers do not hesitate to damage government property. This development is detrimental to residents and the Municipal Corporation. The MC has started a good venture. People should appreciate and thank the MC. Bicycles should be checked when returned. In case of any damage its user should be appropriately penalised. The MC can fix fines for damages, which can be displayed at cycle stands.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhAlso read: Deadline over, glitches in Chandigarh's bike-sharing project remainRedistribute bicycles in cityOperators of public bicycle sharing project have to regularly redistribute bikes across stations to make sure these are not vacant or full to capacity. Citizens have to use bicycles with responsibility. Lastly, the Administration has to maintain and provide cycle tracks.Vineet Gandhi,ChandigarhDeploy staff at docking stationsPublic bike sharing project was launched to encourage cycling, but it failed because of faulty execution. In a city a section of people takes away dustbins, benches, iron railing, light bulbs and any other item from public places. It’s too much to expect from people, who will use bicycles and return these intact like responsible citizens to stations. The only way to make the project successful is to deploy staff to man docking stations, issue a slip to person borrowing bicycle, note down his/her full address, verify particulars and also take security, to be returned only after return of the bicycle without damage. In case of damage to bicycle, the borrower should pay fine.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhNo free run periodWithout prior wide publicity about “dos and don't” this much hyped venture of the UT Administration has faced vandalism and damage to high-tech GPS enabled bicycles. Those tech savvy youngsters, who have done it and gone scot free, must be enjoying at the folly of the authorities concerned. Hope the UT Administration has learnt a lesson and will make amends by stopping the free run period and take adequate security amount from riders before they are allowed to pedal away.SC LUTHRA, ChandigarhIt’s better to Abandon bike-sharing projectDue to extreme poverty, poor law enforcement, lack of civics sense, public vigilance and patriotic approach towards public property, among people, it will be worth to abandon the public bike-sharing project. Theft of iron railing, manhole covers, grills and now bike parts from public places is known to all. Instead, the Administration should encourage private bicycle sharing shops in the UT.Ashok Kumar Goel, PanchkulaTake security depositTo ensure safe return of hired bicycles, the firm operating the project should make Rs500 security deposit mandatory for all users. The rate list of all bicycle parts should be displayed at every docking station in the UT. There are rogue elements in society, who always want to derail any good step taken by the Administration.KC Rana, ChandigarhSimple, fast Smart Bike AppThe Smart Bike app interface should be simple, easy to use and fast. It should work efficiently. Any technical glitch should be timely resolved. Software bugs should be removed. In case of a problem of locking and unlocking a bike at docking station, the customer care should be reachable within a short waiting period. More bicycles should be available across the City Beautiful. The CCTV cameras should be installed at docking station to check acts vandalism of bicycles.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhDeploy cops to take care of menaceWith numerous complaints of vandalism at docking stations under the public-bike sharing project, the UT Municipal Corporation should install CCTVs to keep a vigil on miscreant. Cops should be deployed to take care of the menace at the docking stations. It’s laxity on part of the Municipal Corporation and sheer wastage of public money by not taking the security factor of bicycles into account.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliInstall alarms at docking stationsA good initiative of the UT Administration has failed miserably. The authorities should have conducted a thorough dry run before launching the project. The bike-sharing project is public property. The culprits, who vandalise bicycles, should be tracked and booked by the police. The Municipal Corporation has to install automatic alarm systems to prevent stealing of bicycles by anti-social elements.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhWhy is MC eager to waste money?Don’t understand why the Municipal Corporation (MC) is always eager to waste money on useless projects. The poor without work are barely able to make both ends meet. We have often seen people trying to damage street lights, steal iron railing and other things on which they can get hands on. They have a destructive mind. How can such people take care of bicycles? This proves that the Municipal Corporation has failed in this project too.Sukhwant Bhullar, ChandigarhAttendants at cycle docking standsThe bicycles launched under the sharing project are costly. We are miles away in our mentality to match up with other countries in order to succeed in such ventures. All cycle docking stands should have CCTVs and attendants. Anyone found damaging cycles should be barred from using the service. The police should be instructed to take care of vandalism of bicycles. And above all cycle tracks need to be recarpeted for a smooth ride.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhEmploy security guardsDamaging bicycles is a crime. People should keep away from such acts. The UT Administration should employ security guards at docking stations to safeguard bicycles. Cops should also keep an eye on docking stations.MR Bhateja, NayagaonDon’t damage govt propertyIn another blow to the public bike-sharing project, several cycles have been damaged across the city. Around 150 complaints of vandalism were received in a month by the company managing the service. It’s shocking that instead of using such a good facility, people are damaging bicycles. CCTV cameras can be installed at docking stations across the city. It’s duty of all citizens to ensure that no one damages any government property as ultimately it we, who pay for such facilities through taxes.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliDocking stations near parkingSmart cycles launched by the Municipal Corporation are one of the good initiatives taken for the benefit of residents. In the present situation it’s difficult to run the public bicycle sharing project. To avoid any damage to bicycles docking stations should be located near parking. Whenever a rider comes to park the cycle after using it parking attendant can check it for any damage. Also, most parking have CCTV cameras.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhDeal firmly with miscreantWe can’t dream of a society without wrongdoers, but it depends upon our system to maintain the law and order and deal sternly with such elements. The public should realise that the bike sharing project has been introduced for their convenience. This facility is pocket and environment friendly. A token showing all is okay be issued while handing over bicycle to commuter. While receiving bicycle it should be checked that everything is intact. Penalty can be levied if any bicycle part is damaged. The police should keep a vigil on thieves.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliProject can decongest UTThe bicycle sharing project is the need of the hour. It will decongest and reduce pollution in the city. Docking stations should be located near public offices. Besides, CCTVs can be installed near docking stations to prevent damage to bicycles by miscreant.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhTeething problems at start of projectAt the start of any project, teething problems do surface. Vigil and strictness should be increased and hooligans should be made to understand that they are under watch. The police can play an important role by checking footage of CCTV cameras and recognise culprits, involved in vandalism. Culprits should be counselled followed by strict action if they don’t refrain from vandalism. If successful the public bike-sharing project will reduce pollution in the city.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhPledge to safeguard public propertyFundamental duties of citizens should be displayed on large hoarding near cycle stands and roundabout of the City Beautiful. Besides, parents, teachers and society in large should take a pledge to safeguard government property, including the public bicycle sharing project. This should be imbibed in mind of youths.Subhash Chander Sharma, ChandigarhGlitches in new projectEvery new project encounters some glitch. But, something new happened in the public bike sharing project. miscreant vandalised bicycles and in some cases stole parts. The company managing the project should seek help from the police. The police should increase patrolling around docking stations. Besides, the company staff should keep an eye on miscreant.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaRiders should be civilisedRiders should check all details before renting bicycle. The police should keep an eye on activities of bicycle riders. Security arrangements should be made to keep docking stations safe from vandals. Riders should be civilised and not damage government property.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliGo all out to make project successfulThe innovative bike-sharing project launched with much fanfare in Chandigarh is for facilitating residents and visitors to do a recce of the places of tourists’ interest and control pollution. The Municipal Corporation/UT Administration can’t absolve itself of inept handling, which emboldened miscreant to sabotage the project without the scantest fear of the law. The authorities need to harden their stance to check troubleshooters. Those trying to jump the fence should be given strictest punishment. The Administration should make all out efforts to pre-empt recurrence of such unsavoury incidents. NGOs and civil society may be roped in to play a proactive role in curbing such rowdy incidents and make the project successful in the City Beautiful by spreading awareness among the public.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhInstall anti-theft alarms on bicyclesTo check vandalism the authorities concerned should install anti-theft alarms on bicycles. The police patrolling should be increased around docking stations in the city.Adish Sood, AmlohImpose hefty fine on culpritsThe public bike-sharing project launched in Chandigarh deserves all praise. Hefty amount should be recovered as penalty from the troublemaker for the damage caused to bicycle. There should be a provision that such a person, who damages bicycle, cannot avail the facility for three months for the first time and forever if found guilty for the second time. Regular checking and maintenance of bicycles must be ensured for the smooth running of the much awaited project.AK Jindal, PatialaKnow your responsibilitiesThe public bike-sharing project is a good initiative of the Municipal Corporation to make the city green, healthier and free from traffic chaos. Some notorious people, who are vandalising bicycles, are creating hurdles in the success of a good initiate. To stop such incidents, information of bicycle riders should be kept in record of the firm managing the project. Also, the authorities concerned should take a strict action against those notorious persons, who vandalise bicycles, and impose hefty penalty on them. Last, but not the least, citizens should know their responsibilities towards public properties.Sandeep Rawat, ChandigarhWait till project is fully operationalIntroducing cycling for citizens is a new concept evolved by the Municipal Corporation while taking into account their health and to check pollution level in the city. The public bicycle-sharing project encountered many technical glitch after its launch. Residents will have to wait for some more time till the project is fully operational after its shortcomings are removed by the authorities concerned.SK Khosla, ChandigarhMany not tech-savvyThe project was thrown open to the public half heartedly. Most people, who want to hire a bicycle, are not tech savvy. Besides, there are no attendants/security guards at bicycle docking stations. People must be made aware of the technicalities of the project through advertisements in print media.Sqn Ldr Manjit Johar (Rtd), Chandigarh QUESTIONDespite tall claims, the stray cattle menace continues to pose a threat to commuters across Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali. Coordination among the tricity authorities is also lacking as it is alleged that often stray cattle come to the UT from the neighbouring areas. What needs to be done to end the stray cattle menace in the tricity?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent toopenhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-how-to-stop-troublemakers-from-vandalising-smart-bicycles-in-chandigarh-310347
13-09-2021||---||Over 8,000 students appear for NEET in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 12The National Testing Agency (NTA) today conducted the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-2021) at various centres across the city. Over 8,000 students appeared for the exam.The paper was conducted from 2 pm to 5 pm in pen and paper-based mode. The paper pattern was renewed this year with choices provided in all sections where candidates needed to attempt 45 out of 50 questions from each section.Mandeep Singh, a NEET aspirant, who appeared at a Chandigarh centre said, “I feel it was comparatively on tougher side as compared to last year. Some questions were lengthy and comprehensive to judge especially match the following type ones.”Analysing the NEET paper, Chandigarh-based physics mentor, Kunal Singh said, “The paper was rather tricky and conceptual as it covered almost every aspect of the syllabus. More than 32 questions, along with multiple choice options, were directly copied from previously held competitive exam papers.”“The NEET 2021 definitely gave edge to serious and genuine aspirants. Botany and zoology sections were conventional and scoring. The quality of questions has also improved this year,” Kunal Singh added.“The biology section was on expected lines. All questions were based on the NCERT textbooks. It was an easy and scoring paper. There were no diagram-based questions. There were many questions based on ‘match the following’, but these were formatted in such a manner that it was too easy to choose the correct option,” said NEET trainer Dr Arvind Goyal.“Even the chemistry section was easy and was based on the NCERT books. Physics section had some lengthy numericals otherwise the pattern was same as that of the last year. This year, owing to choices given in Section B, students had 20 extra questions to go through as compared to last year. Aspirants were apprehensive whether they may find the time short, but owing to easy biology and chemistry section they were able to complete the paper on time,” Dr Goyal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-8-000-students-appear-for-neet-in-chandigarh-310348
13-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh: Sector 17 parking lots jampacked, Rs 48-cr multi-level facility vacant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 12While other parking lots in Sector 17 remain overcrowded leading to haphazard parking, the Rs48-crore multi-level facility continues to remain vacant.Parking lots should display ‘parking full’ boards and direct visitors towards the multi-level facility. However, the operators keep allowing vehicles to earn more, making visitors vying for space inside the lots — A visitorVisitors do not prefer using the multi-level parking for want of easy access. Even the Municipal Corporation (MC) has failed to make efforts to promote the facility, which seems to have become a white elephant.During a visit to the multi-level parking, this correspondent found most of its part vacant. On one of the floors, instead of visitors’ vehicles, two-bin waste vehicles of the MC and public bike-sharing project bicycles were parked. Most area of the floor was vacant. On another floor, about 60 taxis of a private operator were parked. Though there are designated sites for taxis in the city, this operator is apparently getting a special treatment for a long time.Only on the top floor, a few vehicles of general visitors were seen though most of the area was vacant.On other hand, the Sahib Singh, Empire, MOH and Bank Square parking lots remain jampacked in Sector 17.In the past two days, vehicles were found parked in haphazard manner at different parking lots and the contractor was penalised. “Parking lots should display ‘parking full’ boards and direct visitors towards the multi-level facility. However, the operators keep allowing vehicles to earn more, making visitors vying for space inside the lots,” said a visitor.Senior Deputy Mayor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu suggested, “The user charges in the multilevel parking in Sector 17 are lesser than the other parking lots and the visitors get to park their vehicles in a covered facility, making it convenient for them during rains and peak summer afternoons. Still, the facility has remained under-utilised, which points towards lack of awareness amongst general visitors. Shop owners and their staff should at least park their vehicles in the multi-level parking as it will provide more space at other lots.”Congress councillor Satish Kainth said, “When this parking was built, there were protests by traders as well as some BJP leaders, still the then Mayor from the party got it inaugurated in 2016. The cash-starved MC is not earning anything from it, and it is a huge financial burden. The need of the hour is to make efforts to make it functional.”Leakage has also been witnessed at the parking, but it has not been repaired.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said, “I will examine the matter and try to make it functional.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-17-parking-lots-jampacked-rs-48-cr-multi-level-facility-vacant-310349
13-09-2021||---||Car-borne gang of women on the prowl in City Beautiful||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 12In yet another incident, a car-borne gang, including women, allegedly stole gold bangles from a Palsora woman. The gang has struck thrice in the past three days, while a total of four incidents have been reported in the past 10 days. Recent incidentsIn a recent incident, a woman of Palsora village, Sector 56, reported that on September 1, she, along with her husband, had to visit the Civil Hospital, Mohali, and were waiting for an auto near the Palsora bus stand when a car arrived there.There were two women and a man, who offered them a lift to the hospital. The victim later found her two gold bangles missing.The police were informed and a case was registered at the Sector 39 police station.On September 10, the gang had targeted a woman of Sector 43, who was out for a walk with her sister when the suspects arrived in a car. On the pretext that they knew the victim, the suspects hugged her and managed to steal her gold bangles. The same modus operandi was used in the other two incidents.A 58-year-old NRI woman, residing in Sector 51, was targeted on September 9 while she was returning home from a morning walk.On September 1, an elderly woman of Behlana, who was out on a morning walk, was duped of gold bangles by the car-borne gang.A police official said the gang had been targeting elderly women out on morning walks. “We are scrutinising the footage of CCTV cameras installed at various locations,” the official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-borne-gang-of-women-on-the-prowl-in-city-beautiful-310350
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees one death, five Covid cases||2 infected in MohaliMohali: Two new cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the case tally to 68,665. No fresh death was reported, while four patients recovered from the virus. — TNSPanchkula sees no casePanchkula: No fresh coronavirus case was reported from the district on Sunday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,701. The Covid toll remained at 377. The recovery rate stands at 98.72 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-one-death-five-covid-cases-310351
13-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali MC House meet tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 12The Mohali Municipal Corporation is likely to table a resolution for development works worth Rs18 crore from Sector 76 to 80 during its House meeting to be held on September 14. Major works to be approvedThe meeting, to be chaired by Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, would also approve a resolution for setting up a fire station at a cost of Rs3 crore in Sector 78. It may be recalled that the corporation had earlier approved the construction of a fire station in Sector 78 in a meeting held on February 1, 2019, at a cost of Rs2.56 crore. However, the government increased common schedule rates (CSR) last year. As a result, the cost of construction of the building increased by about 20 per cent (Rs53 lakh). For this, a fresh estimate has now been prepared and a resolution would be tabled in the MC House for approval.Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said the House would also approve a new policy named Taxi Stand Allotment Policy 2021 to issue licence for operating taxi stands within the limits of the Municipal Corporation.During the meeting, a new estimate would be approved for outsourcing the work of mechanical sweeping of city roads under which an estimate of Rs61.81 crore for five years had been prepared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-house-meet-tomorrow-310352
13-09-2021||---||JP Atray Memorial Tournament: Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association beat Ranstar Cricket Club Delhi, lift cup||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 12Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) beat Ranstar Cricket Club Delhi by 75 runs in the rain-truncated JP Atray Memorial Tournament final at IS Bindra PCA Stadium here today to lift the Trident Cup.The match was reduced to 20 overs a side due to rain.Batting first, HPCA rode on skipper Prashant Chopra’s half-century to score 175/3 in the allotted quota of overs.HPCA had a solid beginning as Chopra and Shubham Negi put on 84 runs for the first wicket.The duo was separated in the 12th over when Negi was stumped by Puneet Bisht off Rahul Chaudhary on 35.Ekant Sen, who replaced Negi at the crease, made 20 runs before he was caught by Chetanya Bishnoi off Chaudhary. Chopra, meanwhile, smashed 72 off 48 balls to propel HPCA to a challenging total. He was the last wicket to fell in the HPCA innings, caught by Pradeep Malik off Pradeep Prashar.Chaudhary (2/24) was the most successful bowler for Ranstar Club.Needing to score 8.80 runs per over victory, Ranstar Club lost wickets at regular intervals and were all out for 100 runs in 15.2 overs.Naveen Kanwar (3/15) and Ayush Jhamwal (3/28) shared six wickets between them, while Vipen Sharma bagged 2/21.For Ranstar Club, Sumit Verma made 36 runs, while Pradeep Malik contributed 26 runs to the chase.Kanwar was named man of the match, while Chopra was adjudged man of the series. HPCA’s Akash Vashisht got the best bowler award and PCC’s Nehal Wadhera received the best batsman award.Punjab Minister OP Soni awarded Rs2 lakh to the winning side, while Ranstar Club got Rs1 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jp-atray-memorial-tournament-himachal-pradesh-cricket-association-beat-ranstar-cricket-club-delhi-lift-cup-310353
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Indian Online Carrom Challenge: Rashmi to face Apporva in final||Rashmi Kumari (PSPB), former World Champion and 10 times national champion, will face present world champion S Apporva (LIC) in the women’s final, while Mohamed Arif of Uttar Pradesh will take on Riyaz Akbar Ali of Air India in the men’s final in the ongoing Indian Online Carrom Challenge.Local contender Nidhi Gupta lost her semi-final. She went to Shainy S of Karnataka with a score of 44 (5+8+12+3+8+3+2+3).Apporva registered an easy win against Shainy S (Karnataka) in the second semi-final. Apporva finished with 40 missing points against 50 missing points by Shainy.In the men’s semi-final, Ali won against second rank Abdul Rehman with a narrow margin of one point. Riyaz ensured exit for Vikas Dharia (Maharashtra) to emerge victorious with 33 against 42 by Vikas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/indian-online-carrom-challenge-rashmi-to-face-apporva-in-final-310354
13-09-2021||---||Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu opens health, wellness clinic at village in Mohali||Mohali, September 12Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today inaugurated a health and wellness clinic, constructed at a cost of Rs 54 lakh, at Kurdi village here today.Addressing the gathering, Balbir Sidhu said Punjab was a leading state in the country in launching health and wellness clinics. He said despite Covid restrictions, 65.2 lakh patients were treated at these centres in the past one year, which shows the efficiency of these clinics.Later, he also laid the foundation stone of a dharamshala at Kurdi village and gave a grant of Rs3 lakh for it. He also gave a grant of Rs3 lakh for a cremation ground of the SC community and Rs1 lakh for the construction of drainage to the panchayat.During his visit to Sekhanmajra village, he gave a grant of Rs10 lakh to lay sewer pipeline and also laid its foundation stone. He also handed over a cheque for Rs3.50 lakh for streets and drains at the village.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, Zila Parishad chairman Jaswinder Kaur Durali and Labourfed Punjab vice-chairman Mohan Singh Bathlana, were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-balbir-singh-sidhu-opens-health-wellness-clinic-at-village-in-mohali-310355
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Violation by club||Theft reportedChandigarh: Thieves flee with a laptop, CCTV cameras, an induction plate and cash from a plot in the Industrial Area, Phase I, on the intervening night of September 10 and 11, reported complainant Vijay Kumar. TNSPainter falls off building, diesDera Bassi: A painter died after he fell from an under-construction building at Silver City Themes Apartment in Ward No. 19 here on Friday evening. The deceased has been identified as Farman, a native of Uttar Pradesh. He was rushed to Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, from where he was referred to the PGI. He died on way to the hospital. The Mubarikpur police sent the body for a post-mortem examination. The body was later handed over to the family members. TNSBlack flag shown to city BJP chiefChandigarh: Residents of Dadu Majra colony and village had a tough time entering their houses as the police had barricaded the area for a BJP event. The area was barricaded in view of a threat from farmers. A protester even managed to sneak in where city BJP president Arun Sood was addressing the gathering. He even showed a black flag to Sood. Following this, the police rushed there and took protester away from the venue. TNSEarth excavator overturns, 2 hurtMohali: Two children, Ramandeep Singh (11), and Prabhleen Singh (8), suffered injuries when an earth excavator they were sitting in overturned and fell in a water body at Jhiurheri village here on Sunday. The victims, both cousins, were rushed to a hospital where they are undergoing treatment. The driver of the excavator was carrying out drainage work in the village when the incident took place. Eyewitnesses said the earth caved in due to rain where the excavator was deployed. No police complaint has been received. TNSHousing society office-bearersZirakpur: Elections for the new managing committee of Zirakpur Tribune Parivar Cooperative Housing Society Limited were held on Sunday. Nine members were elected unanimously. The elected members include Anil Kumar Gupta, Karamvir, Sunil Tiwari, Lovkiran Sidhu, Uma Sharma, Surinder Sharma, Jagpal Singh, Tarsem Chand Sharma and Rajinder Dhawan. TNSRajpal, Naresh win silver medalChandigarh: Rajpal Singh and Naresh Kumar won the joint silver medal in different age groups on the concluding day of the 1st UT Inter-Departmental Tournament, organised by the Sports and Environment Association of Chandigarh Employees (SEACE), at the Sector 42 Sports Complex. Anita and Ankita won the joint bronze medal. Pawan Kumar, Vivek, Ramgopal and Sanjay Sharma claimed a bronze each in different age groups. TNSBoxing squad announcedChandigarh: The Chandigarh Amateur Boxing Association (CABA) has selected the local team to participate in the Senior (Elite) National Boxing Championship, which will be held at Bellary, Karnataka, from September 15 to 22. Dr CK Jerath, chairman, CABA, Dr Rajinder Singh Mann, secretary, CABA, and Balkar Singh, treasurer, CABA, congratulated the selected boxers. All gold medallists of the men’s senior state boxing championship, held recently at the Sector 42 Sports Complex, are selected to represent the city. The squad members are Kuldeep Kumar (46-48), Harshdeep (48-51), Vishal Sheokand (51-54), Rahul (54-57), Vishal Sharma (57-60), Rohit Kumar (60-63.5), Aman (63.5-67), Sachin (67-71), Aditya (71-75), Harpreet (75-80), Younam Kamboj (80-86), Preetam (86-92) and Sagar (+92), Om Prkash Verma (coach) and Virender Rana (manager-cum-coach). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/violation-by-club-310356
13-09-2021||Chandigarh||Contractor fined Rs 10K for chaos at parking lot in Chandigarh||For the second consecutive day, the paid parking contractor (zone 2) was fined for haphazard parking.Vehicles were found parked in an unorganised at the Sector 9-D parking lot following which an MC inspection team issued a Rs10,000 challan to the contractor. However, the team found that employees were in proper uniform, staff was deployed inside the lots, e-ticketing was being done and LED screens were working. Chains and cones ensured smooth traffic flow.Yesterday, vehicles were found parked in haphazard manner at the Mobile Market in Sector 22 and the Sahib Singh parking lot in Sector 17. A challan of Rs20,000 was issued to the contractor.As per MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra, the contractors have by and large implemented the smart features they were asked to. However, suitable action was to be taken wherever haphazard parking was found. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contractor-fined-rs-10k-for-chaos-at-parking-lot-in-chandigarh-310012
