15-09-2021||Beneficiaries with the wheelchairs presented to them during a programme organised under the aegis of the District Red Cross Society and the Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India||Humanitarian cause||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/humanitarian-cause-311122
15-09-2021||---||Neighbour stabs father-son duo in Nayagaon, held||Mohali, September 14A father-son duo was injured after their neighbour stabbed them with a knife in Nayagaon. The injured persons have been identified as Chandi Prasad and his son Deepak Prasad. They are admitted to the GMSH-16.The suspect has been identified as Meharbaan. He was arrested in an attempt-to-murder case. He was produced in a court, which sent him to three-day police remand.The police are yet to recover the knife used in the crime. The suspect attacked the duo in an allegedly inebriated state after Chandi Prasad had complained to the police a day earlier about the ruckus he creates after consuming alcohol. Chandi Prasad sustained injuries in the chest while, his son got stab wounds on his arm and hand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/neighbour-stabs-father-son-duo-in-nayagaon-held-311125
15-09-2021||---||Chandigarh: Number of guests in social events increased to 300||Chandigarh, September 14With a sharp decline in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration has decided to increase the number of guests for a social gathering.According to an order issued by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, the number of guests for social gatherings such as weddings, commercial events, exhibition stalls, amusement rides or shows, etc, are increased from 200 to 300 or 50 per cent capacity of banquet halls or hotels, whichever is less, with the condition that all adult guests and staff of the hotels or banquet halls must have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine or have negative RT-PCR report of last 72 hours.The Adviser stated that the order would come into force with immediate effect and would be applicable until further orders.However, any breach of the order will invite action under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-number-of-guests-in-social-events-increased-to-300-311123
15-09-2021||---||Chandigarh Adviser Dharam Pal meets Afghan students, extends support||Chandigarh, September 14A delegation of the Afghan Students Unity Group in Chandigarh, accompanied by Pramod Sharma, founder, Yuvsatta (Youth for Peace), an NGO, met UT Adviser Dharam Pal here today.Dharma Pal welcomed the students and extended all support by calling Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, to help them in these hours of crisis with tuition fee waivers and hostel support. He also asked Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services (DHS), to extend free treatment for Afghan nationals in city’s government hospitals and dispensaries.The Adviser also gave a call to city NGOs to come forward and extend all possible support to Afghan friends in these critical times.Recalling age-old ties with Afghanistan, the Adviser said: “India and Afghanistan share a long history of friendly cultural and societal ties, which can be traced back to the Indus Valley Civilisation. So in these challenging times, these young people from Afghanistan should not feel abandoned in India. Moreover, Indian people are known for their warmth and hospitality world over.”Thanking Dharam Pal, Abdul Monir Kakar, founder, Afghan Students Unity Group in Chandigarh, said after meeting the Adviser today, they’re feeling at home and amidst friends for the first day in the past one month of mental and financial trauma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-dharam-pal-meets-afghan-students-extends-support-311124
15-09-2021||---||Take call on mini-Covid care centres in three days: Chandigarh Administration||Chandigarh, September 14The UT Administration has asked voluntary organisations to take a decision on six mini-Covid care centres within three days.Considering the threat of possible third wave of Covid-19, UT Adviser Dharam Pal has requested the voluntary organisations to continue with the temporary closure of mini-Covid care centres and retain the premises up to October 31.Yashpal Garg, Nodal officer for mini-Covid care centresDuring the second wave of Covid-19 in April and May, mini-Covid care centres with oxygenated beds were set up by six voluntary organisations. These centres provided free-of-cost medical care from qualified doctors and nurses, medicines and food to Covid patients, without any financial support from the Administration.“Due to a sharp reduction in the number of Covid patients since last week of June, mini-Covid care centre have been temporarily closed and kept in a standby mode till September 30,” said Yashpal Garg, nodal officer for mini-Covid care centres.“Now, the organisations have been given options to close the centres and vacate the premises or continue with the temporary closure of the centres and retain the premises with own security arrangements for items/installations, up to October 31,” he said.“However, considering that retaining the centres will involve certain financial implications, the Adviser has left the final decision on these organisations to opt for either of the options in next three days,” he said.During the second wave of Covid-19 in April and May, mini-Covid care centres with oxygenated beds were set up by voluntary organisations, said Yashpal Garg.These centres provided free-of-cost medical care from qualified doctors and nurses, medicines and food to Covid patients, without any financial support from the Administration, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/take-call-on-mini-covid-care-centres-in-three-days-chandigarh-administration-311127
15-09-2021||---||Need-based changes: Chandigarh Housing Board constitutes 8-member panel||Chandigarh, September 14On persistent demand of UT residents, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has constituted an eight-member committee under the chairmanship of the Secretary, CHB, to examine the request for further need-based changes in residential units of the board.The committee was formed in pursuance of the decision taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the CHB on September 8, said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB.“During the process, the committee may consult the nominated members of the board, RWAs and other stakeholders for some innovative solutions,” said the CEO. The report of the committee would be placed before the board for consideration and appropriate decisions, he added.Apart from the Secretary, CHB, as chairman, the Chief Engineer, CHB, Chief Architect, UT, Architect, CHB, Executive Engineer (Design), CHB, Executive Engineer (Public Health), CHB, Executive Engineer (Electrical), CHB, and Executive Engineer (Enforcement), CHB, will be the members of the committee.Thousands of allottees have been demanding regularisation of need-based changes/additional construction made in residential units and one-time settlement on the Delhi pattern. Of the nearly 70,000 houses constructed by the CHB so far, need-based changes have been made in about 60,000 houses in which nearly 20 per cent population of the city resides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/need-based-changes-chandigarh-housing-board-constitutes-8-member-panel-311126
15-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Sec 22 firing: Court frames charges against two||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14A local court has framed charges against two persons arrested on the charge of firing at a lab technician working in the Punjab Health Department at Kharar.The charges have been framed against Inderpal Singh and Harpreet Singh, who were arrested two months after the alleged firing incident.The case was registered after an unidentified youth shot at a lab technician, Amrik Singh (48), on October 25, 2020, while he was returning after paying obeisance at a gurdwara in Sector 22, Chandigarh.Amrik told the police that when he reached home, a youth, who was wearing a pair of capri pants, shot at him. His face was covered with a mask. The shooter fled from the spot after people raised the alarm. A live cartridge and a used cartridge were also recovered from the spot.Two months after the incident, the police arrested two persons - Inderpal Singh of Sector 22 and Harpreet Singh, alias Honey, of Ropar - allegedly involved in the firing incident. A pistol allegedly used in the crime was also allegedly recovered from their possession.A case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act was registered against them at the Sector 17 police station.The police said Inderpal wanted to marry Amrik’s daughter, but her father turned down the proposal.The court, in the order, said from the perusal of the final report and the accompanying documents, offences under Sections 307, 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act are prima facie made out against the accused. Accordingly, the chargesheet for prima facie offence had been served to which the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.The court has fixed October 5 as the next date of hearing in the case after issuing notices to both accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-22-firing-court-frames-charges-against-two-311129
15-09-2021||---||Food Corporation of India asked to take back poor quality wheat||Chandigarh, September 14On receiving complaints regarding quality of food grains, the UT Department of Food and Supplies and Consumer Affairs and Legal Metrology has asked the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to take back the identified poor quality wheat.The department has been distributing free food grains (wheat) under the PMGKY-IV among the registered beneficiaries at 25-kg wheat per person for five months (from July to November, 2021) in one go.Since the department has neither any fair price shops nor any godown for storage of food grains, the distribution of food grains is carried out by the agency that was selected through tender process for lifting, stacking, packing and distribution of wheat only after proper quality and quantity checks have been made.On getting complaints regarding poor quality of wheat, the department conducted 100 per cent physical inspection of the wheat, which was received from the FCI, Punjab. A team from the FCI was also asked to carry out inspection of food grains being supplied to the UT.The department has strictly informed the agency and the FCI that there would be no distribution of any poor quality of wheat in the UT. It will be done only after 100 per cent physical inspection by the department. It had also asked the FCI to take back the identified poor quality wheat.To keep more vigil on this task of lifting wheat from the FCI, the department has also deputed two inspectors at the FCI in addition to the officials already deputed by the selected agency at the FCI godown. Only after proper verification of quantity and good quality wheat stock, the supply would be accepted, stated the department.The department will also take strict action against the erring agency that was tasked with the lifting, stacking and distribution of wheat in the city. A show-cause notice has been issued in this regard.The department has also issued a show-cause notice to the Food Supplies inspectors, who have failed to perform their duties.The department will take all necessary action to ensure that only the “fit-for-consumption” food grains are provided on the doorstep of the beneficiaries.Show-cause noticeThe UT Department of Food and Supplies and Consumer Affairs and Legal Metrology has also issued a show-cause notice to the Food Supplies inspectors, who have failed to perform their duties. The department will take all necessary action to ensure that only the “fit-for-consumption” food grains are provided on the doorstep of the beneficiaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/food-corporation-of-india-asked-to-take-back-poor-quality-wheat-311128
15-09-2021||---||Chandigarh Housing Board extends last date to submit e-bids by 4 days||Chandigarh, September 14Keeping in view the festival season, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has extended the last date to submit e-bids for sale of commercial as well as residential properties by four days.After reducing the reserve price of leasehold commercial units by 20 per cent and residential units by 10 per cent, the CHB had invited e-bids for the sale of 191 vacant units - 132 commercial and 31 residential units on a leasehold basis and 28 residential units on a freehold basis.Earlier, the e-bids were to be submitted from 10 am on September 15 to 10 am on October 8 and these were to be opened from 10.15 am onwards on October 8.“Considering the festival season, the last date has been extended by four days and e-bids can now be submitted till 10 am on October 12,” said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB.He said residential units on freehold basis could be inspected from 10 am to 5 pm on every Saturday, residential units on a leasehold basis on every Wednesday and commercial units on a leasehold basis on every Friday.Stickers have been pasted at each of the built-up unit for better identification and site offices have been provided at different sectors/location to facilitate inspection by prospective bidders. The location of each of the unit on Google map, address of the site offices and contact details of the officials are available on the official website www.chbonline.in.The built-up dwelling units would be allotted to the highest eligible bidder, quoting above the reserve price of the unit. The GST would not be applicable on the consideration/premium of the unit. However, in case of allotment on a leasehold basis, the GST would be applicable on lease money/ground rent payable annually, he said.e-bids invitedAfter reducing the reserve price of leasehold commercial units by 20 per cent and residential units by 10 per cent, the CHB had invited e-bids for the sale of 191 vacant units — 132 commercial and 31 residential units on a leasehold basis and 28 residential units on a freehold basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-extends-last-date-to-submit-e-bids-by-4-days-311130
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||PISA field trial put off||Field trial for the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), which was scheduled to start tomorrow, has been postponed, confirmed the Director, School Education, Palika Arora.Arora said the field trial was deferred till further instructions.The sample size for the field trial was 1,710 students from English and Hindi medium schools. A total of 1,125 students were to be selected from English medium schools and 585 from Hindi medium institutes. There are 3,461 PISA students in city schools.The main survey is scheduled between August and September 2022.PISA is a triennial international survey aimed at evaluating education systems worldwide by testing the skills and knowledge of 15-year-old students nearing the end of their compulsory education. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pisa-field-trial-put-off-311131
15-09-2021||---||Soon, Dera Bassi to have mechanised sweeping||Dera Bassi, September 14In order to get rid of the tag of Non-Attainment City, the town would soon be equipped with a mechanical sweeper, water sprinklers, electric vehicles charging stations and electric vehicle-based system for waste collection.Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Komal Mittal said the Central Pollution Control Board had identified 94 Non-Attainment Cities (NACs) which have consistently violated air quality standards throughout the country, and Dera Bassi is one of them. A city is put in the NAC category if over a five-year period, it consistently does not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Index, she said, adding that an action plan is already prepared for counter measures in Dera Bassi, under which pollution check centres have been upgraded and efforts are being made to deal with vehicular mess on the main light points.The official said the construction of two parking zones had started on the tehsil road and the adjoining vegetable market in the city. The traffic police monitored the area with a smart CCTV system accustomed with sensing systems.An awareness campaign is under way in schools and other vulnerable areas to sensitise people to the ill-effects of pollution through online seminars, camps and public meetings.Emphasising the regular checking of pollution emission of vehicles, the ADC (G) said their focus was on electric vehicles. Instructing the Municipal Council to buy a mechanical sweeper at the earliest, she said the machine would help improve the air quality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-dera-bassi-to-have-mechanised-sweeping-311132
15-09-2021||---||516 aspirants get job at mega fair||Mohali, September 14Under the flagship programme of the Punjab Government, “Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission”, renowned companies of the world today provided jobs to 516 candidates out of more than 750 candidates during the third event of the 7th Mega Job Fairs organised at Rayat Bahra University, Kharar.Deputy Director, District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE), Meenakshi Goyal said prominent employers, including Reliance, HDFC, Tata AIG, Puma Source, Kotak Mahindra, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Pukhraj, Zomato, HCL, participated in the job fair and provided jobs to 516 candidates. She said 41 candidates had been selected for skill training and 52 for self-employment. Vice-Chanceller of Rayat and Bahra University Parvinder Singh was the chief guest on this occasion while Registrar BS Satyal also attended the fair as a distinguished guest.Addressing the candidates, Dr Parvinder Singh urged the youth to take optimum benefit from these job fairs and be proud of your economical independence after getting employment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/516-aspirants-get-job-at-mega-fair-311135
15-09-2021||Ambala||Ambala school libraries to get books on competitive exams||In order to motivate students and provide them career counselling, the district administration has started providing career guidance and competitive exam books at the libraries of government schools in the district.Deputy Commissioner Vikram Singh today inaugurated one such library at Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School at Samlehri village. The DC interacted with students of Class XI and XII. He motivated the children to fix their goals and guided them as to how they could achieve their targets.He said: “Along with the beautification of libraries at all 93 government senior secondary schools, the administration has started providing career guidance and competitive exam books to them. While the work at 22 schools has been completed, it will be completed soon at the remaining schools. We have also decided to start arranging interactions between students and officials of different departments and sectors so that the former could get answers related to their queries.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-school-libraries-to-get-books-on-competitive-exams-311136
15-09-2021||---||Property grab: Bail plea of accused dismissed||Chandigarh, September 14A local court has dismissed the bail application of Saurabh Gupta, one of the accused in the alleged property grab case of Sector 37, Chandigarh. Saurabh Gupta is one of the nine accused who have been named by the Chandigarh Police in an FIR registered with regard to the alleged property grab in Sector 37 on March 2, 2021. The FIR was registered against Sanjiv Mahajan, Saruabh Gupta, Khalendra Singh Kadyan, Arvind Singla, Ashok Arora, Satpal Dagar, Rajdeep Singh, late Surjit Singh and Shekher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-grab-bail-plea-of-accused-dismissed-311142
15-09-2021||---||Panel rejects Chandigarh Municipal Corporation appeal||Chandigarh, September 14The Municipal Corporation has failed to get any relief from the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission Chandigarh. The commission has rejected its appeal against the order of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum directing the civic body to refund Rs54,790 to a consumer who was illegally charged commercial rate for water consumption.The District Forum, in its order, not only directed the Municipal Corporation to refund the amount but also directed it to pay Rs10, 000 as litigation costs to the consumer.Kuldeep Chand, a resident of Mani Majra, approached the forum alleging that the MC had sent him water bills on the commercial rate illegally for seven years. He said when he renovated his house, the MC started sending commercial bill of water/sewerage from June 18, 2010. He said though he informed the MC through an affidavit submitted on September 1, 2010, about the completion of the work, the MC continued charging commercial rates of water/sewerage till April 27, 2017. He said the MC was liable to refund Rs54,790 after deducting an amount of domestic bill of Rs14,255 from the total amount of Rs69,045.The MC had denied all charges and justified its decision on various grounds. After hearing of the arguments, the forum allowed the appeal of the consumer.The MC had filed an appeal before the State Commission. The commission, in its order, says that the MC, Chandigarh, has levied commercial rate of water despite the fact the respondent intimated to the MC regarding the completion of the work. The commission says that this act is a clear cut abuse of power at the hands of the appellants. “In view of the above discussion, it is held that the order passed by the District Commission, being based on the correct appreciation of evidence, and law, on the point, does not suffer from any illegality or perversity, warranting the interference of this Commission,” says the order of the State Commission comprising its President Raj Shekhar Attri and members Padma Pandey and Rajesh K Arya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-rejects-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-appeal-311133
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two youths held for assault in Chandigarh||Woman held with banned vialsChandigarh: The police have arrested a woman of Dadu Majra with 24 banned vials. She was nabbed from Sector 29. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act at the Sector 39 police station. TNSDrugs disposed of by UT policeChandigarh: The Drug Disposal Committee on Tuesday disposed of a contraband of drugs recovered in 13 cases under the NDPS Act registered at the Sector 17 police station. The drugs, including 16.150 kg of poppy husk, 4.800 kg of ganja, 3.66 gm of smack, 194.15 gm of heroin and 162 vials were disposed of at M/s Punjab Chemicals and Crop Protection Limited, Dera Bassi, through an incinerator installed in the company. TNSWebinar marks Hindi DiwasAmbala: Vijay Laxmi Foundation organised a webinar, “Challenges and opportunities before the Hindi language in the era of globalisation”, to mark Hindi Diwas on Tuesday. Dr Shalini Sharma, Associate Professor from Markanda National College, Shahbad, said: “We all have to make efforts to bring the Hindi language forward. Due to globalisation, the whole world is connected, and we can promote and spread the Hindi language in foreign countries also through the Internet.” Prof Anjana Garg, former Head of Department of Public Administration, MDU, Rohtak, said: “We have to bring about a change in the mindset so that the Hindi language can be brought forward.” TNSDHS Orders for senior doctorsChandigarh: After the UT Health Secretary directed officials to conduct regular surprise night visits, the Director, Health Services, on Tuesday passed officials orders for Medical Superintendent, Deputy Medical Superintendent and Senior Medical Officer to conduct surprise rounds and submit report. Yashpal Garg, UT Health Secretary, conducted a surprise inspection at various hospitals of the UT Administration on Sunday night. He had directed that Senior Medical Officers, Medical Superintendent, Director, Health Services; and the Director Principal should also conduct surprise rounds during the night. TNSRGNUL, ISC ink pactPatiala: The Centre for Criminology, Criminal Justice and Victimology (CCV) at Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) has signed an MoU with the Indian Society of Criminology (ISC). Publication rights of the Indian Journal of Criminology were recently transferred to the RGNUL in a meeting of the ISC executive council. The journal was earlier published by National Law University, Delhi. TNSCop transferred to Police LinesChandigarh: Inspector Jasminder Singh, in-charge of the PO and Summon Staff, has been transferred to the Police Lines, Sector 26, on administrative grounds. His transfer order was issued by UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal. Meanwhile, Inspector Satvinder Singh has been given the temporary charge as the in-charge of the PO and Summon Staff. TNSWoman dies in road mishapMohali: A 52-year-old woman died while her husband suffered injuries after a truck hit the motorcycle they were riding on near Raipur Kalan village. The deceased has been identified as Surinder Kaur, a resident of Gadana village, while her husband has been identified as Amarjit Singh. The truck driver, Amrik Singh, a resident of Kiratpur Sahib, was arrested. He was later released on bail. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-youths-held-for-assault-in-chandigarh-311143
15-09-2021||---||3 of thieves’ gang nailed in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 14Three members of a gang of vehicle thieves, including a scrap dealer, have been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police. The police claimed that six cases — four of vehicle thefts and two of burglary — had been worked out with their arrest.Ten vehicles — eight two-wheelers and two dismantled cars — had been recovered, besides gold ornaments, which were stolen from houses.The police said the suspects, Abrar Khan (36), who had 16 cases of theft and vehicle theft registered against him in Chandigarh, and Ashlam (52), were arrested from near the grain market in Sector 39 while they were going to deliver a stolen Bullet motorcycle to a scrap dealer in Maloya.The scrap dealer, Khalil Ahmed (55), had also been arrested. Two dismantled stolen cars had been recovered from Khalil’s possession, the police said.Abrar used to steal vehicles and dispose of these with the help of Aslam. Aslam was also arrested earlier in a theft case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-of-thieves-gang-nailed-in-chandigarh-311146
15-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Devinder Singh Babla blames Chandigarh Congress chief for leaders’ exit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14In a fresh trouble to the Chandigarh Congress ahead of the Municipal Corporation poll, Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla has fired a salvo at the president of the party’s city unit, Subhash Chawla, holding him responsible for leaders leaving the Congress.Your job to keep all together: BablaWill you ask everything from Netaji (Pawan Bansal)? Netaji is not telling all to leave the party. You are the president of the party, it is your responsibility to keep everyone together. Devinder Singh Babla, Leader of OppositionCouncillor Babla wrote to the party chief, “I am a true sipahi of the party. It hurts to see fellow colleagues leaving us. You are ‘General’, fauj gets courage with its sipahis. Will you ask everything from Netaji (Pawan Bansal)? Netaji is not telling all to leave the party. You are the president of the party, it is your responsibility to keep everyone together.”Referring to several leaders joining the AAP yesterday, the Congress councillor further wrote, “I am hurt that our fellow party men have left the Congress. The party leadership must ponder over it. Think something Chawla ji; the party’s leadership is in your hands.”BJP, AAP leaders want to join Cong: ChawlaSome BJP and AAP leaders want to join us. Four councillors are asking for the ticket. Should I give them the ticket and not to the old party workers, who have been working hard. Subhash Chawla, President, city CongressBabla wrote this on the city Congress WhatsApp group. Chawla later replied to him. The chat has gone public.The city party chief wrote back, “I can double the strength of Congress leaders. Some BJP and AAP leaders want to join us. Even four councillors are asking for tickets. What do you want? Should I give them tickets and not to the old party workers, who have been working hard.”Babla retorted, “You should pay attention to people leaving our party, rather than bringing in others.”Several Congress leaders, including former councillor Chandermukhi Sharma, former president of the city Congress Pardeep Chhabra, office-bearers and other senior leaders, have joined the AAP in the recent times. This has widened the rift in the party’s city unit. The MC polls are due in December.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/devinder-singh-babla-blames-chandigarh-congress-chief-for-leaders-exit-311147
15-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC inspects project; rides to be free for now||Rides under the public bike sharing project will continue to be free for now as the glitches have not been removed yet. The bicycle rides were earlier made free till September 12 after users faced issues in locking and unlocking of bikes using the Smart Bike app.An official‘Glitches being fixed’Certain glitches reported by users are being fixed, and once that happens, user charges will be collected.The company was asked to fix all problems till September 12. A team of MC officials today took stock of the public bike sharing project in the city. They inspected docking stations and also rode cycles.“Certain glitches reported by users are being fixed, and once that happens, user charges will be collected,” said an official.The official said in case of vandalism of cycles, the police had been asked to increase patrolling. The company was also strengthening its online surveillance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-inspects-project-rides-to-be-free-for-now-311144
15-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Can’t allow misuse of court process to encroach on property: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14Unscrupulous and deceitful persons cannot be allowed to use the process of court as a convenient lever to retain and encroach upon public property indefinitely on one pretext or the other, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled. The Bench has added that such persons could not be permitted to get affairs settled in the manner they wished or take undue advantage.Bench What the court saidThe wheels of justice can move only on presenting all relevant and true facts. Any concealment or mischief would result in derailing the wheels of justice...The assertion by the Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma came on a petition filed against the state of Punjab. The Bench was told that the petitioner had taken shops and land on lease from the Landran gram panchayat. However, the new Landran gram panchayat, bifurcated from the Landran gram panchayat, filed a petition under the Punjab Village Common Land (Regulation) Act against the petitioner for dispossessing him of the property. Taking up the petition, the Mohali Collector (Panchayat Land) passed the ejectment order, dated January 12, 2016, vide which the gram panchayat was declared the property owner. The petitioner was ordered to be dispossessed from the gram panchayat shops, room over the land, generator shed and also from the parking area in front of the gram panchayat shopsDuring the pendency of appeal, a warrant of possession of the disputed property was issued by the Collector vide an order dated January 27, 2016, in favour of the new Landran gram panchayat. After a legal battle that followed, the Kharar Block Development and Panchayat Officer/Tehsildar, issued an order/letter, dated February 1, directing the execution for the warrants-of-possession order, dated January 12, 2016. The possession was to be taken on February 3. Aggrieved, the petitioner filed this writ petition.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Verma asserted that the petitioner had not come to the court with clean hands. It was utmost necessary for a party to come with clean hands and place all material facts before the court without any reservation.“If there is suppression of material and relevant facts on the part of a litigant or twisted facts have been placed, this court can always refuse to exercise the writ jurisdiction under Articles 226/227 of the Constitution. The wheels of justice can move only on presenting all relevant and true facts. Any concealment or mischief would result in derailing the wheels of justice. Justice is based on truth and truth cannot be trampled by an act of concealment and misrepresentation with mala fide intention and ulterior motives. Concealment of material facts vitiates all solemn acts,” the Bench concluded, while dismissing the petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cant-allow-misuse-of-court-process-to-encroach-on-property-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-311134
15-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh to go green, panel to draft policy on electric vehicles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14To go green, the UT Administration has constituted a three-member committee to prepare a draft policy on electric vehicles in the city.To encourage plug-in electric vehicles, the UT authorities have proposed to give a number of incentives such as waiving off registration fee and road tax on the purchase of an electric vehicle.After getting the report of the committee, suggestions and objections will be invited on the draft policy, UT Adviser Dharam Pal said, adding that Municipal Commissioner Anindita Mitra, Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar and Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) Chief Executive Officer Debendra Dalai would be the members of the committee.The policy would be aimed at reducing pollution in the city by bringing down emissions from motor vehicles. The Administration would gradually improve the infrastructure to encourage sale of electric vehicles in the city.After approval from the UT Administrator, the electric vehicle policy would be implemented for five years and thereafter revised as per changed conditions, sources in the department said.Mooted as green fuel, the UT Administration has also planned to purchase electric vehicles for its officials.In order to reduce air and noise pollution and dependence on fossil fuels, the UT Administration had recently completed a one-month of trial run of an electric bus in the city. After receiving 19 more electric buses on September 30, the buses will be put under operation for the general public from the first week of October. Another lot of 20 buses are likely to arrive in the city by next month and the procurement of another 40 electric buses is under process and expected to be received next year.The Department of Heavy Industries, under the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, has sanctioned 80 electric buses under Phase ll of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme. For first lot of 40 buses, an agreement has been signed with M/s Ashok Leyland for 10 years.The procurement of the buswa will give a major boost to the plan of the UT Transport Department to replace its entire fleet of 358 diesel buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) with electric buses by 2027-2028.Panel membersAfter getting a report from the committee, suggestions and objections will be invited on the draft policy, UT Adviser Dharam Pal said, adding that Municipal Commissioner Anindita Mitra, Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar and Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) Chief Executive Officer Debendra Dalai would be the members of the committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-go-green-panel-to-draft-policy-on-electric-vehicles-311137
15-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali Municipal Corporation House approves Rs 19-cr development works||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 14The Municipal Corporation House today unanimously passed resolutions for various development works worth about Rs19 crore. The works pertaining to roads, paver blocks, zebra crossing, etc, are mainly of Sector 76 to 80.The MC House meeting was held under the chairmanship of Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu. It also passed a resolution for the construction of a fire station in Sector 78 at the cost of over Rs2.92 crore.Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and MC Commissioner Kamal Garg did not attend the meeting. Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Joint Commissioner Harjit Singh Dhillon and SE Sanjay Kanwar were present.The Houser confirmed the proceedings of the last meeting and that of the last two Finance and Contract Committee meetings.A few councillors demanded reducing the fee of taxi stands and vehicles besides reducing the number of vehicles, which is 10 at present, at each facility. On this, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi asked for giving powers to the Mayor regarding amendment, which was accepted by the House.A sum of Rs2.64 crore has been earmarked for purchasing boots, gloves, uniforms, rehris, trolleys and other items for nearly 1,000 employees to be recruited by the civic body for manual cleaning. The resolution was passed through tabled item.Another important agenda passed by the MC House was outsourcing the work of mechanical sweeping of city roads. Under this, wall-to-wall sweeping of ‘A’ roads of the city as well as ‘B’ roads will be done mechanically. A sum of Rs37 crore will be spent on this work for a period of three years.As in the previous meeting, this time too some opposition councillors alleged discrimination against their wards. To this, the Mayor said the work of all wards was being done with full transparency and no one was being discriminated against. He said if there was any work of a councillor in a ward, he or she could meet him directly anytime.Other decisions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-municipal-corporation-house-approves-rs-19-cr-development-works-311138
15-09-2021||---||Mohali district administration fails to take action against ‘erring officials’||Zirakpur, September 14Despite two deaths and hundreds of cases of diarrhoea and a cholera outbreak in the Baltana and Peermuchalla areas of Zirakpur in the past one month, the Mohali district administration is twiddling its thumbs over the alarming situation. There has been no action on the Municipal Council officials in this regard till now, neither has there been any serious attempt to ascertain the cause of the outbreak of diseases.A month ago, Mohali Deputy Commissioner had talked of “fixing the responsibility of erring officials this time”, but action has been taken yet.At a time when residents of Zirakpur are complaining of water contamination and leakages in water supply lines, the department is under the supervision of Dera Bassi Municipal Council Executive Officer.In-charge Jagjit Singh Jajj said: “I am in touch with the Municipal Council engineer and junior engineer concerned on a daily basis. They are handling the technical aspects.”During the cholera outbreak in Baltana in August, the administration had claimed that the contamination of water supply with sewage occurred due to leaking “tullu pump” connections and illegal connections. This time, officials of the administration and the Municipal Council have gone a step forward and claimed that no leakage has been found till now.Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa said: “There have been five-six deaths due to diarrhoea and dengue in the Dera Bassi area in the past one month. The problem in Mubarikpur has been rectified. I will visit the Peermuchalla tomorrow and take stock of the situation.”Officials said there is no complaint in writing about water contamination. It may be due to individual submersible pumps installed in houses. Once the water sample reports come, we will be able to identify the source of contamination.Since June this year, residents have been complaining about water contamination at various places in the district. In June, 80 gastro cases were reported from Kharar. In August, two persons died due to cholera in Baltana. In September, three persons died in Trivedi Camp of Dera Bassi after complaining of fever and abdominal pain. More than 200 cases of diarrhoea-like symptoms have been reported from Peermuchalla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-administration-fails-to-take-action-against-erring-officials-311139
15-09-2021||---||20 more diarrhoea cases come to fore in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, September 14Twenty new cases of diarrhoea were reported from Peermuchalla and 12 patients were hospitalised today, said the Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur. Four patients were hospitalised at the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital.Despite diarrhoea cases being reported in hundreds in the area till now, the Zirakpur administration and Municipal Council officials maintained that no leakage or contamination of water had been found in pipelines so far.Samples of the MC water supply and individual submersible pumps were collected today from various places.Jagjit Singh Jajj, in-charge of the water supply in Zirakpur, said, “Tankers have been stationed at various places to supply water to residents. We are actively working to check leakages.”Meanwhile, residents of the area continued to visit the medical camp set up at the community centre. However, the rush at the Dhakoli hospital continues to grow.Dhakoli hospital SMO Pommy Chatrath said the patients were reporting abdominal pain and fever. The blood and stool sample reports will be received in a day or two.“Residents have been generally complaining about contaminated supply and foul smell from water, but it will only be clear after the sample reports are received,” said Kulwant Singh, Junior Engineer, Zirakpur Municipal Council.Cases mount, but no leakage detected yetDespite diarrhoea cases being reported in hundreds in the area till now, the Zirakpur administration and Municipal Council officials maintained that no leakage or contamination of water had been found in pipelines so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-more-diarrhoea-cases-come-to-fore-in-zirakpur-311145
15-09-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid deaths begin to rise in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14There has been a slight spike in deaths related to Covid-19 in Chandigarh. In just 14 days, five patients have succumbed to the disease. Last month, the virus had claimed only two lives in the city. There has been a 150 per cent rise in deaths this month.Also read: Chandigarh: Number of guests in social events increased to 300Among the deceased, three patients were aged above 75 years. A 31-year-old patient had died in a road accident and tested positive for the virus posthumously. An 81-year-old patient died due to coronary artery disease and chronic liver disease with complications. The Covid infection proved fatal for a 92-year-old patient. An 80-year-old patient with Type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension and coronary artery disease too succumbed to the virus.On Tuesday, a 24-year-old patient with severe acute respiratory distress syndrome died due to Covid-19.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, said, “There has been a rise in Covid deaths lately. We studied these cases and found that one patient was ill for the past six months and was taking treatment from a private hospital. One patient was fully vaccinated and another was partially vaccinated. The vaccine does not reduce the chances of catching infection, but reduced the likelihood of hospitalisation. However, there will be cases where very sick and vulnerable patients will die of Covid-19. It is very important to wear mask and avoid transmission.”Delta variant dominates cityIn a fresh batch of samples sent on August 21, the variant of concern has been detected in 25 samples. A total of 27 samples were sent for genome sequencing, the results of which were received on September 14. The Delta variant was found in nine samples, while 16 samples were detected with sub-lineages of the variant. Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, said the variant had been dominant in the UT since the second wave. “There is no direction from the Centre regarding the existing variant. The government had warned us about the Delta plus variant, which has not been found in the city in the recent samples,” she said.Two test positive in UT, one succumbsChandigarh: The city on Wednesday reported two cases of Covid-19 and one death due to the virus. Five patients were cured of the disease. — TNS3 cases surface in Mohali, no death Mohali: Three fresh Covid cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours. No fresh death was reported, while two patients were cured of the virus. — TNSSix found infected in P’kula, no deathPanchkula: Six Covid cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours. No fresh death was reported. Meanwhile, 12,599 persons were vaccinated across the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-deaths-begin-to-rise-in-chandigarh-311140
15-09-2021||---||Man found murdered in Morni forest||Panchkula, September 14A 34-year old man was killed with a sharp weapon allegedly by two persons in a forest area at Berwala village in Morni late last night.The victim has been identified as Rajiv Kumar (34), a resident of Saihadpura in Dera Bassi. The police said the two suspects, Gurvinder Singh and Jaspal Singh, both residents of Dera Bassi, were known to the victim, Rajiv. After the murder, they kept on taking alcohol while sitting near his body.When the police, who were patrolling the area, reached the spot, the two suspects got into a car and tried to run over an ASI and a Home Guards jawan of the Panchkula police. However, the two policemen had a miraculous escape.The suspects fled from the spot. However, their car crashed on the way. They then went on foot into the dense forest area and fled.Mahabir, Home Guards jawan who was driving the police vehicle, said they were patrolling the area around 11 pm yesterday. They found two youths sitting at the spot. When he took a photo of the number plate of the car, the two suspects entered their car and tried to run over them. ASI Pradeep Kumar tried to stop them, but they managed to flee.The police said when they searched the area, they found the body of the victim. They flashed a message about the incident and the registration number of the car. A police party found the car 2 km away from the spot in a damaged condition. The police also found a mobile phone, a charger and documents in the car.Police Commissioner Saurabh Singh, DCP Mohit Handa and a team of the crime branch reached the spot. The police collected samples and sent the body to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula.A case under under Sections 201, 302, 307 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the two at the Chandimandir police station.SHO Arvind Kambojh said the two suspects had been arrested. He said during preliminary investigations, it was revealed that victim Rajiv was earlier working in a company and was now unemployed. Suspect Gurvinder was a property dealer and added that they were yet to question Jaspal Singh. He said that the two suspects would be produced in a court tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-murdered-in-morni-forest-311141
