16-09-2021||New Delhi||ED seizes Rs 4-crore worth of cash, bullion after raids on north India hawala operators||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday said it seized over Rs 4 crore worth of Indian and foreign currency and bullion in recent multi-city raids against Hawala operators based in north India.The searches were carried out under provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act against directors and associates of Paul Merchants Ltd, Quick Forex Ltd, Supama Forex Pvt Ltd and Curo India Pvt Ltd in Chandigarh, Panchkula, Mohali, Jalandhar and Delhi, the agency said in a statement.These “entities sent outward remittances of over Rs 475 crore to Singapore, Hong Kong and the UAE on behalf of shell or dummy entities like Triple Streak Dream Holidays, Wangester Travels Pvt Ltd, Peripatizo Travels Pvt Ltd, Himalaya Tourism, Ezax Holidays, and Great Journey Tours etc”, it said.These shell entities, the ED alleged, used “fake IDs of various persons for making outward remittances in guise of purported travel transactions which resulted into generation of unauthorised (Hawala) money”.It claimed that this “illegal money has been invested in real estate and other businesses of their associated companies/entities”.The action resulted in the seizure of Rs 3.88 crore worth Indian and foreign currency and bullion of Rs 24.2 lakh.“The ED has also seized incriminating documents, laptops, mobile phones and property documents,” it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ed-seizes-rs-4-crore-worth-of-cash-bullion-after-raids-on-north-india-hawala-operators-312058
16-09-2021||Vijay Mohan||High-quality transparent ceramics developed for use in thermal imaging and personal protection equipment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16High-quality transparent ceramics have been developed for the first time in India which can be used in thermal imaging and personal protection equipment such as helmets, face shields and goggles in harsh service conditions for the armed forces as well as law enforcement agencies.Transparent ceramics is a new class of advanced materials with unique transparency and excellent mechanical properties. These materials can be designed not only for transparent to visible light but also for ultraviolet, Infrared and radiofrequency, giving opportunity for diverse applications.Though produced by different countries globally, transparent ceramics are restricted in supply as they can be used for strategic applications. Several attempts were made in the country earlier, but the transparent ceramics so produced were either on a laboratory scale or low transparency.The currently developed process through a technique called colloidal processing followed by simultaneous application of temperature and pressure, is able to produce the sizes usable for several applications on a pilot scale, according to a statement issued by the Ministry of Science and Technology on Wednesday.Generally prepared from high purity powders through a line of critically engineered processing steps, transparent ceramics needs preparation processes that will help achieve theoretical transparency by eliminating defects.Chemical vapour deposition involving reactions of the precursors in the vapor phase at elevated temperatures and hotisostatic pressing involving simultaneous application of temperature and pressure are a few advanced processing techniques generally practiced to address the above challenges. An enhanced diffusion process at high temperature under pressure is suggested as the possible mechanism to eliminate the defects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-quality-transparent-ceramics-developed-for-use-in-thermal-imaging-and-personal-protection-equipment-312021
16-09-2021||How did you get into acting?||‘OTT is the future’: Actor Karanveer Khullar, who belongs to Chandigarh, talks about his upcoming projects and his journey so far||My journey began in 2009 when I took part in Gladrags Manhunt Contest and was one of the finalists. Then, in 2010, I joined a theatre group called Alankar and performed in a number of plays. That’s how I got into acting.What was your debut project?I made my debut in 2017. I played the antagonist in the Punjabi movie Rocky Mental.Can you tell us something about your upcoming film, Nirmal Anand Ki Puppy?It’s a simple, light-hearted saga about a couple living in Mumbai. Though the subject is serious. It’s a roller coaster ride exploring the nuances of an urban relationship. The film makes history as it has been scripted by a first-of-its-kind ‘man-dog’ writing duo - Sandeep Mohan and his beloved dog Hermione.You have worked with Dheeraj Kumar twice - Rocky Mental and the latest OTT release, Kala Shehar. How has the experience been?Dheeraj is a brilliant actor and a great friend. He is very supportive and we had an amazing time together on the sets of Kala Shehar.What else is there in the pipeline?I have Please Kill Me also in the pipeline. It is probably the first Punjabi thriller in a long time. A young NRI girl disappears and I am playing the police officer who is trying to solve the case.Theatre/films/OTT, which medium do you prefer and why?My heart belongs to theatre. Films happened by chance as I don’t have any godfather in the industry. OTT is the future.Any dream role?My dream is to play a bad guy in a Hollywood movie.What’s your success mantra?People say it’s hard work. I say it’s ‘heart’ work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ott-is-the-future-actor-karanveer-khullar-who-belongs-to-chandigarh-talks-about-his-upcoming-projects-and-his-journey-so-far-311779
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man arrested under NDPS Act||4 youths thrash man, bookedChandigarh: Four youths have been booked for allegedly threatening and beating up a Mauli Jagran resident. Complainant Anil Kumar Tiwari alleged that Sanju, alias Bihari (21), Vishal (18), Gaurav, alias Gabbar (21), and Rahul Yadav (21) thrashed him near a juice shop at Mauli Jagran. TNSKhair wood found in carChandigarh: An unknown person has been booked after he fled leaving behind a car carrying 10 pieces of khair wood. According to the police, Jatinder Singh, forester, reported that an unknown person riding a Wagon R car, ran after leaving his vehicle, carrying 10 pieces of banned wood of khair weighing 184 kg, behind near the Toga road. A case has been registered. TNSCovid control room numberMohali: The contact number of the Covid control room of the district Health Department has been changed. The department said the mobile number had been changed to 62391-16649 due to some technical reasons. For any information regarding the Covid-19 pandemic, residents can contact on this number round the clock. TNSRWA protests against developerChandigarh: The Omaxe Cassia Residents Welfare Association (OCRWA), Mullanpur, New Chandigarh, on Wednesday protested against the management of Omaxe Pvt Ltd. At a press conference held at Sector 27, several house owners alleged that they had paid full amount for flats in 2011 onwards but the posession was delayed. Prof GS Gill, president of the residents body, alleged the construction quality, be it civil, wooden or modular kitchen etc, was very poor. General secretary Ranjit Singh Uppal alleged that no Club House, as shown in the plan, had been constructed for which they paid Rs1-2 lakh extra. There is no uninterrupted power supply while the residents paid Rs50,000-80,000 extra for power backup years back, they claimed. TNSPet clinic inauguratedChandigarh: A multi-specialty pet clinic, Lake Syde Veterinary Clinic, has been inaugurated in Sector 7 here. It is equipped with the state-of-the-art equipment. The clinic provides services such as routine lab testing, dental cleaning and nail clipping. TNSPanjab varsity CET on Sept 19Chandigarh: Panjab University will conduct the PU CET (undergraduate) examination on September 19. The examination will be held at 24 different centres, including 18 in Chandigarh. As many as 5,762 candidates have registered for the exam in Chandigarh, 588 in Hoshiarpur, 503 in Ludhiana and 473 in Muktsar. TNSChain fast at PU enters Day 11Chandigarh: The ongoing chain fast by the teachers protesting under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers' Organisations at Punjab University entered 11th day on Wednesday. College teachers from Jalandhar and Chandigarh protested at the campus on Wednesday. The teachers are protesting against the non-implementation of 7th UGC pay scales. TNSCU honours Harish MehtaMohlai: Chandigarh University (CU) conferred Lifetime Achievement Award on Harish Mehta, CEO, Reliance BP Mobility Ltd, for his achievements and contribution in the field of innovative marketing and finding digital solutions to the problems of the clients in the oil and gas sector. The university also honoured Deepak Yadav, a former computer science engineering student of 2020 batch who is currently working at Amazon. Shivam Puniani and Manik Garg were also felicitated. The award ceremony was held virtually. The event was a part of Engineers Day celebrations. TNSFreedom rally stopover in UTChandigarh: The Mahindra Freedom Drive rally made a pit stop in the city on Wednesday. The rally, including a convoy of 80 vehicles distributed across North, West, South and East regions of the country, will travel across 20 cities over the next 25 days. After stopping at Chandigarh, the motorists drove to Panchkula, Mohali and Ambala. TNSU-19 cricket trials on Sept 20Chandigarh: Chandigarh Cricket Association, affiliated to Haryana Cricket Association, will conduct trials to select the U-19 squad on September 20 at SD Senior Secondary School, Sector 24. The selected players will first participate in inter-academy matches and thereafter play in the Haryana inter-academy cricket tournaments. The trials will start at 3pm. The registration for U-19 trails will be held from 3 pm to 6 pm on September 17, informed CCA-Haryana. TNSJunior Golf meet on October 3Mohali: The second editions of the Forest Hill Junior Golf championship will be held on October 3. The championship will be organised for all children in the age group of 5-18 years in A, B, C, D, E and F categories. The interested players can register themselves at the tournament venue. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-arrested-under-ndps-act-311922
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||State carrom meet in October||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/state-carrom-meet-in-october-311921
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||G2B portal launched in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/g2b-portal-launched-in-chandigarh-311920
16-09-2021||Mohali||1 held, 8 booked for duping job aspirants in Mohali||The police have arrested a resident of Sector 99 and booked several others for duping people on the pretext of arranging government jobs as also promising them to aid in cheating during examinations.Suspect Hari Krishan has been arrested while Manjit Kumar of Hisar, Bhaan Singh of Kaithal, Kuldeep Singh and Sandeep Singh of Bhiwani, Sonu Gujjar and Sumit from Hisar, Yogesh of Rohtak, Chotta Ram of Sangrur and others have been booked under sections 420, 465, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and the IT Act at the Phase-8 police station.Inspector Sukhbir Singh, complainant, stated that the most of the gang members used to operate from Haryana but the financial dealings took place in Mohali. The suspects promised government jobs, assured help in cheating during written exams, and prepared fake certificates to dupe job aspirants. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-held-8-booked-for-duping-job-aspirants-in-mohali-311919
16-09-2021||Mohali||Border farmers protest against Punjab Govt||Members of the Punjab Border Area Kissan Welfare Society today staged a protest against the state government for delaying Rs 10,000-per acre compensation to the farmers whose crops were destroyed by stray animals across the India-Pakistan border.Society leader Raghubir Singh Baghala said farmers of six districts, Pathankot, Batala, Fazilka, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, have not been paid compensation by the state government since 2017. He alleged that the Centre had sanctioned Rs5,000 per acre for farmers but the state government had not contributed its Rs5,000 per acre share and withheld the entire amount due to them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/border-farmers-protest-against-punjab-govt-311918
16-09-2021||---||Village nodal officers to check stubble burning in Mohali district||Mohali, September 15To weed out the stubble burning menace, the district administration here has conceptualised an exclusive idea to depute nodal officers in every village for ground level monitoring.More than 400 nodal officers have been deputed in villages for strict enforcement and monitoring at the village, cluster, tehsil, and district levels to keep air pollution under check, said Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.A publicity van was also flagged off from the District Administrative Complex here to create awareness among farmers for the cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/village-nodal-officers-to-check-stubble-burning-in-mohali-district-311917
16-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Soon an NGO in Mann Kaur’s name||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15Octogenarian Gurdev Singh, son of veteran athlete Mann Kaur who died in July at the age of 105, has decided to register an NGO in the name of her mother to fulfil her dream of nurturing the region’s young talent.Gurdev Singh has prepared the final draft for the NGO – Sardarni Mann Kaur Sachiar Sports and Vocational Training Society – and will get it registered in Chandigarh.“The main objective of the NGO will be to promote sports and wellness, not only physical wellness but also mental and spiritual, among youth, including the underprivileged and school dropouts,” said the 84-year-old.“Due to Covid, Biji (Mann) wasn’t able to pursue her dream. I, along with some likeminded people, have now decided to carry it forward. I was staying at Patiala and many youngsters were getting trained with us. After Biji’s death, I had to relocate, but we will continue to encourage kids,” said Singh.He said the NGO would also make children aware about the importance of proper diet.“We used to take special diet, prepared using various machines. I have decided to use these machines in order to provide young players a proper and pure diet,” he said.Mann, a world renowned runner, died on July 31 after battling with gall bladder and liver cancer.Mann started her athletics career at the age of 93 and went on to receive the Nari Shakti Puraskar from the President at the age of 103.In 2016, she was declared the fastest centenarian at a competition in the American Masters Games.In 2019, she won four events — shot put, 60m sprint, 200m race and javelin throw — in her age category at the World Masters Athletics Championships in Poland.She won more than 25 medals at the veteran athletics championship.“She lived her life to the fullest. She was a role model for many athletes and with the formation of this NGO, I just want to make sure that she remains an icon and inspiration for generations to come,” said Singh.“I have been approached by filmmakers and other people, but I don’t want people to remember her passion for running only for a few hours,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-an-ngo-in-mann-kaurs-name-311916
16-09-2021||---||PEWS celebrates Engineers’ Day||Mohali, September 15The Punjabi Engineers Welfare Society (PEWS) celebrated 54th Engineers’ Day in a hybrid event at the PCA Stadium here today. The engineers working in various departments, boards and corporations attended the event.Eminent Indian scientist Rajagopalan Vasudevan, who currently teaches at Thiagarajar College of Engineering in Madurai, was the guest speaker.Vasudevan has developed an innovative method to reuse plastic waste to construct better, more durable cost-effective roads.Dr Padmakumar Nair, Director and Dean of LM Thapar School of Management, was the keynote speaker. Nair stressed on the need for empathy and trust in engineering.“To lay 1 km of road, you need one tonne of plastic,” explained Vasudevan. “This translates to 10 lakh plastic carry bags.”“Today, India has 41 lakh km of roads, and we do not have enough plastic to convert all of them into plastic roads. So we should not have any problem in disposing of plastic in future using this technology,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pews-celebrates-engineers-day-311915
16-09-2021||---||Youth BJP burns effigies of Capt Amarinder Singh, Rahul Gandhi in Panchkula||Panchkula, September 15Workers of the Youth BJP today burnt the effigies of Capt Amarinder Singh and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi at Shalimar Chowk to register their protest against the Punjab Chief Minister’s request to agitating farmers to protest outside Punjab.Sanjay Sharma, media in-charge for the state BJP unit, told the party workers that Punjab CM’s statement has unmasked the “real face of the Congress” and it is a proof that their leaders were provoking farmers for their own political gains.“It’s high time that every party worker should come together to uproot the Congress from the country,” he said. “The entire movement of so-called farmers is being sponsored by the Congress to derail Haryana’s economy,” he added.Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday had appealed farm unions not to protest in Punjab and shift their agitation to Haryana or Delhi instead, considering its financial impact on the state’s economy.His statement attracted a sharp criticism from Haryana ministers as well as leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-bjp-burns-effigies-of-capt-amarinder-singh-rahul-gandhi-in-panchkula-311914
16-09-2021||---||20 activities to mark PM’s b’day celebrations in Chandigarh: Arun Sood||Chandigarh, September 15Terming the shifting of Congress leaders to AAP as a kho-kho game, city BJP president Arun Sood today claimed his party would win all 35 seats in the coming Municipal Corporation poll.Sood was addressing a press conference which was held with regard to three-week events to be organised by the BJP as part of PM Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday celebrations.“September 17 is the birthday of the Prime Minister and the BJP celebrates his birthday through service activities. This year, too, the BJP is celebrating the PM’s birthday across the country from September 17 to October 7 as a dedicated service campaign. The Chandigarh BJP will also go to the public under this campaign and undertake social service activities,” he said.Twenty types of service activities will be carried out during the 21 days. The party will organise exhibitions based on the personality of PM Modi at the district level, six blood-donation camps, six medical camps, distribute fruits and stationery, provide ration and ration bags under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana besides other programmes, he added.On September 25, a committee comprising district president Ravindra Pathania, Jatindra Malhotra, Rajendra Sharma and Manish Bhasin has been formed to celebrate Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay’s birth anniversary at the booth level. And for the programmes of Gandhi Jayanti on October 2, a committee has been constituted..||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-activities-to-mark-pms-bday-celebrations-in-chandigarh-arun-sood-311913
16-09-2021||---||Harmohan Dhawan kicks off AAP campaign for Chandigarh MC elections||Chandigarh, September 15Having remained inactive for about two years in politics, senior AAP leader Harmohan Dhawan today kicked off a campaign for the coming MC elections. The former Union minister said he would actively campaign during the poll. “Due to Covid, I could not be active in the party so far,” he said.Addressing the media at his residence on the completion of 25 years of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, he said: “I will take this party further as a guide. In the MC, only two parties ruled — the Congress and the BJP. One of which is Nagraj and the other is Sarp Raj. The problem of garbage here remains as it is.Bhardwaj asked to leave daisDuring the press conference, AAP leader Sandeep Bhardwaj was asked to sit among the attendants and not on the dais. When the conference was on, he brought a chair and sat on the dais. He was asked by the senior leadership not to sit there. He left the venue after that. Bhardwaj, a former general secretary in the Congress, recently joined AAP.“Residential olonies had improved to a great extent during my tenure in Parliament, but after that other parties have not provided any facility in Chandigarh.”“The people here need the Delhi model. On the lines of Delhi, smart government schools should be equipped with facilities such as clean water and free electricity,” he added.Party in charge Jarnail Singh said the re-activation of Harmohan Dhawan in AAP would give new strength to the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harmohan-dhawan-kicks-off-aap-campaign-for-chandigarh-mc-elections-311912
16-09-2021||---||Western Command celebrates 74th Raising Day||Chandigarh, September 15The Western Command – frontline operational command of the Indian Army – celebrated its 74th Raising Day at the Chandimandir military station today.The Command was raised on September 15, 1947 as the Delhi and East Punjab Command and was re-designated as Western Command in January 1948.On the occasion, Lt Gen RP Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, laid wreath at the Veer Smriti war memorial to pay homage to troops who had made the supreme sacrifice.He also conveyed his felicitations and best wishes to all ranks, veterans, civilian employees and families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/western-command-celebrates-74th-raising-day-311911
16-09-2021||---||Online admission in Chandigarh colleges: Parents struggle to get through helpline numbers||Chandigarh, September 15The parents filling online forms and submitting fees for the admission of their wards in various city colleges are facing a tough time in connecting with the officials concerned.As doubts persist, calls to various helpline numbers provided on the DHE website remain unanswered.While the calls on landline numbers are often responded by the operators, the mobile numbers are usually busy.“I have submitted the fees and since then I am waiting for a response. The calls to helpline numbers remain unanswered. There’s no other system in place to clear the doubts of parents,” said a parent.“There should be a dedicated desk to address issues concerning parents or students. An activation email is generated, but it only helps in filling the forms. There’s no information or guidance on the post fee-submission process,” said another parent.The ongoing online admission process is witnessing a huge rush of applicants.“The third counselling is yet to take place and things will be sought out thereafter. Everything has been updated on the website. Any further development will be passed on to the applicants in a similar manner,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-admission-in-chandigarh-colleges-parents-struggle-to-get-through-helpline-numbers-311910
16-09-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh heritage: Luxembourg seeks details of items up for auction||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15In response to a representation sent by a member of the heritage items panel of the city, Chris Backes, a juriste, Ministry of Culture, Luxembourg, has asked for documents concerning the six heritage items that are to be auctioned on September 18 in Luxembourg.A formal communication in this regard (a copy of which is with Chandigarh Tribune) was sent by Backes to Ajay Jagga, in connection to his email dated September 13 wherein he informed Luxembourg’s culture ministry about the city’s six heritage items, which might have been illegally removed from India.In the letter, Backes asks Jagga to confirm if the auction in question was the auction, “Succession De MME L Et À Divers Fine Art Auction - Design”, to be held in Stadtbredimus on September 18 and if the objects listed are the ones numbered from 71 to 76.Backes has also asked Jagga to provide them with “all the necessary documents that prove that the said objects have been illegally removed from India in violation of Indian law and there is a ban on the export of these six objects”.On September 13, Ajay Jagga, a member of the UT Heritage Items Protection Cell, in a representation to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Ambassador of India to Belgium/Luxembourg at Brussels Santosh Jha and minister of culture in Luxembourg Sam Tanson had sought the return of the city’s heritage items being auctioned in Europe.Quoting the estimated price of the heritage items all set to be auctioned between Rs52.55 lakh and Rs64.71 lakh, Jagga stated: “The six Chandigarh heritage items to be auctioned in Luxembourg on September 18, are in violation of the MHA (Govt of India) orders (February 22, 2011). The order of the MHA has banned the export of Chandigarh heritage furniture.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-luxembourg-seeks-details-of-items-up-for-auction-311909
16-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two fresh Covid cases in Chandigarh||The city on Wednesday reported two cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. One patient was cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNSSix more found infected in MohaliMohali: Six new Covid-19 cases, four from Dhakoli and one each from Mohali (urban) and Dera Bassi, were reported on Wednesday. Six patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. There are now 42 active cases in the district. — TNSPanchkula district reports one casePanchkula: The district reported one coronavirus case on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,708. The Covid toll remained at 377. While 30,314 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 17 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.71 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-fresh-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-311908
16-09-2021||---||No entry without jab or -ve report, Chandigarh Housing Board tells its officials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15In a strict warning, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has banned the entry of officials without a proof of vaccination or a negative RT-PCR report.In an order, Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said directions were issued on August 29, 2021, that officials who had not taken at least their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine would not be allowed entry in the office without a negative RT-PCR report of the past 72 hours.As per the data compiled by the administrative branch, some officials have not taken their first dose of the vaccine. “These officials will not be allowed to attend office from tomorrow without a negative RT-PCR report of the past 72 hours or a certificate of the first dose of the vaccine,” said Garg.Regarding outsourced staff, he said it was decided that the outsourcing agency would be requested to replace the outsourced staff who have not taken their first dose. “Substitutes to be provided by the outsourcing agency must have taken at least the first dose,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-entry-without-jab-or-ve-report-chandigarh-housing-board-tells-its-officials-311907
16-09-2021||---||Over 36K vaccinated during mega drive in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 15As many as 36,675 people were vaccinated during a three-day vaccination drive in the district that concluded today. The district had set a target to vaccinate 40k people during the special drive.The three-day vaccination drive was organised across the state.The first day of the mega drive on Monday saw 12,340 people turning up at vaccination centres.The number rose to 12,519 on the second day. The figures ultimately came down to 11,816 on the final day (Wednesday)The district tried to reach out to those who were yet to receive vaccine despite the district already achieving a target of 100 per cent first dose vaccination.As per district figures, it has vaccinated 108.7 per cent of its target population with at least single dose.After Gurugram and Ambala, Panchkula became the third district in the state to achieve the “exemplary feat.”As per senior health officials, the district exceeded its target (as per 2011 Census) due to migratory population from neighbouring states, simply meaning that not every citizen of the district is given at least one dose.As per the current available stock, the district is left with 37,770 doses of Covishield and 15,820 of Covaxin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-36k-vaccinated-during-mega-drive-in-panchkula-311906
16-09-2021||Mohali||Scooterist dies, wife injured in Mohali||A Mohali resident died while his wife sustained injuries when the scooter they were riding was hit by a tractor-trailer near Jujhaar Nagar here today.The deceased, identified as Rajiv Chopra, and his wife Kiran Bala were on their way to Maloya when the accident took place. Rajiv died on the way to the GMSH-16 while his wife was admitted to the hospital with a fractured leg and other injuries.On the complaint of the victim’s daughter, a case has been registered against the tractor-trailer driver under Sections 279, 337 and 304-A of the IPC at the Balongi police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scooterist-dies-wife-injured-in-mohali-311905
16-09-2021||Dera Bassi||Father of 3 dies in road accident on Chandigarh-Ambala national highway||A man died in a bus-tractor collision at the Bhankharpur Ghaggar bridge on the Chandigarh-Ambala national highway here today.The deceased has been identified as Shaturghan Patel (22), a native of Bihar, currently residing in Mubarikpur. He is survived by his wife and three children.Patel, who worked as a labourer, was going to Zirakpur on a tractor to bring a machine. When the tractor reached the Ghaggar bridge, a private bus hit it from behind at 4.30 am. Patel fell on the road and came under the wheels of the bus. He died on the spot. The tractor driver was injured in the accident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/father-of-3-dies-in-road-accident-on-chandigarh-ambala-national-highway-311904
16-09-2021||---||Chandigarh hospital staff may have to undergo face scan at entrance||Chandigarh, September 15The UT Health Secretary is planning to introduce the face recognition-based attendance system in the UT government hospitals.Health Secretary Yashpal Garg will convene review meetings with the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, authorities and the Directorate of Health Services next week to understand the functioning of the health facilities in the UT.Rationalisation of staff, introduction of face recognition-based attendance system and corrective measures on the basis of the night inspection report will be on the agenda.The introduction of e-Office module of the NIC and other issues relating to computerisation are also on the cards.Prior to the meeting, the hospital authorities will have to provide duty rosters for the month of September, data on number of outsourced staff hired under different categories or services and detail of the outsourcing agencies and the amount of the total bill paid for the month of July and August to each of the agencies.Performance reviewAfter the inspection on the night of September 12, the Health Secretary is of the view that there is a need to have a check on the quality of the staff provided by the outsourcing agency. Accordingly, prior to the review meetings, he has asked the authorities to conduct a computerised proficiency test through the SPIC for all the outsourced DEOs in next 10 days.The other outsourced staff, whose proficiency is not satisfactory or who are deputed on the assignments which are not within the purview of the Health Department, will also be reviewed through the test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hospital-staff-may-have-to-undergo-face-scan-at-entrance-311903
16-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh to have village-wise plan for development||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15For a holistic growth of rural areas, the architecture and urban planning departments of the UT have been tasked with preparing a village-wise development plan.The village-wise plan prepared by the departments would be merged with the overall development plan of the city as well as all villages, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal.During the day, a meeting was convened to discuss Land Aggregation Policy for Chandigarh and the proposed development of villages and peri-urban areas as per notified Chandigarh Master Plan (CMP) 2031.Presided over by the UT Adviser, the meeting was attended by Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner-cum Estate Officer; Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation; Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB); Saurabh Arora, Joint Secretary, Estates; and Kapil Setia, Chief Architect. The consultant of the Indian Institute of Human Settlement, Bengaluru, attended the meeting online.The consultant of IIHS presented a draft policy for aggregation of land for villages and peri-urban areas in Chandigarh, after studying the best practices of this area in the states of Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Maharashtra.The Adviser said it was the first draft and there was a lot of discussion on different features of the land-pooling policy. After detailed discussions with different stakeholders, including the DC office, MC etc, it was decided that a revised draft policy would be prepared which would take care of all issues, including development to be done outside the “lal dora” in villages, said the Adviser.However, the Adviser desired that provisions of RERA and other Acts/guidelines prevalent for such development may also be incorporated in the policy.We have studied the development models of Panchkula, Delhi etc, which have their own development authorities. So in UT, we want the CHB to perform the role of the development authority,” he said.During the meeting, the Chief Architect made a presentation on study undertaken for development plan of villages in Chandigarh highlighting the existing physical situation and proposals and possible options for both sectoral and non-sectoral villages in conformity with the notified CMP 2031.Based on recommendations of the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031, focused development of villages would be undertaken by the Municipal Corporation or the CHB as per the policy to be notified by the Chandigarh Administration in consultation with the competent authority. These development plans would be undertaken through a Special Village Planning Cell in close coordination between the MC, CHB and the Department of Urban Planning, in a time-bound manner, added the Adviser.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-have-village-wise-plan-for-development-311902
16-09-2021||---||Security on mind, Chandigarh bans use of drones||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15Fearing law and order problems, security threats and the possibility of misuse of drones by anti-social elements, the UT Administration has banned the flying of drones and low-flying objects in the city.According to an order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar, flying of drones and low-flying objects within the UT are prohibited for 60 days, he said.However, the order will not apply to police personnel and other government officials/ agencies if the drone is used in connection with their official duties or for photography during social events for which prior permission of the District Magistrate has to be obtained in writing. These social events may include ring ceremony, pre-wedding photo shoot and wedding ceremony.Any breach of the order will invite action under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/security-on-mind-chandigarh-bans-use-of-drones-311901
16-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Sector 17 in a mess, finds civic body’s inspection report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15Two non-functional fountains, debris/garbage, encroachment, broken paver blocks, wild grass, missing lights and fittings, and uncarpeted parking roads, the Sector 17 seems to be a mess as per a Municipal Corporation report.The five-member MC engineers’ inspection team, which was formed following a Chandigarh Tribune report on August 22, has submitted its findings to MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra.“They have already started to fix the issue. The works which can be done with simple intervention and do not require much funds or approval should be done immediately. Issues, which are an eyesore, should be the priority,” the civic body chief told Chandigarh Tribune.For the past few years, Sector 17 has turned from bad to worse. Despite being represented by the current Mayor and area councillor Ravi Kant Sharma, the situation in Sector 17 has turned from bad to worse in the past few years.Sanjiv Chadha, general secretary, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said: “Cleanliness and maintenance are major issues here. It’s good that smart city projects are going on, but since the work has been delayed debris has remained dumped outside our shops.”“Often water stagnates here. This is leading to losses in an already affected market by the Covid. It also presents a bad image to the visitors,” said Chadha.“We have been visiting Sector 17 since our childhood, but have never seen the area in such a mess. It is the centre point of the city and the plaza here is a tourist hot spot. Its maintenance must be the priority of the authorities,” said Vikas Kumar, a local resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-17-in-a-mess-finds-civic-bodys-inspection-report-311900
16-09-2021||---||Four shops gutted in Baltana market||Zirakpur, September 15Four tin-roofed shops caught fire in the main market of Baltana here on Tuesday night. It took three fire tenders around two hours to douse the flames.Residents said one of the four temporary shops had six small-sized cylinders stored in it. The sound of exploding cylinders spread panic in a nearby residential area and people came out on the streets.Eyewitnesses said huge flames were coming out of the tin sheds around 11:30 pm and continued till 1:30 am when firefighters brought the fire under control.The exact cause of the fire could not be ascertained. Firemen suspected that it was caused due to a short circuit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-shops-gutted-in-baltana-market-311899
16-09-2021||---||Vax: Centre revises Chandigarh’s target population||Chandigarh, September 15The Centre has revised the city’s target population for Covid vaccination. Now, there are 8,43,000 beneficiaries aged 18 and above.The Central government had earlier set Chandigarh’s target population for 18 plus at 15, 75,709. However, Chandigarh claimed that its population aged 18 and above is 7,29,822 and it completed the entire adult population with the first dose on August 14. The UT Administration had requested the Centre to correct the target population in the official database.With the revised target population of 8,43,000, Chandigarh is now among the seven states and union territories to have achieved 100 per cent coverage of first dose. UT Adviser Dharam Pal said even with the revised data of targeted population, the City Beautiful was among the selected states and UTs to achieve 100 per cent first dose coverage. The Adviser congratulated all doctors, nurses and health care workers in Chandigarh for the achievement and added that the UT Administration would continue with its since efforts to deal with all Covid-related issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vax-centre-revises-chandigarhs-target-population-311898
16-09-2021||---||Police recover weapon used in man’s murder at Morni||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 15In the Morni murder case, the police today recovered the weapon allegedly used by the two suspects to kill their 34-year-old friend over a monetary issue of Rs5.5 lakh.The suspects were produced in a local court, which remanded them in one-day police custody.The victim, Rajiv of Dera Bassi, who was earlier working in a factory that got shut down due to the Covid-19 pandemic and was now unemployed, had given the money to the suspects to help him settle in Canada and find a suitable job there, the police said.They said the crime was planned as the victim was seeking return of the money given to the suspects, but they did not want to.Arvind Kamboj, SHO of the Chandimandir police station, said the weapon was recovered from a location disclosed by the suspects during questioning. The victim was murdered by his two friends, Gurvinder (35) and Jaspal (36), on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday.Two policemen spotted the suspects near the crime scene when they were patrolling the area. After being spotted, the suspects tried to run over the policemen, but they had a miraculous escape.While inspecting the area, the policemen found the victim’s body in nearby bushes.The body bore injury marks on the head, the police said.The suspects were arrested by the police last evening. The police had impounded a car used by the suspects. The car belonged to Gurvinder, the police said. A case under Sections 201, 302, 307 and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-recover-weapon-used-in-mans-murder-at-morni-311897
16-09-2021||---||Zirakpur: 7 of 10 water samples from Peermuchalla fail test||Zirakpur, September 15For the second month running, the Zirakpur area has been struck by an outbreak of cholera, this time in Peermuchalla, the health authorities confirmed today.Seven of the 10 water samples collected from several places in Peermuchalla have failed the laboratory test, confirming bacterial contamination.“It is a cholera outbreak. The blood and stool samples collected from patients have confirmed it. Seven of the 10 water samples were found unfit for drinking,’’ said Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Mohali.Over 200 patients have been given medical treatment for diarrhoea-like symptoms in the area. Residents said the number could actually be much higher as patients chose to visit Dhakoli, Panchkula, Zirakpur and Chandigarh hospitals.Three days after initial complaints of water contamination started emanating and residents complained of fever and abdominal pain, patients continue to grow with 17 new mild diarrhoea cases reported and 10 patients hospitalised today.Residents have been complaining about dirty water supply with foul smell, but Zirakpur Municipal Council officials maintain that there has been no written complaint and no leakage has been found in pipelines.An MC official today said all seven water samples that had failed the test were from individual submersible pumps installed at homes.“We are undertaking chlorination of MC as well as private water tanks. A thorough check of pipes will be done again and the water supply will be restored only after the samples are cleared,” said Kulwant Singh, junior engineer, Zirakpur MC.Cholera is an acute diarrhoeal infection caused by ingestion of contaminated food or water with the vibrio cholerae bacterium.282: Total diarrhoea/ cholera cases till date21 Patients admitted to the CHC, Dhakoli10 Patients discharged after treatment1 Patient referred to higher centreNo CasualtyWater supply snappedThe water supply has been disconnected. Alternative water arrangements through tanks have been made. The Dera Bassi SDM has asked the MC to look into the cause of contamination in 48 hrs.‘Water unfit for drinking’It is a cholera outbreak. The blood and stool samples collected from patients have confirmed it. Seven of the 10 water samples were found unfit for drinking. — Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Mohali||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-7-of-10-water-samples-from-peermuchalla-fail-test-311896
16-09-2021||---||Chandigarh: Bhavan Vidyalaya pupil Guramrit Singh aces JEE-Main, eyes IIT-Bombay||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15Guramrit Singh, a resident of Sector 74, Mohali, and student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, Chandigarh, has topped the country by securing 100 percentile in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Main). The result was announced by the National Testing Agency (NTA). He is among 18 students to have secured the top rank. In March this year as well, Guramrit had become the national topper by securing 100 percentile in the JEE-Main.He drew inspiration to excel from his father Gurudarshan Singh, a businessman. “My father has worked hard to raise us. He used to drop me at school ever since I was a student. I wanted to fulfil his dreams,” he said.The topper said he studied for seven hours a day and played games for two hours every day. Currently, he is preparing for the JEE (Advanced). He aspires to get admission to the IIT, Bombay, and pursue a career in software engineering. The only mantra to crack the JEE, according to him, is to get hold of the NCERT syllabus and listen to teachers. “Keep your concepts clear and revise daily. Also, attempt previous years question papers to get more clarity on the exam structure,” he added.On the basis of the JEE-Main, 2021 result, the top 2.5 lakh candidates have been termed eligible for the JEE (Advanced), scheduled for October 3. Online registration for the qualified candidates will begin on September 11 at jeeadv.ac.in.Besides, city boys Pratham Garg bagged all-India rank 8 and Chaitanya Aggarwal AIR 62. They are students of Sri Chaitanya Institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bhavan-vidyalaya-pupil-guramrit-singh-aces-jee-main-eyes-iit-bombay-311857
16-09-2021||---||JEE-Main: Punjab’s Pulkit Goyal, Chandigarh’s Guramrit Singh among 18 first-rank holders; 44 score 100 percentile||New Delhi, September 15As many as 44 candidates scored a perfect 100 percentile in the engineering entrance exam JEE-Main this year while 18 candidates shared the top rank as per the tie-breaker rule, Education Ministry officials said todayAccording to the results declared at midnight, the first-rank holders include Pulkit Goyal from Punjab and Guramrit Singh from Chandigarh.The others at number one are Gaurab Das (Karnataka), Vaibhav Vishal (Bihar), Duggineni Venkata Paneesh (Andhra Pradesh), Siddhant Mukherjee, Anshul Verma and Mridul Agarwal (Rajasthan), Ruchir Bansal and Kavya Chopra (Delhi), Amaiya Singhal and Pal Agarwal (Uttar Pradesh), Komma Sharanya and Joysula Venkata Aditya (Telangana), Pasala Veera Siva, Karnam Lokesh and Kanchanapalli Rahul Naidu, (Andhra Pradesh) and Atharva Abhijit Tambat (Maharashtra).Those in the top 44 with a 100 percentile also have Pratham Garg (Punjab) at rank 25, Anmol (Haryana) at 26 and Harsh (Haryana) at 43.State-wise toppers in BE/BTech (Paper 1) include Himkant Sharma (Himachal Pradesh) with a score of 99.946 percentile and Lohitaksh Mahajan (J&K) with 99.988. Among girls, state-wise toppers are Deepasha (Chandigarh) with a 99.981 percentile, Ojasvi Bansal (Haryana) 99.986, M Bhavya (Punjab) 99.958, Varnika Mongra (HP) 99.821, Pooja Mahajan (J&K) 99.639 and Sediqa Batool (Ladakh) 83.739. As many as 9,39,008 appeared in four editions of JEE-Main out of the 10,48,012 registered candidates. Among those who appeared, 2,80,067 were female candidates, 6,58,939 male and 2 transgender candidates.Starting this year, Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Main was conducted four times to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The first phase was held in February and the second in March. The next phases were scheduled for April and May but had to be postponed in view of the second wave of the pandemic.The third edition was held in July and the fourth from August 26 to September 2.The ranks of the candidates have been released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA (national testing agency) scores in accordance with the policy already made.Examination was conducted in 13 languages: English, Hindi, Gujarati, Assamese, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu. The NTA score for Paper-2A (B.Arch) and Paper-2B (B Planning) will be declared later, according to the official statement.Other toppers from regionExam conducted 4 times this year9.39L appeared in four editions of JEE-Main6.58L male candidates took the exam2.80L females & 2 transgenders appeared13 is number of languages in which exam was held||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jee-main-punjabs-pulkit-goyal-chandigarhs-guramrit-singh-among-18-first-rank-holders-44-score-100-percentile-311711
16-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||High Court grants anticipatory bail to Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 15Just about a week after an Additional Sessions Judge dismissed Gurdas Maan’s plea in a case registered against him on August 26 for hurting religious feelings of the Sikh community, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday granted interim anticipatory bail to the Punjabi singer. He has been asked to join the investigation within a week.Also read:Gurdas Maan booked for hurting religious sentiments of Sikh communityGurdas Maan posts video on social media offering apology over recent controversyDera Murad Shah devotees block Jalandhar-Nakodar highwayRaja Warring backs Gurdas MaanJustice Avneesh Jhingan made it clear that his custody was not required as nothing is to be recovered. The issue whether the words used by petitioner during stage performance were deliberate/malicious so as to invoke section 295-A of the IPC would be a subject matter of investigation.Justice Jhingan also made it clear that an artist while performing on stage has the inclination to involve and take the crowd along. The petitioner was a renowned singer and was not a personality who would be able to hide or abscond.  Also, no recovery was to be made from him.Among other things, Maan in his petition had contended the “Sessions Judge was apparently influenced by the show of public outcry, generated by some sections through a sustained campaign”.  His counsel, senior advocate R.S. Cheema with Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Tarannum Cheema had added that the settled principles regulating the question of bail were overlooked in an atmosphere projected as surcharged. The statutory parameters and the settled norms through precedents were relegated to the background. “The Judge did not even pause to consider as to whether the investigating agency had asked for custodial interrogation and further made a valid case for the same”.It was added that the petitioner had deep roots in the society and nothing in his previous conduct during the inquiry would show that he was likely to abscond. Moreover, the alleged objectionable material was already in public domain and nothing was required to be recovered from the petitioner warranting his custodial interrogation.“Moreover, as a humble Sikh and the sensitive citizen, the petitioner made a widely circulated public apology…. His words ought to be interpreted in the total background of his lifelong devotion to venerable Sikh Gurus and to the principles of Sikhism,” it was added.Also read: Gurdas Maan criticised for supporting ‘one nation, one language’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-punjabi-singer-gurdas-maan-311545
