17-09-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Four new Covid-19 cases reported in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Friday reported four new cases of Covid-19 to take the total number of infections to 65,172.There are 34 active cases in the city as one patient was discharged, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.A positivity rate of 0.16 per cent was recorded as 2560 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The death toll in the city remains 818.As many as 64,320 patients have recovered so far in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-chandigarh-312560
17-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||SC Collegium clears Justice Rajesh Bindal’s name for elevation as Chief Justice of Allahabad HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 17The Supreme Court Collegium has cleared the name of Justice Rajesh Bindal for elevation as the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court — one of the oldest high courts to be established in India. Justice Bindal is the senior-most Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and is currently the Acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court.Also read: SC Collegium recommends 8 names for appointment as High Court Chief JusticesAmong other important cases, Justice Bindal had headed the five-Judge Bench that delivered verdict on the Kolkata post-poll violence. Justice Bindal was Acting Chief Justice of the Jammu & Kashmir High Court prior to this.Justice Bindal was recently appointed as Chairperson of a committee constituted by the Supreme Court’s e-committee to formulate modern electronic registers for use by the district judiciary across the country. The effort is to replace all manual registers or paper records.As Chairman of a committee constituted by National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), Justice Bindal has already submitted a report on optimal use of technology, including use of Artificial Intelligence (AI). Known for his proficiency in brining justice closer to people through computerisation, Justice Bindal was instrumental in launching a unique project, in which the post offices in Jammu and Kashmir help in delivering justice. The project uses the pre-existent postal system in 11 districts to allow citizens to register their disputes through the local post offices as well as common service centres.Justice Bindal was elevated as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on March 22, 2006, and remained Chairman of a committee for framing draft rules for electronic evidence. The report was submitted to the Supreme Court in November 2018. As Chairman of a multi-member committee, constituted by the Union Ministry of Women and Child Development, to study civil aspects of International Child Abduction Bill-2016, Justice Bindal submitted report accompanied by the recommendations and draft of the Protection of Children (Inter-Country Removal and Retention) Bill-2018 to the Ministry in April 2018.Before his transfer to the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir in November 2018, he disposed of around 80,000 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sc-collegium-clears-justice-rajesh-bindals-name-for-elevation-as-chief-justice-of-allahabad-hc-312559
17-09-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh to witness Suryakiran air show next week||Chandigarh, September 17Air Force Station Chandigarh in association with UT administration will organise an Air Show of Suryakirans and other aircrafts at Sukhna Lake on Wednesday.A press release issued here said that the hour-long show will begin at 4.30 PM on the occasion of “Swarnim Vijay Diwas” of 1971 War and will be open to public. The event also coincides with the celebration of Diamond Jubilee year of Air Force Station Chandigarh, which was established in the year 1961.Over the years, 12 Wing Air Force Station Chandigarh has become one of the biggest/pivotal air bases of Indian Air Force equipped with latest aircrafts. The Formation Aerobatics Units of the Indian Air Force called the ‘Suryakiran Aerobatic Team’ is equipped with HAL build Hawk aircrafts. This team has performed world over and has the distinction of being amongst the nine aircraft formation aerobatic team in the World.Citizens have been requested to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and cooperate fully with police in this regard. No admission would be permitted without the face masks. Citizens and tourist can also witness the show on Tuesday on the full dress rehearsal day and are encouraged to come to avoid rush during main event. To avoid rush at the Sukhna Lake, people are advised to witness the show from their rooftops, wherever possible. Further spectators are advised not to bring any eatable items etc. that may attract birds which can pose threat to the participating aircrafts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-witness-suryakiran-air-show-next-week-312545
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hurt in mishap, Chandigarh DSP’s wife dies||She was seriously injured and hospitalised. The car driver, Hansdeep of Mohali, was arrested. The police have now added Section 304-A of the IPC to the case registered at the Sector 19 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hurt-in-mishap-chandigarh-dsps-wife-dies-312362
17-09-2021||---||Mohali MC begins patch work on main city roads||Mohali, September 16The Mohali Municipal Corporation has started patch work on the main roads in the city. The work would be completed in two months.The patch work on the main roads in two zones would be carried out at a cost of Rs45 lakh. The work was earlier stopped due to rains.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu stated this while inaugurating the work of laying paver blocks in Sector 70 here today. Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi was also present.Addressing the gathering, the Mayor said he was committed for the development of entire Mohali and road works worth crores of rupees had been passed, especially for new and industrial sectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-begins-patch-work-on-main-city-roads-312113
17-09-2021||---||Bail plea of fraud accused rejected||Chandigarh, September 16A local court has rejected the bail application of an accused arrested on the charge of defrauding a city resident through credit card.The police had arrested the accused, Ashish, on July 6, 2021, in a case registered on a complaint of a city resident, Pawan Kumar. Pawan alleged that he received a phone call from a person on February 6, 2021, claiming to be a representative of SBI credit card. The caller told Pawan that a policy was active on his credit card and the charge for the same would be debited from his credit card.The complainant said he did not take any policy. The caller took some details of the credit card, along with the OTP, to deactivate the policy. Later, a sum of Rs19,188 was deducted from the complainant’s credit card. During the course of investigation, the police arrested the accused, a resident of Delhi.The prosecution opposed the bail plea of the accused stating that sufficient evidence was found against the accused from the investigation conducted so far. The investigation in the case was pending on several aspects. If the bail was granted to the accused, he might jump the bail and tamper with the evidence.The counsel for the petitioner stated that Ashish was in custody since his arrest. Investigation had been completed and the challan had already been presented in the case. Co-accused Nikhil had already been discharged by the Trial Court.After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the bail application of the petitioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bail-plea-of-fraud-accused-rejected-312114
17-09-2021||---||Sec 32-33 residents rue improper waste collection||Chandigarh, September 16The two-bin waste collection vehicles of the Municipal Corporation have not picked garbage from the houses in Sector 32 and 33 for the past four days.Area residents said earlier the garbage collectors used to visit daily and collected the waste from upper floors as well, but now the waste collection vehicles don’t turn up for days.“Garbage is not picked up every day, due to which there is a lot of anger among the people. Three-four days have passed, but the garbage has not been picked up,” said Jagdeep Mahajan, head of the Sector 32-33 residents’ welfare association.Manju Batra of Sector 32 said the garbage was not being picked up for the past four days now.The earlier system was good, she said.Sushma Sehgal from Sector 32-D said everyone was upset with the new system.Mahajan warned that the residents would protest in front of the MC office if system was not rectified at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-32-33-residents-rue-improper-waste-collection-312115
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh street vendors made aware of digital payments||A campaign was launched today for street vendors, enabling them to accept and make payments digitally. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma launched ‘Mai Bhi Digital’ campaign in presence of MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra from Shastri Market, Sector 22.Sharma said the Centre had engaged Paytm for the programme in Chandigarh.The Street Vendors Federation, Sector 22, assisted in mobilising the vendors. A total of 21 street vendors were distributed QR code for Paytm digital transactions today.Mitra said the training on digital payments to the street vendors would be provided on a safe and secure platform and the cell phones of the vendors would be equipped with the software to make transactions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-street-vendors-made-aware-of-digital-payments-312116
17-09-2021||---||British Council delegation meets Panjab University VC Prof Raj Kumar||Chandigarh, September 16A delegation of the British Council represented by Rashi Jain, Director, North India; and Vishu Sharma, Head, Higher Education, North India; met Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar and other officials here on Thursday.The delegation briefed the PU authorities about the “Going Global Partnership Programme” being offered by the council, providing opportunities to the students to take up the collaborative ventures in future and building mutual relationships.The students, graduates and faculty may be highly benefitted by the shared experience of international education which is a part of the programme facilitated by the India’s education policy adopted in 2020 with the prime focus on internationalisation and attention on students’ flexibility.The meeting was highly interactive and underlined the brighter prospect of global partnership of PU with British Council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/british-council-delegation-meets-panjab-university-vc-prof-raj-kumar-312117
17-09-2021||---||Create awareness among masses: Chandigarh DC||Chandigarh, September 16In the first meeting of the District-Level Implementation Committee, which was held under the chairmanship of Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Labour Commissioner, all participants were made aware of the recently launched National Database of Unorganised Workers (NDUW) project of the Ministry of Labour, Government of India.Under the project, any worker working in the unorganised sector aged between 16 and 59 years can register himself/herself free of cost on the portal www.eshram.gov.in or by visiting the nearest common service centre.Upon successful registration under the scheme, all workers would be automatically entitled to a pension of Rs2 lakh in case of death or permanent disability and Rs1 lakh in case of partial disability.All those working in the unorganised sector such as migrant workers, construction workers, self-employed workers, home-based workers, domestic helps, agricultural workers, street vendors, mandi workers, Anganwadi workers, Mid-Day Meal workers, ASHA workers and those working in the organised sector who are not subscribers of EPFO, ESIC and are not Income Tax payee are eligible for registration under the scheme.The meeting was attended by officers from various departments and Trade Union representatives.The Deputy Commissioner appealed to all participants to create awareness among the masses about the scheme so that maximum number of workers in the unorganised sector could get themselves registered under this scheme and become eligible to avail of the benefits under various social welfare schemes of the Government of India and the UT Administration. The PROJECTUnder the project, any person working in the unorganised sector aged between 16 and 59 years can register himself/herself free of cost on the portal www.eshram.gov.in or by visiting the nearest common service centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/create-awareness-among-masses-chandigarh-dc-312118
17-09-2021||---||Punjabi singer Mankirat Aulakh’s SUV with black film challaned in Mohali||Mohali, September 16The traffic police challaned the SUV of Punjabi singer Mankirat Aulakh in Sector 70 here today. The singer’s Ford Endeavour, bearing Uttar Pradesh number ‘UP32 JW 0001’, had black film.According to information, the singer was not in the vehicle and his brother was driving it. A fine of Rs1,000 was imposed for the offence.As the vehicle was being challaned, the singer also reached the spot in his Scorpio and pleaded with the traffic cop not to issue a slip. Mankirat allegedly started throwing names of senior police officials. However, traffic inspector Surinder Singh issued a challan. Gurjot Singh, Superintendent of Police (Traffic), said the law was same for all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-singer-mankirat-aulakhs-suv-with-black-film-challaned-in-mohali-312121
17-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Health Secretary finds Behlana wellness centre locked||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16In yet another surprise inspection, UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg found the Health and Wellness Centre (HWC) at Behlana locked this morning.To keep the staff on their toes, the Health Secretary conducted a surprise inspection of the HWC at 9.20 am and found the ground floor locked and the first floor unlocked where vaccines were stored. “No one was present there except a patient, who was waiting for the HWC to open,” he said, adding that almost at the same time, ANM Vandana also reached there. As the keys of the centre were not available, the Secretary, the ANM and the patient kept waiting there for the HWC to open.‘Punctuality must’No one was present there except a patient, who was waiting for the centre to open. We need to ensure punctuality on the part of officials so that patients don’t have to wait. —Yashpal Garg, UT Health SecretaryAccording to a note sent to the UT Director, Health Services, at 9.30 am, sanitary beldar Ashok Kumar came there and located the keys and opened the HWC. He, however, stated that he was coming through Raipur Khurd after meeting some officer in connection with medicines. At 9.35 am, sanitary beldar Rahul reached there with an excuse of coming through the ADM office after delivering some “dak” there.In the meantime, the ANM called up Dr Hansraj Rahi, Medical Officer (MO), HWC, on the phone and requested him to reach early. Garg said he also called up Medical Superintendent Dr VK Nagpal to enquire about the MO. Meanwhile, Jaswir Kaur, ANM, who was initially stated to be on leave, came there at 9.40 am with an excuse of having some patient in the family. However, Dr Hansraj Rahi reached the centre at 9.52 am.Later, sanitary beldar Karan reached there at 10.04 am. He firstly took the plea of a traffic jam, but when the Secretary stated that he was more than one hour late and there such a long traffic jam was unlikely, he came with a new plea of having health issues.During the first inspection, carried out on September 13 night, he had specifically asked not to take any action against any staff member. However, now, an explanation has been sought from Dr Hansraj Rahi, Jaswir Kaur, and Karan with comments for action against them, he said.Garg said he had planned to inspect two more HWCs, but because of the time taken at the Behlana centre, it was decided to leave it for some other day and he left the Centre at 10.05 am after interacting with the patients waiting there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-secretary-finds-behlana-wellness-centre-locked-312124
17-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Booking of tickets for Chandigarh-Sharjah flights starts||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 16The airliners have started booking tickets for the Chandigarh-Sharjah flights. The operations are scheduled to resume from September 23 from the Chandigarh International Airport, Mohali.Air India Express’ Chandigarh-Sharjah flight would operate two days a week – Thursday and Sunday. The one-sided fare ranges between Rs13,000 and Rs17,000.However, the passengers need to be fully vaccinated.As per the new travel guidelines, passengers wishing to travel to Sharjah need to get a negative Covid test report and they would also have to undergo an RT-PCR test at the airport six hours before boarding the flight. The airport authorities have allotted the testing work to Ghaziabad-based lab Genestrings Diagnostics Center, which would set up its infrastructure at the airport by September 21.Each passenger will have to pay Rs1,727 for an RT-PCR test. The same lab is charging Rs3,000 per passenger at the Delhi International Airport.Ajay Bhardwaj, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said the airport was charging only the rent from the diagnostic centre and they were not charging anything extra as they didn’t want to put extra burden on the passengers.The international bubble flights to Sharjah were discontinued after the second wave of pandemic hit the country.An air bubble is a special bilateral agreement arranged between two countries to enable seamless travelling with scheduled flights and a set of regulations and restrictions. Meanwhile, the flights to Dubai would also be resumed from the first week of October.According to the new travel guidelines issued by the UAE, Indians who own resident visas and are fully vaccinated and have completed at least 14 days after the second dose would be permitted to enter the UAE on acceptance of their registration with either the General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs, Dubai, or the ICA – the Federal Authority of Identity and Citizenship, UAE.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/booking-of-tickets-for-chandigarh-sharjah-flights-starts-312125
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees sharp decline in crime by juveniles||Crime committed by juveniles witnessed a sharp dip during 2020 in comparison to the previous two years. A total of 137 incidents involving juveniles were reported in 2018; 2019 witnessed 117 incidents; while only 50 incidents were reported last year, reveals a report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).According to the report, the juveniles were involved in heinous crimes such as murder, attempt to murder and rape. Two incidents of juveniles involved in murder and five of attempt to murder were reported. Juveniles were also involved in two rape cases, a case of attempt to rape and an incident of assault on a woman with an intent to outrage her modesty.Eight cases of theft and seven of burglary involving juveniles were reported last year.A total of 78 juveniles were apprehended during the year, of whom two were illiterate, 12 had studied up to primary, 58 between primary and matric and two between matric and high school. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-sharp-decline-in-crime-by-juveniles-312128
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records four fresh cases||Two infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported two fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 30,710. The Covid toll remained at 377. While 30,315 patients have been cured of the infectious disease so far, 18 cases are active. — TNSEight test positive in Mohali districtmohali: Eight more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total tally to 68,687. Meanwhile, no death was reported from the district till Thursday evening while one patient got the better of the disease. Among the new cases, one each came from Dera Bassi and Gharuan, two from Kharar and four from Dhakoli. No case was reported from Mohali, Lalru, Kurali, Boothgarh and Banur.The district has seen 67,577 recoveries so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-four-fresh-cases-312129
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||45.6-mm rainfall in Chandigarh, highest this month||The city on Thursday recorded 45.6 mm of rainfall, the highest this month so far. According to the Meteorological Department, it started raining in the city around 6.05 pm. In an hour and a half, 40.6 mm of rainfall was witnessed. Power supply was hit in several areas after electricity poles and trees were damaged due to the rain, said an official. Many areas, including Sector 16, 21, 25 and 30, remained without power for five hours. A resident of Sector 30 said there was no power in the locality from 5.30 pm to 11.10 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/45-6-mm-rainfall-in-chandigarh-highest-this-month-312130
17-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Coming up, alternative vending sites in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16Finally, after one and a half years, alternative vending sites in the city have been approved. The Municipal Corporation had proposed 19 sites for approval to the Chief Architect, UT.A senior official concerned confirmed, “Close to 15 sites have been approved as some were not found viable. In a day or two, the corporation will receive a communication regarding the approval.”About 1,500 registered vendors are to be adjusted at these sites.‘Vendors facing harassment’}The issue has remained stuck for two years. All this while, poor vendors have been forced to pay ‘hafta’ for operating from non-designated sites. This defeats the purpose of the Act. —Ram Milan Gaud, President, Street Vendors’ UnionThese vendors are among those who had earlier refused to operate from the sites they were allotted, citing non-viability.Following intervention of municipal councillors, alternative sites were proposed. The old sites will be discarded.In view of a number of vending sites remaining vacant and vendors up in arms against shifting to far-off places, the Municipal Corporation had started the procedure to create new sites. Around 2,000 street vendors of the total 4,977 have not taken possession of the vending spaces allotted to them.At present, most registered vendors faced the ire of Covid as many of them could not pay fee.Due to this, vending licence of some of them was suspended for three months. They have been requesting fee exemption for the Covid period, but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coming-up-alternative-vending-sites-in-chandigarh-312131
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh State Shooting Championship from Sept 24||Malik to head kayaking assnChandigarh: The Kayaking & Canoeing Association Chandigarh held its annual general body meeting and election on Thursday. Dr Rakesh Malik was elected as the new president, while Jayant Kumar was elected as secretary. The other office-bearers include PS Lamba, Ranjan Sethi, KPS Dhillon, Dr Neeru Malik, Rajinder Sharma, Sugandha Sharma, Jayant Kumar, Gurcharanjit Singh, Rakesh Bakshi, Rajesh Sharma, Jagtar Singh, Nimit Kumra, Deepak Kumar, Robin Inder Pal Singh, Prabhjot Kaur and Dilmohan Kaur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-state-shooting-championship-from-sept-24-312133
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh club flouts time norm, 2 booked||Immigration consultant bookedChandigarh: The police booked Pooja Sharma, director of I-Abroad Education Immigration, Sector 42, on a complaint of Gurcharan Singh of Dera Bassi, who had alleged that he was duped of Rs6 lakh on the pretext of providing Canada’s study visa to his son. A case under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 24 of the Immigration Act has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. TNSCity resident accused of rapeChandigarh: A city resident has been booked on the charge of raping a girl on the pretext of marriage. A case under Sections 376 and 420 of the IPC has been registered against the suspect, identified as Nishant, at the Sector 36 police station. TNS5 boxers move to next round Chandigarh: Five city boxers have moved to the next round in the ongoing Senior Men’s (Elite) National Boxing Championship at Bellary, Karnataka. Kuldeep (48 kg), Vishal Sheokand (54 kg), Younam Kamboj (86 kg), Aman (67 kg) and Rohit Kumar (64kg) advanced to next round after winning their respective bouts. Aditya Maan and Harshdeep crashed out.Purohit greets PM on his b’dayChandigarh: UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit extended his warm greetings to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday. In his message, the Administrator prayed to the Lord to shower his blessings on the Prime Minister. He hoped and prayed that all his dreams for the New India Mission were realised in the larger interest of the nation. The Administrator also said that not only India but also the world had recognised the farsighted approach of the PM in effectively tackling the Covid pandemic. TNSRecreational programmeChandigarh: The literary club of GGDSD College, Kheri Gurna, organised a recreational programme for students present on the college campus. The students narrated motivational short stories, recited poems by renowned poets like Harivansh Rai Bachchan, Shiv Kumar Batalvi and sang songs celebrating the rich culture of Punjab. Prof Rama Arora, Principal, encouraged the students to come to the forefront and build their confidence by actively participating in such activities. TNSMountain bike Cycling c’shipChandigarh: The 20th Chandigarh State Mountain Bike Cycling Championship will be held from September 25-26. The event will conducted near Jayanti Mata Mandir. During the championship, cyclists will be selected to represent the city in the 18th Senior, Junior & Sub-Junior National Mountain Bike Cycling Championship, scheduled to be held in Maharashtra, from October 29-31, said the Chandigarh Amateur Cycling Association. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-club-flouts-time-norm-2-booked-312135
17-09-2021||---||2 Mani Majra residents held for bicycle thefts||Chandigarh, September 16The UT police have arrested two persons for stealing seven bicycles from Rajeev Vihar, Mani Majra, within a span of 10 days.The suspects have been identified as Bunty (26) and Ashish (24), both residents of Mani Majra.Complainant Vishal Bhateja, a resident of Rajeev Vihar, had reported that seven bicycles were stolen from the society between August 28 and September 6, following which a case was registered at the Mani Majra police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-mani-majra-residents-held-for-bicycle-thefts-312142
17-09-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur resident attacked at nightclub in Chandigarh||According to the police, complainant Tarun Doomra had gone for a party at a club, Grapho, on the intervening night of September 12 and 13 where a few youths, including Mohit, Ashish Setia, Lala and Arjun Thakur, started abusing him.The police said Mohit hit the victim with a glass on his left eye, leaving him injured. The victim’s friend rushed him to the PGI. His statement was recorded on September 15 following which a case under Sections 326, 506 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-resident-attacked-at-nightclub-in-chandigarh-312143
17-09-2021||Amit Sharma||2020 saw 41% dip in crime against women||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16Crime against women in the city saw a dip of 41.55 per cent in 2020 in comparison to 2019.A report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) reveals that 301 incidents of crime against women were reported last year in Chandigarh, while 515 incidents were reported in 2019.The incidents in 2019 had gone up in comparison to 2018 when 442 incidents were reported. However, due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, the overall crime graph in the city came down. Similarly, crime against women also witnessed a dip.According to the report, 96 cases of cruelty by husband or his relatives and 90 cases of kidnapping and abduction of women were reported last year.During the year, 60 rape cases were registered of which 46 pertained to minors. Three cases of rape bid were also reported.The report states that 42 cases of assault on women with intent to outrage their modesty were reported of which 11 pertained to minors. Four cases of insult to the modesty of woman, two cases of human trafficking, one each of dowry death and abetment to suicide were also reported.UT conviction rate only 26.8The report reveals that the conviction rate in crime against women is just 26.8. According to the report, a total of 949 cases were under trial in courts of which 752 were pending trial from the previous year, while 197 were sent for trial during 2020. Of the total cases, 23 cases were quashed, 30 persons were acquitted, 11 were convicted and three cases were abated by the court.At the end of the year, 882 cases of crime against women were pending for trial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2020-saw-41-dip-in-crime-against-women-312144
