18-09-2021||Panchkula||Robbery attempt at jewellery shop in Panchkula||A jewellery shop owner survived a robbery attempt in broad daylight at around noon on Saturday.Three robbers who struck Maa Luxmi Jewellers, located at Booth no 78 in Sector 8, and attacked its owner Sandeep Verma with a sharp weapon, had to return empty-handed after the owner raised an alarm which make them run immediately.The suspects fled in an autorickshaw, said the police, quoting preliminary information, adding that they were yet to record the statement of the victim, who is receiving treatment at Civil Hospital in Sector 6.Meanwhile, a forensic team also reached the spot to gather the evidence at the crime scene.Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mohit Handa and other senior police officials also inspected the area.Handa subsequently visited the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 to take stock of the victim’s health.Before him, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta also visited the Civil Hospital to know about the victim’s health.”Our multiple teams were working on crack the case. We will trace the robbers soon,” he said while speaking to the media persons.According to the police, they were also checking the CCTV cameras installed near the crime spot to nail the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/robbery-attempt-at-jewellery-shop-in-panchkula-312988
18-09-2021||---||Fire at Punjab department of planning;  70 per cent files destroyed||Chandigarh, September 18A fire broke out on the first floor of the Department of Planning, Punjab, in Sector 33 this morning.According to information, about 70 per cent of the office files got burnt in the mishap. Furniture and other material kept on the first floor also gutted. "It is a loss to us as 70 per cent of our files got burnt in the mishap. We are trying to find out and save the whatever files are left behind," said an official.According to firemen, they got a fire call at about 6 am. Following which, several fire tenders were pressed into service. The firemen were seen dousing the flames using a ladder to gain entry inside the first floor.After entering, they controlled the fire. A short circuit is said to be the cause of the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-at-punjab-department-of-planning-%C2%A070-per-cent-files-destroyed-312967
18-09-2021||---||Chandigarh cop arrested by CBI in bribery case||New Delhi, Sept 18The anti-graft central probe agency CBI today said it has arrested Sub Inspector, Sarabjit Kaur, who is posted at Police Station Sector-34, Chandigarh for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs. 10,000 from a complainant.The agency in an official release said, on the receipt of complaint, the CBI registered a case against the Sub-Inspector and laid a trap and caught her red handed while demanding and accepting the bribe amount. After the arrest searches were conducted at the official and residential premises of the Sub Inspector including at Chandigarh and Patiala, which led to recovery of some incriminating documents, the agency said.In the complaint it was alleged that the accused was demanding a bribe of Rs 10,000 from the complainant in lieu of removing his name from an FIR, which was being investigated by the arrested accused person, it said.The complainant has further alleged that when he informed the accused police personnel that he was not connected with the said FIR, the accused allegedly demanded the bribe of Rs.10,000 for removing his name from the case, the CBI said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cop-arrested-by-cbi-in-bribery-case-312960
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Gender Champions Club launched at GGDSD College, Chandigarh||First aid training courseChandigarh: Under the patronage of the management of the Sikh Educational Society, Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, in association with the India Red Cross Society, organised a four-day first aid training certificate course. During the programme, students were trained in basic first aid skills like giving cardiopulmonary resuscitation, correcting position after injury and tying bandages among others. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gender-champions-club-launched-at-ggdsd-college-chandigarh-312612
18-09-2021||---||Mega job fair ends in Mohali||Mohali, September 17More than 700 youth got job during the fourth job fair organised at Government College, Phase 6, as part of the 7th Mega Job Fairs held under the Punjab Government’s flagship programme, “Ghar Ghar Rozgar Mission” which concluded today.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Himanshu Aggarwal inaugurated the fair. SDM Harbans Singh also attended the fair in which more than 1,000 candidates participated.While addressing the candidates, Dr Aggarwal urged the youth to take maximum benefit from these job fairs being organised by the Punjab Government and the Mohali District Administration.Fatehgarh Sahib: Multi-national and local companies selected 4,180 youths belonging to the district for placement during the week-long seventh Mega Rozgar Mela. Gurpreet Singh GP, MLA, Bassi Pathana, and Surbhi Malik, Deputy Commissioner (DC), Fatehgarh Sahib, handed over appointment letters to selected candidates. (OC)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mega-job-fair-ends-in-mohali-312613
18-09-2021||---||Open-air gym opened in Mohali||Mohali, September 17Health and education are two important sectors for which the Punjab Government is making all-out efforts to provide maximum facilities to people in the state.Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu stated this on the sidelines of the inauguration of an open-air gym in Ward No. 45 of Mohali today. Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and councillors Meena Kondal and Davinder Walia were also present.The minister said people, especially senior citizens, living close to the area would be able to take full advantage of this open-air gym. He appealed to the people to take advantage of such open-air gyms and exercise as much as possible so that they could stay healthy. He said such gyms were being set up in different wards all over Mohali.Speaking on the occasion, the Mayor said the minister had made a great contribution to the development of Mohali. He said development projects were being completed at a very fast pace in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-air-gym-opened-in-mohali-312614
18-09-2021||Mohali||Punjabi University, Patiala, to close Mohali centre||Facing the financial crunch, Punjabi University (Patiala) has decided to close down its Regional Centre for IT and Management in Phase 7, which had catered to local students for the past two decades.The centre had been offering a host of courses, including MBA, MBA (Executive), MTech (CSE), MCA, MCA (lateral entry),.During the inaugural session in September 2000, the centre had over 600 students but the number has gone down considerably and at present, there are only 60 students enrolled at the centre, whose operations cost the university Rs3.2 crore annually.With the Patiala varsity already running a government college in Phase 6 and Khalsa College in Phase 3, students have been asked to shift there. The varsity authorities have transferred 12 faculty members out of a total of 18 faculty members from the centre.Meanwhile, a senior professor of the university had come to the campus to take students’ consent but the latter raised slogans in protest against the authorities.Jaskaran Singh Bhullar, a student, said the faculty was shifted two months back and since then, students had been requesting the authorities not to close the centre. He said it would be difficult for them to adjust to the new environment in another college. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-patiala-to-close-mohali-centre-312615
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society to arrange ration for Afghan students in Chandigarh||Afghan Students Unity Group in Chandigarh has submitted a request to UT Adviser Dharam Pal for providing them assistance in the completion of education and meeting living expenses.As per the directions of the Adviser, Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner, along with the SDM (Central) held a meeting with Abdul Monir Kakar, founder of the Afghan Students Unity Group, in Chandigarh and HS Sabharwal, president, Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society.At the meeting, Kakar brought various problems faced by them to the notice of the DC. Sabharwal came forward for the arrangement of dry ration kits for the Afghan students. There are more than 80 students who are studying in various colleges of the city and at PU. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/guru-granth-sahib-sewa-society-to-arrange-ration-for-afghan-students-in-chandigarh-312616
18-09-2021||---||19-year-old Dhanas youth sentenced to 10-year RI in NDPS case||Chandigarh, September 17A local court has sentenced a youth to 10-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) and imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh on him after convicting him in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act case.Kishan Chanchal (19), a resident of Dhanas, was arrested on July 1, 2018, near the Mullanpur barrier. The investigating officer conducted a search of his carry bag which yielded 13 injections of Buprenorphine (2 ml each) and 13 injections of Pheniramine Maleate (10 ml each). On completion of investigation, a challan was presented against the accused. Prima facie, a case for the commission of an offence punishable under Section 22 of the NDPS Act, 1985, was made out against the accused. He was charged accordingly to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.The accused denied the allegations. He pleaded innocence and stated that he had been falsely implicated. However, the accused did not adduce any evidence in his defence. After hearing the arguments, Dr Rajneesh, Judge, Special Court, held Kishan guilty and sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment for a period of 10 years. In default of payment of the fine, he will further undergo rigorous imprisonment for another one year.“Drug addiction destroys the trait of appreciation of a person, who cannot differentiate between fair and unfair and commits the heinous crime, resulting in day by day increase of tendency of committing the heinous crime with the addiction of drugs. The need of the hour is to choke the supply of the drugs and to curb it with a heavy hand,” says the court the order.The court says that the period of detention already undergone by the convict, during the course of investigation or trial, shall be set off against the sentence of imprisonment imposed upon him, as per the provisions of section 428 CrPC.Material seizedAccording to the investigation officer, 13 injections of buprenorphine (2 ml each) and 13 injections of pheniramine maleate (10 ml each) were recovered from the youth’s carry bag.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-year-old-dhanas-youth-sentenced-to-10-year-ri-in-ndps-case-312617
18-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Don’t finalise sports category merit list for LLM, LLB, says High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 17The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed that the sports category final merit list for the LLM and LLB courses offered by Panjab University would not be finalised. The order would remain in force at least till September 23 — the next date of hearing in the matter.The direction by the Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri came on a petition filed against the varsity and other respondents by Pardeep Kumar and other students through counsel LK Gollen.The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that one of the petitioners was desirous to secure admission to the LLM course, while others were seeking admission to the LLB course. They were, among other things, seeking directions to the respondent-university to consider their candidature for LLM/LLB course under the 5 per cent sports quota.Gollen submitted the petitioners’ claim was not being considered under the sports quota by citing a clause in the guidelines for admission for the reserved category of sports, 2021, published in the handbook of information.Gollen drew the Bench’s attention to a rule, which laid down that “in case there is one association/federation or more than one association/federation in any game, the sports certificates issued by those State associations will be considered which are recognised by National Federation of the concerned game for state-level tournaments”.He added the petitioners had excelled in karate and possessed certificates issued by the Amateur Karate Association of Chandigarh. As on date, no National Federation of Karate was functional. The Indian Olympic Association had, accordingly, intervened and set up an ad hoc committee to look after the affairs in such sports. For the past three or four years, such ad hoc committee had not accorded recognition regarding certificates issued by various karate associations across the country.It was added the varsity in the previous academic sessions had given the benefit of sport reservation to candidates relying upon certificates issued by the Amateur Karate Association of Chandigarh.“It was argued that it would be a clear case of discrimination in as much as consideration to the petitioners as regards admissions to the LLM/LLB course under the 5 per cent sports quota is being denied in spite of their possessing certificates which had been considered valid in the previous academic sessions,” the Bench observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-finalise-sports-category-merit-list-for-llm-llb-says-high-court-312618
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Raising their voice||Employees of UT departments, who have been assigned the duty of booth-level officers, hold a protest against an order for special summary revision of electoral rolls, in Chandigarh on Friday. They have been asked to carry out special summary revision from 7 am to 9 am and 5 pm to 7 pm before and after the office hours. Tribune photo||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/raising-their-voice-312619
18-09-2021||---||Chandigarh girl wins maiden pro golf tour title||Noida, September 17Chandigarh golfer Lakhmehar Pardesi gave herself an early birthday present as she claimed a breakthrough maiden title in the ninth leg of the Women’s Pro Golf Tour at the Noida Golf Course. The city girl, who turns 22 on October 15, stayed calm in the closing stages after trailing for most part of the final day.Needing a clutch putt from around eight feet to ensure an outright win over Jahanvi Bakshi, Lakhmehar drained the putt and heaved a sigh of relief. Her previous best on the tour was a fifth place. She said: “This is a big win for me.”Lakhmehar carded 2-over 74 in the final round to total 227, while Jahanvi (75) was one behind at 228.Amateur Avani Prashanth, who has regularly figured in contention, was once again the top amateur and was overall third at 230. Avani had the best round of the day at even par 72.Avani shared the third spot with Hitaashee Bakshi (76).Lakhmehar, who has worked on physical fitness and the short game, was in a tie with the normally consistent Jahanvi when play began on the final day.Lakhmehar went into sole lead on the very first hole as Jahanvi dropped a shot on the par-5 first. However, the Chandigarh golfer gave back that advantage with a bogey on fourth. She then dropped shots on seventh and eighth even as Jahanvi picked a birdie on eighth. At the turn, Jahanvi had built up a three-shot lead.On the 11th, Lakhmehar bogeyed but Jahanvi double bogeyed and the gap narrowed to two. Then, Lakhmehar nailed two fine birdies in a row on 13th and 14th to get into a share of the lead once again.Jahanvi bogeyed the par-17th while Lakhmehar holed a crucial par putt to move ahead. On the 18th, Jahanvi was just off the green, but she rolled it in for par from almost 10 feet. That left Lakhmehar needing to hole the 8-footer for an outright win or go into a play-off. She parred and took the title.“I have been waiting for this for a long time. I am so grateful to my coaches, parents and the Noida Golf Club,” said the youngster.The 10th spot was shared by amateur Rishika Muralidhar, Saaniya Sharma and Seher Atwal. The tour now takes a break for four weeks and the action resumes on October 13 with the tenth leg at the Chandigarh Golf Club.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-girl-wins-maiden-pro-golf-tour-title-312622
18-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Sector 44 robbery: Court frames charges against two accused||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 17A court has framed charges against two accused - Vijay Singh Rawat and Mohit Thakur - under Sections 452 (trespass after preparation for hurt), 397 (robbery), 34 and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the IPC in an year-old robbery case.The accused were arrested by the police for allegedly attacking and snatching a gold chain from a property dealer in Sector 44-D, Chandigarh.The police had registered the case on a complaint of property dealer Ravinder Kumar, who alleged that two persons entered his office in the evening of October 31 last year. They attacked him and snatched his gold chain.When he objected, one of the suspects took out a knife from his pocket and started attacking him. He alleged that while one suspect attacked him, another one snatched his gold chain. The duo later fled from the spot. The victim suffered injuries on the hand and back. He was admitted to the GMCH-32.The police arrested the duo one week after the incident. They registered a case against the duo under Sections 379, 452, 411 and 34 of the IPC at the Sector 34 police station.A blood-stained knife and a dummy pistol were also allegedly recovered from the spot. The police have already submitted a challan in the case.After hearing the arguments and examining the relevant documents annexed with the challan, the court said a prima facie case for the commission of offence punishable under Sections 452, 397, 34 and 411 of the IPC was made out. A charge sheet was served upon the accused, to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. The court has fixed October 28 as the next date of hearing in the case for examining the prosecution witnesses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-44-robbery-court-frames-charges-against-two-accused-312620
18-09-2021||---||Six days on, no FIR on lawyer’s complaint in Panchkula||Panchkula, September 17Six days after a High Court lawyer was allegedly thrashed by policemen, who were placed under suspension for “misconduct and negligence in duty”, an FIR is yet to be lodged in this connection.Saurabh Singh, Commissioner of Police (CP), Panchkula, said they were investigating the allegations levelled by the lawyer against the policemen. “An inquiry is being conducted to verify the facts. We will take appropriate action in the matter,” he said.Meanwhile, the lawyer, Deepak Aggarwal (47), expressed disappointment. “Despite repeated reminders, the police are yet to register an FIR on my complaint. They (police) are trying to protect their personnel. Supreme Court directives had been violated in my case,” he said.The lawyer, in his complaint, alleged that the policemen grabbed him by the neck, thrashed him inside a police vehicle after “taking him into custody illegally”. He said the policemen beat him up with belts and punched and kicked him while they drove the PCR vehicle around the city.The incident took place on the intervening night of September 11 and 12.The lawyer had reportedly used “Dial 112” service, seeking police intervention after his neighbour parked a scooter at his parking spot outside his house in Sector 4.When the police reached the spot, they accused Aggarwal of misbehaving in a drunken state and claimed that they had to take him into custody after he stopped them from acting in the matter.The police subsequently also registered an FIR against the lawyer under Sections 186, 332 and 353 of the IPC.However, after the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association intervened and condemned the police behaviour, the cops agreed to cancel the FIR against the lawyer.The caseThe lawyer, in his complaint, alleged that the policemen grabbed him by the neck, thrashed him inside a police vehicle after “taking him into custody illegally”. He said the policemen beat him up with belts and punched and kicked him while they drove the PCR vehicle in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-days-on-no-fir-on-lawyers-complaint-in-panchkula-312621
18-09-2021||Mohali||Health supplement regulations: Wholesalers, retailers’ units checked in Mohali, Kharar||To enforce nutraceutical and health supplement regulations by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India, a joint surprise inspection was conducted at wholesalers, retailers and manufacturing units in Mohali, Kharar and Kurali today. A total of 10,000 tablets of “CanDZ”, which were found to be non-compliant with the FSSAI regulations, were seized.The inspection team comprised of Joint Director and Central Licensing Authority of the FSSAI BS Acharya, Mohali District Health Officer Dr Subhash Kumar and Food Safety Officer Ravinandan Goyal.Acharya said tablet Demci-500 was also ordered to be recalled by the manufacturer after it was found to be non-compliant with the norms. A search for Demci-500 was carried out in several parts of the region. One manufacturing unit in Kurali was also visited and a notice was issued to it for not adhering to all health supplement regulations of the FSSAI Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-supplement-regulations-wholesalers-retailers-units-checked-in-mohali-kharar-312623
18-09-2021||Panchkula||9,977 jabbed during mega drive in Panchkula||As many as 9,977 beneficiaries were vaccinated during a mega drive organised by the district health administration here today. Of the total, 1,861 beneficiaries were vaccinated in urban slums through a mobile van.There was no vaccination on Thursday. The district had vaccinated 36,675 people during the three-day vaccination drive from Monday to Wednesday.As per the figures, the district has vaccinated 110.2 per cent of its target population with at least single dose.After Gurugram and Ambala, Panchkula became the third district in the state to achieve the “exemplary feat”.As per senior health officials, the district exceeded its target (as per 2011 Census) due to migratory population from neighbouring states, simply meaning that not every citizen of the district is given at least one dose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-977-jabbed-during-mega-drive-in-panchkula-312630
18-09-2021||---||Sans first dose, 3 Chandigarh Housing Board staffers told to bring negative RT-PCR report daily||Chandigarh, September 17The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has directed its three employees, who are yet to get their first dose of the Covid vaccine, to produce negative RT-PCR report at the time of entering the office premises on a daily basis.On September 15, Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, had issued orders that officers or officials who had not taken at least first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine would not be allowed to enter the office without the negative RT-PCR report of the last 72 hours.In pursuance of the orders of the CEO, out of 422 employees, 419 have stated that they had been vaccinated with at least one dose of the Covid vaccine.However, the three employees, who have not been vaccinated, have been directed to produce negative RT-PCR report daily at the time of entering the office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sans-first-dose-3-chandigarh-housing-board-staffers-told-to-bring-negative-rt-pcr-report-daily-312633
18-09-2021||---||Mohali Youth Congress slams Modi government||Mohali, September 17Hundreds of Youth Congress workers led by Kanwarbir Singh Sidhu, president of the District Youth Congress, Mohali, observed the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as ‘national unemployment day’ and staged a protest at the Landran chowk here today.Addressing the workers, Kanwarbir Singh Sidhu said in the past one year, 12.2 crore people had lost their livelihood and jobs. Rising prices of petroleum products had escalated the rates of essential commodities, thereby breaking the backbone of the common man.Kanwarbir said employment opportunities had dwindled in the country during the misrule of the Modi government starting from 2014. It was for the first time since Independence that the rate of inflation went into double digit.He also slammed the Modi government for sowing the seeds of communalisation, thereby dividing the people on basis of caste, creed and religion. Kanwarbir said there was nothing to rejoice on the birthday of an inefficient Prime Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-youth-congress-slams-modi-government-312608
18-09-2021||---||Youth Congress observes PM’s birthday as ‘unemployment day’ in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 17Local Youth Congress activists today observed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday as unemployment day. The activists held a demonstration reflecting the anger and resentment the youth harbour towards the Modi-led BJP Government.Selling pakoras dressed in his graduation robes, Manoj Lubana, president of the Chandigarh Youth Congress, said it was a symbolic protest showcasing the plight of students who spend lakhs of rupees to get access to good education. Despite being qualified, they get zero job opportunities and in desperation, they have to resort to selling “pakoras” and “samosas”. Modi had betrayed the confidence of the youth by providing zero job opportunities and India had reached at a level of unprecedented joblessness.“The national unemployment rate has been steadily falling to record lows and there are currently 15 lakh fewer job opportunities in August 2021 as compared to July 2021. The national unemployment rate has also jumped to 8.2 per cent from 6.9 per cent last month. Record rise in unemployment and hollow promises of jobs by the ‘Bharatiya Jumla Party’ now stand thoroughly exposed,” he said.Vaccination, blood donation camps mark occasionChandigarh: As part of the service and dedication campaign being organised by the BJP on the occasion of 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, 71 social welfare activities were carried out by the Chandigarh BJP here today.Spokesperson Kailash Chand Jain said among various activities, a blood donation camp was organised by Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar District of the BJP in collaboration with a team of the PGI Blood Bank at the community centre in Sector 37. BJP’s national vice-president and regional in-charge Saudan Singh, who was present, congratulated the blood donors and appreciated the entire team. State president Arun Sood, former MP Satya Pal Jain, organisation general secretary Dinesh Kumar, vice-president Asha Jaswal, Sunita Bhatt, general secretary Chandrashekhar, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, among others were present on the occasion.Among other activities, a cake-cutting ceremony by the Mahila Morcha, immunity booster distribution in Sector 22, a cleanliness drive in Dadu Majra Colony, a plantation drive in Sector 51, a vaccination camp in Sector 22, distribution of wheelchairs in the Sector 50 dispensary were part of the Prime Minister’s birthday celebrations.Kailash Chand said such activities would continue for 20 consecutive days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-congress-observes-pms-birthday-as-unemployment-day-in-chandigarh-312634
18-09-2021||---||Convex mirror installed at Sukhna Lake turn||Chandigarh, September 17A convex mirror has been installed at the Sukhna Lake turn, which is one of the blind spots identified by the Chandigarh traffic police.A total of 97 blind spots have been identified by the police where convex mirrors will be installed.The wide angle vision of the convex mirror will help road users to see around blind corners and avoid collision of vehicles. UT Adviser Dharam Pal inaugurated the mirror at the lake turn. These mirrors will be installed in coordination with the Municipal Corporation and the Engineering Department.Boon for road usersThe wide angle vision of the convex mirror will help road users to see around blind corners and avoid collision of vehicles. UT Adviser Dharam Pal opened the mirror at the lake turn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/convex-mirror-installed-at-sukhna-lake-turn-312624
18-09-2021||---||Swarnim Vijay Diwas: Air show of Suryakirans at Sukhna Lake on September 22||Chandigarh, September 17The Air Force Station, Chandigarh, in association with the UT Administration, will organise an air show of Suryakirans and other aircraft at Sukhna Lake on September 22 at 4.30 pm for one hour on the occasion of “Swarnim Vijay Diwas” of 1971 War.The event also coincides with the celebrations of diamond jubilee year of the Air Force Station, Chandigarh, which was established in 1961.Over the years, the 12 Wing Air Force Station, Chandigarh, has become one of the biggest/pivotal air bases of the Indian Air Force equipped with latest aircraft. Formation aerobatics units of the Indian Air Force, called as ‘Suryakiran Aerobatic Team’, are equipped with HAL-built Hawk aircraft. This team has performed world over and has the distinction of being among the nine aircraft formation aerobatic teams in the world.The team’s motto is “Always the Best” and will be undertaking low-level aerobatic displays over Jalandhar on September 18; Chandigarh on September 22; Srinagar on September 26; and Air Force Station Hindon for Air Force Day and Pune on October 16.In Chandigarh, the air show will be held over Sukhna Lake and is open to public.This mega event is free and open to all to witness around the ‘walking track’ of Sukhna Lake. People are requested to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and cooperate with the police. No admission would be permitted without face mask. Citizens and tourists can also witness the show on September 21 during the full-dress rehearsal and are encouraged to come to avoid rush during the main event. To avoid rush at Sukhna Lake, people are advised to witness the show from their rooftops, wherever possible. Spectators are advised not to bring any eatable items that may attract birds that can pose a threat to the participating aircrafts.The UT police have been instructed to strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour during the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/swarnim-vijay-diwas-air-show-of-suryakirans-at-sukhna-lake-on-september-22-312625
18-09-2021||---||Improving quality of care for mother, newborn: Chandigarh bags two awards||Chandigarh, September 17The UT has bagged two awards for LaQshya implementation in Labour Room and Maternity OT for 2020-21 under the small states category.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has launched programme ‘LaQshya’ — quality improvement initiative in labour room and maternity OT, aimed at improving the quality of care for mothers and newborn babies during intrapartum and immediate post-partum period.On culmination of Patient Safety Week, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), in coordination with National Health Systems Resource Centre (NHSRC), Government of India, organised a virtual function today wherein best performing states/UTs were awarded for National Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS) and LaQshya certification. The chief guest was Minister of Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya.The LaQshya scores for National certification were as mentioned below:According to information, the assessment was carried out by the external assessors selected by the NHSRC from various states across the country and the assessment continued for two consecutive days for each facility. The scoring was done on various parameters such as service provision (In respect to curative services, diagnostic services), patient rights (In respect to the information available, sensitivity in respect to gender, religion, social status, maintenance of privacy and dignity of patient and facilitating informed decision making etc), inputs (regarding the infrastructure, manpower, equipment and logistics etc), support services (for maintenance of equipment, provision of safe environment etc), clinical services (in terms of proper assessment of patient, continuity of care, referral and identification of high risk and vulnerable patients etc), infection control (assessment of various of procedures and protocol followed to prevent infection) and quality management (by assessing the organisational framework, regular internal and external assessments and documentation of SOP and carrying out various audits to maintain quality).The assessment was done of all efficiency and productivity indicators and clinical care and safety indicators.LaQshya certification is a continuous process to ensure that quality is maintained and further upgraded by state assessment on a yearly basis. State assessment for all four facilities in the UT for the 2021-22 has been conducted and all of them have qualified for state certification. The National Certification will be repeated at a three yearly interval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/improving-quality-of-care-for-mother-newborn-chandigarh-bags-two-awards-312626
18-09-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh panel member seeks details from auction house||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 17A copious list of questions, along with a copy of the MHA order banning the export of Chandigarh’s heritage furniture, was sent to the Ministry of Culture, Luxembourg, today.In response to an email sent by Juriste Chris Backes of Luxembourg’s Ministry of Culture, who sought details of the city’s six heritage items being auctioned on September 18 in Stadtbredimus, a member of UT’s Heritage Items Protection Cell, Ajay Jagga, has asked the auction house to provide the aquisition details of the city’s heritage furniture.Confirming that all six furniture items are from Chandigarh, Jagga requested the Luxembourg ministry to enquire about the procurement of each heritage furniture exclusively. He asked the auction house to name the “Administrative Building” from where the scissor-leg Jeanneret chair without cushion (item no. 71) was acquired, along with the invoice of the government office in the buyer’s name. He also asked if the buyers came to India on business visa and followed commercial laws in India and Luxembourg. ‘Custom clearance as per that invoice’ has also been sought from the auction house.Similar questions, pertaining to invoices and proof of sale of furniture, as per Indian laws, have been posed to the auction house through the Ministry of Luxembourg.Jagga has demanded the “invoice of High Court in the name of buyer” also for another heritage furniture item (no. 72), a pair of cushioned Jeanneret style recliners, which the auction house claims to have taken from a “Private collection of 2007 Hight Court Chandigarh, India”.The auction house has provided the details of the city’s heritage furniture pieces, stating that all six of them were acquired in 2007 from the private collection of “Punjab Physique University Chandigarh, India”, “Hight court Chandigarh, India” and “Administrative buildings, Chandigarh, India”.Earlier on September 13, Jagga wrote to the Minister of Culture, Luxembourg, India’s Minister for External Affairs and the Indian Diplomat to Luxembourg/Berlin for returning the heritage furniture of City Beautiful, as per the UN’s conventions on cultural property of a country.In his letter to Backes, he wrote: “The aim is to ensure, that there should be no violation of the laws relating to the cultural objects/heritage. The sellers should be lawful owners and this, to my mind, can be established by a probe by law enforcing agencies of the country in which auction is going on. And, if the auction house is clear, clean and lawful owner, they should not shy away from a probe and should welcome but if there are issues regarding proper import in Luxembourg, then international law or UN conventions say return the cultural/heritage items.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-panel-member-seeks-details-from-auction-house-312628
18-09-2021||---||Chandigarh: Part of house of Dara Singh’s son gives way||Chandigarh, September 17One person was injured when a portion of a room of the house of the son of legendary wrestler and Bollywood actor, the late Dara Singh, collapsed in Sector 4 here this afternoon.An official of the fire brigade said two workers were carrying out repair work on a wall while standing in the balcony on the first floor of the house. Around 1pm, a portion of the wall along with a huge slab, an extended part of the roof, fell down. A foot of a labourer identified as Sajid (35), a resident of Zirakpur, got trapped under the broken slab.On hearing screams of workers, a neighbour immediately called the police. A police team along with fire brigade and disaster management personnel reached the spot and started a rescue operation.A JCB machine was used in the rescue operation and worker was taken out from underneath the slab around 2 pm and rushed to the PGI for treatment.At the time of the incident no one was present in the house. House owner Amrik Singh Radhawa, son of Bollywood actor Dara Singh, had left for Mumbai yesterday only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-part-of-house-of-dara-singhs-son-gives-way-312627
18-09-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||12 suspected diarrhoea cases surface in Dhakoli||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, September 17After an outbreak of cholera in Baltana and Peermuchalla, the Dhakoli area in Zirakpur is now seeing several cases of patients with diarrhoea-like symptoms. Twelve cases were reported from Sukhna Enclave in Dhakoli today.Five patients had complained of diarrhoea-like symptoms yesterday following which a team of the Health Department began a survey today. “The situation in Peermuchalla is under control now. We have stationed a team at Sukhna Enclave in Dhakoli to provide immediate medical treatment to the patients, said Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Mohali. At present, close to 20 patients are undergoing treatment at the Dhakoli Community Health Centre (CHC) alone. Officials said 230 houses had been surveyed in the locality and 54 patients complained of diarrhoea-like symptoms. Besides a medical examination, health officials have distributed more than 200 ORS packets.Zirakpur Municipal Council officials said regular chlorination was being done at water sources. The water supply of individual submersible pumps, which failed the potability test, had been cut off. They were being provided water through tankers. Leakages in water supply pipelines, faulty connections in submersible pumps and waterlogging after rain have exacerbated the risk of water contamination and water-borne diseases in the area.More than 250 cases of diarrhoea/cholera have been reported from the Zirakpur area in the past one month. Residents have been seeking medical treatment at Dhakoli, Dera Bassi, Panchkula and Chandigarh. Many are undergoing treatment at private hospitals and clinics in the tricity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-suspected-diarrhoea-cases-surface-in-dhakoli-312629
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Man held with ganja in Chandigarh||Cheating cases registeredChandigarh: The UT police have registered a case on a Dera Bassi woman’s complaint that Rahul Narula and others, who have their office Path World Wide in Sector 34, allegedly duped her of Rs4 lakh on the pretext of providing PR of Canada. TNSTwo booked for seeking extortionChandigarh: The UT police have booked two natives of Bihar for making a phone call to a city resident and demanding extortion from him. The suspects, identified as Ramsurat Patel and Shambhu Patel, called up the complainant on his mobile phone and threatened him. The suspects also demanded extortion from him. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-ganja-in-chandigarh-312635
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Woman cop held for Rs 10K bribe in Chandigarh||The CBI today nabbed a woman Sub-Inspector (SI) of the UT police while allegedly taking Rs 10,000 as a bribe at the Sector 34 police station. The suspect has been identified as Sarabjeet Kaur.Sources said there was a case registered under the POCSO Act at the Sector 36 police station on the complaint of a woman who had alleged that her husband had raped her daughter. A few other persons were also named as suspects in the case. The case was being investigated by the SI.One of the suspects submitted a complaint to the CBI following which a trap was laid.CBI sources said the SI had earlier allegedly taking Rs50,000 as a bribe in the same case. The CBI has registered a case and initiated a probe. Meanwhile, raids were being conducted at the SI’s house. She will be produced in the CBI court tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-cop-held-for-rs-10k-bribe-in-chandigarh-312632
18-09-2021||Mohali||Youth runs over sanitation workers in Mohali, 1 dead||A 50-year-old sanitation worker died while two other women were seriously injured when a speeding luxury car, while leaving a parking area, hit them near Silvi Park in Phase 10 here around 2 pm today.The deceased has been identified Omviri, a resident of Jagatpura Colony, while Kambali resident Mamta and Ramviri have been seriously injured and are undergoing treatment at the GMCH-32.The victims belonged to one family. The deceased, Omviri, was the mother-in-law of Mamta. Rambiri is Mamta’s mother. The car driver, Harpreet Singh, 22, a resident of Phase XI, was arrested. A case under Sections 279, 304, 337 and 338 of the IPC was registered against him at the Phase XI police station.“The car driver is preparing for IELTS and getting coaching from a private institute in the tricity. His friend Gurtaz Singh and two girls were accompanying him at the time of the incident,” the police said. The suspect was the son of Jaswinder Singh, a factory owner, said the police.Eyewitnesses said the car was being driven at a high speed and the driver lost control of the vehicle, which veered towards the parking area, mowing down the resting sanitation workers. Bystanders lifted the car to extricate the women and rushed them to the hospital.The sanitation workers present at the spot alleged that the boys tried to flee the spot but were nabbed and handed over to the police. Later, they gheraoed the police station, alleging that the police were shielding the suspect.“The injured were rushed to the GMCH-32 where doctors declared Omviri dead. Two other women sustained serious injuries but their condition is stated to be stable now. The car driver was arrested at the spot,” said Mohit Singla, DSP, Phase XI police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-runs-over-sanitation-workers-in-mohali-1-dead-312631
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||80% adults in Chandigarh have antibodies: Sero survey||A sero survey conducted by the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, in the month of July has been completed. Its results revealed the presence of IgG antibodies against SARS CoV-2 (Covid-19) in 80.2 per cent of the adult (more than 18 yrs) population of Chandigarh.Around 1,200 samples were collected from vaccinated and non-vaccinated adult population of the UT. The participants were enrolled from 30 randomly selected clusters. While 16 clusters were from urban areas, 11 were from rehabilitation colonies and three from rural areas. Sero positivity was found in 84.1 per cent urban areas, 77.8 per cent rehabilitation colonies and 69 per cent rural representative population. The presence of antibodies suggested either past infection or response to vaccination.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director Principal, Government Medical College and Hospital, said, “The results point towards development of herd immunity in Chandigarh. The city is also among the UTs/states to have administered the first dose of the vaccine to the entire targeted population.”She added, “The outcome of the sero survey is encouraging but this should not lead to complacency. The possibility of new outbreaks is also there and one should follow the Covid protocol stringently in day-to-day life.” — TNSPhysical OPDs from Sept 20The GMCH authorities decided that from September 20, all OPDs, which were functioning and catering to already registered patients only, will start functioning physically with offline as well as online registration. Telemedicine and e-Sanjeevani facilities will continue as such.Covid: 4 +ve in UTChandigarh: The city on Friday reported four cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the infection. A patient defeated the virus. — TNS3 cases in MohaliMohali: Three fresh Covid cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours. No fresh death was reported, while nine patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, one was reported from Mohali (urban) and two from Boothgarh. — TNSNo fresh case in P’kulaPanchkula: The district reported no fresh Covid case on Friday, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,710. The toll remained at 377. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-adults-in-chandigarh-have-antibodies-sero-survey-312636
18-09-2021||Amit Sharma||At 54.4%, Chandigarh’s case pendency 8th highest||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 17The city had the eighth highest pendency of Indian Penal Code (IPC) cases in the country, with 54.4 per cent cases left pending for investigation by the end of 2020.A report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) reveals that 4,985 cases were under investigation, including 2,364 pending from the previous year, 2,583 new reported last year and 38 that were reopened for investigation. The UT police had a fairly poor percentage of disposal of cases as they managed to dispose of only 45.6 per cent cases. Of the total 4,985 cases, only 2,274 could be disposed of, of which three were transferred to another agency, 146 ended as mistake of fact or of law or civil dispute, 850 were true but had insufficient evidence or untraced or no clue and in 1,274 cases, the chargesheet was submitted in the court. A senior police official said the pandemic hampered the investigation in a majority of the cases following which the investigation could not be completed.“The lockdown and restrictions due to the virus delayed the investigation in the cases,” he added.The police also cite frequent protests in the city as another reason that affects the investigation. “A large number of protests are held in the city throughout the year, which keep the police busy in these duties, which is another reason that hinders the pace of investigation of cases,” said the police official.Meanwhile, Chandigarh had a pendency percentage of 40 in cases registered under the special and local laws (SLLs). A total of 1,323 cases were under investigation in 2020. These included 652 cases pending from the previous year and 671 fresh cases reported during the year. However, only 792 cases could be disposed of by the end of the year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-54-4-chandigarhs-case-pendency-8th-highest-312637
18-09-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 27 robbery: 2 main suspects nailed, spent lavishly in Kasol||The two main suspects, who had allegedly robbed a model-turned-actress at her house in Sector 27, have been arrested. They had fled to Kasol, Himachal Pradesh, after committing the crime and lavishly spent the robbed money. With their arrest, all four suspects involved in the crime are now in police net.A joint team, led by Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO of the Sector 26 police station, and Inspector Amanjot Singh, in-charge of the operation cell, nabbed the suspects, Arjun (27), a resident of Shahi Majra village, Mohali, who had delivered furniture at the victim’s house a few days before the crime, and the other, also named Arjun (24), a resident of Mataur, from near the ISBT, Sector 43. The police recovered Rs40,000 from them.Both suspects went to Phase I, Mohali, after the crime where they purchased new clothes and shoes. They then went to Sector 52, where they stayed at a hotel for a few hours. They then boarded a bus from Sector 43 and wentto Kasol, where they stayed at an expensive hotel. Both suspects got tattoos and their hair dyed. The police said, “The suspects spent lavishly by checking into an expensive hotel and hiring cabs to visit different places near Kasol.”On September 7, the victim was alone at her house when three suspects, who had their faces covered, barged into the house. The victim was kept hostage at knifepoint and robbed of Rs6 lakh and another Rs20,000, which a suspect withdrew from her account using her ATM card. The police scrutinised the CCTV footage and showed it to the victim, which helped in identifying one of the suspects, Arjun.Earlier, two suspects, Prem, alias Motu, and Sunil, alias Sunny, alias Bihari, were arrested. — TNSGot tattoos, hair dyedThe police said the duo went to Phase I, Mohali, after the crime where they purchased new clothes and shoes. They then went to Sector 52, where they stayed at a hotel for a few hours. They then boarded a bus from Sector 43 and went to Kasol, where they stayed at an expensive hotel. Both suspects got tattoos and their hair dyed.Tainted pastArjun, a resident of Shahi Majra, has a tainted past. He was earlier arrested by the Mohali police in three cases and was convicted in one of the cases for three years. He is a cook. However, recently he had taken a job at a furniture shop in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-27-robbery-2-main-suspects-nailed-spent-lavishly-in-kasol-312638
