19-09-2021||---||Panchkula jeweller foils robbery||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 18A jewellery shop owner survived an armed robbery attempt in broad daylight here today.Three robbers, who struck Maa Luxmi Jewellers located at booth number 78 in Sector 8, attacked its owner, Sandeep Verma (45), with a knife. They had to return empty-handed after the victim raised the alarm.A brave act“When I managed to escape towards the door, one of the robbers attacked me with a knife. Once I managed to get outside, my screams attracted the attention of bystanders and other shopkeepers. Meanwhile, all three of them fled the scene,” the FIR read, quoting the shop owner.Verma told the police that he had opened his shop around 10:30 am. Three youngsters arrived there around noon. “One of the them had a countrymade gun in his hand while another was carrying a knife. As soon as they entered the shop, they asked me to keep sitting quietly. As I tried to run outside, they pointed the gun at me and also tried to restrain me with the knife.“When I managed to escape towards the door, one of them attacked me with a knife. Once I managed to get outside, my screams attracted the attention of bystanders and other shopkeepers. Meanwhile, all three of them fled the scene,” the FIR read, quoting the complainant.The victim was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where he received stitches. Meanwhile, a forensic team also reached the spot to gather evidence. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mohit Handa and other senior police officials also inspected the area. Handa also visited the Civil Hospital to enquire after the victim.Before him, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta also visited the hospital to know about the Verma’s health. ”A police team has been constituted to crack the case. We will trace the robbers soon,” Handa said while speaking to media persons.According to the police, they (suspects) had been captured on the CCTV cameras installed in the area. They fled the spot in an auto-rickshaw, the police said, adding that they were trying to identity of the auto driver.“As they turned up at the shop on foot, there is no clarity if they had come in their own vehicle,” a senior official of the Police Department said.A case was registered under sections 394 (Voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 398 (Attempt to commit robbery or dacoity when armed with a deadly weapon) and relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons.On July 13, 2014, robbers had struck at Rajat Jewellers in Swastik Vihar, Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5, in broad daylight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-jeweller-foils-robbery-313147
19-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh: Soon, register for GMSH-16 OPDs at Sampark centres||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18Soon, registration for the OPD facility at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, will also be done at Sampark centres in the city.After the success of a pilot project, which was launched from the Sampark centre in Sector 15 on September 10, the UT Health Department is going to start the GMSH OPD registration facility at all Sampark centres by the end of this month.‘Waiting for printers for barcoding cards’The Sampark centres are in the process of procuring printers for printing barcode on the OPD cards. As soon as the centres get the printers, the facility will be launched across the city. — Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Health, UTThe department had decided to start the OPD registration at the Sampark centres for convenience of the general public and to avoid long queues at the GMSH. The registration will be done on the payment of a fee of Rs10.The decision was taken after Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Health, UT, visited the OPD and emergency wards of the GMSH on September 6 and saw a huge rush for registration. Garg observed that it was difficult to maintain social distancing at the registration counter.After discussing the matter with the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC), the department decided to start the OPD registration at the Sampark centres.On an average, 10-12 patients are availing themselves of the facility every day at the Sector 15 Sampark centre. Registrations are being done from 8 am to 11 am. After getting the registration done, the patient can directly go to the OPD at the GMSH for consultation with the doctor concerned.Garg said they were getting requests from different parts of the city to start the facility in their localities. “The Sampark centres are in the process of procuring printers for printing barcode on the OPD cards,” he said, and added that as soon as the centres would get the printers, the facility would be launched across the city.“We are likely to get the printers in 10-15 days, but even if we get some printers in the next few days, we will immediately start the facility, as training of the staff has been completed,” he said.To streamline the process, the department had also decided to encourage online registration and to open a separate window at the GMSH so that online registered patients can get barcode-printed OPD card without any hassles. In addition to online registration, the existing system of walk-in registration would continue at the GMSH-16, Garg said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-soon-register-for-gmsh-16-opds-at-sampark-centres-313148
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||70 pc files destroyed in blaze at Punjab Planning Dept building in Chandigarh||A fire broke out on the first floor of the building of the Department of Planning, Punjab, housing the establishment branch in Sector 33 this morning.According to fire officials, almost all items kept on the first floor hall were destroyed. There were different chambers/rooms in the hall. Iron almirahs, computer, AC units, fans, window glasses and official documents were burnt.“Our 70 per cent of the total files kept in the Yojna building were burnt in the fire,” said an official of the Planning Department.Firemen said they got a fire call around 6 pm. Several fire engines were pressed into service from the fire stations of Sectors 32, 17, Ram Darbar and Industrial Area. It took about five hours to control the fire.An official of the department said it seemed a short-circuit caused the fire. However, the fire officials said they were yet to ascertain the cause of fire. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-pc-files-destroyed-in-blaze-at-punjab-planning-dept-building-in-chandigarh-313149
19-09-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: 60 more cases of diarrhoea reported in Dhakoli||As many as 60 fresh cases of diarrhoea were reported and 20 patients hospitalised from the Dhakoli area in Zirakpur today.“The Health Department today took five samples from different localities in Dhakoli to ascertain water contamination. The reports are expected in a day or two,” said Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Mohali. Sukhna Enclave in Dhakoli has reported a maximum number of cases. The department has set up a medical camp at Urban Primary Health Centre in Zirakpur.Municipal Council officials said the water supply in the area had been cut off. Water tankers have been stationed at various places to provide potable water to residents. There has been more than 300 cases of diarrhoea-like symptoms in the Zirakpur area in the past one month. With new cases emerging every day, the health care centres are struggling to attend to the patients. “The Community Health Centre in Dhakoli has limited resources to take care of the increasing patient load. A few patients have to be admitted to the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital,” said local residents.The 30-bed centre in Dhakoli was to be upgraded to 100-bed sub-divisional hospital. An announcement in this regard was made by Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in January this year. However, the infrastructure has not been fully upgraded yet.The local residents are forced to go to the Civil Hospital, Panchkula, the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, and private hospitals for their treatment. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-60-more-cases-of-diarrhoea-reported-in-dhakoli-313150
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||PGI seeks applications for post of Director||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) has invited applications for the post of Director.The official notice read: “The post of Director, PGIMER, Chandigarh, is going to fall vacant on November 1, 2021. Accordingly, applications are invited from eligible candidates and nominations are invited from vice-chancellors of Indian universities (including medical universities), directors of centres/institutions of medical education and medical research, members of the Institute Body of PGIMER, Chandigarh, and principals of all medical colleges in India.”The last date for receipt of applications is October 15.Currently, the post is held by Prof Jagat Ram, who will retire at the end of October. He had headed the ophthalmology unit of the PGI for 26 years. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-seeks-applications-for-post-of-director-313151
19-09-2021||Amit Sharma||Burail: Art gallery to add some colour to jail life||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18Inmates of the Model Jail, Burail, have proved that the prison is no hindrance to their creativity. As many as 350 colourful paintings done by 11 inmates in the past one year are a testimony to it.To add more colours to their art, the jail authorities have now come up with an art gallery on the jail premises to showcase the inmates’ talent.The jail authorities have plans to put up these paintings for sale at their store named “Sirjan” in Sector 22.Virat, AIG (Prisons), UT, said the idea to train the inmates in painting came after a few of them painted landscapes on the walls of special barracks. “The inmates showed their interest in the initiative which motivated us to hold painting classes for them,” he added.A member of the faculty of Government Home Science College was instrumental in honing the skills of the inmates. Eleven inmates, including two women, had done 350 paintings of modern art, sceneries and portraits in the past one year. A booklet comprising the paintings of the inmates has also been prepared. It has been named “Colours- Harbingers of Hope and Happiness”.“We have tried to create a sense of fulfilment and well-being among the inmates through this project. This has certainly added colours to their lives,” said the AIG (Prisons).The art gallery will be inaugurated next week after which the paintings made by the inmates will be exhibited at various places in the city. “We will soon showcase these paintings at our store in Sector 22. We will also sell the paintings online through the jail’s website,” he added. The jail authorities also plan to incentivise the inmates after their paintings are sold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/burail-art-gallery-to-add-some-colour-to-jail-life-313152
19-09-2021||---||Live-in couple nabbed for attacking landlady in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18The police have arrested a tenant couple for voluntarily causing hurt to their house owner in Sector 42 here after she refused to give them Rs1 lakh on June 30. The caseThe couple, living on the top floor of the house, demanded Rs1 lakh from Rita, who resides on the ground floor. When she refused to give the money, the duo hit her on the head and the left arm with an air gun and fled the spot after locking the door from outside. The victim, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the GMSH-16.On a complaint of house owner Rita, Vinit Narayan (24), a resident of Muzaffarnagar, and Kajal (23), a resident of Dharamshala, who were allegedly living in a live-in relationship, were arrested on September 17. A case under Sections 323, 452 and 341 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them at the Sector 36 police station.The duo, who was nabbed from near the ISBT-43,had been sent to one-day police remand.The couple, living on the top floor of the house, demanded Rs1 lakh from Rita, who resides on the ground floor. When she refused to give the money, the duo hit her on the head and the left arm with an air gun and fled the spot after locking the door from outside. The victim, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the GMSH-16.Vinit Narayan, a carpenter/interior designer by profession, was staying with Kajal as a couple at the house for the past around three months. Vinit also brought two girls along with him claiming them to be his sisters, the police said.Police officials said Vinit was without work during the pandemic and the house rent was also pending. Kajal also needed money for her medical treatment and other expenses. The duo, who came to know that the complainant had cash at home, tried to threaten her with the air gun. When she refused to give money, they hit her with the butt of the gun and fled the spot. After the incident, they also switched off their mobile phone.During interrogation, it was revealed that Kajal was already married and was staying in a live-in relationship with Vinit. The two girls, who were staying with them, were daughters of Kajal, said the police, adding that the couple had no criminal record.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/live-in-couple-nabbed-for-attacking-landlady-in-chandigarh-313153
19-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Converting school grounds into neighbourhood parks in Chandigarh, a ‘waste of money’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18The project to turn government school grounds into neighbourhood parks by raising long and high steel-wire fencings is turning out to be a “waste of public money”.Despite spending lakhs of rupees on raising the fencing at government school grounds, in order to secure school buildings, the UT Education Department failed to deploy security guards at the site.They have also been unable to maintain visitors’ record and allocate time slots or segregate fields for different genders.“This is a complete waste of money. There has been no record on how many visitors came or any designated slots for using the grounds. There’s no check at all, if someone is playing cricket on a handball pitch... It’s only damaging the infrastructure,” said a faculty member.“There has been no check, whether the grounds are being used for playing purpose or other activities. Many would play cards here and God knows what not,” said the miffed faculty member.As per faculty members, raising a mere fencing won’t solve the purpose. “There’s a single gate entrance. The department should deploy a security guards at grounds. They should also provide washroom facilities…There should be a proper changing room inside the fenced area so as to avoid any kind of mishap,” said another faculty member.“If the project aims to turn the school grounds into neighbourhood parks, the administration needs to take certain steps to achieve the goal. During festive seasons, the grounds get turn into parking lots and on usual days, we have outsiders playing here without any verification,” added the faculty member.The issue is important in view of the upcoming Municipal Corporation elections. The project was introduced after local councillors called for opening of government school grounds to kids during evening hours.However, the councillors are now demanding to raise indoor sports complexes at government schools on the verge of other such complexes in the city.“To introduce a new project is a good initiative, but the existing projects should be reviewed first. Grounds hold sanctity for players and coaches, so it should be treated in the same manner,” said a coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/converting-school-grounds-into-neighbourhood-parks-in-chandigarh-a-waste-of-money-313154
19-09-2021||---||‘Dadu Majra needs air purification tower’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18A group of local residents today met Debendra Dalai, Director, Environment Department, UT, and demanded that an air purification tower should be set up in Dadu Majra.In a memorandum of demand, they stated that such a tower would provide relief to residents of Dadu Majra, Dhanas and Sectors 14, 15, 37, 38 and 39 from gases emanating from the dumping ground.Dyal Krishan, president, Dumping Ground Joint Action Committee, said as the dumping ground and the waste processing plant were situated in the vicinity, garbage vehicles keep plying in the Dadu Majra area. “Smoke emanating from these vehicles cause air pollution in the area and the neighbouring sectors. Residents of areas near the dumping ground are already bearing with poisonous gases and foul smell. Dadu Majra residents are the ones who need an air purifier the most in the city,” he added.The UT Administration has set up an air purification tower at the Transport Chowk on a trial basis. If it works out well, more such towers will be planned for the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dadu-majra-needs-air-purification-tower-313155
19-09-2021||---||Ramandeep, Anshul power Mohali to victory||Chandigarh, September 18A century each by Ramandeep Singh and Anshul Chaudhary helped visitors Mohali register a 95-run win over Ludhiana in a group B match of the Punjab State Inter-District Senior One Day Tournament today.Opting to bat, Mohali were all out for 337 runs in 49.2 overs, with Ramandeep Singh hitting a solid 131 and Anshul Chaudhary scoring a strokeful 107. Abhijit Garg contributed 62 runs to the total.Harshit (5/83) was the pick of bowlers for the hosts, claiming 5/83. Hartejasvi (3/55) accounted for three wickets.In reply, Ludhiana scored were bowled out 242 runs in 43.3 overs even as Nehal Wadhera hammered an eye-catching 124. Vaibhav Kalra added 69 to the chase.Jass Inder Singh claimed three wickets, while Barinder Sran and Maninder Singh took two wickets apiece for the visitors.In another match, Patiala rode on Jeevanjot and Sanveer Singh’s half-centuries to beat Barnala by seven wickets.Batting first, Barnala scored 265/8 in 50 overs. Venus Garg made 92, while Mandeep Inder Bawa struck 52. Kuwar Pathak made a useful 37.Paras Jaidka, Karan Kaila and Aryamann took two wickets each for Patiala.In reply, Patiala romped home in 47.2 overs with Jeevanjot hammering a 92 and Sanveer Singh hitting a fluid 65. Pukhraj Mann (41) and Anmol Malhotra (33) also made useful contributions to the chase.Havneet Singh, Harshdeep Singh and Ashish Mittal bagged a wicket apiece.Meanwhile, Amritsar defeated Ferozepur by nine wickets, Moga outclassed Fatehgarh Sahib by eight wickets and Mansa recorded a seven-wicket win over Sangrur.Faridkot beat Fazilka by eight wickets, Gurdaspur registered a six-wicket win over Jalandhar, while Kapurthala beat Nawanshahr by six wickets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ramandeep-anshul-power-mohali-to-victory-313156
19-09-2021||---||Chandigarh to host Asian Dragon Boat Championship||Chandigarh, September 18The Indian Kayaking and Canoeing Association (IKCA) in association with the Haryana Kayaking & Canoeing Association (HKCA), announced to organise the Asian Dragon Boat Championship at Sukhna Lake as soon as international travel restrictions are lifted. The event was earlier scheduled to be held in Indore.Various Asian countries will participate in the competition, said IKCA life president Balbir Singh Kushwaha.“The Indian team plans to undergo vigorous training post-Covid to prepare for the forthcoming Asian Games. We are very much hopeful of getting a few medals in the Asian Games,” said Kushwaha.The annual general meeting of the IKCA was also held today during which Paramjit Singh Ahlawat was unanimously elected as its chairman.Satya Pal Khatri is the new president and Kuldeep Solanki will be the general secretary.Bilquis Mir, the first water sports coach from the Kashmir Valley, also attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-host-asian-dragon-boat-championship-313157
19-09-2021||Amit Bathla||Waste management a sore point for Panchkula MC||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 18The waste management, the most basic of all the civic amenities, remains a sore point for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation as it has been unable to setting up a proper dumping ground for the disposal of garbage.The city generates around 120 metric tonnes of trash daily and in the absence of a solid waste management plant at the Jhuriwala dumping ground, untreated garbage is being disposed of at the site in violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016.A panel constituted by the National Green Tribunal has also served a notice on the civic body in this regard in July this year.The MC, surprisingly, has not yet submitted its reply to the notice, forcing the panel to issue a reminder and giving the civic body a last opportunity to submit a detailed report to the NGT.The NGT panel had inspected the dumping site at Jhuriwala before seeking comments from the civic body.No fencing, no plantation and no garbage treatment plant at the site are among the violations of the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, said Justice Pritam Pal, NGT panel chairman and former judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, however, has reiterated that a solid waste management plant would be constructed at the Jhuriwala dumping site soon under a cluster plan.Meanwhile, trans-Ghaggar residents continue to protest against the Jhuriwala dumping site against it, saying it will have long term consequences on flora and fauna.“The rules ask landfill sites to be located away from habitation clusters, forest areas, protected areas, water bodies and historical places. Are these rules not applicable in Panchkula?” asked BR Mehta, senior vice-president of the Sector 25 residents’ welfare association (RWA).After Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s instructions to stop garbage disposal at the Sector 23 dumping ground on June 2, the MC begun dumping garbage at Jhuriwala without any plan on waste processing.If dumping site remains an issue, other aspects of the city’s waste management also need improvement.The door-to-door waste collection, which lies in the hands of private waste collectors working under contractors, is also not up to the mark.“After the door-to-door collection, the waste is dumped at dumping spots in every sector. But it’s further not picked up at a pace which is required for timely clearance. There has been no improvement in the garbage collection system in the recent years, rather it has deteriorated to a certain extent,” claimed SK Nayar, president, Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA).To improve the overall waste management efficiency, the Panchkula Municipal Corporation had roped in an NGO – Feedback Foundation – for door-to-door collection, segregation, treatment and disposal of waste. The project, which was flagged off from Sector 12-A, was planned to be implemented in other Sectors in a gradual manner. However, before that could happen, the private waste collectors were up in arms, saying it would deprive them of earning a livelihood.Under pressure, the civic body eventually had to delay the project.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said: “Eventually, we would have to seek private sector’s help for better waste management.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-management-a-sore-point-for-panchkula-mc-313158
19-09-2021||---||J&k open golf: Honey Baisoya ends title drought; Chandigarh golfer Karandeep fails to impress||Chandigarh, September 18Honey Baisoya returned to his best as he ended a three-year title-drought with a determined display at the J&K Open 2021 today.The six-time PGTI winner Baisoya (67-69-66-68), who was struggling for form through the season, carded a total of 18-under 270 following a classy final round of 4-under 68 to win by four shots.The Delhi golfer thus skyrocketed from 85th to 22nd place in the PGTI Order of Merit.Gurugram-based Veer Ahlawat (67-71-70-66) also made his presence felt as he shot a 66 in the last round to grab the second place at 14-under 274 in the Rs40-lakh event.Patna’s Aman Raj (68-71-70-66) too shot a 66 on Day 4 to take third place at 13-under 275.Baisoya, the overnight leader by four shots, had a nervy start to the day as he made some tough par putts from five-six feet on the first six holes even as the likes of Angad Cheema and Kartik Sharma were piling on the pressure on the leader with early birdies.“Normally I’m a very aggressive player but with the confidence not being up there I tried to play more conservatively than I usually do. I used the 2-iron a lot and struck it to perfection all week. I also didn’t make mistakes on the green like I had done in preceding events. The goal this week was to make the cut and I ended up winning. So it’s still sinking in,” said Baisoya.Ahlawat posted his second straight runner-up finish on the PGTI to move up from 5th to 3rd in the Order of Merit.Ahlawat’s last round featured an eagle-two on the par-4 11th where he found the hole with his approach from 108 yards. He also made five birdies and a bogey to gain six spots in Round 4.Raj’s 66 lifted him seven places to third position. He made seven birdies and a bogey.Om Prakash Chouhan (66) of Mhow and Panchkula’s Angad Cheema (70) shared the fourth place at 12-under 276.Delhi’s Chiragh Kumar (67) finished in 6th place at 11-under 277.Kolkata’s Viraj Madappa shot the day’s lowest score of 65 to share the 7th spot along with Kartik Sharma (72) of Gurugram.Shravan Desai, who was overnight tied 2nd, posted a career-best tied 9th at 9-under 279. Delhi’s Rashid Khan, PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar of Chandigarh and Delhi-based Kshitij Naveed Kaul were bunched in tied 12th at 8-under 280.Pune-based Udayan Mane finished tied 25th at 3-under 285 while Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa ended tied 32nd at 1-under 287.Veteran Jyoti Randhawa ended the week in tied 46th at 5-over 293.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jk-open-golf-honey-baisoya-ends-title-drought-chandigarh-golfer-karandeep-fails-to-impress-313159
19-09-2021||---||Chandigarh boxers ease into quarterfinals||Chandigarh, September 18Chandigarh’s Aman (67 kg) and Sachin (71kg) impressed with their attacking game as duo humbled their respective opponents with consummate ease to move into the quarterfinals of the 5th National Boxing Championship at the Inspire Institute of Sports in Bellary, Karnataka, today.In both the bouts referee stopped the contest.Aman thrashed Odisha’s SR Sahoo, while Sachin showed the door to Uttarakhand’s Devender Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-boxers-ease-into-quarterfinals-313160
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Volkswagen showcases SUVW Taigun||Volkswagen Passenger Cars India is organising a two-day preview of its much-awaited SUVW Taigun in Chandigarh today. The car is scheduled to be launched in India on September 23.On the first day of the preview today, prospective customers got an opportunity to experience the Volkswagen Taigun firsthand. Ashish Gupta, Brand Director, Volkswagen Passenger Cars India, said: “We strongly believe, our latest offering the Volkswagen Taigun will perfectly fit the requirements of our potential customers in this region.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/volkswagen-showcases-suvw-taigun-313162
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two-day meet on yoga and naturopathy in Chandigarh||The Haryana Yog Aayog and Government College of Yoga Education and Health, Sector 23, organised a two-day national conference on “Role of Yoga and Naturopathy in the Management of Post Covid-19 Symptoms”.Education Secretary Sarpreet Singh Gilland and Director, School & Higher Education, Dr Pallika Arora attended the conference on Day 2 today.Dr Sapna Nanda in her address said the college and the Haryana Yog Aayog was eyeing to spread the message of yoga to every nook and corner of the country.The annual college magazine “Kalash - The essence of Yoga”, comprising scholarly articles on yoga and related areas, was also released. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-day-meet-on-yoga-and-naturopathy-in-chandigarh-313163
19-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Commission orders to attach DLF office in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18Taking non-compliance of the order seriously, the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, has issued directions to the Deputy Commissioner of Chandigarh to attach the office of M/S DLF Homes Panchkula Private Limited, SCO number 190-191, Sector 8-C, Chandigarh, and appoint a receiver who will prepare an inventory of all articles lying in the office and take these into possession forthwith and submit the compliance report at the earliest.The Commission said the recovery of decretal amount be treated as land revenue and be recovered from the judgment debtors. The Commission has also said that the presence of Rajeev Singh, Additional Director, and Vishal Gupta, Director, M/S DLF Homes Panchkula Private Limited, be secured through bailable warrants of arrest in the sum of Rs50,000 each with one surety each in the like amount for the next date of hearing.Directions are issued to the Senior Superintendent of Police, Gurgaon, Haryana, for due execution of warrants of arrest and reports be submitted by the officer on or before the next date of hearing. Directions are issued to the officer to deploy a police official to execute the bailable warrants of arrest not below the rank of the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP).The Commission has issued the order on an execution petition filed by a consumer, Ravi Kumar, through counsel Narender Yadav. The execution application was filed under Section 72 of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, for the enforcement of the order passed by the Commission on March 3, 2021.While allowing the complaint of Ravi Kumar, the Commission has directed the respondent to refund an amount of Rs45,00,847 to the complainant, along with interest @ 12 per cent per annum from the respective date of transfer of the unit. Failing which, the amount of Rs45,00,847 would carry penal interest from the date of passing of this order till realisation.The Commission has further directed the consumer to pay a compensation of Rs50,000 for causing mental agony, harassment and cost of litigation. The Commission, comprising of Justice Raj Shekhar Attri, president, and Padma Pandey and Rajesh K Arya, members, said the judgment debtors had totally failed to comply with the order under execution within the stipulated period or till date. Accordingly, this execution application was treated as a complaint and it be tried as a summons case. The Commission said the prima facie case was made out to summon the judgment debtors to face trial for the offence punishable under Section 27 of the Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commission-orders-to-attach-dlf-office-in-chandigarh-313164
19-09-2021||---||Didn’t give consent for voice samples during CBI custody, says woman cop||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18Sarabjit Kaur, a woman Sub-Inspector of the UT police, who was arrested in an alleged bribery case, has submitted before the CBI Court that she had not given any consent for voice samples during her Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) custody.Was held on FridayThe Central Bureau of Investigation had arrested the woman Sub-Inspector for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs10,000 in connection with the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act case on Friday. The CBI produced her before the court on Saturday. She was allegedly caught red-handed while taking bribe at the Sector 34 police station.The CBI had arrested the woman Sub-Inspector for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs10,000 in connection with the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act case yesterday. The CBI producedher before the courttoday. She was allegedly caught red-handed while taking bribe at the Sector 34 police station.The CBI alleged that the bribe was being accepted for not taking action against the complainant in the POCSO Act case. The case was registered in February this year wherein a woman had levelled allegations against her husband of torturing and raping her daughter. The matter was reported at the Sector 36 police station.The woman Sub-Inspector was assigned the task of probing the matter and an FIR was registered in this regard.The complainant alleged that the woman SI had demanded Rs1 lakh to settle the case. An alleged voice recording was also in the possession of the investigation agency.In the application submitted before the court through counsel Terminder Singh, Sub-Inspector Sarabjit Kaur said she had been falsely implicated in the case. She had not given any consent to record her voice samples. In case any previous voice sample was taken during the custody, it was without the consent of the accused as no counsel was allowed to meet her during the CBI custody as contrary to the guidelines. Meanwhile, the court has sent the woman Sub-Inspector to the judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/didnt-give-consent-for-voice-samples-during-cbi-custody-says-woman-cop-313165
19-09-2021||---||Kalka woman arrested with  21-kg marijuana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18The police arrested a 32-year-old woman with 21-kg marijuana near the Traffic Police Lines in Sector 29 here yesterday.A case under Section 20 of the NDPS Act has been registered against her at the Industrial Area police station.The police said the woman, identified as Suman, a resident of Kalka, had a record of dealing in drugs and her family was also involved in drug trade. She was arrested by the Pinjore police with 1.800-kg marijuana in 2018.Her interrogation revealed that she had allegedly been in drug peddling for the past five years. Earlier, she was dealing in heroin also at Pinjore. Her late mother was sentenced to 10-year jail for smuggling marijuana. Her brother, Mintu, who was arrested with marijuana, is presently lodged in the Burail jail.During investigation, it came to light that she purchases marijuana from Odisha at Rs1,000 per kg and sold it for Rs15,000 per kg through a Rohtak-based middleman.Suman will be produced in a court to seek her police remand to ascertain the source of contraband.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kalka-woman-arrested-with-21-kg-marijuana-313166
19-09-2021||---||Mohali mishap: Car driver sent to judicial remand||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 18Car driver Harpreet Singh, who reportedly mowed down a 50-year-old sanitation worker and injured two other women in Phase 10 here yesterday, was today produced in a court. He was sent to judicial remand. Both Injured women out of danger: DSPMohit Singla, DSP, Phase 10 police station, said: “Both women, who are undergoing treatment at the GMCH-32, are out of danger now. The condition of one of them is stable, while there is an improvement in the condition of another woman. The suspect was produced in the court, which sent him to judicial remand.”Mohit Singla, DSP, Phase 10 police station, said: “Both women, who are undergoing treatment at the GMCH-32, are out of danger now. The condition of one of them is stable, while there is an improvement in the condition of another woman. The suspect was produced in the court, which sent him to judicial remand.”Omviri, a resident of Jagatpura Colony, died while two other women - Kambali resident Mamta and Ramviri - were seriously injured when a speeding luxury car, driven by the 22-year-old youth, ran over them. The victims belonged to one family. The deceased, Omviri, was the mother-in-law of Mamta. Rambiri is Mamta’s mother.The car driver, Harpreet Singh, 22, a resident of Phase XI, was arrested. A case under Sections 279, 304, 337 and 338 of the IPC was registered against him at the Phase XI police station.“The car driver is preparing for IELTS and getting coaching from a private institute in the tricity. His friend Gurtaz Singh and two girls were accompanying him at the time of the incident,” the police said. The suspect was the son of Jaswinder Singh, a factory owner, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mishap-car-driver-sent-to-judicial-remand-313167
19-09-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Auction of Chandigarh’s heritage items in Luxembourg stopped||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18For the first time in 11 years, an auction house has removed heritage items of the City Beautiful that were to go under the hammer in Luxembourg today.The website, www.luxauction.com, has withdrawn items numbering from 71 to 76, which were identified as heritage furniture of Chandigarh, designed by Pierre Jeanneret. They had been put under the category “Succession De MME L Et À Divers Fine Art Auction – Design”.Ajay Jagga, a member of the UT’s Heritage Items Protection Panel, had red flagged city’s heritage items in an email sent to the Minister of Culture, Luxembourg, India’s External Affairs Minister and the Indian diplomat to Luxembourg/Berlin on September 13. He had asked for the heritage items to be returned to the City Beautiful, citing that these might have been smuggled out of the country. The estimated price of these six items was pegged between Rs52.55 Lakh and Rs64.71 lakh by the auction house.In response, a legal representative of the Luxembourg’s Culture Ministry, Chris Backes, wrote to Jagga, seeking details of the six items and documents that proved that the heritage items were illegally taken from India. To this, Jagga replied with a series of questions, asking for the sale and purchase invoice, visa details of buyers who brought the furniture, if the purchase was in accordance with India’s commercial laws and the custom clearance invoice of the six pieces of furniture items on display for the auction.Soon after, the series of Chandigarh’s heritage items was removed from the official website of the auction.Jagga said: “This is for the first time in 11 years of my journey of tracking sale and purchase of heritage furniture of the city that an auction house withdrew the heritage items on display. It’s a big win for all those who want to protect the city’s heritage. Quick action from the Ministry of Culture in Luxembourg is commendable.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auction-of-chandigarhs-heritage-items-in-luxembourg-stopped-313168
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||4 infected with Covid-19 in Chandigarh||1 new case in MohaliMohali: The district on Saturday reported one new case of Covid-19 while two more patients were cured of the disease. — TNS3 test +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday witnessed three fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 30,713. The toll, however, remained at 377. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-infected-with-covid-19-in-chandigarh-313169
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Unearned profit for transfer of flat: Society residents protest, to hold mahapanchayat||Residents of group housing societies are up in arms against the decision of the UT Administration to charge unearned profit for transfer of flats.“At a time when the entire city was confined in homes due to the coronavirus, the UT Administration secretly added a new rule to the transfer policy for group housing societies. The Administration started collecting lakhs of rupees in the name of unearned profit for transfer on flats of all societies,” said Aam Aadmi Party leader Sandeep Bhardwaj.Talking to mediapersons along with office-bearers of several societies, Bhardwaj said there are 108 group housing societies in Chandigarh from Sector 48 to 51. About 13,000 families live there. Residents of these societies have lost their sleep due to the new transfer policy implemented during the Covid pandemic. Now the situation is that if any person gets the flat transferred, then he has to pay Rs8 lakh to Rs13 lakh in the name of unearned profit. Apart from this, the cost of registry and 18% GST are separate.Officials of the Chandigarh Group Housing Society Welfare Council say when the Chandigarh Housing Board had allotted land to the societies, it was given at a cheaper rate. Now after several years, when the land prices have gone up, the Administration is charging one-thirds of the unearned profit on the difference between the new and old rates.Officials say, “The Administration does not have any right on this. All societies themselves got the construction of flats done. Apart from this, we are also getting the work related to the development inside the societies done by ourselves. Then, why the government is asking for profit now?”Sale of flats has been affected due to unearned profit. Bhardwaj said: “We want this loot to be stopped at the earliest or else people will take to the streets against the Administration. We will also oppose the decision and decide further course of action at a mahapanchayat to be organised on September 26”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unearned-profit-for-transfer-of-flat-society-residents-protest-to-hold-mahapanchayat-313170
19-09-2021||---||Chandigarh: Sector 34 SHO transferred to Police Lines||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18A day after the CBI arrested woman Sub-Inspector (SI) Sarabjit Kaur for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs10,000, Inspector Rajeev Kumar, Station House Officer (SHO) of the Sector 34 police station, was transferred to the Police Lines, Sector 26.UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal issued the transfer orders. Police sources said the SHO was sent to the Police Lines for lack of supervision.The SI was arrested while accepting bribe at Sector 34 police station for not acting against a suspect in a case of POCSO Act registered at the Sector 36 police station.Meanwhile, additional SHO has been temporarily given the charge of the SHO of the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-34-sho-transferred-to-police-lines-313171
19-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bag stolen||ATM fraudChandigarh: A Maloya resident, Pankaj Kumar, reported to the police that two unknown persons exchanged his ATM card by cheating and withdrew Rs3,000 from an ATM booth. TNSTricity singers to regale audienceChandigarh: Raghav Brothers in association with AR Melodies Association will organise a musical feast, “Sureela Safar - Jeena Yahan Marna Yahan”, for music lovers at Tagore Theatre here on September 25. The event will focus on the theme – “despite odds in life, the show must go on”. As many as 50 singers from the tricity and Punjab will present mesmerising Bollywood songs. All Covid protocols will be adhered to by the organisers and the audience. TNSStriker Club in semifinalsChandigarh: Striker Club drubbed Chandigarh Coaching Club 10-0 to move into the boys’ semifinals on the opening day of the 37th Junior State Softball Championship here on Saturday. City Hawks beat St Anne’s Club 1-0, while Chandigarh Mission Club registered an 11-1 win over Sector 15 Club. Leisure Club overcame DAV Club 5-4. In the girls’ quarterfinals, Striker Club beat Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 35, 1-0. Sector 15 Club thrashed Sector 10 Model Club 11-1, while Chandigarh Coaching Centre trounced Leisure Valley Club 5-2. Chandigarh Mission Club ousted DAV Club 4-1. TNSSession on life of journalistChandigarh: The Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, GGDSD College, organised an online session on "Managing News and Life of a Journalist: Challenges and Opportunities" here on Saturday. Senior journalist Sayeed Ansari was the chief guest. While interacting with the students, Ansari said: “It is important to learn skills essential to the media industry. One must develop interest in reading and enhance one’s general knowledge, learn at least two languages and be able to master new technology.” About 100 students participated in the session. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bag-stolen-313172
