20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Air show: Vehicular movement near Chandigarh's Sukhna Lake to remain restricted on Sept 21, 22||In view of an air show being organised by the Indian Air Force at Sukhna Lake on September 22 and rehearsal for the same on September 21, vehicular movement shall remain restricted on above mentioned dates from 2 pm onwards from Hira Singh Chowk to Rock Garden turn and Hira Singh Chowk to 4/5/8/9 Chowk.The general public wishing to witness the air show, is advised to enter Sukhna Lake from the lake’s backside area using staircase number 3-6, from Kishangarh turn. Commuters are advised to plan their route accordingly. Any inconvenience is regretted, the UT Administration said in a statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/air-show-vehicular-movement-near-chandigarhs-sukhna-lake-to-remain-restricted-on-sept-21-22-313827
20-09-2021||Mohali||24-year-old biker hit by SUV, dies in Mohali||Two duped by fraudstersChandigarh: Two cheating cases have been registered by the local police. In an incident, complainant Pawan Kumar of Sector 28 reported that an unknown person made unauthorised transactions of Rs1.73 lakh from his SBI credit card. The police have registered a case at the Sector 26 police station. In the other incident, complainant Ashish Sharma, a resident of Sector 38 (West), reported that an unknown person withdrew Rs58,652 from his RBL Bank account by sending a link on his mobile phone. A case has been registered. TNSAdda’s Cricket Eleven log winChandigarh: Adda’s Cricket Eleven defeated Mohali Cricket Club by 29 runs in the ongoing No Tension Have Fun T20 Cricket Cup. Batting first, Adda’s Cricket Eleven, Dera Bassi, scored 165/5 in the allotted 20 overs with the help of Pankaj (74) and Saurav (43). In reply, Mohali lads scored 136 runs before getting all out in 16.5 overs. Chetan (38), Sudhir (33) and Sahil (24) were the main contributors to the chase.TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24-year-old-biker-hit-by-suv-dies-in-mohali-313675
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: UT Cricket Association announces U-19 boys’, girls’ teams||The UT Cricket Association (UTCA) has announced U-19 boys’ and girls’ teams. Raj Angad Bawa has been given the command of the U-19 squad, while Kashvee Gautam will captain the girls’ team. Chandigarh boys will play their first match against Madhya Pradesh on September 28 for the Vinoo Mankad Trophy in Delhi, while girls will play their first match against Andhra Pradesh in the Women’s Under-19 ODI tournament in Surat.SquadsBoys: Aalm Bakshi, Aarush Bhandari, Arbab Iqbal, Bhavesh Saini, Harnoor Pannu, Mohd Ashad, Mohit Mehra, Neel Dhaliwal, Paras, Pratham Sodhi, Prince Dahiya, Raj Angad Bawa, Samardeep Kasana, Shubham Arya, Sohail Khan, Dushyant Thaman, Jaskirat Singh , Manan Rajan, Mohit Gupta and Prince Kumar.Support staff: Ravikant Sharma (coach), Praveen Sharma (manager), Pushpendra Raj (physio) and Sushil Bhujel (trainer).Girls: Aradhana Bisht, Ishana Chadha, Kashvee Gautam, Kavita Raj, Manvi Tomar, Mehak, Palak Rana, Parushi Prabhakar, Poorvi Singh, Sarah, Shivali, Tamanna, Tanishqa, Twinkle Pathak, Yashika Sawhney, Ganika Bansal, Jasnoor Kaur, Kiranbir Kaur Gill, Pushpinder Kaur and Sonam Yadav.Support staff: Deepak Lohtiya (coach), Anushka Suryavanshi (manager), Mala Devi (physio) and Manu Tiwari (trainer). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-ut-cricket-association-announces-u-19-boys-girls-teams-313673
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||14,718 appear for PU CET||14,718 candidates appeared for Panjab University CET – 2021 held on Sunday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-718-appear-for-pu-cet-313670
20-09-2021||Mohali||Rayat Bahra University 35th on top universities’ list||Rayat Bahra University and Bahra University have made it to the list of the top-ranking universities of the country.In a survey conducted by a weekly news magazine, the RBU has been ranked 35th among the top universities of the country. Chancellor Gurvinder Singh Bahra said Bahra University, located near Shimla, had been adjudged first in Himachal Pradesh.The Chancellor appreciated the hard work and efforts of the faculty members and staff of the university in making the two universities the most favoured destination of students. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rayat-bahra-university-35th-on-top-universities-list-313668
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||Exclusive legal aid clinic for third gender in Chandigarh||In a first-of-its-kind initiative, an exclusive legal aid clinic, “Samta Nyay Kendra”, for the third gender was set up at New Indira Colony, Mani Majra, here today. It has been set up to provide counselling and help to the third gender to redress their grievances.The clinic, set up by the District Legal Services Authority, UT, in association with the Chandigarh State Aids Control Society and its partner NGO, the Association of Professional Social Workers and Development Practitioners, was inaugurated by Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court-cum-Executive Chairman, State Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/exclusive-legal-aid-clinic-for-third-gender-in-chandigarh-313667
20-09-2021||Councillors should take responsibility||Open house: What steps should be taken to contain stray menace?||It is sad that the stray cattle menace is getting out of proportions. Quite often, two-wheelers and even cars meet with accidents due to stray cattle in which precious lives are lost. The local councillors should be made responsible for curbing the menace. They can form sub-committees to shift stray cattle to gaushalas which can be funded by the MC or the MP concerned from his MPLAD fund.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhOnly awareness won't helpThere is a shortage of trained man power with the MC to catch stray cattle. The tendency of the civic bodies of neighbouring towns and cities to catch stray cattle and abandon these outside their municipal limits is like sweeping your own house clean and leaving the garbage in front of the next house. Also, there is a lack of cooperation from the public. The MC should employ a strong cattle-catching squad. More cowsheds should be constructed and sufficient staff should be employed to take care of cattle there.VINEET GANDHI, ChandigarhQUESTIONThe UT Administration recently set up a committee to prepare a plan for the development of villages. Keeping in view the growing population of villages, should the Administration regularise construction undertaken outside the lal dora?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comCoordination among cities neededTo rid the city of the stray menace, coordination among the tricity authorities is a must. Stray cattle wander into the city limits from neighbouring areas. A helpline number of the MC must be functional round the clock on which residents can call to inform about stray cattle wandering in their respective sectors. Those animals must be shifted to cow shelters. If an animal belongs to someone, then the owner must be fined.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhBuild more cow sheltersStray animal menace has increased manifold in our tricity, resulting in not only unhygienic conditions in parks and roads but also accidents. The need of the hour is to set up shelters for stray animals, including stray dogs, for the safety of public at large. Our aim should be to keep the tricity clean and green. At the same time, the owners of domestic animals be challaned heavily if the latter are found on roads and in public places.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliNo concrete steps have been takenNew deadlines for eradicating the stray menace are fixed every year by the administration and the civic authorities but no concrete steps are taken on the ground. Hundreds of commuters continue to face problems due to stray cattle roaming around almost everywhere. It is a well-documented fact that hundreds of lives are lost every year due to stray cattle on roads. Both the administration and cattle owners are responsible for this chaos on roads. The administration should impose a heavy fine on erring cattle owners and take action against officials concerned for negligence to make a difference on the ground.Dr Dinesh Kumar Verma, PanchkulaDon't feed cattle on roadsThe stray cattle menace has taken an alarming proportion in the entire tricity. Cattle roaming on highways pose a great risk to motorists. There are many gaushalas in the vicinity of the tricity cattle from which are put out for grazing during the morning and evening - the peak traffic hours. Many accidents occur as drivers take a sudden turn to save stray cattle. The Administration announced projects to eradicate this menace but abandoned them midway due to their poor implementation. Barricades need to be installed on both sides of vulnerable roads such as the Chandigarh-Baddi road, Panchkula -Naraingarh road and the Mohali -Kharar road. Radium collars should be put around the neck of stray animal to prevent accidents during the night. A fine imposed on careless cattle owners as a deterrent can be helpful. Sufficient grazing area should be made available near gaushalas. There should be proper signage warning drivers against stray cattle. The public should refrain from feeding cattle or throwing edible things on roads.YASH KHETARPAL, PanchkulaInvolve public to catch straysTo solve this problem, the public should be involved in catching strays and each person paid Rs500 per animal. Municipal committees should be asked to take charge of the animals caught by residents after spot payment on a daily basis. The public should be given protection for catching stray animals. Even 90% pet dogs are not registered in the tricity. Stray cattle feeding should be made a punishable criminal offence in the MC Act.Ashok Kumar Goel, Panchkulaofficials should supervise taskThe stray cattle menace has not been addressed for many years, thanks to MC officials' negligent behaviour in UT. Moreover, the Administration has to sincerely coordinate with Panchkula and Mohali to prevent the entry of stray cattle in the UT area. The cattle caught by MC officials be sent to gaushalas and a heavy penalty imposed on their owners. There has been several fatal accidents caused by stray cattle roaming on roads and streets. The menace can be mitigated only when senior officials themselves supervise the task.MR Bhateja, NayagaonStrays a common sight in MohaliUnchecked movement of stray cattle from Mohali side is a nuisance on the city roads. Motorists have to apply sudden brakes to avoid a collision with strays on busy roads. Animals abruptly coming on road cause accidents. Such scenes are quite common in Mohali. The municipal authorities of Chandigarh and Mohali should emulate Panchkula in controlling the menace by taking action against the careless owners of stray cattle so as to make driving safe on roads.SC Luthra, ChandigarhCattle sheds need of the hourIt is impossible to stop cattle entering one city from the other. Cattle sheds should be built and stray animals shifted there. The owners who come to claim their cattle should be fined. These cattle can be put up for adoption by villagers. Residents can be encouraged to feed cattle in sheds citing astrological remedies or faith in religion.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliMotorists are always at riskI live in Panchkula extension and one can spot stray cattle all over. It becomes more dangerous at night as black cattle are not easily visible in the dark. Motorists are always at risk of meeing with accidents on NH7 where traffic remains heavy and fast. Precious human lives are lost in such accidents. Also boards should be put up with info as to who to contact in case one spots stray cattle. There is a need for enhanced coordination between the general public and the MC authorities. Awareness drives need to be carried out especially in schools. More animal pounds need to be built.Sanjeev Bishnoi, PanchkulaStart a joint campaignThis is astonishing that in the name of animal protection, safeguarding animals seems to be overpowering the safety of humans. One can witness pack of stray dogs in every street of the tricity posing a danger to passers-by. These strays are a potential traffic hazard. The administration is making lame excuses in the name of animal protection or blaming neighbouring areas for the problem. Killing is not the only solution to get rid of stray dongs. The tricity should start a joint campaign to stop the breeding of dogs.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliProvide proper sheltersVets and NGOs should make honest efforts to contain the menace because it is a serious problem. The tricity authorities are not making geniune efforts to solve it. Cattle owners should be allotted land on lease for a stipulated period. Cattle must be registered while strays should be identified and moved to such places.Anita K Tandon, KhararAllocate funds for cow shedsGovernment funds need to be allocated for the construction of cow sheds in the city as most of the stray animals are cows. The cow cess should be carefully spent by the civic authorities for the running of these sheds. The sterilisation of stray dogs should be carried out. The public should come forward to ensure the success of such programmes.Nakhpreet Kaur, SangholSouthern sectors of UT most affectedAccidents involving stray animals and dog-bite cases are going on unabated in the tricity. The local authorities are charging various levies, taxes and now cow cess etc. on the pretext of better facilities but do little to save human lives. Animals are dying in the so-called cow shelters because of the irresponsible attitude of the authorities concerned. The respective commissioners and mayors should be held responsible for any human death due to stray animals, including dogs, followed by the respective enforcement wings for their collective failure in discharging their duty. The southern sectors of the city are most affected by this menace. This lethargic approach of the authorities must end.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhIt should be joint responsibilityTo tackle the problem of stray cattle it should be the joint responsibility of the tricity authotrities. One should not blame the other for cattle entering cities from the neighbouring areas. If these creatures of God had some brain, then this problem would not have occurred. One of the solutions is that one can feed a stray animal at the same time every day and after three or four days it can be caught and sent to some proper animal shed. Also, one must be sympathetic to these creatures in the same way as we treat patients from the neighbouring states.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhNeed to find a lasting solutionEven as the Chandigarh Administration make tall claims of having addressed the menace of stray cattle, it continues to haunt commuters from across Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali. The lack of coordination among the tricity authorities blaming each other for the mess appears to be the crux of the problem. Stray cattle, besides jeopardising lives of residents, end up hampering a smooth flow of the vehicular traffic, while the administration resorts to piecemeal measures to resolve the problem. What is more worrying is that many lives have been lost in raging attacks by these unsuspecting bovine neighbours turning rogues on the roads at times. In order to effectively check the menace more cattle pounds are required to be constructed. Periodic sterilisation drives may go a long way to check their ever-burgeoning population.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhIdentify the owners of animalsTo contain the stray menace in Chandigarh, the Administration should come up with a plan to identify the owners of animals, particularly cows, so that erring owners could be punished. The farmers or cow owners should be given some relief for taking care of these cows. The cow cess should be used to provide financial assistance to institutions engaged in the welfare of cows. The government should provide funds to build more gaushalas. Municipal corporations should keep a regular check on the population of stray cattle. The UT authorities should make a proper coordination with their neighbourhood counterparts to curb the menace.Adish Sood, Amlohmore gaushalas can help address issueIn spite of collection of huge funds on account of cow cess, the MC authorities are not able to use these to feed cattle at gaushalas. If properly fed, these animals will not be let loose on roads to feed. These animals often bring the flow of traffic on busy roads to a standstill besides causing major road accidents. The situation turns worse at night when it becomes difficult for drivers to spot stray animals. These animals, mostly cows come from illegal roadside dairies and cattle sheds. The solution lies in relocating dairies outside the cities. There is a need to build huge gaushalas at appropriate locations.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliMoney going into wrong handsDespite many measures having been taken and much money spent on gaushalas and cattle shelters, the menace of stray cattle on roads continues, endangering vehicles and lives of people. Money collected on account of cow cess and donations for cows certainly goes into wrong hands. A strict watch on the use of funds given for cattle and holding gaushalas managers accountable can be one step towards the solution.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhNeed to fix responsibilityThe stray menace is getting worse day by day in the tricity. The lack of coordination among authorities and fixing responsibilities of administrative staff is to blame for the menace. Many people have lost their lives in accidents involving stray cattle. There is a need to catch stray animals and impose a hefty fine on erring owners, or else shift these to shelters. A lot of amount in the form of cess is collected by the respective governments but the number of stray animals keeps on increasing day by day. The money collected for the cause must be used to contain the menace.Wg Cdr (Dr) JS Minhas (retd), MohaliNeed for launching area-wise drivesThe stray cattle menace continues to pose a threat to the public in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula. So many accidents have happened due to stray cattle. There is no coordination among the tricity authorities. These authorities claim too much but do nothing. They keep on blaming each other. They should frame a sub-committee to solve the problem. There is a need to build more shelters for stray cattle (cows and dogs).Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali.Set up more cow shelters in villagesStray cows are one of the reasons behind accidents in the city. When a cow stops giving milk its owner abandons it. The authorities should tie up with NGOs and the department concerned and to set up more cow shelters where people can give donations and food. A monthly report should be published in one local newspaper and one state newspaper about the data of cow shelters.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhProblem spreading to more areasThe menace has resurfaced in various parts of the tricity. Food leftovers and leaves dumped by restaurants, marriage halls and roadside eateries have been the main source of food for stray cattle roaming on roads. These hinder the free movement of traffic. Many accidents have been caused by to these cattle on the main roads of the tricity. There should be a coordinated approach by the administration to get rid of the menace. Owners of these cattle should be sensitised to the problem. The other option could be shifting stray cattle to sheds built exclusively for them. Despite collection of crores annually as cow cess by the governments, the municipal corporations have failed to rein in stray cattle.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhRecruit more animal catchersLoss of human lives is often reported in accidents involving stray cattle and commuters. Strict measures are required to curb the movement of stray cattle across the tricity. A combined effort of all three administrations is required to control it. More catching staff should be recruited and the capacity of cattle pounds increased. A heavy penalty should be imposed on careless owners of cattle. They should be sensitised to the fatal accidents caused by their animals.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhCURB STRAY CATTLE MENACEResidents of the tricity are grappling with the problem of stray cattle. These stray cattle come from unauthorised roadside dairies and cattle sheds. These cause traffic jams and fatal accidents. The menace is never taken seriously. The municipal authorities seem reluctant to contain the problem and cattle catchers are scared of catching strays. The license of an erring dairy or cattle shed should be cancelled in case their cattle are found on roads. The water and power supply to illegal dairies must be disconnected. Also, careless cattle owners must be fined suitably. The MC should employ strong cattle catchers, build more cattle sheds and employ sufficient staff to take care of these animals.Dr Shruti K Chawla, ChandigarhMCs need to be penalisedWhen cows stop producing milk, their owners abandon them, unmindful of what danger these animals pose to humanity. Stray cattle can be spotted on all important roads and markets. The authorities concerned wake up from their deep slumber only after something untoward has happened. Containing the problem is not only the responsibility of officials of civic bodies but also cattle owners. The erring persons should all be penalised.SK Khosla, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-what-steps-should-be-taken-to-contain-stray-menace-313666
20-09-2021||---||Panjab University don to be visiting prof at Tashkent varsity||Chandigarh, September 19Dr Gurmeet Singh, Associate Professor, Department of Hindi, Panjab University, has been invited as the visiting professor at Department of Translation Studies and International Journalism, Tashkent State University of Oriental Studies (TSUOS).The TSUOS runs several courses, including study of Hindi literature, international journalism and translation studies. Established in 1918, this was the first oriental higher educational institution in Central Asia, which began to train qualified specialists in various fields of oriental studies.Dr Gurmeet Singh has been the Chairperson of the Department of Hindi, Panjab University, from 2017 to 2020. In 2018, he was selected for deputation as ICCR Chair of Hindi Language at the University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-don-to-be-visiting-prof-at-tashkent-varsity-313657
20-09-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula road safety panel to discuss 41-point agenda today||Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh will preside over the monthly meeting of the District Road Safety Committee at the conference hall, Mini-Secretariat, in Sector 1 here tomorrow.Amarendra Singh, District Transport Officer-cum-Secretary of the Regional Transport Authority (RTA), said a 41-point agenda, including road accidents, checking and challaning of school buses and accident-prone spots, would be discussed during the meeting.He said they carried out inspection of school buses in August under the safe school vehicles scheme.“Checking is still under underway as per the schedule issued for the current month. Several teams of transport, education, police and Haryana Roadways are visiting schools and inspecting buses to ensure that these vehicles meet all prescribed norms,” he said.Fitness certificate of buses was also being checked for safety regulations, he said.Action taken on the accident-prone spots identified by the Public Works Department (PWD), the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) during the last meeting would also be reviewed.Apart from this, Singh said the plan to develop seven stretches of 5-km each and develop them as accident-free “model roads” would be analysed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-road-safety-panel-to-discuss-41-point-agenda-today-313656
20-09-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Kalka-Shimla heritage route train passenger count down 90%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19The number of passengers travelling in trains plying on the Kalka-Shimla heritage route has dipped by 90.2 per cent in financial year 2020-21.According to the data provided by the Ambala Division of the Northern Railway, the passenger count stood at 7.9 lakh in financial year 2019-20. It fell to 77,422 in 2020-21. Over the past four years, the highest passenger count on this heritage track was in 2018-19, which was recorded at 8.15 lakh. In 2017-18, the figure was 7.04 lakh.The massive fall in the number of passengers is primarily because of the pandemic as six trains plying over the division remained suspended most of the year.Of the six trains plying over the heritage route, Vistadome coach (train number 04529 and 04530) was the first pair to have restored operations in February 2021. Subsequently, four more pairs, including Vistadome and Kalka-Shimla (Shimla Kalka) Mail Express resumed the track in June, while the Kalka-Shimla (and Shimla-Kalka) mail express 04543 and 04544, running as unreserved train, became operational in August.Non-scheduled trains (up-down mix trains) running between Kalka and Shimla are being used as workmen train, while holiday special (train number 52443 and 52444) is not operational.The dip in passengers had a cascading effect in the passenger earnings, which fell from Rs8.3 crore in 2018-19 to Rs1.6 crore in 2020-21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kalka-shimla-heritage-route-train-passenger-count-down-90-313655
20-09-2021||---||Chandigarh MC poll a chance for people to show BJP the mirror, says Pawan Bansal||Chandigarh, September 19Sounding the poll bugle, senior Congress leader and former Union Minister Pawan Bansal today called upon the city residents to end “the miserable rule of the BJP” and bring his party to power during the upcoming Municipal Corporation elections for the betterment of general public.“To give a befitting reply to the Central Government’s oppressive and anti-public policies, Chandigarh MC poll is a chance for the general public to defeat BJP and show them the mirror,” Bansal said while addressing a Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee (CTCC) programme on ‘Housing Societies Pe Charcha’ in Sector 49 here.Talking about the housing societies, Bansal said: “We are well aware of the problems faced by the residents. The Chandigarh MC in fact is in paralytic condition since the BJP came to power with no public welfare policies and plans in sight.”On one side, the Centre is so prompt in making new laws but on other side it has failed to make one small law to empower the MCs, he pointed out.The idea of setting up cooperative societies in Chandigarh was planned to settle the working class, who put their hard earned money to buy flats, in the city. However, exorbitant rates being charged for getting the properties out of lease hold, is a big hurdle for the residents.After coming to power, Congress would work to solve the city residents’ problems on priority, along with ensuring the repair and maintenance of internal roads in societies, said Bansal.Chandigarh Congress unit chief Subhash Chawla said: “We have formed a team to chalk out the problems faced by the society residents. We will make a comprehensive plan to solve them after coming to power.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-poll-a-chance-for-people-to-show-bjp-the-mirror-says-pawan-bansal-313654
20-09-2021||Amit Sharma||Chandigarh has highest percentage of recidivism in country: Report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19Chandigarh had the highest percentage of recidivism among the persons arrested under the Special and Local Laws (SLL) and fourth highest among the persons arrested under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in the country during 2020.As per the report of the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB), the City Beautiful had 19.1 per cent of recidivism of persons arrested under the SSL.The report states that a total of 869 adults were arrested last year. Out of this, 703 were arrested for the first time, 133 were arrested earlier but not convicted in the past and 33 persons arrested and convicted in the past.Meanwhile, a juvenile was also apprehended under the SLL. However, he was apprehended for the first time.The cases registered under the NDPS Act, the Arms Act, the Excise Act, the Dowry prohibition Act, the Gambling Act, etc., fall under the SLL.Chandigarh is followed by Sikkim with 19 per cent of recidivism and Delhi with the third highest 16.1 per cent of recidivism.Chandigarh also figures among the top states/UTs with high recidivism percentage among the persons arrested under the IPC.Mizoram has the highest recidivism with 37.8 per cent, followed by Chhattisgarh with 14.5 per cent, West Bengal with 13.3 per cent and Chandigarh with 12.3 per cent.The report reveals that a total of 2,854 adults were arrested last year. Out of this, 2,506 were arrested for the first time, 321 were arrested earlier but not convicted in the past and 27 arrested persons were convicted in the past.The report further states that a total of 77 juveniles were apprehended under the IPC last year. Out of this, 64 persons were apprehended for the first time, 11 were apprehended but not convicted in the past and two juveniles apprehended and convicted in the past.Fourth highest under IPCChandigarh also figures among the top states/UTs with high recidivism percentage among the persons arrested under the IPC. Mizoram has the highest recidivism with 37.8 per cent, followed by Chhattisgarh with 14.5 per cent, West Bengal with 13.3 per cent and Chandigarh with 12.3 per cent.Special and Local LawsIndian Penal Code (IPC)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-has-highest-percentage-of-recidivism-in-country-report-313653
20-09-2021||Naina Mishra||Gear up for a possible third wave, Chandigarh Health Secretary asks private hospitals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19In view of an imminent threat posed by the third wave of Covid, private hospitals of the city have been directed to install oxygen generation plants and procure enough oxygen cylinders to deal with any sudden patient surge.The hospitals will also be subjected to oxygen and fire audits anytime soon.The hospitals have also been asked to check manpower arrangements and ambulance services so that there is no last minute hassle.Oxygen auditAn oxygen audit team will be formed to check leakages and other discrepancies in the oxygen flow system of the hospitals, at least on a weekly basis. Proper record to be kept for oxygen supplies and its utilisation on a daily basis. A fire-audit will also be conducted within 15 days.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said: “Considering the threat of the third wave of Covid-19, there is a need to prepare for handling of the positivity rate which may be even higher than the second wave that was witnessed during April-May this year.”“The next three months, up to December-end, are very crucial and we need to remain in alert mode,” Garg asserted.All the private hospitals are advised to install a pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant, which is mandatory for the hospitals with 50 or more beds, said a health official.During a meeting headed by the Health Secretary on September 10, it was agreed to allow the hospitals to install the PSA plant on roof top.As per the instructions, each of the private hospitals should have enough empty cylinders to take care of any sort of delay in refilling – a backup for 2-3 days.Accordingly, a hospital should have a sufficient number of oxygen cylinders, which is at least three times of the daily requirement, said the official.The Health Secretary, meanwhile, directed that oxygen supply lines and other equipment need to be tested immediately and if required, repair works be carried out to ensure that there was no leakage.“There should not be any oxygen leakage and the staff should be trained for rational use of oxygen,” said Garg.“The training for optimum utilisation of oxygen was conducted during the second wave and the same can be conducted again on a short notice of three days,” said the Health Secretary.“The equipment like flow metres and other consumables should be available in sufficient quantity to take care of any emergency,” he added.The private hospitals have also been asked to create a back-up plan so as to reduce dependency on oxygen cylinders.The hospitals have also been asked to procure sufficient number of oxygen concentrators (10l capacity).They have also been told to create buffer stock for all the critical medicines. The suggestive list of medicines will be provided by the Director, Health Services, said the health official.Garg, meanwhile, instructed that the ambulances must be equipped with the facilities to handle and transport the patients on oxygen support and the critical care patients.The ambulance drivers and staff must be trained in basic life support and ambulance oxygen delivery system, so that the patient care can be enhanced for better outcome, he said.Garg further instructed that in order to meet the additional requirement of qualified manpower, hospitals should tie-up with some manpower supply agencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gear-up-for-a-possible-third-wave-chandigarh-health-secretary-asks-private-hospitals-313652
20-09-2021||---||Day after, Panchkula cops fail to get clue about robbers||Panchkula, September 19The city police have failed to get any clue about the identity of the suspected robbers, who attacked a jewellery shop owner in an attempt to rob him in Sector 8 yesterday.At least four police teams have been tasked to trace the suspects by Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mohit Handa.Meanwhile, the crime scene was reconstructed today.A senior police official said they had picked up the auto driver in whose vehicle they (suspects) fled from the spot, but based on interrogation, his involvement in the crime seemed unlikely.Efforts were on to nab them, he said.The suspects had been captured in CCTV cameras installed in the area.Circulating their pictures, the police urged the public to alert the police if they spotted any of the suspects or had information related to their identity.DCP Mohit Handa had yesterday stated that the suspects would be nabbed soon.Three robbers, who struck Maa Luxmi Jewellers at booth number 78 in Sector 8, attacked owner Sandeep Verma (45) with a knife at around noon yesterday.However, they had to return empty-handed after the victim raised the alarm.The victim, a resident of Sector 15, had sustained injuries in the incident following which he was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, where he received stitches on the head.A case was registered under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 398 (attempt to commit robbery or dacoity when armed with a deadly weapon) and some other Sections of the IPC against unidentified persons.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had also taken cognisance on the incident and directed senior police officials to nab the culprits soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-panchkula-cops-fail-to-get-clue-about-robbers-313651
20-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Neighbours in Kharar elated at Charanjit Singh Channi’s elevation||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 19Relatives and supporters thronged the residence of Charanjit Singh Channi at Kharar this evening as soon as the news broke that the Chamkaur Sahib MLA will be the new Chief Minister of Punjab.They distributed sweets among visitors and danced to the beats of dhol.Even as Channi was at the Raj Bhawan, neighbours said they would wait for him till late in the evening.Channi’s house had already been decorated with colourful lights and shamiana as his son Navjeet Singh is set to get married on October 10 and the family had organised akhand path today.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, Channi’s immediate neighbour Kuldeep Singh, a Sugarfed employee, said they were happy that Channi would be the new Chief Minister of the state.“He is a down-to-earth man,” said Kuldeep Singh. “Whether as a Cabinet Minister or a councillor, he has always remained approachable.” “No barricades have ever been erected on the road leading to Channi’s house,” he added.Kuldeep hoped that even after becoming the Chief Minister, no barricades would be erected on the road.All family members of Channi are highly educated, said Kuldeep, adding that despite facing some tough moments, the newly elected Chief Minister could always be seen in high spirits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/neighbours-in-kharar-elated-at-charanjit-singh-channis-elevation-313632
20-09-2021||Zirakpur||16 new cases in Dhakoli, 5 hospitalised||Fifty houses in Dhakoli were surveyed today in which 16 patients complained of diarrhoea-like symptoms. Five of them have been admitted to the Community Health Centre.Five other persons had mild symptoms.“The blood and stool test reports will be received tomorrow. The report of water samples will also be available tomorrow. Most of the cases are being found in Sukhna Colony in Dhakoli,” said Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Mohali Civil Surgeon. It has been six days since people started complaining of diarrhoea-like symptoms in Peer Muchalla and then in Dhakoli, but still new cases are being reported from the area every day.Contamination of water due to sewage and waterlogging in the area is said to be the main cause of the outbreak.Residents living in the vicinity of the Municipal Council office here alleged that it had been close to eight days that they were getting dirty water in taps. “Daily, four-five persons complaining of fever, abdominal pain from this locality visit Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32; Dera Bassi and Dhakoli hospitals,” said Yamin Malik, a Bishanpura resident. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-new-cases-in-dhakoli-5-hospitalised-313630
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||14-yr-old stalked, stabbed by Burail man in Sector 33||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly stalked and attacked with a knife by a Burail resident.The victim, in her complaint to the police, stated that she had gone to bring her sister from a school in Sector 33 when the suspect, identified as Lakha, stopped her near a park in Sector 33 on September 9. The suspect held the victim and slapped her. She somehow managed to run away from the spot and reached the school. However, the suspect followed her to the school and threatened her. He also stabbed her in the left hand. The suspect then fled from the spot, the police said here today.The victim was taken to Civil Hospital, Sector 45, for treatment.Sources said the suspect lives near the victim’s house.The police have registered a case under Sections 341, 354, 354-D, 324 and 506 of the IPC at Sector 34 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-yr-old-stalked-stabbed-by-burail-man-in-sector-33-313626
20-09-2021||Chandigarh||5 more infected in Chandigarh||The city on Sunday reported five new Covid cases, taking the total infection count to 65,181. The death toll remained at 818. Three patients were discharged in the past 24 hours. — TNS2 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported two fresh Covid cases on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 30,715. The death toll remained at 377. There are 17 active cases in the district. The recovery rate stands at 98.71 per cent. TNSOne death in MohaliMohali: One more person succumbed to Covid in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,062. Three more cases surfaced, taking the tally to 68,694, while seven patients recovered from the virus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-infected-in-chandigarh-313621
20-09-2021||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh: Covid test must for OPD patients||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 19All patients attending OPDs at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, will have to undergo the Covid-19 test from now onwards.The UT Health Secretary, Yash Pal Garg, has ordered that all patients in OPDs will be required to undergo the Covid test. However, in case of emergency and serious patients, the doctor concerned may immediately provide treatment or consultation and get the Covid test done at a later stage. Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director, GMCH, said, “Patients can get their Covid reports before coming for OPDs, but if the report is not available, the hospital authorities will carry an antigen test on patients.However, in emergency cases, the Covid test will not be a mandatory requirement. It can be conducted later when the patient is given treatment.”To streamline the process of OPDs and in view of Covid-related issues, it has been decided to start walk-in OPD registration at the GMCH in addition to the existing process of online registration. The walk-in registration will be allowed from 8 am to 11 am from tomorrow onwards (September 20).“The pilot project of OPD registration at the e-Sampark centre is going on for the past about 10 days in Sector 15. The IT Department is in the process of procuring a bar code printer and thereafter the OPD registration for the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, will be allowed at all e-Sampark centres in the city in the next 15 days,” the UT Health Secretary said.GMSH-16 to have 1 more EMO at nightDuring a surprise night inspection by the Health Secretary on September 13, it was observed that there was a rush in the Emergency at the GMSH. Thereafter, another surprise night inspection was conducted by senior doctors of the GMSH and a similar rush was observed in the Emergency. In view of the revelations during the surprise night inspections and a similar feedback from the public, it has been decided to depute one more Emergency Medical Officer (EMO) during the night shift at the GMSH.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-test-must-for-opd-patients-313620
