21-09-2021||---||UT opens Sukhna floodgate after water level touches danger mark||Chandigarh, September 21The UT Engineering Department on Tuesday opened one of the three floodgates of Sukhna Lake after the water level reached the danger mark.As a precautionary measure, the floodgate was opened at 10.30 am when the water level touched the danger mark of 1,163 feet, said an official of the department. He, however, said the water level at 1 pm had come down to 1,162.6 feet and the gate was yet to be closed.It is the third time in this monsoon season when the authorities have opened the floodgate. Earlier, the gate was opened on August 9 and August 14. The water level in the lake has increased after incessant rain in the city and catchment area of the lake since Monday, which forced the department to open the floodgate. An alert was sounded in the neighbouring areas and to avoid flooding downstream, the water was released in small quantity, he said, and added that the Mohali administration was also informed in advance about opening of the floodgate. Officials of the department were present at the lake to monitor the situation.  The water level in Sukhna Lake on August 8 had reached 1,162.3 feet, nine inches below the danger mark, due to rain in the city and the catchment area of the lake.Two of the three floodgates had to be opened in August last year after the water level of the lake had crossed the danger mark and reached 1,163.4 feet and the gush of the water led to flooding in Baltana area of Mohali district.  Before this, on September 24, 2018, incessant rain in the catchment area had forced officials to open two floodgates of the lake. At that time, the gates were opened after a gap of 10 years.  After opening of the floodgates, the Sukhna Choe carries the excess water of the lake to the Ghaggar river.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-opens-sukhna-floodgate-after-water-level-touches-danger-mark-314199
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||British Council introduces online English course for kids||The ‘Reading for Life’ programme takes youngsters on a journey from ‘learning to read’ to ‘reading to learn’ by challenging them to read at least one book every week from the British Council’s curated online collection of e-books, audio books, and comics, read a British Council release. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/british-council-introduces-online-english-course-for-kids-314188
21-09-2021||---||Chandigarh man drowns in sector 29 pool||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20A 35-year-old man reportedly drowned in a swimming pool at Sector 29 last evening.The victim has been identified as Shyam Narayan, a resident of Mani Majra. The police said the victim had come to the “Resa swimming pool and gym” along with his friends.‘Had taken liquor’DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh said the victim’s friends gave a statement that he had taken liquor. “His viscera will be sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for examination,” the DSP said.Around 8.30 pm, the victim went into the pool and drowned. He was immediately brought out of the pool and rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police said the victim’s autopsy was conducted today and the body handed over to his family.DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh said the victim’s friends gave a statement that the victim had taken liquor. “The victim’s viscera will be sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for examination,” the DSP said.He added that the footage of CCTV cameras installed at the spot was being scrutinised.The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-drowns-in-sector-29-pool-313939
21-09-2021||---||Physical hearing of case in Punjab and Haryana High Court tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20Nearly five years after the brick-by-brick demolition of the city’s glorious past with the rising of apartments from the debris of palatial houses came under the judicial scanner, one of the issues that cropped up for deliberation before the Punjab and Haryana High Court was if tenants can live on different floors, why not landlords.Floor-wise sale of houses in cityOne of the issues that has cropped up for deliberation before the Punjab and Haryana High Court is that if tenants can live on different floors, why not landlords.As the case came up for resumed hearing before the Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri today, the discussions hovered around the fact that the first and second floors of a house could be leased out. If there could be tenants on different floors, there could be landlords as well. The case will now come up for further hearing on Wednesday, when the matter will be held through physical hearing.The Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri had earlier scanned newspaper advertisements to find out whether floor-wise sale of dwelling units was contemplated. Finding no less than two dozen such advertisements in the newspaper’s Sunday edition, the Bench had not only rapped the UT Administration, but also directed the holding of the exercise under the UT Chief Architect’s supervision.The Bench had observed it thought of scanning the advertisements as the court was seized of the matter and discovered 24 advertisements in the Sunday edition “scouting for purchasers /investors for separate floors/independent floors”.Reproducing the advertisements, the Bench added that it lent credence to the petitioner-residents’ welfare association that independent floors were being sold under the garb of sale of a certain percentage share of a residential unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/physical-hearing-of-case-in-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tomorrow-313940
21-09-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula: Crane topples at ROB site, labourer killed||A hydra crane being used to lift pillars for construction of a railway overhead bridge (ROB) in Sector 19 toppled, leaving a 40-year-old labourer working at the construction site dead and its driver injured.Native of UPThe victim was identified as Satpal, who reportedly came under the collapsed crane. The injured Satpal was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where doctors declared him dead. The victim, a native of Uttar Pradesh, was currently residing in Mauli Jagran, Chandigarh.The family did not wish to register a complaint in the matter and said there was no negligence on anyone’s part —  Ram Meher, SIThe victim was identified as Satpal, who reportedly came under the collapsed crane.Both injured were taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where doctors declared Satpal dead. The victim, a native of UP, was currently residing in Mauli Jagran, Chandigarh.The police said they were yet to receive any complaint for any negligence that may have led to the victim’s death.The police said they could only initiate action after a formal complaint was received.Sub-Inspector Ram Meher, in-charge of the Sector 19 police post, said, “The victim was 40 years old and had been working as a daily wage employee under one of the contractors, who had been awarded the tender for this work. He is survived by his wife and three young sons. The family did not wish to register a complaint in the matter and said there was no negligence on anyone’s part.”In May, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had instructed officials to expedite the construction work of the ROB being built at the Sector 19 railway crossing and complete it before Diwali this year. The ROB, being constructed at a cost of Rs35 crore, is a pending demand of local residents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-crane-topples-at-rob-site-labourer-killed-313942
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh bike-sharing project: Pay for bicycle rides from today||Rides under the public bike-sharing project will be chargeable in the city from tomorrow.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said a team conducted an inspection today following which it was decided that the firm could start taking charges from Tuesday afternoon after notifying the registered users about it through the Smart Bike App.“They have implemented all things as per the contract. There could still be some teething problems, which will be resolved by them simultaneously,” she said.The rides earlier continued to be free as the glitches were not removed. The rides were made free after users faced issues in locking and unlocking bikes using the Smart Bike App.The company was asked to fix all problems by September 12. A fee of Rs10 plus the GST will be charged for using a bicycle for half an hour. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bike-sharing-project-pay-for-bicycle-rides-from-today-313943
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Suryakirans air show: Reach venue in staggered manner, says Chandigarh Adviser||The Indian Air Force (IAF), in association with the UT Administration, will organise an air show of Suryakirans and other aircraft at Sukhna Lake tomorrow at 4.30 pm. The one-hour event will mark Swarnim Vijay Diwas of the 1971 War.It will be a treat for city residents’ eyes when speeding aircraft of Suryakiran aerobatic teams of the IAF will make various formations in the skies during a full dress rehearsal tomorrow.UT Adviser Dharam Pal, along with senior officials of the IAF and UT Administration, today reviewed the preparations for the air show.Keeping in view the Covid-19 protocol, Dharam Pal appealed to the residents to witness the show in a staggered manner. Some people should come tomorrow at 4.30 pm and others the next day so that all could get a chance to witness the historic moment, he said.If a large number of people reached the venue to witness the show at a given time, they would have to close the entry to the venue so as to maintain social distancing, he added.“We advise people coming tomorrow at 4.30 pm to witness the full dress rehearsal that they should avoid coming the next day so that all could get a chance to watch the show,” he said, while adding that the show could be best watched from house rooftops.Traffic restrictionsIn view of an air show being organised by the Indian Air Force at Sukhna Lake on September 22, and rehearsal for the same on September 21, the vehicular movement will he restricted on the lake road on both days. According to the traffic police, there will be restrictions from Hira Singh Chowk to the Rock Garden turn and Hira Singh Chowk to the Sector 4/5/8/9 roundabout from 2 pm onwards. General public arriving to witness the air show is advised to enter Sukhna from the lake rear area using staircase number 3-6 from the Kishangarh turn. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suryakirans-air-show-reach-venue-in-staggered-manner-says-chandigarh-adviser-313944
21-09-2021||---||Act tough to check illegal parking on roads: Panchkula DC||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 20Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh today directed the traffic police to act tough against owners of vehicles parked illegally on roadsides that affect the flow of traffic.The offenders should be strictly challaned so that motorists don’t face inconvenience — Vinay Pratap Singh, DCHe was presiding over the monthly meeting of the District Road Safety Committee at the Mini-Secretariat today.A 41-point agenda, including road accidents, checking and challaning of school buses and accident-prone spots, was discussed during the meeting.“The offenders should be strictly challaned so that motorists don’t face inconvenience,” he said.He also instructed officials to regularise parking spaces.“On World Car-Free Day on September 22, motorists will be encouraged to give up their private car for a day to make them realise how much pollution affects our lives and highlight how we can decongest roads in different ways. Alternative transportation modes such as carpooling will be promoted,” he said.He asked officials to work for improving traffic management in the district.Officials from the police, Municipal Corporation, Public Works Department (PWD), Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Roadways and the Education Department were present at the meeting.Road safety volunteers also attended the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/act-tough-to-check-illegal-parking-on-roads-panchkula-dc-313945
21-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC’s 75-hour booster dose for Indira Colony green belt||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20In a one-of-its-kind initiative, the local Municipal Corporation will augment a green belt on five acres in Indira Colony, Mani Majra, in 75 hours.Project to mark 75 years of IndependenceOur staff will work for eight to 10 hours on a rotation basis for 75 hours on the trot. Public participation will be welcomed. The project is part of the celebrations to commemorate 75 years of Independence.—  Anindita Mitra, MC CommissionerHow Area residents are going to benefitAs per the plan, the green belt adjoining a government school of Indira Colony will have toilets, swings, high-mast lights, interactive ponds, a performance stage and a herbal garden. Besides, trees and railings will be painted. Decoration works will also be done.Under the ‘placemaking’ project, the work will start on September 28. Officials of different wings of the MC and workers will be engaged for the task.As per the plan, the green belt adjoining a government school of Indira Colony will have toilets, swings, high-mast lights, interactive ponds, a performance stage and herbal garden. Besides, trees and railings will be painted. Decoration works will also be done.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra, said, “Our staff will work for eight to 10 hours on a rotation basis for 75 hours on the trot. Public participation will be welcomed. Additionally, we will organise yoga classes and games for kids for three days at the venue.” She said the 75-hour project was part of celebrations to commemorate 75 years of Independence. In three days, works worth Rs25 to 30 lakh will be carried out. There is a plan to hold different competitions and programmes on a stage to be set up at the venue. The school will be connected with the green belt so that kids can take benefit of the facility.The MC has been working on realising the project for the past few days. Since there is a fixed 75-hour period for carrying out the works, the MC has started arranging material, which is to be used there. The material is being kept near the site.Under ‘placemaking’, an underutilised space is selected and enhanced to the urban experience for area residents. This is the first time that the civic body is working on such a project. The facility will be beneficial for the thickly-populated Indira Colony area where a majority of population is from the low-income group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mcs-75-hour-booster-dose-for-indira-colony-green-belt-313947
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Seven contract coronavirus in Chandigarh||Two test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported two fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,717. The toll remained at 377. While 30,322 people have recovered from the infectious disease, 18 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.71 per cent. TNSOne case surfaces in MohaliMohali: One more Covid case has been reported during the past 24 hours, taking the overall district tally to 68,695. Meanwhile, no death was reported from the district till Monday evening while four patients have been cured of the disease. The only new case came from Mohali (urban). No case was reported from Boothgarh, Gharuan, Dhakoli, Dera Bassi, Lalru, Banur, Kharar and Kurali. As of now, 67,599 patients have been cured. There are 34 active cases with 1,062 deaths in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-contract-coronavirus-in-chandigarh-313948
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Lightning kills youth at Mani Majra||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lightning-kills-youth-at-mani-majra-313949
21-09-2021||---||Ambala police arrest three in murder case||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, September 20The Ambala police have arrested three persons in connection with the murder case of Arjun, a resident of Ambala Cantonment who was stabbed to death late last night.Stabbed to deathThe suspects have been identified as Gaurav, his mother Radha, and Bhuri of Ambala Cantonment.In his complaint to the police, Mohit, a resident of Ambala Cantonment, said around 11.30 pm yesterday, his brother Arjun reached home and informed that some boys had thrashed him. “I went to Kabari Chowk along with my brother and aunt to check and found Gaurav standing there with a knife in his hand, while his mother Radha was also standing with bricks in her hand. Bhuri was holding a stick, while an unknown youth was also there with a stick in his hand. After seeing us, they started beating us up and Gaurav stabbed Arjun with a knife. As we raised the alarm, a large number of people gathered there, but the suspects fled from the spot. We rushed Arjun to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, where he was declared brought dead,” Mohit said.A case was registered against the three suspects under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC.Ambala Cantonment SHO Vijay Kumar said, “Three suspects have been arrested in connection with the murder and they will be produced before a court tomorrow. The exact reason behind the crime is a matter of investigation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-police-arrest-three-in-murder-case-313950
21-09-2021||---||Be self-sustainable in energy generation, Chandigarh Adviser tells jail||Chandigarh, September 20During the inauguration of a bio-gas plant at Model Jail, Burail, today, UT Adviser Dharam Pal exhorted the authorities to be self-reliant in energy generation. Renaming of the barracksThe renaming of the barracks was started two years ago with the help of the Government College of Art, Sector 10, to inspire inmates by naming these after great personalities.After commissioning a floating-drum type bio-gas plant of 200 cubic metre per day capacity, the Adviser said the jail authorities must meet their energy requirement by generating their own bio-gas or solar energy. “Let there be zero energy procurement by the jail authorities from the outside,” he added.Installed at a cost of Rs19.25 lakh, including five-year warranty, the bio-gas plant was executed by the Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology (CREST) in which10 tonne of cow-dung for both digesters are supplied daily for production of bio-gas. This project is economically beneficial to both the Chandigarh Administration and the jail authorities, said Debendra Dalai, Chief Executive Officer, CREST. The bio-gas produced is being directly used in the jail kitchen for cooking purpose which has cut down the jails LPG requirement to half. Further, the slurry produced after production of bio-gas is used as organic manure which helps in growing crops etc. in the fields.The Adviser appreciated the efforts taken by CREST in developing the model jail as 100% self-sustainable with no dependency of outside sources of energy which will be the torchbearer for the whole of the nation.The Adviser also inaugurated other projects namely renaming of barracks and art gallery.At the art gallery, around 200 framed paintings done by inmates have been displayed besides around 150 unframed paintings. Apart from this, planter/pots have been painted in Madhubani and Warli style by the inmates. All paintings have been compiled in a book titled as “Colours - Harbingers of Hope and Happiness” which was launched by Dharam Pal.A music band named “Malhar”, comprising prisoners, played melodious songs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/be-self-sustainable-in-energy-generation-chandigarh-adviser-tells-jail-313951
21-09-2021||---||PU Senate elections: Graduate constituency poll to be held in phased manner||Chandigarh, September 20The Senate elections for the gradate constituency will be held in a phased manner, Panjab University announced here today.The elections were earlier scheduled to be held in one go on September 26.The election was to be held at 272 polling booths spread across seven states/UTs, with a total vote count of 3,61,869. However, 61 polling centres across different states have expressed their inability to make available their buildings for setting up of polling booths, said a PU official.Under such circumstances, the competent authority has ordered to hold the election in phases. In the first phase, polling shall be held at 211 booths on the already notified date of September 26, while the polling on remaining booths will be held in the next phase, the date for which shall be notified separately, the official added.Thirty-three polling booths have been set up at Chandigarh and one each in Ambala, Bhiwani, Faridabad, Jhajjar, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panchkula, Panipat, Sirsa and Sonipat. As many as 158 centres have been set up in Punjab, four in Delhi and five in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-senate-elections-graduate-constituency-poll-to-be-held-in-phased-manner-313952
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Schedule for submission of Panjab University exam forms announced||Panjab University has announced the schedule for submission of examination forms – without and with late fee – for the undergraduate and postgraduate classes.As per the announced schedule, the classes for odd semesters for both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes will start from December 17.The students can submit their forms without late fee till October 28 and with late fee of Rs2,075 till November 5, Rs6,075 till November 17, Rs11,075 till December 2 and Rs22,075 till December 9.The first semester PG classes for regular/private/ reappear students will start from December 12.The examination schedule for the annual system May – 2022 will commence from June 26, 2022.The students can submit forms without late fee till March 15, followed by late fee of Rs2,075 till March 22, Rs6,075 till March 29, Rs11,075 till April 13 and Rs22,075 till June 18.For all the undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma programmes under even semesters, the commencement date is set to be June 26, 2022 and students can submit their forms without late fee till March 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/schedule-for-submission-of-panjab-university-exam-forms-announced-313953
21-09-2021||---||UT Health Secretary allays fears over proficiency test||Chandigarh, September 20The Health Secretary has clarified that none of the outsourced employees is being “disengaged from work” on the pretext of poor efficiency after many such employees expressed resentment against a proficiency test to be conducted in the coming days.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said some vested interests were trying to mislead the outsourced staff regarding the proficiency test. He clarified that the outsourced staff who were punctual, worked with sincerity, discipline and served with utmost devotion need not worry.“None of such outsourced employees is being disengaged even in case of minor deficiency in performance during the proficiency test. In addition to proficiency, other factors such as duration of engagement, performance and punctuality are of greater importance,” he said.However, Garg said the UT Administration was responsible for providing good medical care and attention to patients. Accordingly, indiscipline, non-punctuality and non-performance, which might lead to deficiency in service to patients, could not be compromised with.After an inspection on the intervening night of September 12 and 13, the Health Secretary was of the view that there was a need for a check on the quality of staff provided by the outsourcing agency.Accordingly, he asked the authorities for a computerised proficiency test to be conducted through SPIC for all outsourced DEOs in the next 10 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-health-secretary-allays-fears-over-proficiency-test-313954
21-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Drivers, conductors found smoking on buses: Haryana Transport Dept told to deposit Rs 1.40L in PGI fund||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, September 20The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here has directed the Director General, Haryana State Transport Department, to deposit Rs1.40 lakh in the Poor Patient Welfare Fund maintained by PGIMER, Chandigarh, for the treatment of cancer patients.The order was passed by the commission while partly allowing seven appeals filed by appellant Ashok Kumar Parjapat.Prajapat had approached the commission after his complaints were dismissed by the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Chandigarh.In his complaint to the district forum, Prajapat had alleged that while travelling on the Haryana State Transport buses he had found the drivers and conductors smoking. He claimed that the matter was taken up with the higher authorities, but to no avail. As such, he filed the complaint for payment of compensation and also to penalise the drivers and conductors, who were found smoking during duty hours.However, all the complaints filed by Parjapat were dismissed by the district forum.After examining the records, the state commission observed that the whistleblower could be stated to be one of the important pillars, who uncovers malpractices and other illegal activities. As such, the appellant needs to be suitably compensated.The commission also said that the Supreme Court, after considering the adverse effect of smoking on smokers and passive smokers, had prohibited smoking in public places and issued directions to the Centre, state and UTs to take effective steps to ensure the prohibition.“For the reasons recorded above, seven appeals filed by the appellant/complainant are partly accepted and the Transport Department in each case (seven appeals) is directed to pay Rs5,000 each, in lump-sum, as compensation and cost of litigation, to the appellant,” stated the commission.The commission also directed the Transport Department, Haryana, to pay Rs20,000 each for an appeal to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, which shall further be deposited in the Poor Patient Welfare Fund maintained by the hospital for the treatment of cancer patients.The commission also told the Director General, Haryana State Transport, to confirm within 30 days, from the date of receipt of certified copy of this order, the steps taken to stop smoking in public places, state buses and bus stands in Haryana, in compliance to the Supreme Court’s directive.“Passive smoking is a serious health risk for those who smoke and those who do not. Thus, in this view of the matter, it is held that the orders impugned, the district commission, in this regard need to be reversed and accordingly are set aside,” read the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drivers-conductors-found-smoking-on-buses-haryana-transport-dept-told-to-deposit-rs-1-40l-in-pgi-fund-313956
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Boxing Nationals: Chandigarh pugilists Sagar, Kuldeep enter finals||Chandigarh’s Kuldeep Kumar (48kg) and Sagar (+92kg) made their way into the finals with dominant victories over their respective opponents in the ongoing 5th Elite Men’s National Boxing Championships at the Inspire Institute of Sports in Bellary, Karnataka, today.While Kumar outperformed Uttar Pradesh’s Ravi Kumar with a unanimous decision, Sagar defeated Maharashtra’s Reynold Joseph with an RSC verdict.Final matches will be played tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boxing-nationals-chandigarh-pugilists-sagar-kuldeep-enter-finals-313957
21-09-2021||---||FOSWAC asks Chandigarh Admn, MC to resolve issues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) today raised some unresolved issues to remind the UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation of finding a suitable solution.Assn’s Take on Waste management policyThe association sought the scrapping or modifying of the waste management policy. Its members said the waste collection charges were too high and even residents not staying on a particular floor were also getting bills. People were also facing issues with waste collection.Addressing a press conference, Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman of the association, said the issue of need-based changes in CHB houses had been raised from time to time over the past two decades.Politicians make promises during election times but forget the issues after that. So is the case with officials, thus the end result is zero. The residents of 60,000 CHB units want to have a one-time settlement as has been done in Delhi.He raised the issue of conversion from leasehold to freehold at the allotment rates and not on new rates which run into lakh of rupees. We should not forget that a majority of residents in this category are just middle-class people. They cannot afford to pay a hefty conversion fee.All type of relaxations such as an increase in covered area, modern exterior architectural designs etc. given to the other houses be also extended to CHB houses. Find a practical and viable solution for different categories and sector-wise issues instead of imposing unworkable solution on all, added Bittu.The association sought the scrapping or modifying of the waste management policy. Its members said the waste collection charges were too high and even residents not staying on a particular floor were also getting bills. People were also facing issues with waste collection.The members also said the water charges had been increased up to three times without any value addition. “We feel this increase is unjustified, especially when we are paying a hefty property tax. It is the duty of the MC to provide the basic amenities of potable water, collection and management of garbage, and other facilities to the residents, said JS Gogia, general secretary, FOSWAC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foswac-asks-chandigarh-admn-mc-to-resolve-issues-313958
21-09-2021||Mohali||Mohali civic body asks Chandigarh to repair roads||Concerned over the poor condition of roads connecting Chandigarh with Mohali, the Mayor of Mohali has asked the UT MC to carry out repairs.Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu has written a demi-official letter to the Mayor and the Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, asking them to get the roads along the Mohali MC limits repaired.Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said the condition of roads in Mohali was being improved but the roads on Chandigarh side along the municipal limits were in bad shape. He said this was detrimental to the image of both Mohali and Chandigarh.He said the road repair and construction in Mohali was in full swing and the Chandigarh Administration and the MC also needed to pay attention to the poor condition of the roads.He has asked the UT Administration to get the roads repaired immediately. Almost all roads of Chandigarh connecting it to Mohali were in bad shape. A large number of people from Chandigarh enter Punjab through Mohali, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-civic-body-asks-chandigarh-to-repair-roads-313959
21-09-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Another auction of Chandigarh heritage, this time in Milan||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20A pair of Jeanneret-designed kangaroo chairs, dating way back to the ’50s, is all set to go under the hammer, this time in Italy on September 22. The estimated price of these chairs, in wood and wicker, is pegged between Rs5.62 lakh and Rs7.79 lakh (6,500 Euros and 9,000 Euros).Italy’s love for UT furnitureThis year, six chairs and a sofa were sold for Rs18.46 lakh in Italy on March 24. On December 2, 2020, another six items of the city’s heritage furniture were auctioned for about Rs55 lakh in Milan.The auction of the chairs, which are part of the city’s heritage items, has been red-flagged by Ajay Jagga, a member of UT’s Heritage Items Protection Cell. In his representation, sent to S Jaishankar, India’s External Affairs Minister; Dr Neena Malhotra, Ambassador of India to Italy; and Dario Franceschini, Minister of Culture, Government of Italy, Jagga has demanded that the chairs be returned to India.Citing1954 Hague Convention on the Protection of Cultural Property, Jagga highlighted that the process of returning (cultural property) is further established by the UN through two conventions: 1970 UNESCO Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property.In his representation, Jagga wrote that the auction of the two kangroo chairs was in violation of the MHA (Government of India) orders (dated 22 February, 2011). “The Ministry of Home Affairs banned the export of Chandigarh heritage furniture, a decade ago,” he wrote.He expressed an emergent need to get the matter examined from the law-enforcing agencies of Milan, as to how these items reached the auction house. He asked: “Whether importers came to India on a tourist visas or business visas? What documents they attached with the consignment, while exporting them abroad?”Considering that the United Nations is also supporting the countries on the issue of cultural trafficking, Jagga also sent a communication to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), Belgium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-auction-of-chandigarh-heritage-this-time-in-milan-313960
21-09-2021||---||CBI court issues notice to in-charge of Chandigarh police Economic Offences Wing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20A CBI court has issued a notice to the in-charge of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Chandigarh Police after the counsel of Devinder Singh, one of the accused in a bribery case, filed an application alleging that an inspector of the wing had allegedly picked up the accused outside the court.Devinder Singh is one of the accused in the alleged corruption case registered by the CBI in 2011. He was booked by the CBI in the case along with former Punjab MLA Raj Khurana.“An application for marking the presence of accused Devinder Singh filed by counsel with averments that the accused has been picked up by Sub-Inspector Mohan Kashyap of EOW, Chandigarh, outside the court. Let notice of the application to the in-charge, EOW, Chandigarh, be issued for September 27, 2021, with the direction to produce the accused on the date fixed, if in their custody. A statement of the accused under Section 313 CrPC be also recorded on the date fixed,” says the order of the CBI court.As per the chargesheet, Khurana, Devinder Singh, a junior assistant in the office of Registrar of Firms and Societies, Punjab, and another accused, together allegedly hatched a criminal conspiracy and have been charged under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, besides Section 8 of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988. It was on a complaint of Manpreet Singh that the CBI had laid a trap on May 5, 2011, and arrested the accused while they were allegedly taking a bribe from the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-issues-notice-to-in-charge-of-chandigarh-police-economic-offences-wing-313962
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Ramandeep powers Mohali to victory||A blistering century by Ramandeep Singh helped Mohali beat Moga by 105 runs and register their third successive win in the ongoing Punjab Inter District Senior One Day Tournament.Opting to bat, Mohali, aided by Ramandeep’s 71-ball 132, scored 345 runs in 50 overs.Abhijeet Garg (84) and Sahil Chander (51) chipped in with a half-century each.Talwinder Brar was the most successful bowler for Moga claiming 4/38. Gurjinder Singh took 3/75.Moga boys were all out for 240 runs in 41.3 overs even as Gurjot Singh hit an impressive 109 off 105 balls.For Mohali, Kunal Vishwa took 4/49, while Gurnoor Brar (2/11) and Barinder Sran (2/50) bagged two wickets each.Patiala beat BathindaAt Patiala, the hosts beat Bathinda by 182 runs on VJD Method. Electing to bat, Patiala rode on Jeewanjot Singh’s 116-run knock to score 305 for 4 in 50 overs.Chasing a revised target of 296 runs in 43 overs after a rain interruption, Bathinda were bowled out for 113 in 37.5 overs as Patiala bowlers struck in unison.Akul Partap Pandove bagged 3/32, while Aryaman Singh (2/13) and Harjas Singh (2/19) accounted for two wickets apiece. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-ramandeep-powers-mohali-to-victory-313963
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Court rejects bail plea of accused in 10-yr-old case||A local court has rejected the bail application of a 67-year-old accused, Narinder Kapoor, who was arrested for alleged illegal sale of plots 10 years ago.The police had registered the case against the accused on May 14, 2011, under sections 420, 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 11 police station.The case was registered on a complaint of Maya Ram, Superintendent, Deputy Commissioner office, UT, who alleged that Inderjit Kaur and Narinder Kapoor frequently made intkaal of the plots situated in Khuda Ali Sher village, Chandigarh, and further sold them to other parties.During the trial of the case, the accused was declared a proclaimed person on October 14, 2015, by the Judicial Magistrate, Chandigarh.The counsel for the accused said the accused was in custody for three weeks. He had appeared before the court till 2015 and thereafter his previous counsel had informed him that the case had been closed, therefore there was no need to attend the court in future.The counsel also cited old age of the accused while seeking bail.The Public Prosecutor said if concession of bail was granted to the accused, he would again jump the bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-rejects-bail-plea-of-accused-in-10-yr-old-case-313964
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||PU employees take  out ‘silent march’||Over 300 Panjab University faculty members, employees and other staff participated in a “silent march” organised to oppose the recent heckling of a top university official and alleged provocative speeches on the campus.“Through this march, stakeholders expressed their desire for a peaceful and non-violent campus. This march aims to instil confidence among various stakeholders. Participants in the march, through their silence, urged all the stakeholders to adopt non-violent means, use decent language in public discourse, avoid encouraging vested interests and refrain from spreading hatred,” said the organisers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-employees-take-out-silent-march-313965
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Top seed Saanvi cruises into 2nd round||Top seed Saanvi Garg blanked Diza Chadha 6-0 6-0 in a girls’ U-16 category match on the opening day of the Roots-AITA TS(7) National Ranking Championship today.Second seed Isheeta Midha moved into second round with 6-2 6-3 win over Jasmine Kaur, while Ajenika Puri registered a 7-6(5) 6-1 win over Vanshika Yadav. Paavni Panwar drubbed Mankirat Kaur 6-0 6-0.Poonam edged out Naisha Garg, while Tamanna Walia thrashed Mokshika Yadav 6-2 6-0. Agampreet Kaur started her campaign with 6-0 6-0 win over Pratishtha Sharma.In the boys’ U-16 category, Parth Sharma eased into the second round with a 6-0 6-1 win over Shourya Chhabra, while Parmarth Kaushik outplayed Angad Singh 6-2 6-1.Aditya Rathore defeated Sachit Thakur 7-5 6-4 and Armaan Walia overcame Sneh Kashyap 6-4 6-1. Anish Sharma got the better of Madhav Chadha. He won 6-1 6-3. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seed-saanvi-cruises-into-2nd-round-313966
21-09-2021||---||Striker Club win twin titles||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 20Striker Club won both the boys’ and girls’ title on the concluding day of the 37th Junior Softball Championship at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 35.In the girls’ final, Striker Club overcame Chandigarh Mission Club 11-10. Sector 15 Club blanked Chandigarh Coaching Centre 13-0 to bag the third position.In the semifinals, Striker Club had registered a 1-0 win over Sector 15, while Chandigarh Mission Club beat Chandigarh Coaching Club 5-4.In the boys’ final, Striker Club drubbed Chandigarh Mission Club 14-4. City Hawks Club recorded a 10-0 win over Leisure Valley Club in the third-place play-off.Earlier, Striker Club beat City Hawks 13-7 in the semis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/striker-club-win-twin-titles-313967
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Home Secy Nitin Kumar Yadav gets charge of 9 more depts||UT Home Secretary Nitin Kumar Yadav, a 2000-batch IAS officer of the Haryana cadre, has been assigned the charge of nine more departments.An order issued by UT Adviser Dharam Pal stated that Yadav had been assigned the charge of Secretary, Home, Police/Prisons, Revenue, Law and Order, Local Government and Water Resources, relieving Finance Secretary Vijay Namdeorao Zade of the said charge. He has also been assigned the charge of Secretary, Transport, relieving Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar of the charge, and Secretary, Environment and Forests and Tourism, and Chairman, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation, thus relieving Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, of the said charge. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-home-secy-nitin-kumar-yadav-gets-charge-of-9-more-depts-313968
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Special summary revision of photo electoral rolls||The SDM (E)-cum-Assistant Electoral Registration Officer-02, UT, has decided to conduct an electoral registration drive. The motive of this drive is to conduct a house-to-house verification drive for removal of all logical errors, DSEs, standardisation of addresses and checking quality of photographs.A survey by BLOs and the verification of claim and objection forms etc. will be carried out from September 20 to October 5. However, special campaigns will be held on November 13, 14, 27 and 28. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/special-summary-revision-of-photo-electoral-rolls-313969
21-09-2021||Zirakpur||Lightning strikes house at Dhakoli||Lightning struck at a house in Mamta Enclave in the Dhakoli area here today. No casualty was reported.House owner Rakesh Kumar said he was on the second floor when the incident took place in the evening. The banners installed on the second floor fell down with a gust of wind and cracks appeared on the roof and walls. He said the debris fell on his car parked below damaging its windowpanes.In his neighbouring house, CCTV cameras exploded. There were also reports of damage to electrical appliances in some houses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lightning-strikes-house-at-dhakoli-313970
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||Congress trying to mislead people: AAP||Chairman of the election campaign committee of the local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party Chander Mukhi Sharma today lashed out at former MP Pawan Bansal by stating that his statements were aimed at misleading residents.“The Congress and its leaders had completely failed when they were in power at the Centre and in the Chandigarh MC but are now giving misleading comments and shedding crocodile tears to garner votes in the upcoming elections,” said Chander Mukhi in a press note.Bansal addressed an election programme in the city and called upon people to elect the Congress to power. While addressing the party workers and the public, he said: “We are well aware of the problems faced by the residents”.Talking about Bansal’s tenure as a minister and an MP of Chandigarh, Chander Mukhi alleged, “He has completely failed in solving the problems of the cooperative societies when the party was in power”.“Another issue which has been pending since 2009 is the internal maintenance of societies. They are managing their internal roads, street lights, water supply and sanitation, but Bansal did nothing in spite of being a minister at that time,” alleged the AAP leader. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-trying-to-mislead-people-aap-313971
21-09-2021||Chandigarh||3 clubs caught on the wrong foot||6-yr-old girl dies in roof collapsePanchkula: A six-year-old girl was killed and four others sustained injuries after the ‘kutcha’ roof of their house collapsed due to rain at Rajiv Colony in Sector 16 here on Monday evening. The deceased has been identified as Nannu, daughter of Salim. “Four children of Salim, his brother, who lives in Mani Majra, and a child from his neighbourhood were there when the roof collapsed,” said Sub-Inspector Susheel Kumar, Sector 16 police post in-charge. The injured victims were taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 for treatment. TNSForced to attend offline classesChandigarh: Students of Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology (CCET), degree wing, on Monday alleged that they were being “forced to attend” offline classes even as there was no mess and canteen facilities for the hostellers. “There have been hygiene issues as college campus is under construction. Not everyone is able to get the consent from parents, even then they are being forced to attend offline classes,” claimed a group of students. “There are no facilities for hostellers and food is provided through tiffin services. There are many other issues also, which have been brought to the officials’ notice,” said the disgruntled students. College authorities were not available for a comment. TNSPU’s Renuka Salwan awardedChandigarh: Renuka B Salwan, Director, Public Relations, Panjab University, has been conferred with the Ameya Award for Women Motivators at the 15th Global Communication Conclave 2021. The event was organised by the Public Relations Council of India at Goa. TNSDevinder made SHO of Sec 34Chandigarh: Inspector Devinder Singh, who was in charge Cyber Crime Investigation Cell, has been temporarily posted as Sector 34 SHO. The SHO, Inspector Rajeev Kumar, was transferred to the Police Lines after SI Sarabjit Kaur was nabbed by the CBI while allegedly taking a bribe of Rs10,000. TNSPCDA staff donate bloodChandigarh: A blood donation camp was organised by the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts, Western Command, here on Monday as part of the Defence Accounts Department Day celebrations. As many as 48 officers and staff members donated blood at the camp. TNSCholera outbreak in DhakoliZirakpur: Health Department on Monday confirmed the outbreak of cholera at Sukhna Colony. Five fresh cases with mild symptoms were reported, said Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Mohali Civil Surgeon. No new patient was admitted to the hospital. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-clubs-caught-on-the-wrong-foot-313973
