22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Helicopter crash: Army pilot cremated with full military honours in Panchkula||The mortal remains of Major Anuj Rajput, who was killed along with his co-pilot when their helicopter crash-landed in a dense forest in Jammu and Kashmir, were consigned to flames with full military honours in Panchkula on Wednesday.Wrapped in the Tricolour, a coffin carrying his body was brought to the cremation ground in Panchkula from his home in the Haryana city near here, where a large number of people joined Army personnel to bid a tearful adieu to him.Floral wreaths were laid and the last rites of Major Rajput were performed with full military honours, including a gun salute.Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who is the ruling BJP MLA from Panchkula, was also present when the funeral was performed.Earlier in the day, the Army officer’s mortal remains were brought to his hometown, Panchkula.The family members of Major Rajput, a bachelor who had turned 28 just a few days ago, were inconsolable when the body reached their Panchkula home.Major Rohit Kumar and Major Rajput were on a training sortie when their Cheetah helicopter crash-landed in Shiv Garh Dhar near Patnitop in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, resulting in grave injuries. Both the pilots succumbed to the injuries at Command Hospital, Udhampur where they had been evacuated for treatment. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/helicopter-crash-army-pilot-cremated-with-full-military-honours-in-panchkula-314748
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports six new Covid-19 cases, one death||Chandigarh reported six new Covid-19 cases and one fatality over the last 24 hours, a news bulletin from the administration said on Wednesday.The union territory now has 44 active cases.  Its average positivity rate over a week is 0.23%The bulletin said 2,682 samples had been taken for testing over the last 24 hours.  The UT’s fatality count stands at 819.The bulletin also showed five recoveries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-six-new-covid-19-cases-one-death-314741
22-09-2021||Vijay Mohan||Suryakiran: Flying formation that dazzles the skies with loops, rolls and dives||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22Streaking through the blue skies with blazing contrails just a few hundred feet above the ground, the tight formation of brightly painted red and white Hawk trainer jets of the Indian Air Force is an exhilarating sight as they execute a series of loops, barrel rolls and other breathtaking aerial manoeuvres.The famed Suryakiran Formation Aerobatic Team (SKAT) is in Chandigarh once again to display its flying skills as part of the Diamond Jubilee celebrations of the Chandigarh Air Force Station that was established in 1961.The team, considered among the top three nine-aircraft aerobatic formations in the world, has left audiences across the country as well as in several countries, spellbound with its performance. Nine is the highest number of aircraft in an aerobatic team anywhere.But behind the glamour and glitz of close formation flying – the ultimate test of a fighter pilot’s abilities of concentration, coordination and unflinching nerves—lies a tough regimen of careful selection, extensive training, diligence and spectacular teamwork. In addition is the meticulous technical evaluation of its all manoeuvers and flying procedures that have to be ratified and approved by the IAF’s Tactics and Air Combat Development Establishment before they can be put into practice.To be a member of the SKAT, volunteers must be fighter pilots, have eight years of service and a minimum of 1,000 hours of flying and be qualified flying instructors. Volunteers are invited to fly with the team, where their performance and personality traits are evaluated. Over the next six months or so, selected pilots then fly 70-75 sorties practising various manoeuvres before they get into the formation flying team.Pilots have a tenure of about three years with the team. Generally, two new pilots join the team every six months. Starting off at high altitude with a single aircraft sortie, flying with the team leader or the deputy team leader, the fresh inductee moves on to two-aircraft and then three-aircraft formation flying. After mastering the skill of flying with two aircraft on either side, the fresher then goes in for four-aircraft and six-aircraft sorties before finally graduating to nine-aircraft sorties. All types of rolls, loops, dives and formations are flown at various training stages.In close formation flying, there is no margin for error, especially at low levels. The displays are performed in the height band of 30 m to 1,200 m at an average speed of 550 km per hour, which requires a high degree of maturity, skills and discipline among the aircrew. The manoeuvres can be in the vertical plane or the horizontal plane depending on the visibility, cloud cover and terrain.Formation aerobatics is not new to the IAF. As early as 1944, the IAF had a display flight and later a few ad hoc teams carried out aerobatic displays on special occasions such as the Air Force Day parade and firepower demonstrations. One such team consisted of four MiG-21s, called the Red Archers. The precision and spectacle of these teams were comparable to those of display teams from elsewhere. For the Aero India 2001, a special Mirage 2000 aerobatic team was formed.During the golden jubilee year of the IAF in 1982, handpicked fighter pilots from various squadrons formed an aerobatic team for the IAF called ‘The Thunderbolts’. Flying blue and white Hunter fighter bomber, this team captivated audiences for about a decade and it gave its last public display in 1989.The experience gained from the Thunderbolts was put to good use by a four-aircraft team called the Formation Aerobatic Team, set up in Bidar in 1990 on Kiran-II trainers. Though the team did not give any public displays, it ensured that formation aerobatic skills were maintained in the IAF.In early 1996, serious planning began for AVIA-96, the first major air show and aviation trade event ever hosted in India. The organisers’ initial intention was to invite an aerobatic team from overseas, but some senior IAF officers were confident that the world’s fourth largest air force would be able to field its own team. This formed the genesis of the present team, the Suryakiran, meaning rays of the sun.In May 1996, Wg Cdr Kuldeep Malik, who as a Flight Lieutenant had been a member of the ‘Thunderbolts’, and then serving as an instructor at the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, was moved to Bidar, with instructions to raise a new aerobatic team. The pioneer team comprised Sqn Ldr AK Murgai, Sqn Ldr VK Khorana, Sqn Ldr S Prabhakaran, Sqn Ldr AR Gore, Sqn Ldr RK Obheroi, Sqn Ldr N Kanitkar, Sqn Ldr PK Vohra, Flt Lt T Sharma, Flt Lt K Prem Kumar and Flt Lt KK Dubey.During these early months the team flew overtime, graduating from aerobatics in four-aircraft ‘box’ formation to six-aircraft in ‘shockwave’ formation. The first six-aircraft formation took wings on August 8, 1996. There were two manoeuvres which the team finally managed to get through with a little bit of trouble. The first was the ‘goblet’ roll and the other the ‘tango’ roll — the latter incidentally was a historic first for the IAF because even the famed Thunderbolts did not do this manoeuvre.Soon the SKATs were tasked to carry out their first public display — a flawless six-aircraft display for the golden jubilee celebrations of Air Force Administrative College, Coimbatore, on September 15, 1996.In 1998, with Wg Cdr AK Murgai as the CO, the team expanded to a nine-aircraft formation. Considering the team was just two years old, it was no small achievement. The team first displayed a formation of nine-aircraft during the Independence Day flypast over the Red Fort in 1998. The first full-fledged nine-aircraft aerobatic display was to follow at Palam on October 8, 1998, to mark Air Force Day.In recognition of its performance and its role as brand ambassadors of the IAF, the SKAT became the first Air Force unit to be awarded the Chief of Air Staff Unit Citation, which it received on October 8, 2004.On May 1, 2006, the team was conferred with Squadron status after completion of one decade of precision flying. No 52 Squadron, The Sharks, an erstwhile MiG-21 Type 77 squadron, the IAF’s youngest flying unit that had been raised in January 1986, was reformed with the SKAT on the indigenously developed HJT-16 Kiran Mark-II jet trainers. The squadron’s motto ‘Sadaiva Sarvōttama’, translated as ‘Always The Best’ is an intrinsic part of the Suryakiran’s ethos.Due to a shortage of training resources, the Suryakiran team officially wound down in 2011, with Aero India being the last event. The team then flew into the sunset in the wake of flawless displays, the last of which was in the evening of February 13.The Suryakiran team rose again on February 16, 2015, when the unit was resurrected on the newly inducted British-made Hawk jet trainer aircraft at the fighter training town of Bidar in north Karnataka, the alma mater of all IAF fighter pilots. It had also been home to the Suryakiran team since 1996.Incidentally, the first trip abroad post-resurrection was to Sri Lanka in March 2021 for the 70th anniversary of the Sri Lankan Air Force, exactly 20 years after the team’s very first foreign tour. The first had been to the same country in March 2001 for the 50th anniversary of the Sri Lankan Air Force.SKAT currently operates the Hawk Mk-132, an advanced jet trainer designed by BAE Systems in the United Kingdom and license-produced in India by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. The aircraft was formally inducted into the IAF in February 2008, and is used to train all budding fighter pilots. The aircraft is powerful and agile with modern avionics and has the capability to carry about 3,000 kg of bombs, rockets and missiles along with a 30 mm cannon. It has a top speed of Mach 1.2.The Suryakiran Formation Aerobatic Team is at present commanded by Group Captain Anoop Singh, a Jaguar pilot decorated with the Vayu Medal for gallantry. There are 16 other officers on its posted strength, including three engineering officers, a medical officer and a woman officer who is the squadron’s adjutant, responsible for administration. The maximum number of pilots is from the Sukhoi-30 MKI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suryakiran-flying-formation-that-dazzles-the-skies-with-loops-rolls-and-dives-314685
22-09-2021||Ambala||Dengue larvae found at homes, 6K in Ambala get notices||The Health Department has served notices on as many as 6,000 people in Ambala district since July after dengue larvae were found at their houses during inspection.Double task for Health teamsHealth officials said an extensive drive was being carried out to control dengue cases as any rise in numbers would mount pressure on the department, which was carrying out Covid vax drives and also preparing for the expected third wave.In Ambala, 16 cases of dengue have been reported so far, of which 12 have been treated and discharged, while four persons are undergoing treatment. As per the Civil Surgeon’s office, 50 breeding checkers have been deployed in the district for inspection. Those who have been served notices have been directed to clear water within 48 hours. If no action was taken and larvae were found again, a challan between Rs 300 and Rs 2,500 would be issued, the department said in the notice.Dr Sanjeev Singla, deputy civil surgeon, said necessary steps were being taken to check mosquitoe breeding .Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “Our teams have found larvae in coolers, back tray of refrigerators, flowerpots and other objects. Starting from July, 16 dengue cases while none of malariahave been reported so far.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-larvae-found-at-homes-6k-in-ambala-get-notices-314485
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh boxers win three medals||Chandigarh boxing team won three medals – two silver and one bronze – in the Elite Men’s National Boxing Championships.Competing in the 46-48kg category at the Inspire Institute of Sports in Bellary, Karnataka, Kuldeep Kumar, a student of GGDSD College, Sector 32, finished with a silver medal after failed to cross the final hurdle.Sagar, also from GGDSD College, won a silver medal in the super heavy weight category (+92kg). Harpreet, meanwhile, bagged a bronze medal in the light heavy weight (75-80kg) category. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-boxers-win-three-medals-314304
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Golf Meet: JS Bakshi claims best gross title||JS Bakshi (71) claimed the best gross title on the concluding day of the Monthly Medal Round at the Chandigarh Golf Club. In the handicap (0-6) category, Paramjit Arora (37 points) claimed the top position, while Tejinder Grewal (37 points) finished second.In the handicap (7-10) event, MS Pooni (40) and Brig HPS Dhillon (39) claimed first two positions respectively, while in the handicap (11-14) event, Capt GS Ghuman (41) and Ankush Garg (40) occupied the first two spots. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golf-meet-js-bakshi-claims-best-gross-title-314305
22-09-2021||---||Chandigarh: Wife denied anticipatory bail in cheating case||Chandigarh, September 21A local court here has rejected the anticipatory bail application of a woman facing cheating charges.The case was registered against the woman on the complaint of her husband, who alleged that the accused cheated him at the time of marriage by concealing the fact the she was a divorcee.The accused was booked under Sections 406, 417 and 120-B of the IPC in May 2021.In his complaint, the husband alleged that their marriage had been solemnised in 2018 as per the Hindu rituals.He alleged that he spent huge amount of money on the marriage.In the last week of September, 2019, he came to know his wife was a divorcee. He claimed that the woman, along with her parents, had presented herself as unmarried on a matrimonial site, said the police.The counsel of the accused argued that the custodial interrogation of the applicant was not required. The co-accused have already been granted interim bail and allowed to join in the investigation.Nothing is to be recovered from her custody and she is ready to join the investigation, the counsel added.The public prosecutor though opposed the anticipatory bail application, claiming that the applicant had committed the act of cheating and criminal breach of trust.The public prosecutor also feared that the applicant, if given concession of anticipatory bail, will flee the country.After hearing the arguments, the court observed that in light of the charges leveled in the FIR coupled with the fact that the applicant was required for detailed interrogation, she could not be granted any relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-wife-denied-anticipatory-bail-in-cheating-case-314306
22-09-2021||---||Cloth-based sanitary napkin launched at Nayagaon||Chandigarh, September 21A team of the Enactus Dr SS Bhatnagar, University Institute of Chemical Engineering & Technology, Panjab University, in collaboration with the Developing Indigenous Resources-India and Versatile Group, Ludhiana, launched reusable, cost-effective and eco-friendly cloth-based sanitary napkins under Project Uday, at Janata Colony, Nayagaon, today.A team of more than 50 student members came forward to raise concerns surrounding the challenges that affect the health and welbeing of women and girls due to the lack of hygienic menstrual products.The team started working on reusable cloth-based sanitary napkins that could be an affordable and eco-friendly alternative to generic plastic based sanitary napkins available in the market.The special fabric for sanitary napkins is being sponsored by Versatile Group under its CSR project.The product is approximately 70-80 per cent cheaper than the ones conventionally available in the market and is tested upon various parameters by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cloth-based-sanitary-napkin-launched-at-nayagaon-314307
22-09-2021||---||Chandigarh: Cycle rally in support of Afghan women rights||Chandigarh, September 21Celebrating International Day of Peace, Yuvsatta –an NGO – in collaboration with the Afghan Students Unity Group in Chandigarh, St John’s High School and St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School, organised a bicycle rally in support of ‘Girls & Women Rights in Afghanistan’. Hundred students participated in the rally.Kajal, the Girls India Ambassador and Class VII student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Dhanas, flagged off the really from the Parade Ground, Sector 17.The rally passed through Sectors 22, 21, 20, 19, 18 and 17 before culminating at Gandhi Bhawan in Sector 16.The rally was followed by an interactive session on ‘Following the footsteps of Mahatma Gandhi & Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cycle-rally-in-support-of-afghan-women-rights-314308
22-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Celebrating 75 years of Independence: Over 75 cycle riders to cover 7.05 km at 7.05 am in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21Over 75 bicycle riders will cover 7.05 km at 7:05 am to symbolise 75 years of Independence. The cycle ride will be held from Sector 16/23 small roundabout to Sukhna Lake.The staff of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, Smart City, volunteers of an NGO and general public will take part in the event, which is tentatively scheduled for October 2.“It is being organised to promote cycling and celebrating the milestone of 75th year of our Independence,” MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra told Chandigarh Tribune.Besides, the civic body is also making a giant cycle sculpture using the waste material for creating awareness among the masses. The sculpture will be permanently put up at the Sector 16/23 small roundabout to promote cycling in city.“The sculpture has been built with the waste material. We have used waste metal fixtures and pipes… Water DI pipes, house connection pipes and rings have been used... The idea is to go from waste to art and promote cycling,” said a senior official.The MC chief said: “We are impressing upon people that it is a huge occasion – 75 years of Independence. So, we are celebrating it as creatively as possible. We are promoting non-motorised transport to reduce carbon footprint.”The MC staff will also be asked to come to the office on bicycles on October 1.The city has already launched the first phase of public bike sharing project under which 1,250 bicycles has been provided at 155 docking stations.The project would be extended to 5,000 bicycles and 617 stations within a year, making it India’s largest public bike sharing system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/celebrating-75-years-of-independence-over-75-cycle-riders-to-cover-7-05-km-at-7-05-am-in-chandigarh-314309
22-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Allocation of sports wing seats: Trials to commence on September 24||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21Days after Chandigarh Tribune highlighted the delay on part of the Punjab Sports Department in allocating sports wing seats to state colleges, the department has issued a detailed schedule for trials.As per the schedule, the department will conduct trials to induct players from athletics, basketball, boxing, badminton, cycling, football, gymnastics, hockey, handball, judo, kabaddi, kho-kho, lawn tennis, swimming, table tennis, volleyball, wrestling and weightlifting.The trials for Punjab colleges affiliated to Panjab University here will be conducted from September 24-25 at Guru Nanak Stadium in Ludhiana. While trials for men will be held on September 24, women’s trial will be held on September 25.Meanwhile, trials for Punjab colleges affiliated to Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, and Punjab Technical University, Jalandhar, will be held on September 26 (men) and September 27 (women) at the State Sports Complex, Jalandhar. Trials for shortlisting women hockey players for Surjit Hockey Academy will be held on September 27.Trials for Punjab colleges affiliated to Punjabi University, Patiala, will be held September 28 (men) and September 29 (women) at the Polo Ground, Patiala.Under the sports wing scheme, a day scholar gets Rs100 per day as diet money, while the amount is doubled for residential athletes. The athletes are also provided training and equipment.Earlier on September 4, Chandigarh Tribune had highlighted delay in the allocation of sport wing seats. The delay was reported at a time when the admission process had already started. The officials had blamed the Covid pandemic for the delay.The sports wing seats are usually allocated in May-June. The process to induct players under the reserved seats usually runs for three months from April to June. The colleges get confirmation on the number of seats allotted and hike in diet money, if any, and accordingly, hostel seats are reserved and players get categorised as day scholars and hostellers. The process also helps colleges to induct players before PU inter-college championships.As per the PU sports calendar, the championships would be conducted from October.“We were eagerly waiting for this. The department is already late in implementing these schemes. We hope that the selection process will be completed soon,” said a senior coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allocation-of-sports-wing-seats-trials-to-commence-on-september-24-314310
22-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||2 years on, Panjab University pool reopens for pro swimmers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21After a long wait of two years, Panjab University has finally opened its doors to national and international swimmers, allowing them to prepare for the Senior Aquatics National Championship, scheduled to be held in Bengaluru from October 25-28.The 25m all-weather indoor pool at the PU, which was shut due to Covid-19 pandemic, is one of the best training centres.Besides the national aquatics championship, the swimmers are also preparing for the upcoming inter-college championship and yet to be schedule All-India Inter-University Championship.“The swimmers have started preparing for the next month’s championship. The centre was shut due to the pandemic. However, since it has been open, all the swimmers have been strictly told to abide by the Covid protocols,” said Gurcharan Singh, senior swimming coach.“Limited numbers of swimmers are allowed to use a single lane and even washrooms are getting sanitised every hour. The swimmers are prohibited from sharing kits or equipment. One of the main advantages is that all our swimmers have already been administered at least one dose of vaccine,” he said.Meanwhile, the Directorate of Sports is likely to host inter-college competitions for swimming, water polo and diving (men and women) in the first week of October.“We are likely to organise the inter-college events in October. So, this is a positive sign for the swimmers. It’s been over two years that they have not participated in any championships. We have already started receiving entries and plans will be rolled-out soon,” said an official.For over 14 months, Panjab University did not conduct any inter-college championship owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.Two swimming coaches have been appointed by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) for training under the Khelo India programme.“I think we have very little time left to prepare for the championships. With no facility for practice in Chandigarh, we had to explore other options. Some of us even went to Bengaluru for practise. The opening of the swimming pool at PU will definitely be helpful,” said a swimmer.Officials maintained that the pool had been opened for the senior level competitors only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-years-on-panjab-university-pool-reopens-for-pro-swimmers-314311
22-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Fee arrears: More trouble for telcos in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 21Troubles are increasing continuously for telecommunication companies, which are not depositing the arrears of the fee of mobile towers installed in the city.A decision to this effect was taken in a meeting chaired by Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal today. He directed MC officials to disconnect the connections of three to five mobile towers daily from Wednesday. If the companies still fail to deposit the money with the corporation, connection of 10 towers should be disconnected daily after a week.There are 290 mobile towers in the corporation area, but the money has been deposited for only 40 towers. A sum of around Rs40 crore is to be recovered from various companies. He said crores of rupees were pending with mobile companies as arrears, adding that the recovery would be done on a priority basis.He informed Municipal Commissioner Dharambir Singh and Joint Commissioner Sanyam Garg that he was personally monitoring the entire campaign and no employee would be spared for any laxity.According to information, the Municipal Corporation disconnected the connections of two mobile towers in Ward No. 20 on Monday, following which representatives of tower companies came to meet the Commissioner and the Mayor today. They assured the Mayor of depositing the requisite amount.A sum of around Rs1 crore was deposited by various companies for laying cables today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fee-arrears-more-trouble-for-telcos-in-panchkula-314313
22-09-2021||---||PM Modi urged to regularise houses outside Lal Dora in Chandigarh villages||Chandigarh, September 21Drawing attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the fact that houses constructed outside the Lal Dora in UT villages lack development, residents have demanded the regularisation of the houses.In a letter, BS Rawat, former general secretary, Deep Complex Welfare Association, requested the Prime Minister to review the Punjab New Capital Periphery Control Act - 1952 and regularise the houses outside the Lal Dora.He stated that people living outside the Lal Dora were casting their votes for panchayat, Municipal Corporation and Lok Sabha elections, but the elected representatives were not authorised to develop their area under Ward Development Fund and MPLAD schemes.In November 2018, 13 villages were transferred under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation, but the area falling outside the Lal Dora of these 13 villages has been kept under the provision of the Punjab New Capital Periphery Control Act - 1952.“The villages in Chandigarh are no longer rural in character. They have become urbanised, requiring urban modes ofplanning, urban level of civil services and urban form of local self-government,” he said.He requested the PM to remove the Punjab New Capital Periphery Control Act – 1952 because people living outside the Lal Dora are not capable of facing this Act forever.The letter readsIn a letter, BS Rawat, former general secretary, Deep Complex Welfare Association, requested the Prime Minister to review the Punjab New Capital Periphery Control Act - 1952 and regularise the houses outside the Lal Dora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pm-modi-urged-to-regularise-houses-outside-lal-dora-in-chandigarh-villages-314312
22-09-2021||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Long queues to fetch water in Baltana area||People can be seen standing in long queues carrying empty buckets to get water in Saini Vihar, Phase 1, Baltana, for the past four days as the tubewell supplying drinking water has stopped working.Residents are forced to stand in queues to fetch water from tankers stationed by the Zirakpur Municipal Council. Some residents said the water level has gone down, while others said the motor of the tube well had developed a snag.The residents alleged that they were forced to purchase drinking water through tankers as there was a long queue to fetch water from MC tankers.Officials said the repair work would be undertaken in a day or two. A tender worth Rs32 lakh had been invited for the repair work. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-long-queues-to-fetch-water-in-baltana-area-314314
22-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Upgrading power infra: Chandigarh to submit proposal to Central Govt for grant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21To upgrade the power infrastructure, the UT Administration will submit a proposal to receive grant from the Central Government.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the Central Government had issued guidelines for upgrading the power infrastructure of the distribution company. After attending a meeting chaired by the Union Power Minister, the Adviser said: “Whether we need upgraded transformers or pre-paid smart meters or other such improvements in the infrastructure, the Engineering Department will prepare a list and accordingly finalise a proposal. The proposal has to be submitted within three months.”For the smooth supply of power, the UT Electricity Department needs to upgrade its power distribution system in the city.During the peak summer season, residents had to face frequent power snags as the electricity infrastructure in the city could not bear the increased load. Faulty transformers and those which have completed their life span caused disruption in power supply, said an official of the Electricity Department.Old transformers were being used below their capacity and as a result, consumers had to face unscheduled power cuts during the peak summer season, he added. Southern sectors of the city were the most affected with power outages due to extra load on power infrastructure.Replacement of outdated infrastructure would help in improving the power supply and reduce breakdown of transformers, which would result in lesser power cuts during the extreme weather conditions, said the official.The department’s project of converting the existing overhead lines into an underground system in Sector 8 is yet to be completed. It is part of the department’s 20-year roadmap for improving power infrastructure in the city. The Joint Electricity Regularity Commission (JERC) had given an approval of Rs17.89 crore for the project on a pilot basis.Moreover, the department is also yet to complete the installation of 30,000 smart meters in the city. So far, nearly 50 per cent of the work, which was started in 2016, has been completed.However, the UT Administration has recently sent the final bid report on privatisation of the Electricity Department to the Ministry of Power.The Ministry will now take up the bid report with the Union Cabinet for final approval. After that, the department will be handed over to the highest bidder.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the privatisation of the Electricity Department and seven companies – Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power, Torrent Power and Eminent Electricity Power Company – had submitted their bids.On August 4, financial bids were opened. Eminent Electricity Distribution Limited – a subsidiary of CESC Limited, which is a flagship company of RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group – had submitted the highest bid of Rs871 crore. The amount was five times the reserve price of nearly Rs174 crore.On August 9, the Empowered Committee on the privatisation of the UT Electricity Department gave its approval to the highest bid quoted by Eminent Electricity Distribution Limited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/upgrading-power-infra-chandigarh-to-submit-proposal-to-central-govt-for-grant-314315
22-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh healthcare centre fined after weight loss package failed to deliver result||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21Holding guilty of deficiency in service, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission-II, Chandigarh, has directed a healthcare centre to pay compensation to a consumer whose weight was not reduced as promised under a weight loss package.The Commission also directed the centre to refund Rs29,500 fee to complainant Keshav Kumar Thakur.Thakur said he joined M/s VLCC Healthcare Limited, Sector 35-C, Chandigarh Centre, on September 23, 2018, to reduce 10-kg weight. He joined this centre since it was near to his residence and easily approachable. Accordingly, the complainant’s father made a payment of Rs38,000 to the centre.Thakur said he regularly joined the centre and reduced half of the committed weight of 10 kg. The centre then offered him to take a further package for 10-kg weight loss on payment of Rs29,500. The complainant’s father accepted this offer and made a payment of Rs29,500 through cheque on November 28, 2018.He alleged that he did not achieve the first target of 10-kg weight loss as committed by the centre, while another offer was provided to him for another 10-kg weight loss by the centre. He also claimed that the centre, without any prior intimation or hint, shifted their premises to Mani Majra in the first week of January 2019. As it was not convenient for the complainant to reach for fitness training at the newly shifted place, so a request for the refund of the amount was made to the centre, which it declined. The centre, in its reply, denied all charges and claimed that the complainant was satisfied with the services. Therefore, he further purchased a continued treatment for weight loss.The centre said the complainant had to be present on a regular basis for the treatment and continue a strict diet for desired results, but he did not follow his diet as per the terms of the treatment. It also claimed that merging of the office of the centre was already under process and it was well within the knowledge of the father of the complainant. So, he has been given another offer at the discounted rate, which he accepted for Rs29,500.After hearing the arguments, the Commission, comprising of president Rajan Dewan and members Priti Malhotra and BM Sharma, held the centre guilty of deficiency in service. The commission said since there was no force majeure or any other circumstance justifying their shifting of premises, there was no reason for the centre to retain the amount of second package provided to the complainant. Since the package was taken for losing the committed weight, the complainant did not even achieve half of the committed result. The deficiency in service on part of the centre was writ large.The commission said in view of the discussion, the centre was directed to refund the amount of second package i.e. Rs29,500 to the complainant. The centre was also directed to pay an amount of Rs15,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs8,000 as litigation expenses to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-healthcare-centre-fined-after-weight-loss-package-failed-to-deliver-result-314319
22-09-2021||---||Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta directs cops to set up beat boxes in Panchkula markets||Panchkula, September 21Concerned over the recent robbery attempt at Maa Luxmi Jewellers in Sector 8 here, Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta directed the police to set up beat boxes in the markets.Gupta stated this while reviewing the progress in the case with senior police officials at the PWD Rest House in Sector 1 here today. He said the aim of the police was to create a sense of security among people so that they could move anywhere without any fear. He said the beat box concept of the police could prove to be effective in this direction. He directed the Police Department that one beat box should be set up in each market of Panchkula and the duty of two police personnel should be fixed on each beat box.Commissioner of Police Saurabh Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa, non-official member of the District Grievance Redressal Committee BB Singhal and representatives of the Panchkula Jewellers Association were also present in the meeting.Gupta said the robbery attempt in broad daylight in a peaceful city like Panchkula was a matter of concern. He said there could have been a huge loss of life and property during the incident, but the manner in which Sandeep Verma, owner of Maa Luxmi Jewellers, had shown courage and foiled the robbery attempt was commendable.Commissioner of Police Saurabh Singh informed Gupta that various police teams had been formed to nab the accused involved in the incident. He said the police had got several important leads in this case and he was confident that all accused would be arrested soon.Gupta said arms licence was necessary for personal protection and considering the threat perception to the jewellers, arms licences should be given to them in a time-bound manner. He said the police should ensure that the licences were issued to the applicants within a stipulated time period after applying and submitting the required documents as per the prescribed guidelines. The process for applying the arms licence should be further simplified. The police should also ensure that security guards were deputed by the banks at ATM booths. For this, necessary instructions should be issued to all banks.The Haryana Speaker also appealed to the representatives of the Jewellers Association to make adequate arrangements for installation of high-resolution CCTV cameras at the entry and exit points of markets. Wherever CCTV cameras were already installed, it should be ensured that these were functional.Cops announce reward for infoThe police have received the CCTV footage of the cameras installed in the area in which the three suspects can be seen at the shop and later running after their loot bid was foiled. The police have also announced a reward for giving information about the suspects and said the identity of the informer(s) would be kept secret.Important leads in robbery attempt case: CPCommissioner of Police (CP) Saurabh Singh informed Haryana Spearker Gian Chand Gupta that various teams had been formed to nab the suspects. He said the police had got several important leads in this case and he was confident that all of them would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-directs-cops-to-set-up-beat-boxes-in-panchkula-markets-314316
22-09-2021||---||Rajiv Colony, Panchkula, resident stabbed||Panchkula, September 21The local police have booked unidentified persons for brutally attacking a resident of Rajiv Colony near Sector 17 here on Sunday.The victim has been identified as Dheeraj, a resident of Rajiv Colony, who has been admitted to the intensive care unit of the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh.In his complaint to the police, Ravi, a native of Kutia village in Fatehpur district of UP and presently residing in Rajiv Colony, and also the victim’s friend, stated that he received a call from Dheeraj on his mobile phone at 10.10 am on Sunday. Dheeraj told him that when he was crossing the vacant ground near a tubewell in Budhanpur village, two to three youths attacked him with a knife on his arms, chest, waist and back. He said his friend, Sachin, also from Rajiv Colony, had got a similar phone call.The complainant stated that the victim was taken to the Community Health Centre, Mani Majra, from where he was referred to the GMCH-32, where his condition was stated to be serious.A case under Section 324, 307 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 14 police station.The police said the medico-legal report of the victim had confirmed that he was attacked with a sharp weapon. The police said the victim was not in a position to record his statement. Further investigation in the case was on, they added.The complaintIn his complaint to the police, Ravi, a friend of the victim and native of Kutia village in Fatehpur district of UP who is at present residing in Rajiv Colony, stated that he received a call from Dheeraj on his mobile phone at 10.10 am on Sunday. Dheeraj told him that when he was crossing the vacant ground near a tubewell in Budhanpur village, two or three youths attacked him with a knife on his arms, chest, waist and back. He said his friend, Sachin, also from Rajiv Colony, had got a similar phone call.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rajiv-colony-panchkula-resident-stabbed-314317
22-09-2021||New Delhi||2 Majors die in J&K copter crash, one from Panchkula||Two pilots of the Indian Army’s Aviation Corps lost their lives this morning when a helicopter they were flying crash-landed near Patnitop in Jammu and Kashmir. This is the second crash for the Aviation Corps in six weeks.The pilots, Major Rohit Kumar from Noida and Major Anuj Rajput from Panchkula, had taken off from Udhampur in a single-engine Cheetah helicopter, which crash-landed in Shiv Garh Dhar area of Udhampur district.“Both the pilots were critically injured. They were rushed to the nearest medical facility, both succumbed to their injuries,” an Army spokesperson said. The Cheetah helicopters are based on the 1950s’ designed Alouette Aérospatiale 315B Lama of France and are produced by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL).Efforts to replace the entire fleet of some 400 — with the Army and the IAF – have not borne fruit in the last decade or more. The project to have light utility helicopter (LUH) is progressing slowly. The Ministry of Defence placed an order of just 15 copters and called it “limited series production”. The need was of 197 copters.Another project to plug this gap was to produce Russian Kamov 226-T copter in joint venture between Kamov and HAL. The JV was formed in 2016 and till date, the production has not started.Earlier on August 3, an HAL-built Rudra copter had crashed into the lake of Ranjit Sagar Dam, killing one officer while another is still missing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-majors-die-in-jk-copter-crash-one-from-panchkula-314410
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Thief arrested with 19 bicycles in Chandigarh||MC to observe Car-Free DayChandigarh: The Municipal Corporation and Smart City Limited staff have been asked to come to the office on bicycles on September 22 to observe ‘World Car Free Day’. All officers and employees working in the two wings have been directed to use bicycles to come to office on Wednesday to promote use of bicycles in the city. All the departments under the UT Administration have also been told to come to work on cycles. TNSSwavavlamban Mela heldChandigarh: In sync with the Centre’s initiative of Atama Nirbhar Bharat, Government Home Science College, Sector 11, on Tuesday organised a one-day Swavavlamban Mela. The students as young entrepreneurs showcased their skills and talents by putting up a plethora of innovative items in a large number of stalls. Dr Palki Arora, Director Higher Education, was the chief guest for the event. TNS RGPFC partners with SIX5SIXChandigarh: RoundGlass Punjab Football Club (RGPFC) has announced sportswear brand SIX5SIX as its official kit and merchandise partner for three years, starting this month. SIX5SIX is also a sponsor for the Indian national football team and Kerala Blasters FC in addition to Estoril in Portugal. The sportswear brand will provide match-wear, training-wear, and travel-wear for the first team. SIX5SIX will also develop, promote and commercialise the exclusive RoundGlass Punjab FC-licensed merchandise range, which will be available for purchase for fans based in India and internationally on the SIX5SIX’s website. TNS Gurpreet visits alma mater, interacts with studentsChandigarh: India’s first choice goalkeeper and city footballer Gurpreet Singh Sandhu recently visited St Stephen’s School, Sector 45. As a budding footballer, Sandhu learned his initial lessons in the game at the Sector 45 based academy. The 29-year-old interacted with students and motivated them to take up any sport at a young age and pursue their dream with dedication. He also interacted with the players of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22. TNS 9 booked on rape chargeZirakpur: The police have booked nine persons, including the mother of the victim, on the charge of raping a minor at a hotel here on September 14. The police have booked victim’s mother Kulwinder Kaur, Zirakpur resident Navi, Baltana resident Rahul and six others under Sections 376-A, 376-D and 120-B of the IPC and the POCSO Act at the Zirakpur police station. The 15-year-old girl, a student of Class X, was living with her mother in Bathinda for the past 10 years. On September 14, her mother allegedly sent her to Zirakpur to meet Navi. The suspect took him to a hotel in Zirakpur where six persons raped her. A zero FIR was registered in Bathinda which was forward to the Zirakpur police station, following which a case was registered. TNSTheft at chemist shop in Sec 24Chandigarh: A theft incident was reported at a medical store in Sector 24 here. Complainant Rajiv Kumar reported that an unknown person stole Rs30,000, CCTV cameras, a DVR and documents from the shop on September 20. A case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNSFake geyser unit bustedMohali: The police raided a Kandala-based company, Goldmark Private Limited, and seized 150 fake geysers with stickers of various branded companies on Tuesday. Eight employees of the company were rounded up and its manger Madhav Raj Badal was arrested from the spot. The police are searching for its owner Amit Ahuja, who was not present at the spot. The police recovered 150 geysers and their parts, which were to be assembled, in a huge quantity. The Sohana police have registered a case under the Copyright Act. TNSDodgeball trials tomorrowChandigarh: The Dodgeball Association of Chandigarh (regd) will organise trials to select the Chandigarh teams (boys and girls) at Government Model High School, Sector 43, on September 23 (3.30 pm). Players, who are residing, studying or working in Chandigarh, will be eligible to participate in the trials. The selected team will participate in the 14th Senior National Dodgeball Championship, scheduled to be held at Samrala, Ludhiana, from September 30 to October 3. TNSSecond seed Isheeta in semisMohali: Second seed Isheeta Midha blanked Tamanna Walia 6-3, 6-0 to storm into the girls’ U-16 semi-finals in the ongoing Roots-AITA TS(7) National Ranking Championship. Meanwhile, in the boys’ U-16 pre-quarterfinals, Armaan Walia defeated third seed Satvik Singla 6-2, 6-1 and Aryan Jolly ousted Anish Sharma 6-2, 6-0. Keshav Dangi outclassed Aditya Bhatnagar 6-0, 6-1, Arpit Garg defeated Divyam Sharma 6-2, 6-3 and Parmarth Kaushik outplayed Aditya Rathore 6-0, 6-3 in other matches. TNSHome secy reviews Smart City projectsChandigarh: Nitin Kumar Yadav, Home Secretary-cum-Secretary, Local Government, on Tuesday reviewed the status of projects under the Smart City Mission, Chandigarh. Anindita Mitra, MC Commissioner-cum-CEO, Smart City, briefed the Home Secretary about the ongoing projects such as 24x7 water supply in Mani Majra, public bike sharing, upgrade of seven sewage treatment plants, legacy waste bio-mining at Dadu Majra and e-governance services in the city. The Home Secretary directed for proper scheduling of ongoing works and set milestones to incur expenditure. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thief-arrested-with-19-bicycles-in-chandigarh-314323
22-09-2021||Mohali||Cycle mechanic attacked, robbed in Mohali||Two bike-borne youths attacked a cycle mechanic with sharp weapons and robbed him of Rs 5,000 in Sector 57 here today.The victim has been identified as Shiva, a native of Meerut, who was currently staying in Balongi. The assailants snatched Rs5000 from him and fled. He was admitted to the Phase 6 Civil Hospital. The police are investigatin the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cycle-mechanic-attacked-robbed-in-mohali-314318
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||2 snatchers in Chandigarh police net||The police have arrested two snatchers who had fled with a woman’s gold chain at Mani Majra on September 17.Savitri Devi of Dadu Majra was going to her brother’s house when the miscreants, riding a motorcycle, snatched her gold chain near Modern Housing Complex. A case was registered.During investigation, a team, led by Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO, Mani Majra police station, nabbed the suspects, Ashu, alias Nata (21), and Nitin (18).The motorcycle used in the crime, which was stolen from Zirakpur, was recovered. The police also recovered the snatched chain, a mobile and two more bikes. Ashu had seven cases against him in the past — three in UT and four in Mohali. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-snatchers-in-chandigarh-police-net-314320
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Road mishaps claim two lives in Chandigarh||Two road accident deaths have been reported from the city. A motorcyclist and a woman riding pillion died in the accidents.According to the police, complainant Akash, a resident of Dadu Majra Colony, reported that an unidentified Mahindra Scorpio hit the motorcycle, being ridden by his 28-year-old brother Vishal, near the Sector 25/38 light point on September 20. The victim was injured and rushed to the PGI, where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment. A case has been registered.In another incident, complainant Bunty, a resident of Maloya Colony, alleged that a truck, being driven by Satwant Singh, hit his Activa scooter at the Sector 25/38 light point on September 20, resulting in injuries to his wife Kajal, who was riding pillion. She was admitted to the PGI, where she later succumbed to her injuries. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-mishaps-claim-two-lives-in-chandigarh-314321
22-09-2021||Mohali||Covid-19: Mohali sees one death, 8 cases||7 new cases in UTChandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported seven cases of Covid-19 and no fresh fatality. Four patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSTwo fresh cases surface in P’kula districtPanchkula: Two fresh Covid cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 30,719. Those infected are a 44-year-old man from Sector 16 and a seven-year-old girl from Sector 2. No fresh death was reported. Of the 30,719 positive cases reported so far, 30,323 patients have been cured. There are now 19 active cases. The death toll stands at 377. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-mohali-sees-one-death-8-cases-314322
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Stop unauthorised activity on Sector 45-A road, Punjab and Haryana High Court tells MC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the MC and the UT police to prevent continuation of unauthorised activity, such as vehicle repair and car parking, on the V-5 road of Sector 45-A.The direction came on a petition filed in public interest by the Super Residents Welfare Association, Sector 45-A. They were seeking, among other things, the removal of all unauthorised activities from the V-5 road between AKSIP School to the traffic light point of Sector 33/45.Taking up the matter, the Division Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli issued directions to take expeditious steps to ensure that no unauthorised activity continued.The petitioners, through counsel HC Arora, had enclosed photographs of activities such as vehicle-repairing, junk dealing and car parking. It was claimed that the activity was blocking the vehicular movement on the road. Besides, such work created noise and environmental pollution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stop-unauthorised-activity-on-sector-45-a-road-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-tells-mc-314324
22-09-2021||---||Isha Kalia new Mohali Deputy Commissioner||Mohali, September 21“My priority will be to ensure the delivery of benefits of government welfare schemes to every person in Mohali district. Every district needs a different approach and I will prioritise things accordingly to mitigate the woes of people.”Newly appointed Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia stated this after assuming the charge at her office in the District Administrative Complex, Sector 76, here today.She said accountability of all officers with respect to their work would be ensured.On the strategy to thwart a possible third wave of Covid-19, Isha said she would review the action plan of the district and take precautionary measures to contain the highly contagious virus.She stressed the need for delivery of development projects on time and said laxity in this regard would not be tolerated. Earlier, Isha was given a guard of honour by a contingent of the Punjab Police and she inspected the parade at the District Administrative Complex. Senior officials of the district were present on the occasion.A 2009-batch IAS officer, Isha was earlier posted as the Director General of School Education (DGSE) and also held the additional charge of Secretary, Punjab School Education Board. She also served as Special Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, as Deputy Commissioner of Hoshiarpur and Fazilka, as Special Secretary, Water Supply and Sanitation, as Additional Chief Executive Officer, Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion, and as Member Secretary, Punjab State Women Commission.To review Covid action planOn the strategy to thwart a possible third wave of Covid, Isha said she would review the action plan of the district and take precautionary measures to contain the highly contagious virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/isha-kalia-new-mohali-deputy-commissioner-314325
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rafale steals the show at rehearsal at Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh||The IAF’s newly inducted Rafale fighter aircraft today stole the show at the rehearsal for the air show that is scheduled to be held over Sukhna Lake on Wednesday.The aircraft flew in low from the lake’s eastern end, looped towards the North and executed a ‘vertical charlie’ manoeuvre, climbing straight into the partially clouded skies.The Ambala-based jet from No.17 Squadron made two such runs, much to the excitement of the large crowd that gathered on the lake’s embankment. The IAF’s Suryakiran aerobatic display team also presented their formation flying skills, performing various loops and rolls.The Chinook heavy-lift helicopter demonstrated its capability to airlift heavy underslung loads as well as induct special forces for offensive operations. The show coincides with the celebration of the diamond jubilee year of the Air Force Station, Chandigarh, which was established in 1961. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rafale-steals-the-show-at-rehearsal-at-sukhna-lake-in-chandigarh-314326
22-09-2021||---||Two days after his 27th birthday, Panchkula Major Anuj Rajput dies in helicopter crash||Chandigarh, September 21A pall of gloom descended over a group housing society in Panchkula after the news of the death of Major Anuj Rajput in a helicopter crash near Udhampur came in.He was the only son of his parents, who left for Srinagar in the afternoon soon after receiving the tragic news.His father is an advocate and mother a homemaker.According to neighbours, Major Rajput had studied in Panchkula and Chandigarh before opting to don the olive green. They recalled him as a respectful and friendly person, ready to pitch in to help others whenever the need arose.Incidentally, Major Rajput had turned 27 on September 18 and had got engaged to a Delhi-based girl about a month and a half ago. The family was making plans for his wedding.Neighbours said he had only recently been promoted to the rank of Major and it had been a very proud moment for the family.Major Rajput and Major Rohit Kumar, who belongs to Noida, had succumbed to their injuries after the Cheetah helicopter of the Army Aviation Corps which they were piloting forced-landed in a wooded area near Patnitop in the Udhampur area reportedly due to fog and bad weather.Sushil Garg, councillor from Ward 14, in which the deceased officer’s parents live, expressed condolences and promised all possible support and assistance to the bereaved family.Had got engaged a month & a half agoIncidentally, Major Anuj Rajput had turned 27 on September 18 and had got engaged to a Delhi-based girl about a month and a half ago. The family was making plans for his wedding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-days-after-his-27th-birthday-panchkula-major-anuj-rajput-dies-in-helicopter-crash-314327
22-09-2021||Chandigarh||Water near danger mark, Sukhna Lake floodgate opened, third time this season||One of the three floodgates of Sukhna Lake was today opened at 10.30 am after its water level reached near the danger mark of 1,163 ft.Due to rain in the city and the catchment area of the lake since yesterday, the water level reached 1,162.9 ft, just 3 inches below the danger mark. It is the third time in this monsoon season when the authorities have opened the floodgate. Earlier, the gate was opened on August 9 and August 14.An official of the UT Engineering Department said the floodgate was closed at 3 pm after the water level came down to 1,162.8 ft in the lake. He, however, said there was a continuous flow of water into the lake from the catchment area.An alert was sounded in neighbouring areas and to avoid flooding downstream, the water was released in a limited quantity, he said, adding that the Mohali administration was also informed in advance about the opening of the floodgate. Officials of the department were keeping a 24-hour close watch on the situation, he said.Two of the three floodgates had to be opened in August last year after the water level of the lake had crossed the danger mark and reached 1,163.4 ft. The gush of water led to flooding in the Baltana area in Mohali district. To avoid a repeat, the department decided to release water in limited quantity, said sources in the department.Before this, on September 24, 2018, incessant rain in the catchment area had forced officials to open two floodgates of the lake. At that time, the gates were opened after a gap of 10 years.After the opening of the floodgates, the Sukhna choe carries the excess water of the lake into the Ghaggar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-near-danger-mark-sukhna-lake-floodgate-opened-third-time-this-season-314288
22-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Phase VII reports 60% of total dengue cases in Mohali district||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 21Phase VII in Mohali is the worst-hit by dengue as 60 per cent of the total 174 cases reported from the district during the past three weeks came from the area. The Health Department has swung into action and took samples from the affected areas in the district.Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon, confirmed that around 60 per cent of the cases surfaced in Phase VII and the rest from other parts of the district. She said since September 1, they had taken around 640 samples and 174 persons tested positive for dengue.She said, “We observe Friday as a ‘dry day’ when our teams check for stagnant water in various parts of the district.”Dr Adarshpal Kaur said they urged residents to take precautions, adding that the aedes aegypti species of mosquito, which causes dengue, “breeds till the end of November”. She said they had cautioned people against water-borne diseases like diarrhoea, cholera, typhoid, Hepatitis A and E during the rainy season and warned them against drinking contaminated water.The Civil Surgeon said dengue patients had high fever for five to six days and their platelet count could drop after the fever ceased. She said they had asked private hospitals to report suspected or confirmed dengue cases to the Health Department and send suspected samples immediately so that confirmatory tests could be conducted and remedial steps taken on time.Dengue testing and treatment were available free of cost in government hospitals across the district, she added.Take precautions: Civil SurgeonThe Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said they had urged residents to take precautions, adding that the aedes aegypti species of mosquito, which causes dengue, “breeds till the end of November”. She said they had cautioned people against water-borne diseases like diarrhoea, cholera, typhoid and Hepatitis A & E and warned them against drinking contaminated water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/phase-vii-reports-60-of-total-dengue-cases-in-mohali-district-314291
