24-09-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER to resume walk-in patients for physical visit to New OPD from Monday||In view of the current dip in Covid-19 patients, PGIMER has decided to resume walk-in patients for physical visit to the New OPD from Monday.Accordingly, the following protocol will be followed in New OPD of PGIMER from Monday.Registration for Tele-consultation in New OPD will be done from 8 am to 9 am on the same phone number as before i.e 0172-275991 which has 19 lines.  Registration of walk-in patients for physical visit to the New OPD which was earlier stopped will now be started and will be done from 9.15 am to 11 am at the respective registration counters.Online registration for physical visit to all OPDs which is currently capped at 30 patients per department will be increased to 50 for all departments and 100 for Opthalmology, Hepatology & Internal Medicine.The institute requests the public visiting OPDs of PGIMER to follow all Covid appropriate behaviour. The fight against Covid-19 is still on and large gatherings of people can lead to its spread, PGIMER said in a statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgimer-to-resume-walk-in-patients-for-physical-visit-to-new-opd-from-monday-315636
24-09-2021||Our Correspondent||Rajiv Nayyar appointed head coach of UTCA Ranji team||Chamba, September 23Former cricketer of Himachal Rajeev Nayyar from Chamba has been given the assignment as head coach of Ranji Trophy cricket team by the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA) Chandigarh.Expressing his gratitude to the governing body of the UTCA here on Thursday, Nayyar said he was thankful to UTCA president Sanjay Tandon for giving him the assignment as level ‘B’ coach.“I have an experience of 20 years in first class cricket. I was earlier a selector with Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) senior team for five years”, said Rajeev while sharing his experience. He said he had played cricket under the guidance of his father Major SC Nayyar, who was captain of the first HP Ranji team.Rajeev captained Himachal Pradesh Ranji Trophy for 10 years. He has to his credit several records at national and international level.Recipient of Parshuram award from the Himachal government, Rajeev’s name figured in the Guinness Book of World Record in 1999 for the longest stay at the wicket. He broke the 40 year old record made by legend batsman from Pakistan Hanif Mohammad.He emerged the first batsman from Himachal to score 952 runs in 1999 in first class cricket and got second position in batting in India in the year. He is the first batsman who scored a century for HP in Ranji Trophy. He is the first batsman of the state to score first century against Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Services and J&K and the first state bowler to get five wickets in a Ranji match.“I scored a century in my last game of Ranji match and won the game for my team,” Rajeev said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rajiv-nayyar-appointed-head-coach-of-utca-ranji-team-315473
24-09-2021||Panchkula||Suicide victim’s kin create ruckus at Panchkula hospital||Family members of a 25-year-old youth, who reportedly committed suicide, created ruckus on the Civil Hospital premises here this evening. They blamed doctors for not treating the youth on time, leading to his death.The youth, identified as Avtar Singh from Khark Mangoli, was declared dead on arrival at the hospital around 9 pm. The police rushed to the spot after receiving information.Inspector Mahabir Singh, SHO of the Sector 7 police station, said an agitated family member banged his head into a mirror of the emergency ward.“His identity is still unknown. We have received no complaint from doctors pertaining to misbehaviour or assault,” he said. CMO Dr Mukta Kumar couldn’t be contacted for comments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suicide-victims-kin-create-ruckus-at-panchkula-hospital-315240
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||21 transgenders jabbed at socio-medical camp||The Transgender Welfare Board, constituted under the chairmanship of the Chairman, Transgender Welfare Board-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner, organised a first-ever socio-medical vaccination camp for transgender persons at Bal Bhawan, Sector 23, here today.The camp was dedicated to mainstream the transgender persons by providing them with a common platform wherein they could avail of socio-medical benefits.Nitika Pawar, Secretary, Social Welfare, inaugurated the camp and launched a helpline for transgender persons.The camp was attended by 60 transgender persons. The facilities of Covid vaccination, general health check-up, processing and submission of application for Aadhaar card, voter card, ration card, transgender identity card and vocational and legal guidance were availed of by transgender persons. As many as 21 transgender persons were vaccinated against Covid-19 and 52 applications were submitted for voter card, Aadhaar card, transgender identity card and ration card. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/21-transgenders-jabbed-at-socio-medical-camp-315241
24-09-2021||---||MC elections: Polling stations likely to be increased in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 23State Election Commissioner SK Srivastava today discussed various issues pertaining to the preparations for the forthcoming Municipal Corporation (MC) elections with UT Adviser Dharam Pal and his team of officers. The elections are scheduled to be held in December as the tenure of the present MC is coming to an end on December 31.It was apprised that since the UT Administration has issued delimitation orders merging 13 villages with the Municipal Corporation, the number of polling stations should increase substantially this time. The number of polling stations should further increase due to limiting the number of electors to 1,000 per polling station due to Covid. Thus, the number of polling stations is likely to be over 700 as compared to 445 during the last elections.Accordingly, the State Election Commissioner asked the UT Adviser to provide adequate arrangements and police personnel to ensure smooth and transparent elections. He also directed that requisite arrangements/preparation be made timely.The UT Adviser committed that all logistics, manpower and infrastructure would be provided as per the requirement of the Commission. The present pandemic scenario was also discussed and he assured that the Administration would make adequate provisions to follow the prescribed Covid-19 protocol during the elections. He also confirmed that all adequate arrangements would be ensured by head of departments in a time-bound manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-elections-polling-stations-likely-to-be-increased-in-chandigarh-315245
24-09-2021||---||Floor-wise sale of houses: NOCs mentioning particular floors not issued : Estate Office||Chandigarh, September 23The UT Estate Office today claimed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court that it does not issue no-objection certificates (NOCs) mentioning particular floors. “No such NOC mentioning floor on the basis of share of owner/co-owner was issued by the deponent - Assistant Estate Officer or any of his predecessors as per records,” Harjeet Singh Sandhu asserted.In an affidavit placed before the Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri, it was added that the only exception were the “ones which may have been issued on the basis of registered sale deeds executed while the Chandigarh Apartment Rules - 2001 were in vogue”.The Assistant Estate Officer was on Wednesday directed to furnish the affidavit specifying whether NOCs were issued by the Chandigarh Administration/competent authority indicating not only the owner’s share, but also the floor. The direction came nearly five years after the brick-by-brick demolition of the city’s glorious past with the raising of apartments from the debris of palatial houses came under judicial scanner.During the course of hearing, the Bench referred to an office order dated August 20 issued by the UT Assistant Estate Officer. The Bench asserted its perusal gave the impression that the Estate Office while issuing the NOC to the banks to facilitate certain loan transactions mentioned share percentage as well as the floor. Accordingly, a clarification was circulated that fragmentation of the property was not allowed in Chandigarh and only the percentage of share may be indicated.The Bench, as such, called upon the counsel representing UT, Anil Mehta, to clarify whether no-objection certificates have been issued by the Chandigarh Administration/competent authority indicating not only the share but also the floor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/floor-wise-sale-of-houses-nocs-mentioning-particular-floors-not-issued-estate-office-315243
24-09-2021||---||Mosquito larvae found at houses, 153 challaned in Mohali||Mohali, September 23Concerned over surfacing of a large number of dengue cases, the Mohali Municipal Corporation issued 153 challans to people on whose houses mosquito larvae was found.MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said the Municipal Corporation had formed four teams of the sanitation branch comprising the Chief Sanitary Inspector, the Sanitary Inspector and the Sanitary Supervisor. These teams were regularly conducting checking of dengue larvae in their respective areas in coordination with Health Department officials.Garg said the MC had been consistently carrying out fogging throughout the city since April with five GPS-equipped vehicle-mounted machines. There were two shoulder-mounted machines through which fogging was being conducted in slum areas and other places where big machines could not enter.Garg said in the villages within the limits of the Municipal Corporation, anti-larvicide was being used in ponds to check dengue larvae. People were being told about downloading “Dengue Free Punjab” app. Banners, posters and pamphlets were also being regularly distributed among people to spread awareness about dengue, chikungunya and other vector-borne diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mosquito-larvae-found-at-houses-153-challaned-in-mohali-315244
24-09-2021||---||Mohali Civil Surgeon seeks support in fighting dengue||Mohali, September 23Concerned over the spread of dengue and other vector-borne diseases in the district, the Health Department here has issued a stern warning to the households where large number of larvae have been found.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “A total of 180 cases of dengue fever have been reported so far, out of which 76 are from urban areas.”The inspection, fogging and awareness campaign by 13 teams of the district Health Department for the prevention of dengue fever has been going on continuously since March this year, she said.On the directions of Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia, Dr Adarshpal Kaur and district epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra have once again appealed to the residents to take necessary precautions to save themselves from dengue fever.The duo asked people to regularly clean coolers, refrigerator trays, pots, empty tires, boxes and other containers, besides observing “every Friday as dry day”.The Civil Surgeon asked people to be alert and vigilant against dengue and not allow stagnation of water in and around their homes.She also said when the Municipal Corporation teams come for fogging, the doors and windows of the houses should be kept open.Dr Adarshpal Kaur sought people’s cooperation in preventing dengue and said: “The Health Department is making continuous efforts in this direction, but the district can be made dengue free only with the help of the people.”She said there was no definite season for dengue fever. However, it is more prevalent from July to November, so caution is very much needed even during the months of October and November.People should wear clothes that cover the entire body, she said.The Civil Surgeon further said if there was a suspected dengue case, he/she should immediately visit the nearest hospital. Dengue testing and treatment is available free of cost in government hospitals across the district, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-civil-surgeon-seeks-support-in-fighting-dengue-315248
24-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Charges framed against Chandigarh school teacher in rape case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23A local court has framed charges against a government schoolteacher for allegedly raping a Mid-Day Meal worker.Swati Sehgal, Judge, Fast Track Special Court, Chandigarh, has framed the charges against the accused under Section 376-D of the IPC.Though the counsel for the accused filed a discharge application, it was dismissed by the court. In the discharge application moved under Section 227 of the CrPC, the accused claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case. He said the case was registered against him on the false complaint of the prosecutrix.The prosecutrix is working as a Mid-Day Meal worker at a government school where the accused was also employed as a teacher. The prosecutrix alleged that the accused developed physical relations with her on the pretext of marriage. Consequently, the prosecutrix got pregnant. The prosecutrix further alleged that the accused also gave her pills for abortion.The prosecutrix said she came to know from the vice-principal of the school that the accused was married and also a father of two children. Later, she filed a complaint before the police. The accused claimed that the prosecutrix was aware of his marital status. He submitted the WhatsApp messages shared between them to prove his claim.He claimed that despite working in the same school, it was highly improbable that the prosecutrix was unaware of his marital status. He also claimed that no specific date or place of the offence was mentioned in the challan.The prosecution opposed the application, saying the case was registered after an investigation.After hearing the arguments, the court said the plea raised by the applicant-accused that he was falsely implicated in the case was a matter of trial. Text messages were not considered to be material of sterling quality as their admissibility was also a subject matter of trial.“At the stage of framing of charges, the court is only to sift prima facie case. In view of the discussion, the application is dismissed being devoid of merit. Let the accused be chargesheeted. In view of the final report under Section 173 of the CrPC, a prima facie case for the commission of offence punishable under Section 376 (2) of the IPC is made out against the person,” said the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charges-framed-against-chandigarh-school-teacher-in-rape-case-315247
24-09-2021||---||Test, trace, vaccinate to contain Covid-19 in Mohali district: DC||Mohali, September 23Emphasising on testing, tracing and vaccination to prevent the spread of Covid-19, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia today asserted that health officials should particularly focus on testing and contact tracing of Covid patients.The Deputy Commissioner said the focus should be on enhancing the administration of the second dose of the Covid vaccine with full vigour. During a meeting with health officials to review the Covid-19 action plan, she laid thrust onthe complete vaccination of all eligible persons in the district.Isha Kalia, who was accompanied by Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur, told the officials that any kind of negligence in this task would be dealt with a heavy hand. She said as per the government’s directives, all teachers should be vaccinated before attending their duty at schools to ensure the safety of children in educational institutions. Strengthening bed capacity was of utmost priority to cater to demand in view of a possible third wave.Speaking about dengue and other vector-borne diseases, Kalia said MCs should identify hotspots so that pre-empt measure could be taken to prevent the spread. She also asked MC officials to intensify fogging drive. Vulnerable areas of cholera and diarrhoea should be identified as soon as possible and random water sampling should be initiated by joint teams of multi-purpose health workers and MCs concerned in these areas.Additional Deputy Commissioner Komal Mittal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Himanshu Agarwal, Assistant Commissioner (G) Tarsem Chand, Mohali SDM Harbans Singh, Kharar SDM Akansh Bansal and Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa were prominent among those present in the meeting.All teachers should be vaccinated: IshaMohali Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said as per the government’s directives, all teachers should be vaccinated before attending their duty at schools to ensure the safety of children in educational institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/test-trace-vaccinate-to-contain-covid-19-in-mohali-district-dc-315246
24-09-2021||---||Gaurav Patial hand in Vicky Middukhera’s murder in Mohali, says SSP||Mohali, September 23The murder of Vikramjit Singh, alias Vicky Middukhera, in front of a property dealer’s shop in the Sector 71 market here is linked to Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, who is running the Davinder Bambiha gang from Armenia.Disclosing this here today, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Satinder Singh said investigations established the hand of Lucky, a resident of Khuda Lahora, Chandigarh, in the murder of Vicky Middukhera. He said Lucky was presently residing in Armenia. After the murder of Middukhera, the Davinder Bambiha gang had claimed its responsibility. He said during investigation, it was found out that Kaushal Chaudhary, a resident of Naharpur Rupa village in Gurugram district who is now lodged in the Karnal Jail, had coordinated with fugitive members of his gang to help Lucky.The SSP said it was Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, who had conspired to kill Vicky Middukhera with the help of Kaushal Chaudhary and Amit Dagar, who is lodged in the Mandoli Jail. He said on Amit Dagar’s instructions, Sajjan, alias Bholu, from Jhajjar, Haryana, and Anil Kumar from Dwarka in Delhi, had chased and shot dead Middukhera.He said production warrants had been issued against Kaushal Chaudhary and Amit Dagar. In this case, Kaushal Chaudhary had been arrested after seeking his production warrant and he was currently in the police remand. During the interrogation, Kaushal was expected to reveal more facts in the case.Satinder said it was also revealed that Lucky had planned the murder of Sukhmeet, alias Deputy, a resident of Jalandhar, on June 20 this year. The murder was committed by Kaushal Chaudhary’s fugitive accomplice Vikas Mahale of Dhanwapur village, Gurugram district, Puneet Sharma of Jalandhar and an unidentified person. A case in this regard was also registered at the Division No. 2 police station, Jalandhar. Kaushal Chaudhary was arrested by the Jalandhar police in the case after getting him on production warrant.It is pertinent to mention here that Middukhera was shot dead by two men while he was boarding his SUV after visiting a property dealer in Sector 71 here on August 7. He had sustained 12 bullet injuries. The same day, the Devinder Bambiha gang had claimed the responsibility for the murder through a Facebook post.Incident took place on August 7Vikramjit Singh, alias Vicky Middukhera, was shot dead by two men while he was boarding his SUV after visiting a property dealer in Sector 71 here on August 7. He had sustained 12 bullet injuries. The same day, the Devinder Bambiha gang had claimed the responsibility for the murder through a Facebook post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gaurav-patial-hand-in-vicky-middukheras-murder-in-mohali-says-ssp-315242
24-09-2021||---||Saanvi Garg eases into semifinals||Mohali, September 23Top seed Saanvi Garg outclassed Ajenika Puri 6-1 6-1 to enter the girls’ U-16 semifinals in the ongoing Roots-AITA TS7 National Ranking Championship.Second seed Isheeta Midha registered a facile 6-3 6-0 win over Tamanna Walia, while Agampreet Kaur drubbed Paavni Panwar 6-3 6-3.In the last quarterfinal match, Mannat Awasthi rallied to beat Poonam 2-6 7-6(4) 10-1 win.In the boys’ U-16 category, top seed Shraey Vir outplayed Parth Sharma 6-0 6-1, while Arpit Garg advanced to the last-four round with a convincing 6-1 6-1 win over Karen Singh.Parmarth Kaushik edged out Armaan Walia 6-1 6-3 and Keshav Dangi thrashed Aryan Jolly 6-1 6-1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/saanvi-garg-eases-into-semifinals-315238
24-09-2021||---||Installation of  ‘defective’ CCTV cameras costs shop owner dear||Chandigarh, September 23Installing defective CCTV cameras costs dear to a shop owner as the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission here not only directed him to refund Rs35,000 to the consumer, but also directed him to pay Rs15,000 as compensation for mental agony, physical harassment and litigation expenses.Sukant Gupta, a resident of the Sector 33, Chandigarh, in his complaint to the commission said he had got installed an eight channel CCTV with six cameras, including two dome cameras, four bullet cameras and one terra-byte hard drive at his residence through Ram Enterprises, Sector 17, on December 15, 2019 by paying Rs35,000.He claimed the system, however, started giving problems right from the inception.After the installation of the CCTV system, one or other camera kept breaking down or was giving poor quality and hazy video feed, he said.The shop owner provided only temporary fixes because of which it continued to breakdown frequently, said the complainant.Gupta said he made repeated requests to the shop owner to replace the faulty system, but to no avail.The acts of omission and commission on part of the shop amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice, claimed Gupta.The shop owner pleaded that they has charged Rs25,000 only instead of Rs35,000 as alleged.He stated that the service engineers visited the premises of the complainant more than 10 times as a goodwill gesture within a period of six months to rectify the cameras. Besides, he was also being advised to approach the manufacturer for redressal of his grievance, but he did not do so.The shop owner also stated that the CCTV cameras were damaged due to lightning, which was an act of God and not in their control, and therefore, they were not responsible for the incident.After hearing both the sides, the commission comprising president Rajan Dewan and members Priti Malhotra and BM Sharma held the shop guilty of deficiency in service.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/installation-of-defective-cctv-cameras-costs-shop-owner-dear-315249
24-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University to set up placement cell for athletes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23The Directorate of Sports, Panjab University, will now have a dedicated placement cell, specially meant for the sportspersons of the affiliated colleges seeking directions for securing their future.The placement cell will be introduced with an aim to provide job assistance to the outstanding sportspersons of the university and its affiliated colleges, said Prashant Kumar Gautam, Director, Sports, Panjab University.Prashant Kumar Gautam, Director, Sports, Panjab University A lot of recruitment is done under the sports quota in various organisations. Institutions like the Army ask us about our meritorious players. This cell will zero in on such opportunities. It will help players secure their future.The proposal to set up the cell was approved by the executive committee of the PU Sports Committee in its meeting yesterday.“It is expected that this initiative will also attract good sportspersons to the university. This will also solve the dual purpose of improving the NAAC rankings,” said Gautam.The cell will deal with adjusting sportspersons in various PSUs, Indian Army, Police Department and other sectors.“A lot of recruitment is done under sports quota in various organisations. Institutions like the Army ask us about our meritorious players. This cell will zero in on such opportunities. It will help players secure their future,” Gautam added.Asked about arranging special training to help players learn recruitment drills, he said such programmes would also be introduced.“The cell will also arrange need-based training/courses. Also, we are planning to hire some expertise to help players in getting specialised training,” Gautam informed.Though the initiative has been welcomed by the sportspersons, there have been concerns too.“This is a welcome step and will encourage sportspersons. However, the authorities should also arrange special classes for sportspersons to clear their degrees. Many meritorious sportspersons fail to secure their future as they fail to excel in academics,” said a senior coach.“Also, the university should get undertaking from sportspersons so that they represent Panjab University for a minimum of three regular years to become eligible for getting enrolled under the placement programme,” said the coach.Another coach said: “This will surely help sportspersons get specialised guidance. There are many players in Punjab who fail to get a proper direction. The university should also tie up with national/international clubs or academies, so that players can play professional leagues. Not all sportspersons will be able to get jobs, they will also get an opportunity to play at the highest level.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-set-up-placement-cell-for-athletes-315224
24-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Tennis courts at govt schools in a shambles in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23At a time when private associations are submitting representations for taking over government school grounds, the already allotted facilities are in a shambles.In 2013, the UT Education Department had signed an MoU with the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) to train students of Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 23; GMSSS-16; GMSSS-33 and Government Model High School, Sector 41.A coachGovernment schools have everything with them. The only thing they lack is the vision…how to use the infrastructure. The Administration keeps on experimenting and keeps wasting public money. This practice should stop.However in 2019, the department took back these grounds, citing non-compliance. Since then, these fields have been totally neglected.“Government schools have everything with them. The only thing they lack is the vision…how to use the infrastructure. The Administration keeps on experimenting and keeps wasting public money. This practice should stop,” said a coach.“The indoor sports complexes are no different. Chandigarh has over 10 sports complexes of similar size with similar facilities. The Administration should understand that their duty is to provide facilities to all and not only a selected few,” he said.“Many private sports associations are capable of running the show, but they still take government’s help. There’s no harm in that, but they should be answerable. Who is responsible for poor condition of these tennis grounds?” the coach asked.These courts have been in such a neglected state that no major national/state championships could be held there. Even schoolchildren were not allowed to use the courts due to non-availability of coaches.The Education Department had planned to hand these courts to the UT Sports Department, but the latter is already overburdened with the maintenance of coaching complexes.“The government should run the show instead of looking for options. Having raised the infrastructure, it’s their duty to look after it. They should appoint coaches, train young kids and produce players for the nation. Despite having so many grounds – there are over 120 government schools in Chandigarh – we failed to provide a sports-friendly environment in these institutions,” said a physical training instructor of a government school.Pact with CLTAIn 2013, the UT Education Department had signed an MoU with the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association to train students of GMSSS-23; GMSSS-16; GMSSS-33 and Government Model High School, Sector 41. However in 2019, the Education Department took back these grounds, citing non-compliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tennis-courts-at-govt-schools-in-a-shambles-in-chandigarh-315236
24-09-2021||Amarjot Kaur||After Luxembourg, Milan withdraws Chandigarh’s heritage furniture from auction website||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23First Luxembourg, now Italy. For the second time in 11 years, within a time passage of less than a week, another European auction house has retracted UT’s heritage furniture from its website just hours before the auction.The website www.visconteacasadaste.com has retracted item number 45, a pair of Jeanneret-designed kangaroo chairs, which were to go under the hammer for an estimated price range between Rs5.62 lakh and Rs7.79 lakh in Milan on September 22.Four days ago, a website – www.luxauction.com – withdrew six items identified as heritage furniture of Chandigarh and designed by Pierre Jeanneret. Priced between Rs52.55 lakh and Rs64.71 lakh, these items were to be auctioned in Luxembourg on September 18.On both occasions, a member of UT’s heritage panel had sent emails to the culture ministries of Luxembourg and Italy, red-flagging the auction of city’s heritage by citing an MHA order which bans its export.In the letters, he also demanded the return of city’s cultural heritage to its rightful owner.He appealed to the ministries for investigating into the procurement of Jeanneret-designed furniture by the auction house on the basis of sale and custom-clearance invoice and visa details of buyers.In his representation to Italy’s culture minister Dario Franceschini, Ajay Jagga, member of the UT’s Heritage Items Protection Cell, stated that he had also sent a communication about the auction to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), Belgium.“Considering that United Nations is also supporting the countries on the issue of cultural trafficking,” Jagga wrote.He had also addressed the communication to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Dr Neena Malhotra, India’s Ambassador to Italy, on September 20.The auctioning of city’s heritage items and then their retraction after the interference of government and diplomatic channels have raised critical concern over the issue of trafficking cultural objects. However, it is not clear whether Italy or Luxembourg are still investigating into the matter.Thanking Italy’s culture minister for withdrawing the article, Jagga wrote: “On the day of auction, till the end of the day, I observed that Chandigarh’s kangaroo chairs (pair) vide Lot No. 45 was withdrawn with the title RITIRATO (means withdrawal). I must convey my gratitude to Italy, as it appears that the item is withdrawn due to some kind of examination/probe in this matter.”Not for salewww.visconteacasadaste.com retracted item No. 45, a pair of Jeanneret-designed kangaroo chairs, which were to go under the hammer for an estimated price range between Rs5.62 lakh and Rs7.79 lakh in Milan on September 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-luxembourg-milan-withdraws-chandigarhs-heritage-furniture-from-auction-website-315250
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||Youth held for snatching mobile in Chandigarh||Youth arrested with heroinChandigarh: The local police have arrested a 21-year-old youth with 38 gm of heroin. The police said the suspect, Amit, a resident of Sector 52, was arrested from near the grain market in Sector 39. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. TNSMan nailed with stolen bikeChandigarh: A Mohali resident, Sarwan Mahto (31), was nabbed by the UT police while riding a stolen bike with a fake registration number. The suspect was nabbed from Sector 38 (West). A case has been registered. TNSPU exam on Sept 27 postponedChandigarh: Panjab University has postponed all the examinations - golden chance/improvement/additional category (offline mode) - scheduled for September 27 in view of the Bharat bandh call given by the farmers union. The examinations, which were scheduled for September 27, will be now conducted on October 1, the university said here on Thursday. TNSPhotography competitionChandigarh: Punjab Engineering College is organising a ‘Centenary year photography competition’ to pay an ode to the 100-year-long legacy of the institution and accommodate the best pieces to be used as the background for various souvenirs being released as a part of the occasion. The five-day competition started on September 21 and the results will be announced on September 27. The top three photographers will be awarded cash prizes of Rs50,000 along with certificates of excellence from the institute. TNSTable Tennis meet from Oct 3Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Table Tennis Association will organise the Gurkul Global 34th Chandigarh State Table Tennis Championship - 2021 for Sardar Gurmeet Singh Grewal Memorial Trophy, at Sector 50 Sports Complex, from October 3-8. The championship will be conducted in U-11 (players born on or after January 1, 2011), cadets U-13 (players born or after January 1, 2009), sub-junior U-15 (players born on or after January 1, 2007), junior U-17 (players born on or after January 1, 2005), junior (players born on or after January 1, 2013) and senior men’s and women’s categories. TNSHit by train, labourer diesMohali: A migrant labourer died after being hit by a train between Swada and Landra villages here on Thursday. The train was coming from Hazur Sahib and was on its way to Una. Jagdeep Singh, Railway Chowki in-charge, Kharar, said the identity of the migrant labourer, who was around 36 years old, was yet to be ascertained. The body had been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital for 72 hours for identification purpose. TNSMan jumps in front of train, killedChandigarh: A 40-year-old man, Harjinder Singh, committed suicide by jumping in front of a goods train near the Peer Sohana area of Gharuan here on Thursday. The driver of the goods train informed the Railway Police about the incident. The police have registered a case and handed over the body to the family after a postmortem examination. During investigation, it was revealed that Harjinder was suffering from depression and undergoing treatment at the PGI. TNSAll set for police constable exam Fatehgarh Sahib: The Fatehgarh Sahib police have made fool-proof security arrangements for the smooth conduct of the written test for the recruitment of constables. The written test will be held on September 25 and 26 in two shifts. Six centres have been set up for 16,000 candidates in the district, said SSP Sandeep Goel. “Stringent security measures have been taken. No one will be allowed in 300-500m radius of examination centres. The frisking of candidates will be of airport standard,” he said. — OCU-14, U-16 probable squads announcedChandigarh: The Chandigarh Cricket Association, affiliated with the Haryana Cricket Association, has announced boys’ U-14 and U-16 probables’ squad for an upcoming preparation camp.U-14: Arpit Somal, Digvijay, Kabir Johar, Harjagteshwar, Ashmit, Kartik Rana, Arjun Veer, Shashank Dumka, Apoorve Bansal, Manan Arora, Mahir Singla, Sachit, Samardeep Singh, Atul Sharma, Abhisar, Ranvir Arora, Vansh, Harshit Kumar, Hardikpreet, Arnav Sharma, Rohan Jindal, Tanishq Singh, Aarav Sahu, Manraj and Saksham.U-16: Ehit Salaria, Piyush, Chirag Makkar, Krishan Rajpal, Himalaya Patel, Lakshay Sood, Jivesh, Chaityanya Sharma, Kartik Sharma, Mahir Singla, Tanmay, Pawan, Harnoor Nanda, Cheta, Gursharan Singh, Sohil Jeet, Aryan Kumar, Ritik Rai, Manish, Tejas, Depanshu, Gautam, Chiranjiv, Samarth, Anand and Suraj Prakash. TNSPU among top 350 varsities in AsiaChandigarh: Panjab University has been ranked in the bracket of 1001-1200 in the QS World University Rankings - 2022 issued on Thursday. The institution was ranked 251-300 in the QS Rankings by subject and 301-350 among Asian universities. The universities are assessed on six different metrics. Panjab University has scored 5.2 points on academic reputation, 15.1 on citations per faculty, 3.6 on employer reputation, 4.6 on student-faculty ratio and 1.1 on international student ratio. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-for-snatching-mobile-in-chandigarh-315261
24-09-2021||Mohali||Mohali: IISER student ends his life||A student of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in Sector 81 here ended his life by jumping off the eighth floor of his hostel building last night. A security guard saw the body the next day at 6.15 am.Sohana SHO Bhagwant Singh said the victim, Utkarsh Pratap Singh (22) of Sant Kabir Nagar in Uttar Pradesh, left behind a note stating that no one should be blamed for his death as despite studying hard, he could score only 80 per cent marks instead of 90 per cent. He said the victim had come to the hostel yesterday from his native place after about a year and a half. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-iiser-student-ends-his-life-315251
24-09-2021||---||Covid: No death, one infected in Mohali district||Mohali, September 23One more Covid case was reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,708. No fresh death was reported, while six patients were cured of the virus.The only case surfaced in Mohali (urban). Of the 68,708 positive cases reported so far, 67,610 patients have been cured. There are now 35 active casesin the district.City reports just 1 caseChandigarh: The city recorded just one coronavirus case on Thursday. The overall case tally now stands at 65,202. The toll remained unchanged at 819. With five fresh recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 64,343. TNS4 +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported four fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 30,726. The toll remained at 377. While 30,329 people have recovered from the disease so far, 20 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.70 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-no-death-one-infected-in-mohali-district-315260
24-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh SCF owners get justice after 18 years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23After 18 years, the owners of a shop-cum-flat (SCF) in the city have finally got justice.The UT Chief Administrator has set aside an order of the Estate Officer demanding misuse charges from the SCF owners. A penalty of Rs18 lakh imposed on the owners on account of misuse charges has also been waived.Appeals were filed in the court of Dr Vijay Namdeorao Zade, UT Chief Administrator, by the SCF owner and his son, the co-owner, against the orders passed by the Assistant Estate Officer (AEO) on March 24, 2009, and against the demand of misuse charges from the appellants vide memo dated March 5, 2014, in respect of the SCF.In the appeals, Vikas Jain, counsel for the appellants, submitted that the SCF in Sector 18 was earlier resumed as the misuse existed at the site. Against the resumption order, a revision petition was filed before the UT Adviser in 2002 which was disposed of on June 19, 2002, whereby the site was restored to the owner subject to the payment of a 10 per cent penalty. Further, the petitioner was directed to apply for a change in trade within 30 days.In the order, the Adviser had specifically mentioned that as per the amendment in the Building Rules, the change of trade has been allowed by the Chandigarh Administration and as such the petitioner was free to apply for it. In compliance with the order, the owners deposited the penalty and applied for the change in trade within stipulated time. However, the AEO on October 27, 2003, issued a fresh show-cause notice to the owners upon proceedings which had already been disposed of by the Adviser.“If the Estate Officer had any grouse against the order passed by the Adviser, they could have filed a civil writ petition before the High Court against the order, but instead of doing so, and in utter disobedience to the order passed the Adviser, the Estate Officer initiated fresh proceedings of misuse against the owners and demanded misuse charges in pursuance of the order passed by the AEO,” stated Jain.He contended that when the owners had already complied with the order passed by the Adviser by depositing the penalty and by applying for change of trade within stipulated time, how could the Estate Office initiate fresh proceedings on the same issue which had already been disposed of by the Adviser?Therefore, he requested to set aside the AEO order dated March 24, 2009, and the letter dated March 5, 2014, whereby the misuse charges were demanded from the appellants.The counsel for the Estate Office agreed with the contentions of the counsel for the appellants that the owners had duly complied with the order passed by the Adviser. The counsel admitted the applicability of a notification dated June 5, 2002, which was issued by the Administration whereby conversion from one trade to another was allowed, in the present case.“On the basis of the consensus arrived at between both the parties, the appeals are accepted and the impugned orders dated March 24, 2009, and March 5, 2014, passed by the AEO and the Estate Officer, respectively, are set aside,” ordered the Chief Administrator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-scf-owners-get-justice-after-18-years-315252
24-09-2021||---||Rs 36-lakh Property Tax dues: Two SCOs owned by Ansal group sealed in Panchkula||Panchkula, September 23The local Municipal Corporation has sealed two shop-cum-offices (SCOs), owned by the Ansal group, in Sector 5 for failing to clear the pending property tax dues.Ansal Housing and Construction Limited owes Rs36 lakh as property tax to the civic body.Yesterday, the MC had pasted a notice on the Ansal group-owned properties — SCO 194-195 in Sector 5 — giving it the last opportunity to deposit its tax dues.“Due to failure to comply, the action has been taken. The owner was earlier given time for a personal hearing, but he showed no interest,” said Gulshan Kumar, Zonal Taxation Officer, Panchkula MC. “All property tax defaulters have been put on notice for the recovery of dues. If they fail to deposit their dues, similar action will be taken against them,” he said.Property tax worth Rs37 crore is yet to be paid to the Panchkula Municipal Corporation. A sum of around Rs17.5 crore is to be recovered from 14 establishments with each having dues of over Rs5 lakh.The property tax defaulters include hotels, banks, government buildings, the Gymkhana Club and petrol stations.The list of defaulters had only grown in recent years, leaving the civic body in poor financial health, officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-36-lakh-property-tax-dues-two-scos-owned-by-ansal-group-sealed-in-panchkula-315253
24-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Illegal entry towards cycle tracks to invite Chandigarh Municipal Corporation wrath||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23Owners of houses with illegal rear entry found releasing water on to cycle tracks or encroaching on the adjoining area will be taken to task.The local Municipal Corporation will serve notices on house owners who have made illegal entry, window or some other change in the rear side of their residences towards cycle tracks. It leads to flow of water, which damages the cycle tracks.Some have allegedly encroached upon the area adjoining the cycle tracks by using barbed wires. Some park their cars on these tracks. People will be held accountable for the violations, which have been going on for a long time, and asked to remove these. The violation is spotted along various roads, including the ones separating Sector 45 and 46, 46 and 47, and in Sector 56.“We are identifying houses from where water flows on to cycle tracks and damages them. We will serve notices on the house owners,” said Anindita Mitra, Commissioner, MC.Mitra has already formed a joint team of MC and UT Administration officials to check various issues related to cycle tracks, including potholes, barbed wires and cables hindering riders and dumping of debris.“The joint team has identified and already started fixing the violations,” added Mitra.The city recently launched the public bike-sharing project and made bicycles available at various docking stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-entry-towards-cycle-tracks-to-invite-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-wrath-315256
24-09-2021||---||Chandigarh should not fiddle with master plan: Eminent citizens to Banwarilal Purohit||Chandigarh, September 23Concerned over various issues being faced by the city, a group of eminent citizens, including a former Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court, Justice SS Sodhi (retd), senior advocate Manmohan Sarin and art historian Dr BN Goswamy, today called on UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit and apprised him of the issues.Sarin said the Chandigarh Master Plan-2031, which was prepared after many years of hard work and approved by the Union Government, should not be fiddled with.Large-scale illegal construction had taken place in UT villages in violation of the master plan. Such unauthorised and unplanned construction had changed the character of the city. The first flyover project of the city, which was to come up at Tribune Chowk, was also not in sync with the master plan. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the axing of trees for the project.The master plan was sacrosanct and the Administration should not tamper with it, the eminent citizens said.Expressing concern over the ever-increasing traffic in the city, Justice Sodhi said the traffic needed to be regulated as it had become difficult to move from one sector to another. Justice Sodhi also pushed for protection of the eco-sensitive zone around the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary.Dr Goswamy said there was need to protect the city because of its unique character. “It is a planned city and we are lucky to have it,” he said. Dr Goswamy presented two books to the Administrator authored by him. Justice Sodhi, former president of the Blood Bank Society, and Sarin, the current president, presented a book on 50 years of the society to Purohit.Sarin said the Administrator asked them to give a representation mentioning the points raised by them and assured them that he would try to do his best.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-should-not-fiddle-with-master-plan-eminent-citizens-to-banwarilal-purohit-315254
24-09-2021||Amit Sharma||At 30.1, Chandigarh’s missing children recovery %age fourth lowest||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 23The city has the fourth lowest recovery percentage of missing children in the country. While Punjab has the lowest percentage at 19.8, Ladakh has 20 per cent recovery followed by Jammu and Kashmir at 29.2 per cent and Chandigarh at 30.1 per cent.A report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) released recently reveals that 356 children — 167 boys and 189 girls — were missing from previous years, while 153 children — 44 boys and 109 girls — went missing from the city in 2020.Of the 509 missing children from previous years and 2020, the police managed to trace only 153 children — 43 boys and 110 girls.The police have to register a kidnapping case within 24 hours of a child going missing.A police official said there were several cases of elopement among missing children.“In the past, it has also been observed that children leave home to avoid going to school,” said a police official.Some other reasons behind children going missing include abusive families and unemployment within family, owing to which children run away from their homes.Every year, the local police hold a month-long programme, Operation Muskan, to trace missing children. Several teams are constituted and sent to neighboring states, including Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan to trace missing children.The programme is being held since 2015. However, due to Covid-19, it could not be organised in 2020, but was held in April this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-30-1-chandigarhs-missing-children-recovery-age-fourth-lowest-315255
24-09-2021||Chandigarh||French experts in Chandigarh for 24x7 water supply||Experts from French development agency AFD and the EU today visited the city to review the 24x7 water supply project. The team will study the technical aspects of the project and visit the project sites till September 25.The team met Anindita Mitra, MC Commissioner-cum-CEO, Chandigarh Smart City Ltd, and other officers. Mitra welcomed the team, including Pierre and Ankit from the AFD and Delphine and Jatin from the EU, and conveyed gratitude towards the EU for the grant-in-aid and the AFD for the loan.She said the project estimated to cost Rs591.57 crore stood approved by the AFD/EU. Mitra said the team would visit the Sector 39 waterworks, resettlement colonies, slum colonies and the MC office to assess its supply system and talk to officials, technical experts, engineers and residents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/french-experts-in-chandigarh-for-24x7-water-supply-315259
24-09-2021||---||Sukhna Lake floodgate opened, second time in 3 days||Chandigarh, September 23One of the three floodgates of Sukhna Lake was opened at 2 pm today after its water level reached near the danger mark of 1,163 ft. Due to rain in the city and the catchment area of the lake, the water level reached 1,162.95 ft when the gate was opened.It is the second time in three days that the authorities have opened the floodgate and fourth time this monsoon season. Earlier, the gate was opened on September 21, August 9 and August 14.An official of the UT Engineering Department said the floodgate was closed at 5.45 pm. He, however, said there was a continuous flow of water into the Sukhna from the catchment area of the lake.An alert was sounded in the neighbouring areas and to avoid flooding downstream, the water was released in a limited quantity, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhna-lake-floodgate-opened-second-time-in-3-days-315257
24-09-2021||---||Chandigarh sees 31 mm of rainfall, mercury dips||Chandigarh, September 23The maximum temperature in the city today dropped by over five degrees owing to 31 mm of rainfall.Also read: Sukhna Lake floodgate opened, second time in 3 daysYesterday, the maximum temperature was 30.4 °C, which dropped to 25°C today. It was eight degrees below normal. The minimum temperature dropped from 24.8°C yesterday to 24°C today. It was, however, still three degrees above normal.According to the weatherman, no rain is expected for the next three days. Despite good rain in the past few days, the monsoon deficit is still 31 per cent so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-31-mm-of-rainfall-mercury-dips-315258
24-09-2021||---||30 not allowed to board Sharjah flight at Chandigarh airport||Mohali, September 23Ruckus was witnessed at the Chandigarh international airport as 30 passengers, who were to board a flight to Sharjah, were not allowed to do so by immigration check officials today as they did not fulfil the Covid guidelines.The airport authorities had to call the police after the passengers raised a hue and cry over being stopped from boarding the Sharjah flight.DSP Amroz Singh said the police intervention prevented the law and order situation from going out of hand at the airport. He said the passengers were not fulfilling the Covid guidelines issued by the UAE due to which they were not allowed to board the flight.The flight was operated according to the new Covid guidelines issued by the UAE. Rapid antigen tests for all passengers were conducted at the airport. However, some passengers did not fulfil the norms and were not allowed to board the flight.After nearly two months, international flight operations resumed at the airport today with the departure of the Sharjah flight.Ajay Bhardwaj, CEO, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said Air India Express AXB188/187, carrying 29 passengers, arrived at 2.55 pm. He said 131 passengers boarded the flight for Sharjah, which departed from Chandigarh at 6 pm. He said the flight to Sharjah would operate every Thursday and Sunday.Cops called||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-not-allowed-to-board-sharjah-flight-at-chandigarh-airport-315262
24-09-2021||Mohali||Ruckus at Chandigarh airport as 30 passengers not allowed to board Sharjah flight||Ruckus was witnessed at the Chandigarh International Airport as about 30 passengers, who were to board the flight to Sharjah were not allowed to by the immigration check officials on Thursday evening as they did not fulfil the Covid guidelines.The airport authorities had to call the police after the passengers raised hue and cry for being denied permission to board the Sharjah flight.DSP Amroz Singh said the police intervention prevented the deterioration of the law and order situation at the airport. He said that the passengers were not fulfilling the Covid guidelines issued by UAE because of which they were not allowed to board the flight.The departure flight was operated according to the new Covid guidelines issued by UAE. The Rapid PCR tests for all the departing passengers was conducted at the airport itself, however some of the passengers did not fulfil the norms and were not allowed to board the flight.It is pertinent to mention here that after a period of about two months international flight operations were resumed at Chandigarh international airport on Thursday with the departure of Sharjah flight.Ajay Bhardwaj, CEO Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL), said that Air India Express, AXB188/187 carrying 29 passengers arrived at 2:55 pm.He said 131 passengers boarded the flight for Sharjah which departed from Chandigarh at 6 pm and added that international flight to Sharjah will operate every Thursday and Sunday in the week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ruckus-at-chandigarh-airport-as-30-passengers-not-allowed-to-board-sharjah-flight-315200
