25-09-2021||---||Chandigarh reports 4 new Covid cases, no deaths||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25Chandigarh reported four covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, a bulletin from the administration said.The union territory now has 44 active cases. Chandigarh’s positivity rate over the last week is 0.20 per cent. No deaths were new recorded.Its fatality count since the pandemic began last year stands at 819.  The bulletin showed 2216 samples were taken for testing in the last 24 hours.The UT reported one recovery in the last 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-4-new-covid-cases-no-deaths-316088
25-09-2021||Mohali||Woman duped  of gold bangle in Mohali||4 yrs on, murder case registeredChandigarh: Almost four and a half years after a murder convict lodged at the Burail jail died under mysterious circumstances, the UT police have registered a case of murder against unknown person at the Sector 49 police station. The case was registered on a court order. Mohal Lal was convicted in a murder case registered at the Mani Majra police station in 1999. He was undergoing life imprisonment. On February 17, 2017, he fell sick and was taken to the GMCH, Sector 32, where he died. An inquiry was initiated into the matter. TNS Cash snatched from auto driverChandigarh: Three unknown persons hired an auto and snatched cash and documents from the auto driver. Complainant Pawan Kumar, a resident of Burail village, reported that three persons hired the auto from Nayagaon to Sector 38 on Thursday night. On reaching Sector 38, the suspects threatened the complainant and snatched Rs3,600 and documents from him. The suspects later fled from the spot. A case has been registered. TNSBatteries of 9 MC vehicles stolenChandigarh: An unknown person stole batteries of nine Municipal Corporation (MC) vehicles. Complainant Amarjit Singh, supervisor, Medical Officer of Health (MOH), reported that batteries of nine Tata Intra vehicles parked near the sewage plant, 3 BRD, were stolen. The incident came to light in the morning of September 23 when a driver reached the spot. The police have registered a theft case. TNSAnti-dengue drive heldMohali: A joint team of the Health Department and the Municipal Cooperation conducted a anti-dengue drive at the District Administrative Complex (DAC) on Friday. Assistant Commissioner (G) Tarsem Chand said roofs, flower pots and containers were checked for mosquito larvae. He said the administration was fully geared up for prevention and control of dengue and other diseases as all logistics, including chemicals and equipment, were in place to deal with any situation. TNSPolice Dept transfersChandigarh: Inspector Harinder Sekhon, In charge of Crime Branch, was on Friday transferred to the security wing. Inspector Rajeev Kumar, who was recently shifted from the Sector 34 police station to the Police Lines, Sector 26, has been transferred as in charge of PO and Summon Cell. Meanwhile, Inspector Satvinder Singh, who was transferred as in charge of PO and Summon Cell earlier this month, has now been transferred to Crime Branch. TNSOffice-bearers electedChandigarh: The following have been unanimously elected the office-bearers of the RWA (2BHK), Sector 63, Chandigarh: President - Col Ashwani Kumar; vice-president - Satish Gupta; secretary - Dr Amrit; joint secretary - Gurpartap Singh Bhatti; and treasurer - N P Tiwari. Sukhwant Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and Shiv Raj Sharma have been elected executive members. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-duped-of-gold-bangle-in-mohali-315900
25-09-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib DC takes stock of arrangements||Deputy Commissioner Surbhi Malik today held a meeting with officials of the Food and Civil Supply Department to take stock of the arrangements for the smooth procurement of paddy to be started from October 1. She directed the officials to complete all arrangements in time. She directed the Market Committee officials to ensure all facilities like drinking water, proper lights, tirpals and cleaning machines for the farmers.She said 33 procurement centres would be set up in the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-dc-takes-stock-of-arrangements-315899
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Assocham holds Xelerate North||Xelerate North-2021, a day-long virtual summit was organised by Assocham.Himachal Pradesh Industries Minister Bikram Singh said: “To further grow its already impressive pharmaceutical industry, the HP Government recently asked the Centre to sanction a ‘bulk drug pharma park’ for the state.”President of Assocham Vineet Agarwal said factors such as world-class infrastructure, good education and healthcare system were important. However, the presence of a favourable policy environment has been listed as the most essential factor in the ability of a state/country to attract investments across a variety of sectors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/assocham-holds-xelerate-north-315898
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Farm activists protest against FM Nirmala Sitharaman in Chandigarh||As Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman visited the city for a press meet at MLA Hostel, Sector 3, today, a group of farm activists of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta decided to march to the venue and protest. They were stopped near the Sector 3 police station and detained.About 15 protesters were rounded up by the UT police and taken to the Sarangpur (Dhanas) police station, said Parteek Mann of the Naujawan Kisan Ekta. He added: “We were headed to the MLA Hostel, Sector 3, to stage a symbolic protest.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-activists-protest-against-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-in-chandigarh-315897
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Presentation on sculptor Jitu Pate’s works||At the 12th Chandigarh Art & Heritage Festival, Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi, in collaboration with the Department of Cultural Affairs, organised an audio-visual presentation on “Simplicity Is the Ultimate Form of Beauty” by an eminent sculptor, Jitu Pate, from Surat, Gujarat, at the Government Museum, this evening.He trained in applied art from MS University, Baroda. His works from early sketches to mega structures were shown. Jitu has worked extensively with architects creating buildings, club houses, jacuzzis and children’s play areas. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/presentation-on-sculptor-jitu-pates-works-315896
25-09-2021||---||An evening dedicated to Benaras||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24Remembering Lord Shiva and singing Raag Hanshav Dhvani, Padma Shri Soma Ghosh had brought Benaras on stage as she performed at Punjab Kala Bhawan wearing a Benarsi sari and a rose in her hair. The event was organised by Sharda Global Events and Pracheen Kala Kendra.Minutes before her performance as she talked to us, Soma lent an ear to the classical fusion band playing before her. While she calls Punjab a state where every home has hidden talent, she hinted at performing Dama Dam Mast Kalandar to woo the Punjabi audience. The evening was dedicated to a tabla player of Benaras Gharana of Hindustani Classical Music, Pt Kishan Maharaj, whose 98th birth anniversary was on September 3.The vocalist, who is unique for she is not specialised in a single way of singing. As good at khayal, gazals and Sufi music, she is a maestro of thumri, which she had given a glimpse of during her performance. An adopted daughter of Bharat Ratna Ustad Bismillah Khan, she was the first women to get the honour of performing in Parliament. Talking about her achievements, she says, “I do take them seriously because when you are recognised for something, it triples your responsibility. Not only you are supposed to keep that heritage intact, maintain a public face by polishing your craft but also teach others to keep the legacy going.”She had also campaigned for “Aao Bune Zindagi” and supported the women artisans involved in weaving Benarasi during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/an-evening-dedicated-to-benaras-315895
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CBI court frames charges against four in forgery case||Inderjeet Singh, Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, has framed charges against four accused in a six-year-old alleged forgery case related to a house in Sector 9, Chandigarh.The case was registered on the complaint of a city resident, Deepa Duggal, in 2015 against five persons, alleging that they had forged signatures and other documents to take a bank loan to buy her property.The charges have been framed against accused Harmit Singh Chawla, Jagjit Kaur Chawla, Gurcharan Singh and Sarabjeet Singh.In the order, Inderjeet Singh, Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI, Chandigarh, said: “From the perusal of challan papers and accompanied documents so placed on file, a prima facie case for commission of offence under Sections 120-B, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of IPC is made out against the accused. They are chargesheeted accordingly, to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.”The court has adjourned the case to October 29, 2021, for the evidence of prosecution. In the complaint, Deepa Duggal alleged that the accused had forged signatures and other documents to take a bank loan to buy her property. Though the CBI filed the closure report in the case in 2018, it was rejected by the CBI Court with the direction to the investigating agency to further investigate the case.Later, a chargesheet in the case was filed by the CBI in November 2020. As per the chargesheet, an agreement to sell dated January 28, 2006 was executed between Deepa Duggal (complainant) and Chawla family, comprising of late Gurkirpal Singh Chawla, accused Jagjeet Kaur Chawla and Harmeet Singh Chawla, for the house, but the Chawla family allegedly failed to arrange the amount for the completion of the registration of sale deed, even up to extended date i.e. April 12, 2006. In the meantime, the Chawla family applied for a home loan in the first week of April 2006 with the PNB, Sector 17 branch.It has been further alleged that compelled by the circumstances, all accused persons in conspiracy with each other allegedly forged documents to secure the loan amount over Rs6 crore from the bank, which was never disbursed. During investigation, the complainant specifically denied her signature over the agreement to sale and memorandum of family settlement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cbi-court-frames-charges-against-four-in-forgery-case-315894
25-09-2021||---||CRRID employees up in arms against management||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24Employees of the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Sector 19, Chandigarh, under the banner of the CRRID Employees’ Welfare Association (CEWA) and Punjab State Cooperatives, Boards, Corporation Employees/ Workers Mahasangh, held a protest and raised slogans against the CRRID management.The employees held the protest against the management for its failures in resolving administrative and financial issues, including non-disbursement of salaries of employees for the past over three months.CEWA members also assured the team of the Mahasangh to actively participate in a collective rally to be held on October 5 at Udyog Bhawan, Sector 17, Chandigarh.Despite repeated requests and appeals from CRRID employees to the management to resolve the issues and disburse salaries, the management did not respond and took no concrete steps to resolve the issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crrid-employees-up-in-arms-against-management-315893
25-09-2021||---||Mohali Beopar Mandal backs call for Bharat Bandh on Sept 27||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 24The Mohali Beopar Mandal today announced to given unconditional support to the Bharat Bandh call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on September 27.A decision to this effect was taken after a meeting between office-bearers of the Mohali Beopar Mandal and farm leaders of various Kisan Unions held here today.Vineet Verma, president of the Beopar Mandal, said all shops, except medical stores, would remain closed from 6 am to 4 pm on September 27. The decision was taken after the Kisan Union leader wrote to the Beopar Mandal seeking its support to make the Bharat Bandh successful.In the meeting, members of the Beopar Mandal urged the leaders of farmers associations not to stop people going for urgent work during the bandh, to which the farmers agreed.Vineet said the business community was with the farmers. He said the Union Government should immediately withdraw the three farm laws so that the farmers, who had been protesting at the Delhi border for the past one year, could return to their homes.Farm leader Nachhatar Singh Baidwan thanked Vineet Verma and other office-bearers of the Beopar Mandal for their unconditional support to make the Bharat Bandh successful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-beopar-mandal-backs-call-for-bharat-bandh-on-sept-27-315892
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||World Tourism Day: CITCO offers discount on food, free ride on tourist coach||To mark World Tourism Day, which falls on September 27 every year, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) is all set to celebrate the occasion with enthusiasm. This year, the World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) has designated World Tourism Day as a day to focus on tourism for inclusive growth. This is an opportunity to look beyond tourism statistics and acknowledge that behind every number, there is a person.CITCO will arrange complimentary rides on its popular hop-on, hop-off tourist coach for two days i.e. on September 25 and 26. The bus, decorated with balloons, will take tourists and visitors around the city throughout the day.In addition to this, CITCO’s Hotel Mountview and Hotel Shivalikview will add charm to the festivities with special offers for World Tourism Day by extending 25 per cent discount on ala carte menu in all restaurants, whereas Hotel Parkview and Mermaid Restaurant and Boat House Café, Sukhna Lake, are extending 15 per cent and 10 per cent discount, respectively, on September 25 and 26.According to CITCO CGM Rubinderjit Singh Brar, “World Tourism Day celebrations would provide an opportunity to people to participate in such tourism activities that collectively make Chandigarh a happening city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/world-tourism-day-citco-offers-discount-on-food-free-ride-on-tourist-coach-315891
25-09-2021||---||Harmohan Dhawan’s son is vice-president of Chandigarh AAP unit||Chandigarh, September 24The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has appointed Vikram Dhawan, son of former Union Minister and senior AAP leader Harmohan Dhawan, as the vice-president of the party’s Chandigarh unit.Meanwhile, Vijaypal Singh, retired DSP of the Chandigarh Police, has been appointed as the general secretary and PP Ghai, former manager, Punjab National Bank, as the treasurer.Jarnail Singh, AAP Punjab and Chandigarh affairs in-charge and MLA from Delhi, said new names on other posts of the party would be announced soon. He claimed that the way the Aam Aadmi Party was getting public support in Chandigarh, it was sure to oust the Congress and the BJP in the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections.With a view to strengthening its organisational base in Chandigarh ahead of the MC elections, the AAP had earlier dissolved its organisation structure of the Chandigarh unit.However, posts of party’s city co-incharge held by Pradeep Chhabra, convener of the city unit held by Prem Garg and election campaign committee chairman held by Chander Mukhi Sharma were to remain intact till the time the new structure was announced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harmohan-dhawans-son-is-vice-president-of-chandigarh-aap-unit-315890
25-09-2021||Vijay Mohan||Life-saving surgery on dog by ITBP vets||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24Veterinary surgeons of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have conducted a life-saving geriatric ‘hop-on-hop-off’ surgery (HOHO-GS) on a service dog for the first time in the country. The surgical technique entails a special anaesthetic protocol with a minimal time of deep surgical anaesthesia so that old dogs can have minimal stress on their liver, kidneys, lungs and cardiovascular system.The female dog, Machali, was leading a retired life at the K9 Veteran’s Home at the ITBP’s National Training Centre for Dogs in Bhanu near Chandigarh, when she started showing life-threatening symptoms of ‘closed pyometra’ in which geriatric dogs die within 24-72 hours due to systemic septicemia.“This unique surgery conducted by our surgeons has given a new path-breaking HOHO-GS technique that reduces the surgical anaesthesia time by 80 per cent, with a shorter incision. A smaller incision and minimal handling of soft tissues resulted in blood-less surgery,” Deputy Inspector-General Sudhakar Natarajan, ITBP’s senior-most veterinary officer, said.Natarajan said the ITBP had devised the unique calibrated anaesthetic protocol which was short and was further shortened by reversal agents that nullified the deep sedation within a few minutes after the last suture was completed. The dog wakes up within minutes and hops off the operation table after surgery as if nothing had happened, thereby terming the procedure as HOHO.Eleven-year-old Machali was back to her normal routine almost immediately after the surgery that had been performed by Dr Hitesh Shandilaya , Deputy Commandant (Vet) and the chief surgeon at the centre, along with Dr Rajender Joshi, Deputy Commandant (Vet).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/life-saving-surgery-on-dog-by-itbp-vets-315889
25-09-2021||---||PU senate poll: BJP, RSS campaign for candidates discreetly||Chandigarh, September 24Facing resistance in Punjab, the BJP and the RSS are trying to grab Panjab University Senate under various shadow organisations. The elections of the graduate constituency are scheduled for Sunday. There are 40 candidates in the fray for the 15 seats of the Senate.According to sources, the Sangh and the BJP have been pitching in for nine candidates from the platforms such as Rashtriya Shiksha Vikas Manch which has even issued a circular asking like-minded people to support the nine candidates in interest of “nationalist education”.In the graduate constituency, the RSS and the BJP have been supporting three candidates.The sources said since the BJP was facing a strong resistance in Punjab, they were not openly coming out in the support of the RSS-BJP candidates.However, BJP general secretary Shubhash Sharma, whose name has been mentioned in one of the circulars, denied issuing any such circular which vouches for supporting the nine candidates. He said though most of the nine candidates were his friends, he did not issue the particular circular.Mukesh Arora, one of the candidates whose name has been mentioned in the circular, said he was being supported by people from across the political parties, not alone the BJP. “I have won Senate election six times,” he said.The sources said the RSS leaders had been asking its activists discreetly for support of their candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-senate-poll-bjp-rss-campaign-for-candidates-discreetly-315888
25-09-2021||---||French experts visit 24x7 water supply project site in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 24A team of experts from French Development Agency AFD and the EU today visited the waterworks of Sector 39 here. The experts studied the existing infrastructure and evaluated the scope of work taken in the 24x7 project.Accompanied by senior officers of the Public Health Circle, Municipal Corporation (MC), Chandigarh, the team also visited Maloya Resettlement Colony and discussed to explore the provisionsfor continuous water supply in the colony. The team also studied the grievance addressable mechanism of the MC and visited Rose Club, Sector 16, Chandigarh.Water connection mechanism and bill dispute redressal mechanism were also reviewed by the EU/AFD team by visiting the billing office in Sector 18. Provisions taken to improve the quality of life in Sanjay Colony were discussed at length and the team also had first-hand information on the present status of the colony by visiting the same.The team also visited the MC office in Sector 17. Important dates of projects/timelines with regard to signing of credit facility agreement and project agreement were deliberated. Provisions for engaging long-term technical assistance were discussed and the mission ended on a positive note to proceed further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/french-experts-visit-24x7-water-supply-project-site-in-chandigarh-315887
25-09-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula residents worried over deteriorating law and order||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 24The recent robbery bid at a jewellery store in Sector 8 here that impelled Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta to direct police officials to boost security in the market areas, the incident also raised questions over the “deteriorating” law and order situation.RK Aggarwal, president, Panchkula Vikas Manch, said: “It is not just about a single incident. The overall law and order situation in the city is grim. There seems to be no fear of the cops among the goons. Incidents such as theft, snatching, illegal drugs are on the rise. Verification of tenants is also going unchecked. One could see anti-social elements roaming freely in parks during odd hours”.No clue about robbers yetThree suspects, who struck Maa Luxmi Jewellers in Sector 8, attacked its owner Sandeep Verma (45) with a knife. However, they had to return empty-handed after the victim raised the alarm. Four police teams have been tasked to trace the suspects. The police have also announced a cash reward for providing info leading to the arrest of the suspects. The police have failed to get any clue about the identity of the robbers.He further pointed that lack of police patrolling in sector areas was also leading to rise in such incidents.“Dial 112 is a good initiative, but the focus should be more on preventing crime,” he said.Vijay Sharma, president, Sector 15 Market Association, said: “Law and order situation has touched a new low in the city. The police should increase vigil to prevent theft, snatching and burglary incidents in the market areas.”Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said: “The only way to curb crime is by increasing overall police presence in public and residential set ups. I recently presided over a meeting in which I had directed the Police Department to set up beat boxes in every market with deployment of two cops in each beat box to ensure safety of citizens, including those from the business community.”Meanwhile, the district police have failed to get any clue about the identity of the robbers, who attacked a jewellery shop owner in an attempt to rob him in Sector 8 here on Saturday.No response on crime dataDespite several requests to the DCP office to share crime data, there is no response. DCP Mohit Handa couldn’t be contacted for his views on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-residents-worried-over-deteriorating-law-and-order-315886
25-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali MC panel gives green signal to works worth Rs15 cr||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 24The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Mohali Municipal Corporation today gave green signal to the estimates of new development works and work orders worth Rs15 crore for the Mohali city.The committee, besides passing new estimates of Rs7 crore, approved work orders of Rs8 crore in the today’s meeting. These include installation of an open air gym, premix on roads, paving blocks and number plates belonging to different wards of Mohali.Out of the estimates of Rs7 crore, the parking area of the Phase 5 market will be rebuilt with Rs63 lakh. Apart from this, a separate sewer pipe will be installed in the quarters in Phase 10 at a cost of Rs63 lakh.Divulging further details of the meeting, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said in a landmark resolution, recruitment of safai sevaks in Mohali would now be done by PunCom. It may be recalled that the Mohali Municipal Corporation has to recruit 1,000 sanitation employees for manual cleaning in Mohali and the entire process will be handled by PunCom.The Mayor said apart from this, beautification work of the road divider of the Medical College and Hospital being constructed in Phase 6 has also been passed and a new tubewell had also been okayed for the Industrial Area, Mohali. He said the work of estimates passed in the F&CC would begin soon.Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg, members Jasbir Singh Manku and Anuradha Anand (both councillors), SE Sanjay Kanwar and other officials were among those present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-panel-gives-green-signal-to-works-worth-rs15-cr-315885
25-09-2021||---||Cultural events to mark Tourism Day in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 24With a sharp decline in fresh Covid-19 cases, the UT Tourism Department has decided to celebrate World Tourism Day on September 27 and 28.An official of the department said various cultural activities such as Sufi and Punjabi musical evenings as a part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, among other activities, would be organised during the two days.He said UNESCO Heritage Tour of Capitol Complex would be organised for six times a day on both days and a “Run for Tourism” would be organised at the Sukhna Lake at 7 am on Monday.The Department of Forest and Wildlife, UT, would organise a nature walk at 6 am on the lake circuit on Tuesday.The official said “Sufi Evening Live” by Ali Brothers would be held at 6.30 pm on September 27 and “Punjabi Musical Evening Live” by Prabh Gill on September 28 at Open Air Theatre, Kalagram, Mani Majra.He said various activities would be organised by the Chandigarh Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology such as International Food Festival and inter-college healthy and nutritious recipe contest on September 27. Activities to be organised||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cultural-events-to-mark-tourism-day-in-chandigarh-315879
25-09-2021||---||Zirakpur: GBP management booked for fraud||Zirakpur, September 24The Mohali police today booked the management of Gupta Builders and Promoters Private Limited (GBP) for duping scores of investors by taking money from them on account of residential, commercial properties, investment and other real estate dealings.A large number of investors today approached the Mohali police with their complaints after reports of the builders fleeing the country started gaining ground.Police officials said there were similar complaints against one more real estate firm, which were being investigated.People from the tricity, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir among others had invested their hard-earned money in various housing projects. They alleged that the real estate firm management and the staff had been incommunicado for the past one week. Offices of the firm have been locked for the past one week.On a complaint of Mohali resident Sarika Poplani, directors Satish Gupta, Raman Gupta, and Pradeep Gupta, all brothers, have been booked.“As many as 35 people approached us today. They are claiming a fraud to the tune of Rs1,500 crore by the GBP management. The police have begun investigation. The amount could be less or more as the builders have several projects in Zirakpur, Mohali, Kharar, New Chandigarh and other places. More investors are likely to file complaints in the coming days,” said Mohali SSP Satinder Singh.SP (Rural) Ravjot Grewal said: “A case has been registered against the management of the GBP Group under Sections 406, 420 and 120-B of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station.”GBP managing director Satish Gupta did not respond to repeated phone calls. A case is already registered against the group for illegal cutting of plots in New Chandigarh. Two cases of selling commercial sites in Sector 66 without the approval of the competent authorities are in the investigation stage.The GBP builders’ residential and commercial project, Camelia, in Kharar and GBP Centrum in Zirakpur are under construction since 2016. Residential and commercial project, Athens, on the Airport road is also said to be incomplete. In New Chandigarh, a proposed residential colony is yet to enter the construction stage. Sources said a UK-based conglomerate had signed an agreement with the group to invest money in crores, but now it has pulled out of the project.People from tricity, other states among investorsPeople from the tricity, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir among others had invested their hard-earned money in various housing projects. They alleged that the real estate firm management and the staff had been incommunicado for the past one week. Offices of the firm have been locked for the past one week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-gbp-management-booked-for-fraud-315878
25-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Solid waste management: Chandigarh civic body told to file action-taken report||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24In compliance with the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), UT Adviser Dharam Pal said instructions had been given to the Municipal Corporation to submit its action taken report on solid waste management in the city. After reviewing the progress of the report, it would be submitted to the NGT, he added.The NGT had directed all states and UTs to implement the Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and affidavits to be filed every quarterly.The Adviser said they had also decided to rejuvenate water bodies in the city.Directions have been given to the departments concerned to prepare an action plan for rejuvenation of the five water bodies located in the city, he said, adding that these bodies are under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation and other departments of the Administration. The revival of the water bodies would improve the water level and prevent foul smell emanating from these bodies.During a meeting with officials of various departments, including the Municipal Corporation, Engineering, Environment etc, the Adviser directed them to devise a plan to stop the discharge of untreated sewage into the seasonal rivulets passing through the city.An official said directions had been issued to prepare a plan within a fortnight so that untreated water could be stopped from flowing into the rivulets.In compliance with the orders of the green tribunal, the authorities have already managed to stop the flow of contaminated water in other parts of the city, but it was still flowing into the rivulets at places near Faidan and Raipur Kalan villages due to the coming up of illegal constructions at these two places.In its directions, the NGT has observed that municipal solid waste (MSW) remains one of the most serious challenges for environment protection. Deficiencies in proper management of solid waste have resulted in an outbreak of serious diseases in the past and have such potential in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/solid-waste-management-chandigarh-civic-body-told-to-file-action-taken-report-315877
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||2 nabbed with 50 kg of polythene bags in Chandigarh||In order to make city polythene-free, the SDM (South) conducted a raid on the Sector 46 Apni Mandi today wherein he caught two persons carrying 50 kg of banned polythene bags.Shalinder Rawat and Vikram Kumar, residents of Mohali, were nabbed with their vehicles CH 01 TA- 7641 (auto) and CH 01 TB 7658 (Bolero), respectively, selling the bags to fruit and vegetable vendors. The suspects were handed over to a team of the MOH Department with directions to issue challans and conduct an inquiry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-nabbed-with-50-kg-of-polythene-bags-in-chandigarh-315870
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Girl held for theft at her own house in Chandigarh||A 26-year-old BA student has been arrested by the local police for allegedly committing a theft at her house in Mani Majra.According to the police, complainant Meena Kaushal stated that she was residing in a joint family at Shanti Nagar, Mani Majra. After returning from work yesterday, the complainant found the locker of her almirah open and gold ornaments, including two bangles, a pair of earrings, two chains, two nose pins and a locket, along with their bills, missing.There was no forced entry as family members were present in the house.The police were informed about the theft and a case was registered at the Mani Majra police station.During the investigation, a team, led by Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO of the Mani Majra police station, arrested the complainant’s niece and recovered the stolen jewellery from her possession.She allegedly stole the locker’s keys from her grandmother and committed the theft.The police said she was produced in a court and sent to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girl-held-for-theft-at-her-own-house-in-chandigarh-315869
25-09-2021||Mohali||Passengers hold protest at Chandigarh international airport||Alleging misbehaviour with a girl and some passengers by immigration officials yesterday, passengers again held a protest at the Chandigarh international airport in Mohali today, demanding action against the officials.The protesters, who were not allowed to board the Sharjah flight, said when they raised the issue at the airport, the officials stated that they did not allow people on “visitor visas”. Sonali, one of the passengers, said an official misbehaved with her. She said even though they were holding the boarding passes, the officials did not allow her to board the plane.Satnam Singh, another passenger, said they had a valid tourist visa, but immigration officials misbehaved with the passengers and did not allow them to go inside. He said the officials should tender an apology, failing which they would intensify their protest.Immigration head Sanjeev Kumar did not respond to repeated calls and messages in this regard.Yesterday, the airport authorities did not allow some passengers to board the Sharjah flight on the grounds that they did not fulfil the Covid guidelines issued by the UAE. The passengers either did not have a negative RT-PCR report or had not received both doses of the Covid vaccine.Ajay Bhardwaj, CEO, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said the passengers were demanding that rescheduling charges should not be imposed on them, which the immigration officials refused. He said they were looking into the allegations of misbehaviour. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/passengers-hold-protest-at-chandigarh-international-airport-315867
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports three Covid cases||4 infected in MohaliMohali: Four cases of Covid surfaced during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases in the district to 68,712. Meanwhile no death was reported till Friday evening while three patients got the better of the disease. Among the new cases, one was reported from Gharauan and three from Dhakoli. — TNS3 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported three Covid cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 30,729 The toll remained at 377. While 30,330 people have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 22 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 98.70 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-three-covid-cases-315866
25-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Banwarilal Purohit: Stop illegal construction in Chandigarh, act against violators||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24Coming down heavily on illegal construction in the city, UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit has directed the UT Administration to stop all such construction with immediate effect.At a meeting with senior officers at the UT Secretariat, Purohit said no further illegal construction should take place in the city and, if required, the help of the police should be taken. He said action must be taken against the violators.The instructions of the Administrator had been conveyed to the office of the Deputy Commissioner and the Estate Officer to prevent illegal construction in the city, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal. He said the Director General of Police had been told to provide force for assistance of the civilian staff, whenever required. Large-scale illegal construction has come up in UT villages and peri-urban areas in violation of the notified Chandigarh Master Plan.Most of the construction has taken place in villages outside the Lal Dora, which separates the village habitation from adjacent agricultural land.Political parties have been demanding the regularisation of construction outside the Lal Dora. In January this year, former UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had directed UT officials to bring a comprehensive policy on the issue. The extension of the Lal Dora or regularisation of illegal construction would be a key issue during the coming MC elections, slated for December.The UT Administration has roped in the Indian Institute of Human Settlement, Bengaluru, to prepare a land pooling and aggregation policy. At a recent meeting, the Adviser had directed the UT Urban Planning Department to prepare a plan for the comprehensive development of the villages in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/banwarilal-purohit-stop-illegal-construction-in-chandigarh-act-against-violators-315865
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||Asked to show papers, man drags cop on car bonnet in Chandigarh||A constable was reportedly dragged for around 500 metres on the bonnet of a car after the driver was asked to show documents. The incident, reported on September 22, left the constable, Deepak Kumar, seriously injured.The complainant, Sub-Inspector (SI) Vijay Kumarm, reported that he was on naka duty along with ASI Satish Kumar and constable Deepak in front of a police beat box in Sector 36. The SI saw an Alto car approaching the naka and signalled the driver to stop. The driver, Akshey Kumar, a resident of Toga village in Mohali, was asked to show documents of the vehicle. However, he tried to escape during which he hit the constable, who was standing a few metres ahead. The constable fell on the bonnet of the car, but the man behind the wheel kept driving the car.The driver went towards the Sector 36/37 light point and drove towards Sector 37 from the wrong side of the road. The constable fell from the car near a government school in Sector 37 and the driver sped away from the spot. The constable was injured and admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, from where he was referred to the PGI.The police have registered a case under Sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from the discharge of his duty) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC at the Sector 36 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asked-to-show-papers-man-drags-cop-on-car-bonnet-in-chandigarh-315849
25-09-2021||---||Kansal residents move Punjab and Haryana High Court over poor amenities||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 24Kansal residents today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking directions to the State of Punjab and other respondents to allow repair, maintenance and improvement of basic amenities, including electricity, sewerage, water supply, roads and drainage system.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu, senior advocate Gurminder Singh with counsel Gurnoor Singh Sandhu contended that repair was to be carried out to save the Kansal area residents from inconvenience as maintenance activities had been stopped.The Bench was told that directions regarding the demolition of construction in the catchment area delineated by the Survey of India map dated September 21, 2004, and the payment of damages/compensation by the state governments was stayed by the High Court while issuing notice on a review application.It was also ordered that the earlier direction against carrying out building activity in the catchment area in terms of the Survey of India map, falling within the jurisdiction of Punjab and Haryana, would remain in force.The Bench was told that the directions were being complied with in letter and spirit. Accordingly, it was being ensured that no construction activity was carried out in the catchment area. The matter, however, made little progress as the petition was not listed after March 18 following the Covid outbreak. The case was now pending for November 17.“In the meantime, Kansal area residents are facing difficulties and inconvenience due to deteriorating roads, electricity supply, sewerage, water supply and drainage system. Their plight worsened as the local civic authorities have ceased to carry out essential repair work in view of the interim order passed by the court on December 18, 2020,” it was added.Taking up the petition, the Bench issued notice to the state and other respondents for September 29.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kansal-residents-move-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-over-poor-amenities-315848
25-09-2021||---||Cong left economy in dire straits: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Panchkula, September 24Despite Covid-19, one of the biggest crises of the century, Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government did not let anyone sleep on an empty stomach. This was stated by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman who was here today to attend a seminar on ‘Economic improvement, prosperity and Modi ji’, organised as a part of ‘Seva Samarpan Parv’ being celebrated across the country to mark the PM’s birthday celebrations. She said the Congress had left the economy in dire straits.Also read: Farm activists protest against Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in ChandigarhShe said even during the lockdown period, the PM took regular meetings with officers to ensure empowering of every sector, poor, labourers and migrants. “Five major Atmanirbhar Bharat announcements are the result of the direct interaction, dedication and timely directions given by the PM,” she added.The Union Minister said, “Since 2014, relentless reforms have been brought in by the Central Government. From legislative to administrative corrections, every possible effort was made to take India on the ‘atmanirbharta’ track and shifting the country’s economy from being fragile to the fastest growing.”She said various digital and economic reforms had been made in every sector. While introducing digital reforms during the pandemic, money was transferred to Jan Dhan accounts of the eligible families at a click of mouse. “Today, everyone in India has a bank account,” said the Union Minister.The Finance Minister said making youth skilled and employed was the utmost priority of the Centre.Taking a jibe at the Congress, she said the party had left the country’s economy in dire straits and the present government was now paying the price. “Whatever we are earning, all is being used for the development of India. Unlike past governments, the money is not going into bank accounts of any particular family,” she said.Earlier in the day, Sitharaman paid obeisance at the historic Mata Mansa Devi Temple. The Union Minister also oversaw a mega vaccination drive at the community centre in Sector 17. On the occasion, she also interacted with the beneficiaries.She was accompanied by Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, state BJP president OP Dhankar and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria during her stay in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-left-economy-in-dire-straits-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-315847
25-09-2021||---||From Sept 27, walk in to register for OPD at PGI, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 24In view of the decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases, the PGI has decided to resume walk-in registrations for the New OPD from Monday. This is for the first time since the pandemic struck that the institute has opened walk-in registrations.Registration timingsRegistration for tele-consultation in the New OPD will be done from 8 am to 9 am on phone number 0172-275991Walk-in registrations for the New OPD will be done from 9.15 am to 11 amPGI Director Dr Jagat Ram said, “It will be a real task to manage crowd as patients are expected to turn up in huge numbers. However, this was the need of the hour as patients were desperate for walk-in OPDs. Many had complaints that the online system was inaccessible. We have fixed the time slot of walk-in OPDs from 9.15 am to 11 am so as to limit the crowd. Earlier, the timings were from 8 am to 11 am. Each department is expected to handle at least 100 patients per day, including patients from online consultation and walk-in registration.”The registration for tele-consultation in the New OPD will be done from 8 am to 9 am on phone number 0172-275991, which has 19 lines. Walk-in registration for physical visit will be done from 9.15 am to 11 am at the respective registration counters. The online registration for physical visit to all OPDs is currently capped at 30 patients per department. It will be increased to 100 for opthalmology, hepatology and internal medicine and 50 for other departments.The institute has requested patients visiting OPDs to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour. Dr Naveen Pandey, incharge of OPD Administration at the PGI, said the institute would review the situation after two weeks. “There is no cap on walk-in registrations. However, the timings have been limited so that there is less crowding,” he said.The PGI is now catering to 5,000 patients daily. Prior to the pandemic, around 10,000 patients used to visit the PGI. The OPDs were completely shut on March 19, a day after the first Covid-19 case surfaced in the city.In April 2020, the institute shifted focus to tele-consultation service for providing general outdoor patient services. Subsequently, the PGI started calling patients for physical visits to various OPDs by appointment so as to avoid overcrowding. Services were gradually increased as the pandemic ebbed. Accordingly, the facility for online registration for physical visit to the OPDs was started in September this year with a cap of 30 patients per department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-sept-27-walk-in-to-register-for-opd-at-pgi-chandigarh-315846
25-09-2021||Chandigarh||UPSC civil services exam: Devyani does Chandigarh proud, bags AIR 11||Devyani Yadav (29) has made the city proud by securing all-India rank (AIR) 11 in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) civil services exam. The results were declared today.She is undergoing training at the National Academy of Audit and Accounts, Shimla, after having secured AIR 223 last year. Her journey to success has been a long one as it was her fifth attempt. “I focused on quality study and relied on previous papers for preparation. I took coaching during the first year of preparation,” she said. Her father Vinay Singh Yadav is a Haryana IAS officer currently posted in Chandigarh. She said, “I drew inspiration from my father for choosing the civil services. The kind of satisfaction he derives from his work is exactly what I want. I have watched him closely and I admire his work ethics and the change he has brought through his actions.”She said her priority areas would be women empowerment and education.Another girl from the city, Dr Akshita Gupta (22), not only completed her MBBS this year but has also bagged AIR 69 in the civil services exam. Gupta did her MBBS from the GMCH-32. On where she drew inspiration from, she said, “I have seen many officers who have brought a change in the system through innovation. I wish to bring a change, both in the education and health sectors,” she said.Akshita started preparing for the UPSC exam while she was studying medicine. “As I was not in touch with general knowledge subjects, I ensured that I completed the syllabus before the internship. I had joined coaching in Chandigarh so that I could complete my syllabus. Besides, I took mock tests and a test series as well. There was a huge burden of MBBS during the last year of the course and I found it hard to cope with the preparations.”Having been raised in Chandigarh, Akshita has many aspirations for the City Beautiful. Among them is improving the education and healthcare sectors.She said, “I have studied in a government school for Class XI and XII. One thing I have realised is that government schools in the city lack smart classes and I wish to change that. Besides, there is a coaching culture in the city. Students just opt for dummy admissions and don’t want to attend classes. This should change too.”“As far as the health sector is concerned, more tertiary care hospitals should be set up,” she added. Akshita has been a bright student all along. She had bagged AIR 28 in NEET as well.Another city resident, Dr Rajesh Mohan, a former student of the GMCH-32, has bagged AIR 102. He cracked the exam in his fifth attempt at the age of 29. He is currently posted at Central Jail Hospital, Tihar, on Covid-19 duty.On what motivated him, he said, “As doctors, we used to treat children with malnutrition. This is a matter of policy more than treatment. As a policymaker, I want to bring in policies that ensure that children do not stay hungry at the first place,” he said.To crack the civil services exam, consistency is more important than anything else, he said. Dr Mohan said he used to study six to seven hours daily. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/upsc-civil-services-exam-devyani-does-chandigarh-proud-bags-air-11-315845
