26-09-2021||Mohali||Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali to be operational soon: CM Channi||In a major milestone towards imparting quality medical education to students across the state, the Punjab government will soon operationalise Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali.Divulging more details, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the Punjab government has been consistently making endeavours to develop the state into a hub of medical education.He said that the Medical Assessment and Rating Board (MARB) of National Medical Commission (NMC) had after examining the Commission Assessor’s report, granted the Letter of Permission (LoP) for starting regular classes at Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences affiliated under Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. Pointing out further, Channi said the decision of NMC to allocate 100 seats to the institute will go a long way in ensuring quality medical education and research to the students besides providing best healthcare facilities at affordable rates to the people in the region.Channi said the process of recruiting the required staff for the institute is already underway. He said that the state-of-the-art medical institution is already equipped with all infrastructural requirements in terms of buildings, equipment and hospital facilities as per National Medical Commission norms.  He said that adequate budgetary requirements for the institute as and when desired by the commission will also be made by the state government.The chief minister said it is a red letter day in the history of Punjab as with operationalization of this institute, medical education in the state will get a major push on one hand and people will be get quality health facilities on the other.While expressing gratitude to the commission for granting the LoP, he asked the officers to complete the necessary formalities at the earliest for starting the academic session in the institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dr-br-ambedkar-state-institute-of-medical-sciences-mohali-to-be-operational-soon-cm%C2%A0channi-316517
26-09-2021||---||Chandigarh Literary Society awards short story writers||Chandigarh, September 26 The Chandigarh Literary Society (CLS) awarded the winners of its short story and poetry writing competitions for the year 2020 and 2021 at its annual function held at the UT Guest House here recently.The Society had not awarded the winners of last year competitions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, the awardees of poetry and short story writing competitions for both years were honoured on Saturday. CLS Chairperson Dr Sumita Misra congratulated the award winners and gave away the prizes. In the English category, the winners of short story writing competition for 2021 included Shubhangi Singh, Suneet Madan, Yogita, Anjali Singh, Dipintika Kumar. The winners of the Hindi short story writing competition were Vinita Shukla and Ajay Singh Rana. Navpreet Kaur won the special jury mention for Punjabi. In the poetry writing competition for 2021 in Hindi, Jivan Mantra, Archana R. Singh and Jayaram Prajapati won the first, second and third prizes, respectively. In the Punjabi category, Sunita Uppal, Nirmal Rana and Parneet Kaur won the first, second and third prizes, respectively. In the Urdu category, Azim Khan was first and Rozy Parveen won the second prize. In the English categories, Moinik Dutta and Alka Kansra shared the first prize; the second prize winners were Anuradha Sethi and Vatika Parmar, while the third position was shared by Vandna Vibhu Bhatnagar and Atti Verma. In the 2020 poetry competition, winners included Kanchan Advaita (1st), Arun Betaab (2nd), Ranjivan Singh and Shashi Kumar (3rd), while Abha Sharma, Parminder Singh Ratika Rana and Neena Singh received special mentions. In the 2020 short story writing competition in the English category, winners included Sonia Shauhan (1st)  Deviyani Singh (2nd), Gargi Raj (3rd), Yogita Khandge (4th) and Terveen Gill (5th). Asmita Dey and Garima Syal won consolation prizes. In the Hindi category, Dr. Aditya Rattan won the 1st prize and Susmita Solanki 2nd. In the children’s category, winners included Avika Bhatia (ist), Saanvi Surjewala (2nd), and Shrishaya Gangopadhyay (3rd).Those who presented included jury members Col D.S. Cheema, Prof Neelkamal Puri and Surbhi Sarna. Vivek Atray, Charanjit Singh, Madhav Kaushik,  Hardeep Chandpuri, Manmohan Singh Kohli, V.K. Kapoor, Nisha Luthra among others attended the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-literary-society-awards-short-story-writers-316456
26-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh raises grant-in-aid for MC to Rs 700 crore||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The UT Administration has increased grant-in-aid (GIA) for the cash-starved Municipal Corporation from Rs502 crore to Rs700 crore in the revised budget estimates.A senior administrative official said: “The same will be sent to the Centre for approval within a week. It is to be seen what amount is approved by the Central Government.”An official of the MC said they were expecting to receive the funds in January and they would have to use them before March 31. After receiving funds, they would hold a meeting to decide how the funds were to be utilised.Confirming the development at a meeting of the Finance Committee, Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said after the water rates were reduced, there was some gap in budget plans and that would be filled with these additional funds.They will face no financial issues with regard to the setting up of a waste processing plant in Sector 25. Various pending works will be started at a fast pace, he added. Bills of contractors and others, which are pending with the Accounts Department, will be cleared.The Mayor, who assumed charge in January, had promised that he would get the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission’s recommendations implemented. Though he could not do that so far, he said the budget revision was a big development and it would ensure there was no shortage funds.Earlier, the corporation had cleared a budget with Rs670-crore deficit for the fiscal 2021-22 in the usual anticipation of getting the GIA as per the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission’s recommendations, just like the previous years. The GIA increased from Rs375 crore in 2019-20 fiscal to Rs425 crore in the fiscal 2020-21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-raises-grant-in-aid-for-mc-to-rs-700-crore-316223
26-09-2021||---||Chandigarh MC House meet: Congress stages walkout over ‘smart’ parking||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The Municipal Corporation House today approved an amendment to the water supply bylaws, the holding of Rose Festival and the automation of its C&D waste recycling plant among other agenda items.Rs87L for Rose FestDC rate salary for petrol pump staffCongress councillors staged a walkout over the issue of smart parking lots. Councillor Satish Kainth said they had asked for details about the parking lot contract, but they were not given a satisfactory reply. He said the MC was fleecing people in the name of smart parking. The councillors reached the well of the House to raise slogans before leaving the House.As per the amendment to the Chandigarh water supply bylaws to incorporate the guidelines of the Ministry of Jal Shakti on regulation and control of groundwater extraction, applicants will have to comply with new provisions to obtain an NOC from the MC for installing tubewells.Users will have to install digital water-flow meters, have rooftop rainwater harvesting and recharging system in the project area to obtain the NOC. They will be liable to pay for groundwater abstraction and restoration charges based on the quantum of groundwater use.Nod to automation of C&D waste recycling plantThe capacity of the MC’s construction and demolition (C&D) waste recycling plant will increase manifold as the General House today cleared automation of the plant. Under the new policy, whatever private C&D waste is generated in the city, it will go to the plant. More work could be done after the automation of the plant with the existing workforce only. The new automatic system is expected to be set up by the year-end.Waste processing plantTwo months ago, the House had awarded the job of preparing a detailed project report (DPR) and a request for proposal (RFP) to the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, to upgrade and maintain the waste processing plant. However, the corporation has not received the reports to date. The reason for the delay was the letter regarding the reports was sent to the IIT very late i.e. September 15.The Mayor then slammed the officials concerned and sought to know why the project was being delayed deliberately. He directed them to speed up the job.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-meet-congress-stages-walkout-over-smart-parking-316224
26-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Flight service at Chandigarh International Airport to stay smooth during fog||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 25After the Ministry of Defence made it clear that the installation of advanced CAT-3 ILS was not viable, the Chandigarh International Airport authorities have installed approach lights with a touchdown zone on the runways, which will allow operations during visibility as low as 550 metre instead of the existing 1,200 metre.No more grounding of flightsAjay Bhardwaj, CEO, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said there would be no grounding of flights in the foggy weather as they had installed 180 approach lights with a touchdown zone on the runways. The work is nearing completion and they will make it operational from October 1, Bhardwaj added.Earlier, pilots faced difficulty while landing at the airport during foggy days in the winter season. The CAT-3 ILS allows flights to operate even at visibility as low as 50 metre.The work of installing approach lights with a touchdown zone on the runways, an upgrade of the existing CAT-1 ILA (instrument landing system), was carried out by Tata Power Strategic Engineering Division and will become operational from October 1.Flights operating from the Chandigarh airport remained grounded for about one month from mid-December to mid-January due to the extreme foggy weather.Ajay Bhardwaj, CEO, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said there would be no grounding of flights in the foggy weather as they had installed 180 approach lights with a touchdown zone on the runways. The work is nearing completion and they will make it operational from October 1, he added.Bhardwaj said the new system would allow pilots to land with the help of approach light instruments if they couldn’t establish a visual contact with the runway, especially in foggy conditions when visibility is low.There had been frequent cancellation of flights in the peak winter due to fog, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flight-service-at-chandigarh-international-airport-to-stay-smooth-during-fog-316225
26-09-2021||---||Man shot at in Rs10-lakh robbery bid in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 25Two masked assailants made an unsuccessful bid to loot Rs10 lakh from a Balongi resident in broad daylight near Swara village today. The assailants fired a gunshot and injured one of the two occupants of a car and fled the spot.The police said the victim, Pramod Kumar, and his brother Dharminder Kumar were returning from Mandi Gobindgarh around 4 pm with Rs10 lakh when a car overtook them. Two armed men came out of it and flashed a pistol at them. On seeing locals gathering, the assailants fled the spot after firing a gunshot. The assailants managed to snatch Dharminder’s purse.The bullet hit Pramod, who was driving the car. He was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh. Doctors operated on his shoulder and took out the bullet.On the complaint of the victim’s brother, a case has been registered under Sections 307, 379-B, 341 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act at the Sadar Kharar police station.The police are scanning the CCTV footage of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-shot-at-in-rs10-lakh-robbery-bid-in-mohali-316226
26-09-2021||Naina Mishra||Vaccination for kids not important, reopen schools: PGI expert||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The Covid-19 vaccine for paediatric population is not imperative for the reopening of schools. This was stated by Dr Arun Bansal of the Department of Paediatrics, PGI.Their cognitive learning being hit: DoctorThe schools should be reopened immediately, at least for Class V onwards. The cognitive learning, personality and nutrition of kids are being affected as they are not going to schools. The body mass index has increased resulting in obesity. Increased screen time is causing problems. — Dr Arun Bansal, Department of Paediatrics, PGIDr Bansal, who is also the Scientific Converner, Association of Paediatricians, spoke to Chandigarh Tribune during the North Zone Pedicon-2021 organised by the Association of Paediatricians of Chandigarh today.“The schools should be reopened immediately, at least for Class V onwards. The cognitive learning, personality and nutrition of children are being affected as they are not going to schools. The body mass index has increased resulting in obesity. Increased screen time is causing problems,” said Dr Bansal.“The disease severity is less among children and it has been observed that the proportion of kids infected in the first and second waves remained the same. Children have also been found immune in sero survey. Majority of them were found asymptomatic. Prioritising vaccination for reopening of schools is not the right approach,” he added.“The vaccine will be rolled out in two-three months for children as well, but before that schools should be reopened. The right way forward is ensuring a safe environment for children where the school staff and adults around them are immunised,” he said.Dr Piyush Gupta, president, Indian Academy of Paediatrics, said the academy constituted a ‘Task Force on School Reopening 2021’ and shared criterion to be followed at district or local level for reopening schools. He said the decision of reopening schools should be taken at the local level and not on the national level.MIS-C challengeDr Bansal shared that around 100 children with Covid-19 also suffered from multisystem inflammation syndrome in children (MIS-C), a condition where different parts of body can become inflamed, including the heart, lungs and kidneys. “This condition occurs after four to six weeks of Covid-19 in children. This is even more serious than acute Covid-19 disease. We were able to recover the patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-for-kids-not-important-reopen-schools-pgi-expert-316227
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Ayushman Bharat: PGI adjudged best performer in UT category||In a first, the PGI here has bagged the top award in the best performing UT category under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY) for the period October 2020 to August 2021.The PGI had implemented the scheme in October 2018. Under the scheme, a total of 26,250 patients have been treated to date.The announcement of the award was made during the inaugural function of the third anniversary of the scheme being celebrated by the National Health Authority under the aegis of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurated and chaired the inaugural session of Aarogya Manthan 3.0 to mark the third anniversary of the scheme.The scheme aims at helping economically vulnerable Indians who are in need of healthcare facilities. It plans to make secondary and tertiary healthcare completely cashless. The PM Jan Arogya Yojana beneficiaries get an e-card that can be used to avail services at an empanelled hospital, public or private, anywhere in the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ayushman-bharat-pgi-adjudged-best-performer-in-ut-category-316228
26-09-2021||---||Traffic cop hit,  2 bikers booked for murder bid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25Two motorcycle-borne youths were booked for attempt to murder after they hit a traffic police constable when he stopped the duo for driving on a cycle track in Sector 46 here on Friday.The complainant, Constable Rajesh Kumar, alleged that two unknown persons on a motorcycle were coming from the Sector 32/33-45/46 roundabout on a cycle track on the Sector 46 side and hit him. Rajesh got injured and was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.A case under Sections 307 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 34 police station. Investigation in the case was in progress, said the police.On September 22, a constable was reportedly dragged for around 500 metres on the bonnet of a car after the driver was asked to show documents. The incident had left the constable, Deepak Kumar, seriously injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-cop-hit-2-bikers-booked-for-murder-bid-316229
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Mishaps snuff out two lives||A scooterist died after being hit by a car near the Sector 7/8/18/19 roundabout on September 23.Varinder Kumar of Sector 116, Mohali, who was riding the scooter, sustained injuries in the mishap and was declared dead at the PGI.A case under Sections 279 and 304A of the IPC was registered against the car driver, identified as Inderjit Singh of Sector 19, at the Sector 19 police station. He was arrested and later released on bail.Meanwhile, an auto driver died during treatment after being hit by a motorcyclist at the Sector 40/41 light point on September 24. The complainant, Karan of Mauli Jagran, alleged that the motorcyclist, identified as Keshav (24) of Jhujharnagar, Mohali, hit the auto driven by his father, Rakesh Kumar. The latter sustained injuries and was admitted to the PGI where he died during treatment. The biker was arrested and later released on bail. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mishaps-snuff-out-two-lives-316230
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees four Covid cases||No case in PanchkulaPanchkula: No fresh Covid case surfaced during the past 24 hours, keeping the tally unchanged at 30,729 in the district. There was no fatality either and the toll remained at 377. There are 21 active cases in the district. Meanwhile, 4,172 persons were given the Covid vaccine at 31 government and five private vaccination centres across the district. TNSTwo test positive in MohaliMohali: Two fresh Covid cases were reported during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,714 in the district. Meanwhile, no death due to the virus surfaced in the district till Saturday evening while five patients got the better of the disease. Among the new cases, one each came from Dhakoli and Mohali. No case was reported from Kharar, Boothgarh, Dera Bassi, Lalru, Kurali, Gharuan, and Banur. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-four-covid-cases-316232
26-09-2021||---||AAP protests unbridled inflation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The city unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today took out a protest march against the increasing fuel and food prices. The party blamed the “wrong policies of the Narendra Modi-led Centre” for the price rise.A large number of AAP volunteers participated in the march that started from the Sector 19/27 light point and culminated at the Sector 18/19 light point.The march was led by senior party leader Harmohan Dhawan, AAP’s Chandigarh unit co-in-charge Pradeep Chhabra and convener Prem Garg.Dhawan said the general public was distressed due to the huge increase in the prices of diesel, petrol, gas cylinders and food items.“Due to the wrong policies of the Centre, the condition of the common man has gone from bad to worse,” he said.Meanwhile, lashing out at the BJP, Chhabra said eight years ago, the BJP had gained power by “misleading people” with the slogan “Bahut hui mehangai ki maar, ab ki baar Modi sarkar”.The party had also promised “good days” ahead, “but due to the wrong policies of the BJP government, inflation is at its peak today”, said Chhabra.He further said the government was engaged in benefitting only the corporate houses.“It has been more than 10 months farmers are agitating against the agricultural laws, but the government is ignoring their legitimate demands. The AAP is making public aware of the anti-people policies of the government,” said Chhabra.Garg said unless inflation was controlled, the AAP would continue to put pressure on the Centre.He said the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre came to power by making “false promises” on many important issues, including inflation, “but it has failed on all fronts”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-protests-unbridled-inflation-316233
26-09-2021||---||Racket selling spurious daily use articles busted, 2 nabbed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The police have busted a racket selling duplicate daily use articles and arrested two persons here. The suspects, both shopkeepers, have been identified as Kajheri residents Kapil Dev (30) and Ashok Kumar (32). They were produced in a court, which sent them to two-day police remand.The police said the duo used to purchase substandard consumable items such as salt, tea and detergent. They used to repackage these items in branded wrappers and sell it to public in the market.The police recovered 765 kg of salt, 332 kg of detergent powder and 242.8 kg of tea in fake packets from one shop and 4,770 kg of salt, one hot press sealing machine, one portable bag sewing machine, pouches of shampoo, empty packets of salt, 69.250 kg of tea in fake packets among others from another shop.A case under Section 420 of the IPC and Sections 63 and 65 of the Copyright Act was registered against the duo at the Sector 36 police station yesterday.Acting on information provided by Romesh Dutt, M/S Speed Search and Security Networks Private Limited, regarding the sale of duplicate consumable products by Kapil Dev, owner of M/S Ganesh Karyana Store, Sector 52, Kajheri, and Ashok, owner of M/S RK Enterprises, the police seized duplicate items packed in fake branded packets.The suspects used to procure duplicate products from Delhi, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/racket-selling-spurious-daily-use-articles-busted-2-nabbed-316234
26-09-2021||---||Cook electrocuted, kin hold protest against hotel mgmt||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, September 25A cook, who was employed at a hotel on the Panchkula road here, was electrocuted. The deceased has been identified as Surinder Kumar (22), a resident of Kathgarh village.The police said Surinder was in the kitchen on Friday night when he suffered an electric shock from a refrigerator. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Panchkula, where doctors declared him dead.Infuriated family members blocked the Panchkula road in the morning, alleging that Surinder died due to the negligence of the hotel management. They alleged that the hotel did not have strong security arrangement, which led to the accident. The kin of the deceased also blocked the road for nearly half an hour, which led to huge traffic jam on the Panchkula road.The police reached the spot and pacified the protesting family members. Dhakoli police post in-charge Kulbir Singh Sandhu said both parties later reached a compromise.On the statement of Ramdevi, mother of the deceased, the police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The body was handed over to the family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cook-electrocuted-kin-hold-protest-against-hotel-mgmt-316235
26-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Roadways driver gets 2-yr RI for rash  driving||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25Judicial Magistrate (First Class) Bharat has sentenced a driver of the Punjab Roadways, Satish Kumar, to two-year rigorous imprisonment after finding him guilty of the offences punishable under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs1,000 on the convict.The case was registered against the accused after the bus driven by him hit a scooter on February 26, 2017, near Raipur Khurd. The scooterist had sustained injuries on the head. He died during treatment at the GMCH-32, Chandigarh.The complainant, a policeman, stated that the accident had occurred due to rash and negligent driving by Satish. The police arrested the driver and a report under section 173 CrPC was prepared. On finding a prima facie case, the accused was chargesheeted under Section 279 and 304-A of the IPC to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed a trial. The counsel of the accused denied all charges.The bus conductor also denied allegations and claimed the accused just helped the injured and immediately shifted him to the GMCH-32. He further argued that two prosecution witnesses were also declared hostile.The Additional Public Prosecutor argued that the prosecution had proved its case beyond a shadow of reasonable doubts by examining 12 prosecution witnesses. He argued that rashness and negligence of the accused was duly proved from the site plan in which it was clearly shown that the accused had moved the bus on the slip road and caused the accident.He further argued that rashness and negligence on part of the accused was also proved by the prosecution.After hearing the arguments, the court said the prosecution had duly proved the case against the accused. So, Satish is held guilty for the commission of offence punishable under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC, and sentenced him to two-year rigorous imprisonment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roadways-driver-gets-2-yr-ri-for-rash-driving-316236
26-09-2021||---||Blood component separation unit opened at Panchkula hospital||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 25The blood bank at the Civil Hospital here has achieved another milestone with the setting up of a blood component separation unit.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Haryana, inaugurated the unit, which would provide packed red blood cell (PRBC), platelet concentrate (PC), fresh frozen plasma (FFP) and cryoprecipitate.Earlier, patients from the district used to go to the GMCH-32 or the PGI in Chandigarh for obtaining these components. These will be available free of cost for patients admitted to government hospitals of Haryana. The component price per unit fixed by the state government for other patients is packed red blood cell at Rs1,050, platelet concentrate at Rs300, fresh frozen plasma at Rs300 and cryoprecipitate at Rs200.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/blood-component-separation-unit-opened-at-panchkula-hospital-316237
26-09-2021||Mohali||Teachers’ Union backs call for Bharat Bandh||The Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) has announced to support the Bharat Bandh call by farmers organisations on September 27.Dr Vinay Sophat, president of the union, said the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha had given a call for Bharat Bandh to express its resentment against stubborn and undemocratic attitude of the Central Government to respond to their legitimate demand of withdrawal of three black farm laws. He said the PCCTU, while appreciating the struggle of the farmers and condemning the pro-corporate mindset of the Central Government, had decided to support the Bharat Bandh call.Dr Sophat said the union members across the state had been requested to mobilise teachers and students from colleges of Punjab and Chandigarh to make the call a success in the interest of the farmers and the public. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-union-backs-call-for-bharat-bandh-316238
26-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Confident of winning medals, runner Harmilan seeks international exposure||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25With her eyes firmly set on the next year’s Asian Games and Commonwealth Games, middle distance runner Harmilan Bains is keen on getting some international exposure before the big-ticket events. Natural instinctHarmilan’s love for athletics comes from her parents. Her father Amandeep Singh specialised in 1,500m event and mother Madhuri Singh is an Asian Games silver medallist in 800m category. “It’s nothing like pressure, but yes, I always wanted to make them proud. They are really helping me out. Even my coach helps me a lot. With the passage of time, more technology has been brought in to train athletes and this is what I am looking forward to,” said Harmilan, who is planning to compete in both 800m and 1500m competitions in the Asian Games and the CWG.However the 23-year-old, who recently broke Sunita Rani’s long-standing 1500m national record of 4:06.03s, is finding it difficult to get the sponsors.“I think this is the right time for me to get the international exposure. It’s not easy, considering the money needed for training, proper diet and living at a new place,” said Harmilan.The athlete is currently training in Himachal Pradesh.“I have been training at the high-altitude camps in Himachal Pradesh. Yes, these options are available, but to move ahead, I have to look beyond the normal routine,” she said.Harmilan had set the track on fire in the recently concluded National Open Athletics Championships in Warangal, Telangana.Considered a prime medal contender for the 2022 Asiad in China, the former Khelo India Games champion improved on her personal best by more than 10 seconds at 4:05:39s in 1500m run before bagging the 800m gold at the National Open Championship.“Both training and practise are important. If I say, I will get the results by training only, that’s not possible. Every competition demands different type of training. I am sure of winning medals in the upcoming events, but for that I need right exposure,” said Harmilan, who was in Chandigarh.When asked about getting a sponsor, she said: “I just wish this happens. I don’t want monetary assistance, but support for my training, travelling and diet. This will be an additional support to my career.”Following her success in Warangal, Harmilan was also invited by the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) to join the national camp in Bengaluru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/confident-of-winning-medals-runner-harmilan-seeks-international-exposure-316239
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Tokyo Olympics: Punjab Assn felicitates state players, coaches||The Punjab Olympic Association felicitated the contingent of state players and coaches, who took part in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, here today.President of the association Brahm Mohindra, Senior Vice-President Rajdeep Singh Gill, Secretary General KS Sidhu, Vice-President Pargat Singh and Vice-President of the Indian Olympic Association Kuldeep Vats honoured the players and coaches with silver plaque.Those who were felicitated today included that bronze medal winning Indian Hockey team members Manpreet Singh, Harmanpreet Singh, Mandeep Singh, Simranjeet Singh, Hardik Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Varun Kumar, Shamsher Singh, Gurbanta Singh and Krishan Bahadur Pathak, boxer Simranjot Kaur, shooter Anjum Moudgill, coaches Shivendra Singh, Mahinder Singh Dhillon and Sandeep Kumar.Book releasedA book titled, “Tokyo Olympics De Saade Hockey Khidari”, based on a brief biography of bronze medal winning players of the Indian hockey team at the Tokyo Olympics, was released on Saturday. This is the fifth book authored by sports writer Navdeep Singh Gill, who is also a media advisor to the Punjab Olympic Association. The book was released by Mohindra. Pargat Singh termed it as a great achievement to write literature on sports and players. “This book written on the biography of the players will be a source of inspiration for future generations,” he said. The book comprises a brief biography of all 19 hockey players and chief coach Graham Reid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tokyo-olympics-punjab-assn-felicitates-state-players-coaches-316240
26-09-2021||---||Congress workers gherao civic body office, raise slogans||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25The Chandigarh Pradesh Congress Committee today staged a protest against “anti-public policies of the BJP” outside the Municipal Corporation office here today.Party leaders, workers and supporters, including women, gathered outside the civic body office to express their resentment against the “misfit rule” of the BJP at the MC.Carrying placards and banners, party leaders and workers gheraoed the MC office for around three hours. Water cannons were used on the Congress workers who were raising slogans against the BJP.Speaking on the occasion, city Congress president Subhash Chawla said the protest was held to wake up the BJP from its slumber. People were fed up with the BJP’s anti-common man and anti-farmer policies.People had made up their mind to topple the BJP rule, with its beginning from the upcoming Chandigarh MC elections, he said.Talking about the BJP’s failed rule in the MC, Chawla said it had assured that water tariff hike would be taken back, but nothing had been done yet. MC safai karamcharis were not getting their salaries on time. The problem of drinking water had gone from bad to worse. The BJP had failed to sort out issues such as overcharging for garbage collection, broken roads, poor condition of dumping ground at Dadu Majra, demands of sanitation workers and driver recruitment scam. It remained tight-lipped over completely ignoring the welfare and interest of residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-workers-gherao-civic-body-office-raise-slogans-316241
26-09-2021||---||2 from Chandigarh shine in UPSC exam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 25Ankita Panwar from Chandigarh bagged 321 all-India rank (AIR) in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) civil services exam. She worked as a software engineer in Oracle for two years in Bangalore and then left job in October 2019 to focus on civil services. She said she took coaching for prelims for six months in Bangalore. Later, she did preparations by self-study.Manpreet Singh Sudan from Chandigarh bagged AIR 506 in the UPSC examination. He studied from DAV School and did BSc from SD College. This year was his sixth attempt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-from-chandigarh-shine-in-upsc-exam-316243
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh ranked 2nd in providing legal assistance||Chandigarh has bagged second rank among the states and UTs in India for average number of people provided legal assistance per lakh population in a legal aid clinic. Samta Nyay KendraIn accordance with Justice Jaswant Singh’s directions, a first of its kind legal aid clinic for transgender - Samta Nyay Kendra - was launched to provide counselling and help to the third gender to redress their grievances. The centre has been set up at New Indira Colony, Mani Majra.The city stands fourth for providing maximum legal assistance to clients in the front offices of the district and the State Legal Services Authority. It is fifth in terms of average cost of providing assistance to a person in the front office - a one stop centre with a legal aid helpline number, maintaining daily cause-list of legal aid cases and a computer with Internet connection, the UT Legal Services Authority stated in a press release.A new and effective system was devised for reducing the time taken for filing appeal by Burail jail inmates after Justice Jaswant Singh of the Punjab and Haryana High Court held a detailed discussion with State Legal Services Authority (SLSA) member secretary Mahavir Singh and CJM-cum-DLSA secretary Ashok Kumar Mann.Justice Jaswant Singh is the executive chairman of the SLSA.The time taken to appeal before the Sessions Court was reduced from 20-30 to 10-15 days; before the High Court from 60-90 to 20-25 days; and the Supreme Court from 100-120 to 40-50 days.A campaign was also launched in the Burail jail for enhancing the provision of legal services to women inmates and their accompanying children in the prisons. A ‘Nyay Seva Kendra’ was also inaugurated by Justice Singh.A first of its kind centre in the country, the Nyay Seva Kendra is managed by various departments on different days for providing services to women prisoners and their children.The SLSA and the DLSA were also directed to coordinate with UT Health Department to provide credible information on Covid-19, following which a free “psycho medical tele-counselling service” was launched for public. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-ranked-2nd-in-providing-legal-assistance-316244
26-09-2021||Chandigarh||Dhanas resident held in arms case||Fake number: auto driver heldChandigarh: The police arrested Faidan Nizampur resident Vijay for using a fake registration number on an auto at the Sector 46/47/48/49 light point here on September 24. A case under Section 473 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. TNSOne booked for rash drivingZirakpur: The Baltana police have registered a case against a person for negligent driving and endangering the lives of people here on Saturday. The suspect has been identified as Rohit Dhiman, a resident of Hem Vihar Colony. Baltana Chowki in-charge Assistant Inspector Jashanpreet Singh said he received information that Rohit was driving his car at a high speed and negligently on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway. The suspect, who was performing stunts on the road, applied brakes all of a sudden, hitting another car. TNSMan loses Rs35K in ATM fraudChandigarh: Amarjit, a resident of Mauli Jagran Complex, alleged that Monu and four others exchanged his ATM card and withdrew Rs35,720 from his bank account through multiple transactions on September 22. A case under Sections 420, 406, 380, 34 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSSeminar on trends in school educationChandigarh: SchoolPad, an Ed Tech start-up from Chandigarh, organised a seminar titled “School Education - Going Forward” in association with TiE Chandigarh Chapter to gain insight from education stalwarts and policymakers on the trends in school education. Palika Arora, Director, School Education, and Sumeer Walia, Director of Chitkara University Centre for Entrepreneurship Education & Development, delivered the keynote addresses. Dr Niyati Chitkara, Director, Chitkara International Schools; Abhiraj Malhotra, Co-founder and CEO of SchoolPad Technologies; Deepa Dogra, Academics Director, Learning Wings Education Systems (LWES), Jalandhar; and Robin Aggarwal, Director of Learning Paths School, Mohali, were the panellists. TNS6-yr-old in India Book of RecordsChandigarh: Panav Rajpoot (6), a student of Shishu Niketan School, Sector 22(D), hogged the limelight by making it to the India Book of Records for reverse counting of maximum numbers by any child in India. He recited counting from 2000 to 1 to achieve the award. School Principal Amita Khorana congratulated Rajpoot on his achievement. TNSPharmacists Day observedChandigarh: World Pharmacists Day was celebrated at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. DHS Amandeep Kang, DMS Dr Paramjit Singh, casualty in-charge Dr Rajwinder, store officer Dr Devinder, along with pharmacy officers of the GMSH-16, allied dispensaries and block hospitals enjoyed a cultural programme, including dance and song performances. The celebrations concluded with a ramp walk by pharmacy officers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhanas-resident-held-in-arms-case-316246
