27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports seven new Covid cases||Chandigarh reported seven new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the administration said on Monday.The Union Territory now has 44 active cases, with an average positivity rate of 0.17 per cent over the last seven days.Its fatality count stands at 819. The bulletin said 2,364 samples had been taken for testing over 24 hours. Four recoveries were reported on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-seven-new-covid-cases-316956
27-09-2021||---||Senior Chandigarh Congress leader Mukesh Bassi dies of heart attack||Chandigarh, September 26Senior city congress leader Mukesh Bassi on Monday died of heart attack.According to Congress leaders, Bassi, a Sector 28 resident, had gone for a morning walk in the wee hours when he fell down due to heart attack and was spotted by a woman who raised an alarm.Congress chief spokesperson said Bassi was rushed to Max Hospital and had multiple heart attacks on the way. He was given emergency treatment and later put on a ventilator there, but he could not be revived.Bassi, a former MC councillor, had also remained president of Chandigarh Club. He was an industrialist, who dealt in manufacturing of spare parts of tractors.Bassi was in his mid-fifties. His family, relatives, friends and fellow Congressmen are in a state of shock over his sudden death.“Chandigarh Congress is deeply saddened with his sad demise. Bassiji was a promising leader and his untimely death has shocked the party. His void will never be filled. The party stands with the family of Bassi in this hour of grief,” a party leader said.The cremation will be take place at 12.30 pm on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senior-chandigarh-congress-leader-mukesh-bassi-dies-of-heart-attack-316940
27-09-2021||---||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block Chandigarh-Ambala road, Mohali airport road at 5 places||Mohali/Panchkula, September 27Farmers on Monday blocked the airport road at five places, including Sohana Singh Shaheedan Gurdwara, Sectors 78-79 Chowk and Chhat village light point.Bharat Bandh: Traffic diversions in Chandigarh todayBesides, the farmers also blocked the Landran Chowk, Motemajra, Sandra village, Derri, connecting the airport road to the Kharar-Banur road in Mohali district.LIVE UPDATES: Farmers block roads at various places in Punjab, HaryanaBharat Bandh: Traffic congestion at Delhi-Gurugram borderFarmers also blocked the Chandigarh-Ambala road at Dappar toll plaza, Lalru, Zirakpur and Handesra road section falling in Punjab area on the Ambala-Naraingarh road.Farmers blocked the Zirakpur-Shimla highway at the Chandimandir toll plaza.There was no major impact of the Bharat Bandh on Chandigarh as all shops were open in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-chandigarh-ambala-road-mohali-airport-road-at-5-places-316857
27-09-2021||Dera Bassi||Biker killed in hit-and-run on Dera Bassi-Ramgarh road||Hookah served, manager bookedChandigarh: The manager of a cafe, The Common Room, in Mani Majra has been booked by the UT police for serving hookah to customers on September 24. A case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 58 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against manager Raj Kumar at the Mani Majra police station. TNSTelephone cables stolenChandigarh: An unknown person stole BSNL cables worth Rs1.50 lakh. According to the police, complainant Mamta Ahuja, SDPO-III, South, BNSL, reported that telephone cables were stolen from the cable main hole near the road dividing Sector 34 and 44 on September 25. The police have registered a theft case at the Sector 34 police station. TNS3 persons snatch mobile phonesChandigarh: Three persons snatched mobile phones from two boys at Spring Garden, Sector 53, here. The police have registered a case at the Sector 36 police station. TNSOffice-bearers of mandal electedChandigarh: Sri Sidh Baba Balak Nath Sewa Mandal, Sector 29, conducted its elections here on Sunday. Following persons were unanimously elected: Ashok Sharma as chairman; Vinod Kumar Chadha, president; Murari Lal Sharma, vice-president; Kamlesh Chander Patpatia, general secretary; Satish Rana, organising secretary; Ujjagar Ram, propaganda secretary; Vinod Kumar, assistant secretary; Tarsem Chand Sharma, cashier; and Sat Dev Sood, auditor. TNSArt exhibition till October 1Chandigarh: An art exhibition, “Reflections 2021”, was inaugurated by SS Gill, Secretary, Technical Education, UT, at the galleries of the Government College of Art, Sector 10, here. The exhibition, put together by faculty members of the Government College of Art, Chandigarh, to celebrate “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”, is a first of its kind as faculty members have showcased their own works this time. The exhibition includes approximately 100 works by 30 faculty members. It will be open for visitors till October 1 between 11 am and 5 pm. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-killed-in-hit-and-run-on-dera-bassi-ramgarh-road-316708
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||One case of Covid-19 in Chandigarh||Mohali sees one death, 3 casesMohali: One more died of Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours. Three fresh cases surfaced in the district. — TNS1 tests +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded just one fresh Covid case on Sunday. The toll remained at 377. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-case-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-316705
27-09-2021||Ambala||Haryana cop, kin booked for wife’s murder||The Ambala police today booked a Haryana Police constable and two of his family members on the charges of murder and criminal conspiracy after the cop’s wife was found dead with a bullet injury in their house yesterday.The deceased has been identified as Surjit Kaur of Naraingarh. On a complaint of Surjit’s mother Amarjit Kaur, a murder case has been registered against constable Harjit, his mother and sister. Earlier, it was suspected to be a case of suicide.Amarjit of Naraingarh told the police that her daughter got married to Harjit around 20 years ago. “I spoke to her over the phone around 2 pm on Saturday and she told me that she was fine. Around 2:30 pm, I got a call from my son Sukhvinder and he informed me that Surjit has suffered a bullet injury. After getting information, I, along with other family members, reached Panjauri village and found her dead. Harjit is employed with the CID, Haryana Police, and he has killed Surjit with his licensed gun,” the complainant alleged.Harjit was an ex-serviceman. A case was registered under Sections 302 and 120B of the IPC. Dhoom Singh, SHO, Naraingarh police station, said: “A case has been registered. The weapon is a licensed one. Action will be taken on the basis of the evidence.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-cop-kin-booked-for-wifes-murder-316668
27-09-2021||Consider rising cost of living in cities||Open house: Should construction outside lal dora be regularised in Chandigarh||Rapid urbanisation is not only putting pressure on the cities, but is also affecting the surrounding villages. The rising cost of living is forcing people to settle in the villages adjoining the cities. The authorities concerned should take cognisance of this and take necessary steps to regularise the constructions in these villages. The authorities can levy suitable penalties.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhDon’t regularise constructionsOver the time, people living in villages have started misusing facilities. People are constructing buildings illegally and giving them on high rentals. This needs to be checked. The Administration, therefore, should not regularise constructions outside the lal dora. People living in villages should be allowed to carry out constructions strictly as per the rules and regulations. Growing population in villages should not have any bearing on the norms.VINEET GANDHI, ChandigarhQUESTIONIt’s been over a year since the MC took over the waste processing plant from Jaypee, but it has failed to upgrade the machinery. The city produces 500 MT of waste daily, but the plant can process only 70 MT. This has led to heaps of waste at the dumping ground. What needs to be done to resolve the issue?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comTake steps to control populationThe modernisation and development of villages shouldn’t come at the cost of converting the agricultural land into concrete jungle. There are already enough big modern concrete houses built by the villagers on their fields, thereby lessening the area of their fields. Instead of regularising construction undertaken outside the lal dora area due to growing population of the villages, steps should be taken to control the population. The bye-laws must not be changed to legalise the changes.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhUT must demarcate lal dora areasThe UT must ensure identifiable demarcation of lal dora land before regularising new constructions. If the new constructions have been raised beyond these demarcations, the Administration must not take any action. They should instead ask the authorities concerned in Punjab to act against such constructions as per the law.SC Luthra, ChandigarhNeed to extend boundariesWith the increase in family size, there is a need to extend the boundaries of lal dora. Construction outside lal dora can be regularised as one time measure, provided it is not hampering the civic issue like water supply, drainage, sewerage system, etc.Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliPrepare plan for developing villagesThe committee set up by the UT should prepare a plan for the development of villages, keeping in view the growing population. Facilities like electricity, water, roads, education and health should be provided to the residents. Mostly, daily wagers and poor people live in UT villages. They have built their houses with hard earned money, so it is the responsibility of the Administration to take care of their interests.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliNo commercial activitiesStatus of villages was retained in the development of new cities on compassionate grounds and to avoid people getting uprooted. But now they have been using this latitude to exploit resources and make money. Commercial activities should not be allowed in villages. New housing plans for villages should be similar to that for the UT. No relaxation should be extended to the inhabitants.Ashok Kumar Goel, PanchkulaImperative to develop villagesIt is a welcome step by the UT Administration to develop the Chandigarh villages. Lal dora land is generally used by a village to store its produce or to house the cattle. Though lal dora land cannot be registered, a certificate of ownership can be issued to the land owners. Development of villages is the need of the hour as the population is growing with every passing day.MR Bhateja, NayagaonIt Can encourage wrongdoersAt the onset, it is difficult to ascertain how and why the Administration usually turns a blind eye to the unlawful developments. If there is no provision to extend the lal dora limit, it would be difficult to make a decision on the illegal constructions. On the other hand, if ignored, it can encourage the wrongdoers in future. Therefore, a high-level committee comprising legal experts should be constituted to decide the course of action.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliSpecial building bylaws neededDevelopment plans should be prepared in consultation with the residents, for all lal dora and extended lal dora areas in each village. These areas are fraught with rampant illegal construction, gross commercialisation and over population. In order to accommodate increasing population, the Administration should allow construction of four-storey buildings in villages. Special buildings bylaws need to be framed for the village population.Anita K Tandon, KhararTake suggestions from expertsUT Administration should regularise the construction undertaken outside lal dora limits. This is the need of the hour as the population of villages is growing. However, it needs to be kept in mind that such regularisation should not harm the city’s character. Before regularising constructions outside lal dora, the Administration should take suggestions from the experts in the field.Adish Sood, AmlohFormulate scheme for regularisationSince lot of construction and development works have happened outside the lal dora area, the Administration should formulate a scheme to regularise such constructions. Water supply, sewerage, proper lighting and roads should be on the priority list of the Administration. Before regularising constructions outside the lal dora limits, they must ensure all these facilities.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhUpgrade villages to add to city’s beautyThe Chandigarh Administration should demolish illegal constructions outside lal dora. Chandigarh is known for being a well-planned city. The Administration should upgrade villages for the betterment of rural people and maintain the character of the city. A committee should be set up to keep a vigil on illegal construction that hampers the growth of the city.Abhilasha Gupta, Mohali||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-should-construction-outside-lal-dora-be-regularised-in-chandigarh-316667
27-09-2021||---||Mohali medical college gets NMC’s nod||Mohali, September 26In a major milestone towards imparting quality medical education to students across the state, the Punjab Government will soon operationalise Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali.8% faculty shortageChief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said the Medical Assessment and Rating Board (MARB) of the National Medical Commission (NMC) had, after examining the commission assessor’s report, granted the Letter of Permission (LoP) for starting regular classes at Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences affiliated under Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot.CM Channi said the decision of the NMC to allocate 100 seats to the institute will go a long way in ensuring quality medical education and research to the students besides providing best healthcare facilities at affordable rates to the people in the region.Channi said the process of recruiting the required staff for the institute is already underway. He said the state-of-the art medical institution is already equipped with all infrastructural requirements in terms of buildings, equipment and hospital facilities as per the NMC Medical Commission norms. He said adequate budgetary requirements for institute as and when desired by the commission will also be made by the state government.He asked officials to complete the necessary formalities at the earliest for starting the academic session in the institute at the earliest.The NMC had asked the college to recruit more faculty as a deficiency of eight per cent was found during the inspection.Alok Shekhar, Principal Secretary, Department of Medical Education and Research, said as per a letter received by the department, Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, accredited by Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot, has been awarded approval by the NMC for the academic year 2021-22.The idea of Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences was conceived in one of the first cabinet meetings of this government in 2017 but it remained a non-starter. The college was constructed under a Government of India’s scheme to allow 50 new medical colleges (in the district hospitals which had more than 200 beds) in the country. However, all other 49 started functioning much earlier, only Mohali medical college remained a non-starter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-medical-college-gets-nmcs-nod-316550
27-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||Soon, Chandigarh MC to have 24x7 call centre for complaints||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 26Residents will soon have access to a 24x7 call centre service for all complaints related to the Municipal Corporation and civic issues.The round-the-clock customer care number is expected to become operational in December. It is part of the integrated command and control centre being set up in Sector 17.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said, “Once a particular complaint is received, the resident will be called back till he/she is not satisfied with the redressal. If a complaint is about other department, it will be referred to that wing.”The current MC complaint number 0172-2787200 is often found busy and many times people get messages that the issue has been resolved even if the complaint was not redressed.MC officials said the new complaint centre would have several lines. There would be dedicated staff to call back complainants to check whether their complaints have been properly addressed.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma later proposed to increase the park maintenance charges given to the RWAs. “We will bring an agenda regarding this in the next House meeting as the rates have not been revised for many years,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-chandigarh-mc-to-have-24x7-call-centre-for-complaints-316666
27-09-2021||Mohali||Will continue to work for people of Mohali, says Balbir Singh Sidhu||Former Health and Labour Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said though he was not a minister now, he would continue to work for the people of the Mohali Assembly segment.Balbir Singh Sidhu said he had worked day and night to make Mohali a medical hub during his tenure. As the Labour Minister, he had done immense work for workers.Sidhu also made it clear he would continue to carry out development works in coordination with the government.He said during his tenure, he had also resolved the issue of Landran chowk in Mohali area, which always witnessed traffic jam. Now, the flow of traffic was running smoothly here. During the pandemic, the team of the Health Department worked day and night in coordination with the government and succeeded in controlling the disease. His entire family was also in the grip of coronavirus, but he continued to work for the prevention of the disease in Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-continue-to-work-for-people-of-mohali-says-balbir-singh-sidhu-316665
27-09-2021||---||66,834 get polio drops in Mohali dist on Day 1||Mohali, September 26A total of 66,834 children in the age group of 0-5 years were immunised on the first day of the three-day sub-national immunisation day pulse polio vaccination drive in Mohali district today.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said they had set a target to immunise 1,58,242 children below the age of five during the three-day drive. Around 42 per cent of the target was achieved today. As many as 1,252 teams, including 1,110 house-to-house teams, were constituted across the district. As part of the campaign, health workers would visit houses, railway stations, bus stands, brick-kilns and slums each day.“A total of 2,504 vaccinators have been pressed into service. The teams include ANMs, ASHA workers, Anganwari workers and students from nursing colleges. The teams would visit a total of 4,05,966 houses and other places in the district. To ensure that all children are immunised, 127 supervisors will carry out sudden checks at various places,” said Dr Adarshpal.Earlier, Deputy Director Dr Nisha Shahi and District Immunisation Officer Dr Girish Dogra launched the three-day drive by administering polio drops to children below the age of five near Gharuan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/66-834-get-polio-drops-in-mohali-dist-on-day-1-316663
27-09-2021||---||PU Senate poll: Only 14.66 pc vote for graduate constituency||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 26The first phase of polling for the registered graduate constituency of the Panjab University Senate was held at 211 polling booths spread over Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi, informed Vikram Nayyar, Registrar and Returning Officer, Senate elections.Out of the 2,87,997 registered voters, 42,228 cast their votes, Nayyar said, adding that a total of 14.66 per cent votes were polled today. Voting at all the booths went smoothly, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-senate-poll-only-14-66-pc-vote-for-graduate-constituency-316662
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Decomposed body of Panjab University asst professor found||The decomposed body of an assistant professor was found at his house on the PU campus here today. The deceased has been identified as Komal Singh. Neighbours complained of foul smell emanating from the house following which the PU security and the police were informed.The police reached the spot and found the door locked from inside.They broke open the door and found the body lying on the floor in the bedroom. The police have ruled out any foul play and initiated inquest proceedings at the Sector 11 police station.Sources said he used to stay alone at the house. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decomposed-body-of-panjab-university-asst-professor-found-316661
27-09-2021||Chandigarh||Bharat Bandh: Traffic diversions in Chandigarh today||In view of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by farmers for tomorrow, road blockades are expected at the Mullanpur barrier and Hallo Majra light point, following which traffic diversions will be made.Traffic bound to the Hallo Majra light point will be diverted towards the Kalibari light point from Tribune Chowk. Traffic coming from the Industrial Area, Phase I and II, at the Poultry farm chowk will be diverted towards Tribune Chowk. Traffic coming from Panchkula towards the Hallo Majra light point will be diverted towards Baltana village near the Raipur Kalan barrier and towards the Airport light point at Makhan Majra turn. Diversion will be put in place at various points leading towards Mullanpur barrier. These are the 66KV light point, Khuda Lahora bridge, Dhanas bridge, T-point near Dhanas lake and PGI chowk. —TNSPanchkula police issue travel advisoryPanchkula: The police have asked commuters to avoid certain roads due to the ‘bandh’ call on Monday. As per the advisory, the Panchkula-Yamunanagar, Zirakpur-Shimla, Pinjore-Nalagarh and other small and big roads in the district are likely to be impacted. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-traffic-diversions-in-chandigarh-today-316660
27-09-2021||Naina Mishra||Next two months crucial to prevent third wave: Chandigarh DHS||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 26“People should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and avoid overcrowding in the coming festival season. The immunity against the virus will also start waning by October-end and that is the time when we need to remain cautious. The next two months will be crucial for the city to prevent a third wave,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, who is set to retire as the Director, Health Services, UT, on September 30.Second wave was the biggest challengeThe second wave came in April this year and Dr Kang was confronted with one of the major hardships of her tenure. Speaking about it, she said, “I was really worried for people during the second wave. I was scared that I had to prioritise patients waiting to get ICU beds in queues. We had converted 250 beds for Covid and reserved 20-30 beds at each Civil Hospital. The major challenge was shortage of ICU beds.We had to ramp up the infrastructure within two to three days. Another challenge was that during the second wave, the number of patients in home isolation had increased and a rapid response team (RRT) was looking after these patients, who were a part of the extended hospital beds at home. Our team even collected blood samples from homes of these patients,” she said.‘Geared up to tackle a possible third wave’Asked about the preparations for a possible third wave, Dr Kang said, “From six ICU beds, the infrastructure has been increased to 20 ICU beds at the GMSH-16. There are 15 ICU beds at the Civil Hospital, Sector 45, for paediatric patients. There are an additional 12 ICU beds at the nursing college building of the GMSH. We have provided oxygen concentrators to each Health and Wellness Centre and have 80 more in stock.”The RT-PCR capacity has been enhanced by all government hospitals in the city. By next month, the GMSH, Sector 16, will also have an RT-PCR machine that will be able to conduct at least 500 tests daily.“A tele hub for paediatric Covid patients will be launched soon wherein the PGI will be the nodal paediatric centre and will be connected to all government hospitals and healthcare workers (HCWs). Through this digital platform, paediatricians will be able to seek consultation from each other and take better care of the patients,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/next-two-months-crucial-to-prevent-third-wave-chandigarh-dhs-316658
27-09-2021||---||Rs 6L, jewellery stolen from doctor’s house in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 26An amount of around Rs6 lakh, gold jewellery and documents were stolen from a doctor’s house in Sector 19. The suspect, who works as a security guard at a hospital and used to stay in the same house, is absconding since last evening.Dr Rajesh Rana, who is posted at the Civil Hospital, Mani Majra, reported that the suspect, Rinku, aged around 22, used to stay at his house. “He worked as a security guard at the Civil Hospital on a contract basis and was staying with us for the past several years,” he said.Dr Rana, who is out of the city, said the suspect gave a sandwich laced with sedatives to his wife yesterday afternoon following which she fell asleep.The suspect, who knew where the keys of the locker are kept, opened the locker and stole cash and valuables lying in it. Before committing the crime, the suspect switched off the CCTV cameras installed at the house. “The theft took place between 3 pm and 5 pm, and the suspect left the house after telling my wife that he will return soon. However, he didn’t return,” Dr Rana said. The theft came to light this morning when Dr Rana’s wife found the locker open and cash and valuables missing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-6l-jewellery-stolen-from-doctors-house-in-chandigarh-316655
