28-09-2021||---||Jobless ETT pass teachers block Chandigarh-Kharar flyover||Mohali, September 28The unemployed ETT pass teachers on Tuesday evening blocked the Chandigarh-Kharar flyover near Desu Majra village near Kharar thus causing huge traffic jam and inconveniencing commuters.The police had to divert the traffic to other roads so that the commuters do not face any inconvenience in reaching their destinations.Earlier teachers had planned to gherao Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence in Kharar in protest against the authorities for continuously changing the dates of the exams.As soon as the police came to know about this they appealed to the protesting teachers that their matter would be resolved in today’s meeting. A meeting was arranged between the protesters led by state president Deepak Kamboj and Principal Secretary Hussan Lal in which the delegation of the protesting teachers discussed their demands.The protesters said after the continuous struggle for more than four-and-a-half-years, out of the 6,635 ETT posts 2,364 were declared but the government had made amendments to give chance to the outsiders. They said the recruitment is still pending due to policy of equal chance to the outsiders for recruitment of ETT teachers and the state government instead of recruiting the 6,635 ETT teachers had postponed the exams thrice. They demanded that the only ETT teachers should be recruited on 2,364 ETT teachers’ posts.Deepak Kamboj said due to the dilly dallying attitude of the state government the unemployed ETT teachers were either forced to climb the overhead water tanks, jumping into the canals or had to resort to fast unto death.Kamboj said their main demands included that in the recruitment of 2,364 ETT teachers, only ETT selected candidates should be recruited; holding examination for recruiting 6,635 teachers as soon as possible, to give exemption in age limit to candidates who have crossed the age limit for enabling them to appear in exams and adding ETT posts of SC backlog to be added in 6,635 posts of ETT teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jobless-ett-pass-teachers-block-chandigarh-kharar-flyover-317465
28-09-2021||Amritsar||Make Sikh PU V-C, Naidu urged||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/make-sikh-pu-v-c-naidu-urged-317365
28-09-2021||---||Bharat bandh: Mohali paralysed, commuters bear the brunt||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 27A complete bandh was observed in Mohali district today in support of the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) for Bharat Bandh against the three farm laws.The 10-hour-long bandh crippled life as most shops and business establishments remained closed. Traffic was also disrupted, causing inconvenience to commuters.The protesting farmers blocked the entry points to the district at Kharar, Banur, Lalru and Mullanpur near Siswan from 6 am to 4 pm.The farmers also blocked the Chandigarh-Zirakpur border. Blockades were put up at the McDonald’s light point and the K-Area light point.The airport road also remained out of bounds with blockades at Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan, Sohana, Aerocity, Sector 82, Sector 78-79 chowk and the Chhat village light point.The farmers also blocked the Landran chowk, Mote Majra, Saneta and Derri village, connecting the airport road on the Kharar-Banur road.The traffic movement on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway was also hit with the farmers blocking the arterial road at the Dappar toll plaza in Lalru.Various resident welfare associations blocked roads in their respective areas to support the bandh call.No vehicles, except ambulances and emergency services vehicles, were allowed to pass. The farmers also let air passengers, who were on their way to the Chandigarh international airport, to go through after checking their tickets. However, other passengers arriving into the district had to face harassment as they had to wait at the protesting sites for long hours.Office-goers travelling to and from the tricity had a harrowing time criss-crossing the borders. The commuters had to take long detours and walk on foot to reach their destinations.Some residents, however, found an ingenious way of commuting by cycle to avoid the blockades.At the Chandigarh-Zirakpur border, police tailed the members of the farmers union to ensure that commuters were not harassed by the protesting youth.Meanwhile, the bandh remained peaceful as the Mohali Beopar Mandal had extended an unconditional support to the farmers. No untoward incident was reported from any part of the district.All government offices and banks were open but the attendance was thin.Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said the bandh remained peaceful.All emergency establishments and essential services remained open during the bandh, she said. “The farmers assembled on the highways and other key roads since morning and the agitation remained totally peaceful throughout the district,” said Kalia.“Elaborate security arrangements were made to instill sense of security among people,” she added.General Secretary, Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), Harsukhinder Singh Babbi Badal; senior vice-president of the Bharti Kisan Union (Sidhupur) Mehar Singh Their; Kisan Union (Rajewal) leader Kulwant Singh Tripri; president of the Bharti Kisan Union (Charuni) Geetinder Singh Gill; and district president of the Bharti Kisan Union (Dakonda) Jagjit Singh were part of the protest.While addressing the protesters, the farmer leaders said the farmers were sitting on dharna at the Singhu border near Delhi for the past 10 months against the farm laws.More than 600 farmers have lost their lives during the protest and this will not go unnoticed, they said.They also appealed to the farmers and workers to unite to wake up the “rulers from their deep slumber”.“This is not just a farmers’ struggle, every citizen of the country needs to be a part of it,” said Harsukhinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-mohali-paralysed-commuters-bear-the-brunt-317142
28-09-2021||Panchkula||Bharat Bandh: Business as usual in Panchkula||The Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had little impact in Panchkula even as blockades were put on some routes in the district.Markets in Panchkula remain closed on Mondays. Hence, the bandh had no impact on the business. Chemist shops and essential services remained open.The farmers blocked the Chandimandir toll plaza on the Zirakpur-Shimla highway and the Jaloli toll plaza on the Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway. However, not many vehicles were seen playing on the two routes. Public transport also stayed off the road.Kuldeep Chitkara, president of the Panchkula Beopar Mandal, said: “There was no impact of bandh on trade activities.”Karm Singh, a local leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), however, termed the bandh successful.“People from all walks of life extended support to the bandh,” said Karam Singh.The police had yesterday issued a travel advisory for commuters, asking them to take alternative routes and modify their travel plans in view of the expected road blockades. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-business-as-usual-in-panchkula-317143
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers lay siege to Chandigarh||Commuters travelling to Chandigarh from neighbouring Zirakpur, Mohali and adjoining areas were inconvenienced as traffic was hit badly due to the Bharat Bandh called by the protesting farmers.Blockades were put at the borders as the farmers laid a siege around the city, blocking the entry points at Hallo Majra light point, Sector 48-Jagatpura dividing road, Mullanpur barrier and on various roads leading to Chandigarh.The road leading from Tribune Chowk to Zirakpur was also barricaded by the UT police and the traffic was diverted towards Kali Bari light point. Tractors were parked by the farmers at various points to stop the traffic.Hemant a Zirakpur resident said there were blockades at various points following which he was forced to cancel his visit to the city.Most of the roads wore a near-deserted look throughout the day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesting-farmers-lay-siege-to-chandigarh-317144
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||No impact of  bandh on Chandigarh markets||No impact of Bharat Bandh was witnessed on the city markets as most of the shops remained open. In a random check at Sectors 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and other places, all the shops were found open.Sanjiv Chadha of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal said all the shops were open in Sector 17 and there was no impact of the bandh call. Narender Singh Rinku, president of the Sadar Bazaar, Sector 19, said: “All shops were open. There was no bandh here.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-impact-of-bandh-on-chandigarh-markets-317145
28-09-2021||---||Bandh derails train services, passengers hit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27All trains plying over the Chandigarh Railway Station were hit by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call for Bharat Bandh. While five trains were cancelled, three others were delayed by more than eight hours. Evidently, passengers had a harrowing time. Hundreds of them spread linen sheets right at the entrance to the station waiting for their trains, while others took refuge at the platform.Trains that were cancelledTrain number 02006 (Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Special) was cancelled between Kalka and New Delhi. Jan Shatabdi (02058) was cancelled between Morinda and Delhi, while Unchahar Express Special (04218), which runs from Chandigarh to Allahabad, was cancelled between Chandigarh and Ambala. Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi (02046) and Chandigarh-Amritsar Intercity (04541), too, remained cancelled.Train number 02006 (Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Special) was cancelled between Kalka and New Delhi. Jan Shatabdi (02058) was cancelled between Morinda and Delhi, while Unchahar Express Special (04218), which runs from Chandigarh to Allahabad, was cancelled between Chandigarh and Ambala. Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi (02046) and Chandigarh-Amritsar Intercity (04541), too, remained cancelled.Prakash Tulli, one of the passengers travelling to Delhi, said: “I had booked a ticket for my brother, who was to leave for Delhi due to a family emergency. But we’re going back now as the train has been cancelled. It’s quite troublesome, but I totally support the farmers. What else can they do, especially when the government doesn’t want to listen to them.”Of three trains that were delayed, biweekly Chandigarh-Madurai Sf Special (02688) was delayed by more than 9 hours. Sachkhand Express (02716) was delayed by more than 10 hours, while Paschim Express was delayed by eight and a half hours.Mathius Hansdak (40) was waiting for a train to Mumbai. He is suffering from last-stage stomach cancer and is being treated at Tata Memorial Hospital. “I have a chemotherapy session on Wednesday. I had already booked the train to Mumbai, but it’s delayed. I must reach on time to get proper treatment,” he said, while praying, along with his wife and daughter, for the train to reach there on time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bandh-derails-train-services-passengers-hit-317147
28-09-2021||---||Chandigarh villagers back band call, shut shops||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27While shops and booths in sectors remained open for business, most of the shops in UT villages remained closed in support of the SKM’s call for Bharat Bandh.Members of the Pendu Sangharsh Committee said they had also given a call for the bandh and were requesting people to shut down their shops.Gurpreet Singh Somal, general secretary of the Pendu Sangharsh Committee, said: “While all 23 villages of Chandigarh remained closed today, some people had opened their shops in Nayagaon and Kansal.”He said: “We requested the people of Nayagaon and Kansal to close their shops and they happily did it. It was overwhelming to see such a raving response to the Bharat Bandh call by city’s villages.”He said: “I think people have already suffered losses due to the Covid and lockdown. Many people opened their shops to make business. It’s about what one chooses between greed and integrity.”Devinder Singh, an advocate and resident of Kajheri, said: “In Kajheri, almost everyone had shut their shops. I even went to Burail and, except a few people, almost everyone supported the call.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-villagers-back-band-call-shut-shops-317148
28-09-2021||---||Murder accused hacked to death by over 20 men in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 27A 37-year-old man was allegedly hacked to death with sharp weapons by at least 24 men at the Majri Chowk bus stop on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The victim, identified as Rinku, was a native of Ropar.Was out on bail in ’17 Pinjore killing caseBoth parties have a criminal background. The victim was an accused in a 2017 murder case that took place in Pinjore. — Inspector Mahabir Singh, SHO, Sector 7 Police StationHe had estranged relations with his wife and was currently staying in Mani Majra.According to the police, Rinku was an accused in a murder case in Pinjore in 2017 and was out on bail.The reason behind the spine-chilling crime, according to the police, was old animosity between two groups.“Both parties have a criminal background. The victim was an accused in a 2017 murder case that took place in Pinjore,” said Inspector Mahabir Singh, SHO of the Sector 7 police station.According to an FIR registered on a complaint of the victim’s aide, also named Rinku, “After dinner at a hotel in Mamta Enclave, Zirakpur, the victim and his two aides stopped their car near the Majri Chowk bus stop around 11.30 pm when the assailants, who came in two cars and two motorcycles, attacked them. As they appeared at the spot, the assailants, who were carrying sharp weapons, vandalised the car. All three sitting inside the car came out and started running to save their lives. Suddenly, Rinku fell, allowing the assailants to surround him and attack. His two aides managed to get inside a nearby slum colony, Khark Mangoli. By the time the duo came back after 15 minutes, Rinku was dead and there was blood all around.” The victim’s body was badly mutilated by the assailants, the police said, adding that the victim had 20 cuts and abrasions on the body.The report of the postmortem, which was conducted at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 today, is awaited.The police said the suspects would be nabbed soon.A case was registered against seven persons by name and other unknown persons under several Sections of the IPC, including 148 (armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 302 (murder), 307 (intentional murder) and 427 (damage to property) at the Sector 7 police station.Those who have been named in the FIR are Shekhar, a resident of Maheshpur, Panchkula; Jhonny, alias Pradeep, Vakili and Manish, alias Bahadur, residents of Khark Mangoli; Pappi, a resident of Sector 20, Ashiana, and Bobby and Bada Bahadur, residents of Fatehpur in Sector 20, along with unidentified persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/murder-accused-hacked-to-death-by-over-20-men-in-panchkula-317149
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Seven new Covid cases in Chandigarh||2 +ve, no death in MohaliMohali: Two fresh Covid cases were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 68,719. No fresh death was reported, while three patients were cured of the disease. Both new cases were reported from Mohali (urban). Of the 68,719 positive cases reported so far, 67,628 patients have been cured. There are now 27 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,064. TNSJust one case in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district recorded just one fresh Covid case on Monday, taking the overall tally to 30,731. The toll remained at 377. While 30,336 people have recovered from the disease so far, 18 cases are still active. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-317150
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Centre put on notice over Apartment Rules||Nearly 14 years after the Chandigarh Apartment Rules - 2001 were repealed, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the Union of India on notice on a petition seeking the quashing of the notification withdrawing the same.Among other things, it has been contended that the withdrawal was “totally illegal, without jurisdiction and violative of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution”.The petition, filed against the Union of India and other respondents, by Rakesh Kumar Sharma and another petitioner through senior counsel Anand Chhibber and Vivek Singla stated the withdrawal of the notification was a result of total non-application of mind.Taking up the matter, the High Court Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh fixed November 2 as the next date of hearing in the case.Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain accepted the notice on behalf of the respondents and prayed for some time to address the arguments in the matter.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Chhibbar submitted that the respondent authorities had allowed the provision of separate water and electricity meters, besides payment of house tax, garbage cess, etc, for each floor separately. It meant that each floor was treated as a separate dwelling unit by the respondent authorities. Referring to the repealed rules, Chhibbar contended its reading made it clear that notification issued in 2001 in the matter was “brought for crystallising the rights of co-owners”.“Some relaxation were given to the residential existing plots and even in commercial area simultaneously from time to time,” he stated.Chhibbar added that the respondents issued the impugned notification dated October 1, 2007. But the bare perusal of the relevant provisions/clause of the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031 showed that each floor was an independent unit capable of being occupied by a family. It did not anywhere affect the basic character of Chandigarh and there was no violation of the building rules. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-put-on-notice-over-apartment-rules-317151
28-09-2021||Naina Mishra||3,942 walk in to register for OPDs at PGI on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27The PGI today started walk-in registration for OPDs. On the first day, 3,942 patients turned up for physical registration, while 1,345 patients got themselves registered through teleconsultation.‘Covid norms followed’Due to the Bharat Bandh call, there was not a significant turnout of patients. However, despite this, 3,942 patients got themselves registered physically. Everyone was seen wearing masks and following Covid norms. — Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIThe institute saw a total of 5,288 OPD registrations today. However, the number of walk-in registrations was not significant on the first day as compared to the general OPD data of previous days. Last Monday, 3,300 patients had turned up physically at the OPDs at the PGI and 2,000 patients had got themselves registered through teleconsultation. This translates into a 20 per cent increase in physical OPD registration from last Monday. Dr Naveen Pandey, incharge of the OPD administration at the PGI, said, “The OPD load is expected to increase in the days to come. As expected, being the first day, patients did not turn up in huge numbers. Some patients may have not been able to come due to ‘Bharat bandh’ call today. The actual numbers will be seen in the coming days.”“We have reduced the timings for teleconsultation so that there is a fair share of patient load through both alternatives. Patients were allowed to enter the building by 7 am and were made to sit in the holding area. The patients are requested to follow all Covid norms,” said Dr Pandey.The online registration for physical visit to all OPDs has been increased to 50 for all departments and 100 for ophthalmology, hepatology and internal medicine. The registration for teleconsultation in the New OPD is being done from 8 am to 9 am. The registration of walk-in patients for physical visit to the New OPD is being done from 9.15 am to 11 am at the respective registration counters.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “Today, due to the Bharat bandh call, there was not a significant turnout of patients. But despite this, 3,942 patients got themselves registered physically. Everyone was seen wearing masks and following Covid norms.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-942-walk-in-to-register-for-opds-at-pgi-on-day-1-317152
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Child volunteers invited for vaccine trial by PGI||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI), Chandigarh, has invited child volunteers for conducting a research trial of Covovax – Covid-19 vaccine for the pediatric population.The notice invites registration from parents of healthy children, who want their kids to be a part of the study.The notice also mentions that children above 12 years can self-register for the trial.The study is aimed at checking the safety and immune response of Covovax in children aged two to 17 years.The objective of the study is to evaluate the safety of Covovax with regard to placebo and its immunogenicity in children in the age groups of 12 to 17 and two to 11 in comparison to adult participants. The immunogenicity of the vaccine is the antibody response provoked in the human body after administering the vaccine.A total of 920 eligible children will be enrolled for the study across 24 centres in the country. Of these, 460 participants will be in the age group of 12 to 17 years, while an equal number will participate in the 2 to 11 years age group.The PGI will recruit 100 candidates for the trial. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/child-volunteers-invited-for-vaccine-trial-by-pgi-317153
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress leader Mukesh Bassi dies of heart attack||Senior city Congress leader Mukesh Bassi died today of a heart attack.According to Congress leaders, Bassi, a resident of Sector 28, had gone for a walk in the wee hours of today when the incident happened. He fell down and was spotted by a woman, who raised the alarm.A spokesperson for the Congress said he was rushed due to Max Hospital and had multiple heart attacks on the way. He was given emergency treatment and put on a ventilator there, but nothing worked.Bassi, a former councillor, had also remained president of the Chandigarh Club. He was an industrialist, who dealt in manufacturing of spare parts of tractors. He was in his mid-fifties.“The Chandigarh Congress is deeply saddened over his sad demise. Bassi ji was a promising leader and his untimely death has shocked the party. His void will never be filled. The party stands with his family in this hour of grief,” said the Congress. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-leader-mukesh-bassi-dies-of-heart-attack-317154
28-09-2021||Amit Bathla||Dengue tally 42, Panchkula seeks help of RWAs||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 27As the dengue tally reached 42 today, the Panchkula Health Department convened a joint meeting of various departments concerned, including the Education Department and the Municipal Corporation, and the representatives of RWAs to strengthen the preventive measures and ensure coordination among various departments to check the spread of the disease.Three-day campaignThe Health Department will start a ‘three-day anti-dengue campaign’ under which focus will be on a particular area or sector. “On the first day, the RWAs will engage in clearing stagnant water in their localities, followed by source reduction activities by health teams on the second day. The teams of the MC will undertake fogging on the third and last day,” the CMO said, adding that it will be repeated after two weeks.The CMO, Dr Mukta Kumar, requested all RWAs to participate in the campaign against vector-borne diseases.“The RWAs should contribute towards dengue-prevention activities by carrying out an inspection in their own homes and those in the localities to check the signs of the vector-borne disease,’’ she said.The District Education Officer has been requested to sensitise the students coming to schools to the preventive steps.A formal letter to the district Education Department will be issued from the CMO office soon.At the meeting, biologist Anita Vasudeva educated the participants about the spread of dengue larvae and what steps be taken to contain it. The number of dengue patients has risen this month, with four cases reported on Monday. Only five cases had been reported till the last week of August.Shortage of manpowerThe three-day activities would need the deployment of several teams of the Health Department as well as the MC. “A shortage of manpower can create hurdles. These activities may not pan out the way we aspire them to,” a senior health official said.“People will also be urged to participate in a weekly dry day. They will be asked to dry pots, pans, water tanks, flower and animal pot trays on that particular day,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-tally-42-panchkula-seeks-help-of-rwas-317155
28-09-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Only 40% applicants turn up at Chandigarh Passport Seva Kendra due to Bharat Bandh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27The Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call for Bharat Bandh had a cascading effect on people seeking passports. Most of them, who were travelling to Chandigarh from Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, arrived a day in advance in the city so that they could reach the Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) in the Industrial Area, Phase II, for their appointment, while others had to take odd detours.I had to tell a lie to reach here. I told the protesters that my daughter had an exam. Only then, they allowed us to go ahead. If I hadn’t come here on Monday, the process of getting a passport would have been delayed by 15 more days. I was left with no choice.— Prem Kumar, a visitor from RajpuraRegional Passport Officer (RPO) Sibash Kabiraj said only 40 per cent of the total applicants managed to reach the Passport Seva Kendra here today.He said: “Only 550 applicants showed up at the Passport Seva Kendra out of a total of 1,400 applicants. Even in Ambala, only 300 came out of 700 applicants. We have a waiting of 30-40 days and this is the lowest turnout so far since we resumed service. We even had to shut down our PSK in Ludhiana at 1:30 pm.”At a makeshift tea stall near the PSK became a hotspot for comfort conversations, where many had arrived way ahead of their time of appointment and waited patiently.Prem Kumar, who came from Rajpura, said: “It took me two and a half hours to reach here. I set off early in the morning and got here just in the nick of time. I had to find a way through villages”.He said: “I had to tell a lie to reach here. I told the protesters that my daughter had to appear for an exam. Only then, they allowed us to go ahead. If I hadn’t come here today, the process of getting a passport would have been delayed by 15 more days. I was left with no choice.”A father-daughter duo sitting on a cement slab said they had travelled from Mansa to the city on Sunday.Gurinder Singh (44), who accompanied his brother Amandeep for his passport application, started from Ludhiana at 4 am. “We reached Chandigarh at 6 am. The appointment was at 12:30 pm. I was inconvenienced, but I support farmers and I’m against the farm laws. It’s better to suffer now than suffering forever.”Damanjit Singh, who came from Mohali for his the renewal of his passport, said: “I had to take odd routes to reach here. I support farmers and am of the opinion that the farm laws are draconian, but you can’t make general public suffer for a problem you have with the government. A middle ground must be sought. This is not for the first time and today’s a weekday. It’s when people have to go out and work.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-40-applicants-turn-up-at-chandigarh-passport-seva-kendra-due-to-bharat-bandh-317156
28-09-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula Civil Hospital to increase oxygen storage capacity soon||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 27The Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here is set to increase its liquid medical oxygen storage capacity to 16 kilolitres (kl) to strengthen its preparedness for a possible third wave of the Covid and reserve the supply for indoor patients.These units will have more than sufficient oxygen. The 6kl storage tank was being refilled two times a day during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. With an additional 10kl storage, it can easily last 60 hours with all 265 Covid beds operational at one go. Even if we don’t get oxygen supply on time, lives of patients will not be in trouble. — Dr Arvind Sehgal, Senior Medical Officer (Infrastructure), General Hospital, PanchkulaIn addition to an already operational oxygen storage tank of 6kl capacity, a 10kl tank reached the hospital yesterday. It is expected to be functional in a week.Health officials said with both oxygen storage units getting operational, patients requiring oxygen would be quite manageable and it would also help in keeping away supply issues that the hospital faced during the second wave of the pandemic.Both storage units could manage supply for 265 Covid beds for 60 hours. These units would be required to be refilled after every third day, staff added.During the peak of the second wave of the pandemic in May this year, the hospital was under an oxygen emergency due to a delay in the arrival of an oxygen tanker from Roorkee, putting the lives of over 250 Covid patients at risk.The district administration had to seek Punjab’s help in averting a catastrophe from taking place. Apart from the oxygen storage units, the hospital also has an oxygen generation unit.As the cases increased significantly during the second wave, the oxygen production unit with a capacity of 300 litres per minute (LPM) was put to use in May. The unit can ensure uninterrupted supply to at least 25 oxygen beds 24x7.Dr Arvind Sehgal, Senior Medical Officer (Infrastructure), General Hospital, Panchkula, said: “These units will have more than sufficient oxygen. The 6kl storage tank was being refilled two times a day during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. With an additional 10kl storage, it can easily last for 60 hours with all 265 Covid beds operational at one go. Even if we don’t get oxygen supply on time, lives of patients will not be in trouble.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-civil-hospital-to-increase-oxygen-storage-capacity-soon-317157
28-09-2021||Zirakpur||GBP director expresses ‘regret’ in video||The director of the Gupta Builders and Promoters Private Limited (GBP) group today released a video and expressed regret that home buyers, investors and staff had to face inconvenience in the past few days.Also read: Zirakpur: Thieves make hay at GBP offices as directors flee the countryGupta vowed to complete the projects, saying he is “outside” to generate funds for the projects. He assured the buyers that his group will restart operations with in-charge Sandeep Bansal and others reopening the offices.With folded hands, he requested everyone “not to disturb his staff”. He also requested not to obstruct the operations of his projects. He, however, did not give any timeline for the completion of projects or when he will return.On a complaint of Mohali resident Sarika Poplani, directors Satish Gupta, Raman Gupta, and Pradeep Gupta, all brothers, have been booked for fraud. Home buyers and investors in a GBP project, “Athens”, have formed a 10-member committee to take up the case legally. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gbp-director-expresses-regret-in-video-317158
28-09-2021||Mohali||Four Mohali  SAD leaders in police custody||Four Mohali SAD leaders, including Captain Ramandeep Singh Bawa, Kanwaljit and Mandeep Rana, were taken into preventive police custody for disrupting the inauguration of an open-air gym in Sector 68 by former Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu and other Congress leaders here this evening.Congress activists and SAD leaders clashed with each other during the inauguration of an open-air gym at Darshan Vihar park in Sector 68 here. Eyewitnesses said Sidhu and other Congress leaders came there to inaugurate the open-air gym when SAD activists resorted to sloganeering against the former Health Minister following which both parties clashed with each other.The police took some agitators into their custody. “Four persons have been taken into custody. They will be produced in a court tomorrow,” he said. Both SAD and Congress activists, including senior leaders, were camping at the Phase 8 police station till late at night. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-mohali-sad-leaders-in-police-custody-317159
28-09-2021||---||Cops on deputation in Chandigarh get postings||Chandigarh, September 27An AGMUT cadre IPS officer and two DANIPS cadre DSPs, who had recently joined the UT police on deputation, were given postings today.As per the order, ASP Mridul will look after the charge of Operation Cell, DSP Rajnish has been posted as DSP (Crime and Headquarters) and DSP Niyati Mittal has been given the charge of DSP, EOW and Security (Headquarters).DSP Amrao Singh, who was earlier posted as DSP Security (Headquarters) has now been transferred to Woman and Child Support Unit.Meanwhile, Rashmi Sharma Yadav, who is at present DSP, Cyber Crime Investigation Cell (CCIC), has been given the additional responsibility of all IT projects of the Police Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-on-deputation-in-chandigarh-get-postings-317160
28-09-2021||---||Chandigarh: Congress councillor stages sit-in||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27Congress councillor Satish Kainth, who was not given “enough time to speak” at a meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC), staged a sit-in outside the office of Commissioner Anindita Mitra. He was later called by Mitra.According to Kainth, during the meeting, he wanted to ask questions about “irregularities” in awarding contracts of smart parking lots, Mayor Ravi Kant’s “bogus” claim about Rs200 crore more grant-in-aid to the MC and other issues.“I was not allowed to properly speak. I sought time to speak, but they refused. The Mayor wanted to evade replies to my questions,” he said.Meanwhile, the Mayor rubbished Kainth’s allegations saying he was given time to speak. Moreover, the meeting was called for discussing developmental agenda, not politics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-congress-councillor-stages-sit-in-317161
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Rainwater harvesting in Chandigarh||In view of the “Catch the rain where it falls and when it falls” initiative, the Municipal Corporation is going to provide the rainwater harvesting system the two community centres of Sector 8 and 18. An agenda item to this effect was approved by the F&CC at a meeting held under the chairmanship of Ravi Kant Sharma, Mayor, today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rainwater-harvesting-in-chandigarh-317162
28-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Azad group making baseless allegations: Mohali Deputy Mayor||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 27Coming down heavily on councillors of the Azad group for questioning the leasing of 3.54 acres to cattle breeders, Mohali Municipal Corporation Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi today said the group had become an “anti-city party” and the people of Mohali city would never forgive them for this.Bedi stated this on the sidelines of the laying of paver blocks in Phase II here. He said the Azad group had suffered a drubbing in the corporation elections held in January and now it was well known that their condition was going to get worse in the coming Assembly elections. So, the group was now raising baseless and ridiculous questions on the work done by the present dispensation.Earlier, the Opposition (Azad group) had alleged at a press conference yesterday that GMADA had leased the piece of land to the MC and the corporation could not illegally sub-lease it to the cattle breeders. The Opposition had also alleged that that was being done by former minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and the Mayor’s team to take possession of the expensive land in their personal clutches.Bedi said in the villages under the MC jurisdiction, villagers left their animals in the city which led to accidents. He said the MC, at its House meeting to be held tomorrow, would bring a resolution to move around 1,000 animals to 3.5 acres, out of a total of 13.5 acres. The MC would take a lease amount of Rs500 per month per animal from the cattle breeders and Rs300 per month for calves below one year of age.Bedi further clarified that the allegation of the Opposition that the land was leased by GMADA to the MC was false. He said the land had been allotted to the corporation by GMADA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/azad-group-making-baseless-allegations-mohali-deputy-mayor-317163
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Hunar Mittal shines in golf meet||City golfer Hunar Mittal (17) has bagged second position in the girls’ category A with a total score of 218 in the IGU BioGen Rotary Southern Amateur Golf Championship.Hunar, 795th World Amateur Golf Ranking (WAGR) player, is eying participatation in a number of tournaments. “This was a much needed win for me. During the pandemic, there was no golfing activity and I had focused on improving my skills. The coming months are equally important as I will be eplaying in a number of tournaments and will try to attain the top podium,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hunar-mittal-shines-in-golf-meet-317164
28-09-2021||---||Paramjeet wins half-marathon||Chandigarh, September 27Paramjeet Singh Mand, former DIGP, CRPF, and recipient of President’s Medal for Meritorious Service, won the recently concluded Shivalik Hills Half Marathon (21km).Braving tough hilly terrain, 73-year-old Mand finished the race in record 2.49 hours and set an example for youngsters. After retirement, he has participated in popular Airtel Delhi Half Marathon (2014) and Bombay Half Marathon (2017) and won gold medals in his category.He has also won more than 50 medals in various state and national athletics championships. His daily workout includes a minimum of 10-km run and yoga.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paramjeet-wins-half-marathon-317165
28-09-2021||---||Prince steers HC team to victory||Panchkula, September 27A quick-fire knock by Prince Pandey (60 off 35 balls) enabled Punjab & Haryana High Court beat Chandigarh Police by five wickets in the 2nd HSWC Inter Departmental Premier League Cricket Tournament for the Atul Maheshwari Trophy today.Batting first, Chandigarh Police scored 148 runs in the allotted 20 overs with the help of Kapil Punia (91 off 60 balls). Sandeep Bhatt remained the successful bowler by taking 2/31. In reply, the Punjab and Haryana High Court team achieved the target in the 19th over. Pandey (60), Deepak Singh Bisht (22), Gurdeep Singh Rana (17) and Ess Kay (17) ensured win.In the second match, Secretariat Challenger defeated Haryana Prison Department by nine wickets. Batting first, Haryana Prison Department bundled out for 68 runs, while Secretariat Challengers scored 71/1 in 14 overs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prince-steers-hc-team-to-victory-317166
28-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Inter-varsity championships: Association changes eligibility rules||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27The Associations of Indian Universities (AIU) has issued eligibility rules for participation in the National Games for the year 2020-21 onwards. Following compliance with a court’s judgment, the AIU decided to allow students aged from 17 to 25 years in All-India Inter-University Championships.“It is hereby directed that those universities conducting All-India/Zonal Inter-University Championships, scheduled events for and from the year 2020-21 onwards, may permit participation of students between age group 17 to 25 years, by excluding the criteria splitting up to eight-year period by and between graduate and postgraduate courses/studies as mentioned in Clause 4 of the revised eligibility rules (sated July 28, 2017). All member universities of the AIU are directed to follow the above mentioned criteria,” read the circular.Meanwhile, coaches and players welcomed the decision considering the time lost during the Covid pandemic. “The age-relaxation announced by the AIU will give relief to the players who did not play a single championship during the pandemic period. The authorities should now start organising championships without any delay. It will be a huge blow to all sports persons if the AIU fails to conduct any of the inter-college/inter-university or All-India Inter-University championships,” said a senior player. A coach added: “This has been a tough year for all of us and such a kind of relaxation will allow young players to participate in the championships. Also, the senior players will have another year to play, if any tournaments are conducted. This will be only beneficial, if tournaments get conducted. Otherwise, this relaxation will be beneficial for the tournaments to be held from next year onwards,” said the coach.Sources claimed that the AIU was in no mood for conducting any championships. This will directly affect the universities and inter-college championships. “There’s no update on conducting inter-university championships in the near future. There has already been a huge delay in the current session and no inter-university championships mean no inter-college championships. This will be a huge loss to the sports persons. I think there should be some clarity by the AIU on this issue,” said a senior official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inter-varsity-championships-association-changes-eligibility-rules-317167
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Livewire Coaching Centre win T20 Cricket Tournament||In the ongoing No Tension-Have Fun T20 Cricket Tournament, Livewire Coaching Centre registered a 25-run win over Panchkula Cricket Club.Batting first, LWCC scored 190/6 in 20 overs with the help of Harvinder Nain (70), Pankaj (30), Sahil Rana (23), Dr Luthra (22), Ankush Arora (20) and Kamal (18). Lalit claimed two wickets while Yatin, Shubham and Abhinav claimed one wicket each for the bowling side.Panchkula scored 165 runs before getting all out in 20 overs. Mohit (56), Hardik (24) and Shubham (22) were the three main scorers for the side. Kamal claimed three wickets and Harvinder Nain took two for the bowling side. Sahil Rana, Ankush, Pankaj and Arslan Khan also claimed one wicket each. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/livewire-coaching-centre-win-t20-cricket-tournament-317168
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala beat Nawanshahr in cricket, enter final||Patiala lads registered an eight-wicket win over Nawanshahr in the Punjab State Inter-District Senior One-Day Limited Overs Tournament today. Batting first, Nawanshahr scored 112 runs before getting all-out in 37.3 overs.Karan Bhatti (34), Ravi Sharma (32) and Amandeep Ghuman (25) scored for the side. Akul Pandove (4/15) was the pick of the bowlers, followed by Aryaman Singh (3/30), Kuljit Singh (2/17) and Karan Kaila (1/12) were the other main wicket takers. In reply, Patiala scored 116/2 in 16.2 overs.Sanvir Singh (64) and Jiwanjot Singh (43) were the two main scorers for the side. Jatinder Kumar and Ujjwal Thapiyal claimed one wicket each. In the second match, hosts Amritsar defeated Mohali by nine wickets. Batting first, Mohali scored 240 runs before getting all-out in 49.2 overs. Vishvanath Partap Singh (118) topped the score chart with the support of Prabhnoor Bhalla (35), Abhijeet Garg (27) and Anshul Chaudhary (24). Kamal Passi (4/45) claimed maximum wickets, while Abhinav Sharma, Rohit Kumar, Vinay Chaudhary and Ashwani Kumar took one wicket each. In reply, Amritsar chased the target in 40.4 overs with the help of Abhay Chaudhary (101 off 118 balls) and Sharad Lumba (100 off 115 balls). Barinder Sran claimed the only wicket. The final will be played on October 7 at IS Bindra PCA Stadium. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-beat-nawanshahr-in-cricket-enter-final-317169
28-09-2021||Mohali||Motorcyclist dies in hit-and-run in Gharuan||One booked for assaulting girlChandigarh: A Burail resident has been booked by the UT police for assault and outraging the modesty of a girl. The complainant alleged that the suspect, Yuvraj, stalked and assaulted her with an intent to outrage her modesty. TNSWoman hit by bull in BaltanaZirakpur: A few days after a raging bull inflicted fatal injuries to a 45-year-old man in Baltana, another case of a woman being hit by a bull was reported from the area here on Monday. Azad Husain, who was riding a motorcycle, died after being hit by a bull on Sunday. Husain was going to Chandigarh from Baltana when a bull gored him with his horns on Friday. TNSWork on Indira Colony green beltChandigarh: Augmentation work of a green belt at Indira Colony in Mani Majra will start from 6 am on Tuesday for 75 hours. The work under the Placement project will continue 24x7 for the next three days. UT Adviser Dharam Pal and senior UT officers will also visit the site. Under the project, the green belt adjoining a government school in Indira Colony will have toilets, swings, high-mast lights, interactive ponds, a performance stage and herbal garden. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/motorcyclist-dies-in-hit-and-run-in-gharuan-317170
28-09-2021||Chandigarh||Coaching for UGC NET at PU from Oct 11||The Centre for IAS and other Competitive Examinations, Panjab University, will start a fresh batch for the coaching of UGC (NET) Examination (Paper-I) 2021.The classes for UGC(NET) Paper-1 will start from October 11.This batch will be of 1.5-month duration.Admission will be on a first come, first served basis.Forms will be available from September 27 at www.iasc.puchd.ac.inand the last date of submission is October 8.Students having postgraduate degrees from any recognised university or final-year students will be eligible to apply. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coaching-for-ugc-net-at-pu-from-oct-11-316949
28-09-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Zirakpur: Thieves make hay at GBP offices as directors flee the country||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, September 26After reports of GBP Group directors fleeing the country, miscreants are making the most of it at the abandoned, under-construction properties of the real estate firm.Also read: GBP director expresses ‘regret’ in videoAssures buyers that his group will restart operationsGoods worth lakhs were stolen from the GBP offices last night. Miscreants broke into the Zirakpur office and stole valuables. Chairs, tables, cupboards, fans and generators worth lakhs were stolen from the builder’s office. A heavy generator, which could not be lifted without the help of a crane, was also reportedly stolen. Miscreants stole other valuables, including a bed, from a sample flat of ‘Athens’, a housing project in Zirakpur. Scavengers and ragpickers reportedly stole irons bars and other construction material from the project site in the daytime and had to be evicted from the site by cops.The police said the GBP builders were missing for the past several days. The police have booked its three directors, all brothers, for fraud.Today, a large number of investors and home buyers, who had invested their money in the firm’s housing projects in the tricity, gathered at the GBP project site in Zirakpur. To bring the builder to book and get justice for the buyers, a 10-member joint struggle committee was formed. Investors also raised questions about the theft at the GBP office, claiming that the money belonged to those who had invested in the project.Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said, “After receiving a complaint, a police team reached the spot and nabbed some scavengers who were being questioned. We have provided security to the GBP projects and offices so that no theft takes place there.”Gulshan Bansal Jain, president, Athens Buyers Group, said, “There are 765 buyers in this RERA-approved project. The authorities should see how a builder of a RERA-approved project fled.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-thieves-make-hay-at-gbp-offices-as-directors-flee-the-country-316656
