29-09-2021||Chandigarh/Mohali September 29||Punjab Police detain SAD chief Sukhbir Badal in Mohali||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal as well as the top SAD leadership was detained in Mohali on Wednesday while marching to the chief minister’s residence in Chandigarh to protest against the extremely low awards being given to farmers to acquire their lands for various road projects under the Bharat Mala project.The march was stopped at YPS Chowk, Mohali.Earlier thousands of party workers congregated at Gurdwara Amb Sahib here from where they started the march to the chief minister’s residence on tractors as well as on foot.The protest march was stopped near the border with Chandigarh where SAD workers along with leaders of the Road Sangharsh Committee, which has been spearheading the agitation for fair compensation to farmers, held a dharna before courting arrest.The SAD president said the Congress government had stonewalled the demand for fair compensation of more than two lakh farmers whose land comprising 25,000 acres was being acquired across 19 districts in the State.He said farmers were being short changed by the Congress government which was giving them awards ranging from Rs 30 lakh to Rs 70 lakh per acre for rural and urban land, respectively, when they should be getting awards of Rs 2 crore to Rs 3 crore per acre.Badal said besides acquisition of 25,000 acres, as much as 75,000 acres were rendered useless being small pockets which were left without access and irrigation facilities. He also disclosed that more than 3,000 houses would be demolished and villages would lose 100 village ponds.He claimed one crore trees would be felled under the project and hundreds of factories, shellers, poultry farms, brick kilns and dairy farms would be uprooted. Sukhbir said farmers would also lose water sources and tubewells, stating the erstwhile SAD led government had not only given fair compensation of crores per acre to farmers but also given them a free tubwell as well as facility to get further registry of land done free of cost. He assured farmers a fair compensation once the SAD forms a government in the state.Speaking about the current political situation in Punjab, Badal said “no one seems to be interested in the people or their problems. What we are witnessing in the Congress party is a fight for the top post. One person wanted to be chief minister but another got the post. One leader wanted the chief minister to be his puppet but when the latter did not oblige he submitted his resignation. Punjab cannot be run like this. This is a border state. We need a leader who can act like a unifying factor. A person who can ensure peace and communal harmony. Sadly what we are seeing right now is open loot”.Badal also spoke about the contradictions in the Charanjit Singh Channi government. He said the new chief minister had announced that anyone linked with mafias should not come to him but had chosen tainted persons including a legislator who was accused of rape as well as another who had been named in a murder case by a Faridkot based family.Sangharsh Committee members Harmanpreet Singh and Gurdial Singh also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-police-detain-sad-chief-sukhbir-badal-in-mohali-317884
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Two new cases of Covid-19 in Chandigarh||Mohali logs 8 casesMohali: Eight fresh Covid cases have been reported in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the case tally to 68,727. While there has been no death due to Covid, one patient has recovered from the disease. Out of the eight cases, two were reported from Kharar and three each from Dhakoli and Mohali. There are 34 active cases in the district. TNS4 test +ve in PanchkulaPanchkula: Four new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district on Tuesday, taking the total count to 30,735. A 32-year-old man form Pinjore, a 53-year-old man and an 18-year-old girl from Sector 16 and a 53-year-old woman, also from Sector 16, were found positive for the virus. No death was reported on Tuesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-317728
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration to assess Vidhan Sabha building for Haryana's share||The Chandigarh Administration has decided to carry out measurement of space allocated between Punjab and Haryana in the Vidhan Bhawan building, Haryana Legislative Assembly said in a press statement today.The measurement will judge Haryana’s claim regarding its share in the building. The Chandigarh Administration held a meeting with the top officials of the Punjab and Haryana Legislative Assembly today, during which Haryana Legislative Assembly Secretary Rajendra Kumar Nandal said a committee of three engineers should be constituted to assess the division between the two provinces. According to the press statement of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, Punjab Legislative Assembly Secretary Surendra Pal Singh said he had not received the orders of the Punjab Legislative Assembly Speaker in this matter. Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta met Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwari Lal Purohit today. He informed him about the ongoing dispute between the two provinces and the need for a new Legislative Assembly building. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-assess-vidhan-sabha-building-for-haryanas-share-317687
29-09-2021||Zirakpur||Trader robbed at knifepoint in Zirakpur||Ramlila panels get MC nodChandigarh: The MC has given ground permission to 36 Ramlila committees to stage the epic. BP Gaur, president of Ramlila Kendriya Mahasabha, said, “A total of 46 committees had applied for ground and 36 were granted permission.” Ramlilas will start in the city from October 5. TNS2 snatchers land in police netChandigarh: The police have arrested two snatchers and recovered two gold chains, 34 phones and a stolen bike from them. The suspects were identified as Mohan Giri (23) and Nekpal (32). TNSPink Day celebratedChandigarh: Pink Day was celebrated at Government Model High School, Mauli Colony, here, on Tuesday. The motive behind celebrating the day was to create awareness regarding breast and cervix cancer. Through such celebrations, people are made familiar with the disease and remove stigma regarding it. Activities such as poster-making, slogan-writing and rangoli-making were organised. All participating teachers came to the school in pink dress. TNSClub members meet Afghan studentsChandigarh: President of Rotary Club of Chandigarh Jaspal Singh Sidhu, Rotarian Baldev Krishan Aggarwal, president of the Inner Wheel Club of Chandigarh Dr Vandana Narula and other club members met Afghan girl students living and studying in Chandigarh. Problems being faced by these students after political changes in Afghanistan were discussed. Some of the students have no home to stay as they are unable to pay rent as well as fee. Sanitary napkins were given to 45 girl students, which will be sponsored by Inner Wheel every month. The girls were counselled and assured of help and support. TNS2-day yogasana c’ship from Oct 9Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Yoga Association and Government College of Yoga Education & Health, Sector 23, will jointly organise the 37th Chandigarh State Yogasana Sports Championship in the college premises from October 9-10. The championship will be held in sub-junior, junior, senior and above 45 years age groups. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trader-robbed-at-knifepoint-in-zirakpur-317724
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud: 1 held in Chandigarh||Club flouts time norms, 1 bookedChandigarh: The police have booked the owner of Terminal-7 club, after it was found open beyond the permissible time limit. The police said the club was found open on intervening night of September 26 and 27, following which a case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered against Shubham Ahuja. — TNSMan flees with impounded bikeChandigarh: The police have booked a person, Rohit, for stealing the motorcycle that was impounded by the traffic police in Sector 26 here. Complainant ASI Satpal Singh of Traffic Staff reported that a motorcycle driven by Rohit was impounded near the Saint Kabir light point in Sector 26. It is alleged that the accused managed to drive away with the motorcycle using another key. The police have registered a theft case at the Sector 26 police station and initiated investigations into the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/immigration-fraud-1-held-in-chandigarh-317723
29-09-2021||Mohali||Over 90 canines vaccinated in Mohali||A free anti-rabies camp was held in Phase 10 here on World Rabies Day on Tuesday. The camp was inaugurated by former Joint Director, Animal Husbandry, Punjab, and member Punjab State Veterinary Council Dr Gurinder Singh Walia and former CEO, Punjab Gau Sewa Commission, Dr Nitin Kumar Gupta. Ninety-four stray and pet dogs were vaccinated against rabies at the camp. According to World Health Organisation, most number of deaths due to rabies occur in India, which is a matter of grave concern, said Dr Walia. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-90-canines-vaccinated-in-mohali-317722
29-09-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Lanka’s visit to India: Mohali PCA stadium to host one Test, one T20I||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 28The newly built Maharaja Yadavindra Singh Cricket Stadium at Mullanpur may have to wait little longer to host its first international match as the BCCI has chosen the IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali for hosting a Test and a T20 International during Sri Lanka’s tour of India early next year. Sri Lankan team is scheduled to play two Tests and three T20Is during their visit to India.The Test match at Mohali is scheduled to be held from March 5 to 9, while the T20I will be played on March 13.“Yes, we have received the BCCI’s confirmation on hosting the matches. As of now, the BCCI has allotted matches to the existing PCA IS Bindra Stadium,” said a PCA spokesperson.The 40,000 capacity stadium at Mullanpur has already hosted a couple of preparatory camps and a number of domestic matches.“The stadium is ready to host international matches. However, necessary formalities are yet to be completed by the BCCI. The local authorities are keen on getting the permission for hosting international matches. So, there’s still a possibility that the new stadium may host the international matches during the Sri Lanka’s tour,” said an official.IS Bindra PCA stadium has so far hosted 13 Tests, 25 ODIs and 5 T20Is.“This is good news for the region. The last international match in Mohali was conducted in September 2019. The enthusiasm for international cricket will return with the Sri Lankan series,” said a senior coach.“It’s almost after two years that the stadium is scheduled to host international matches. This will be exciting for young cricketers as well as cricket lovers,” said Arun, a former cricketer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lankas-visit-to-india-mohali-pca-stadium-to-host-one-test-one-t20i-317721
29-09-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh cop held guilty in 7-yr-old bribery case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 28Jagjit Singh, Special Judge, CBI court, has held a UT police constable guilty in a seven-year-old bribery case. The court will pronounce the quantum of sentence on October 1.The court held the accused guilty and convicted him for the offences punishable under Sections 7 and 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The convict has been taken into custody. The CBI had booked constable Balraj, who was deputed as naib court at the District Courts in Sector 43 here, on the charge of accepting bribery from an accused. As per the allegations, the constable demanded the bribe amount in lieu of helping the complainant in a bail case.As per the prosecution, Rohani, alias Romy, a resident of Milk Colony, Dhanas, complained to the investigating agency on April 4, 2014 that Balraj was demanding a bribe of Rs5,000 to help him get bail in a case of voluntarily causing hurt registered at the Sector 11 police station.Non-bailable warrants were issued against Romy after he had stopped appearing before the court.The CBI had registered a case under various Sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act against the accused. The CBI laid a trap. The constable was arrested red-handed while allegedly accepting the bribe of Rs3,000 outside the courtroom.PK Dogra, senior public prosecutor, pleaded the case on behalf of the CBI. The CBI has been able to prove the case against the accused despite the fact the complainant and one shadow witness turned hostile during the trial of the case.The court has also rejected the applications of the accused to exclude the evidence of voice recording and electronic evidence produced by the prosecution in the absence of certificate under Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act from consideration by the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cop-held-guilty-in-7-yr-old-bribery-case-317720
29-09-2021||---||Comply with transfer orders or face action, Chandigarh cops told||Chandigarh, September 28The Police Department here has taken a strict note of the police personnel who were transferred but did not comply with the orders.SP Manoj Kumar Meena has issued fresh orders directing 10 police personnel, who were transferred in the past, to comply with the orders or face action.The order states that many transfer orders have been issued by the senior officers during 2020-21, however, ten cops have not complied with the order.The order mentioned that all units in-charge are directed to relieve the police personnel.ASI Baljeet Singh, who was transferred in March this year, failed to comply with the orders.The police personnel who were transferred last year and failed to comply include ASI Ashok Kumar, transferred in July; constable Virender Singh who was transferred in April; head constable Surjit Kaur, ASI Jagdish Singh, senior constable Mukesh Kumar and ASI Harmit Kaur, all of whom were transferred in September; head constable Bhadur Lal and Jai Bhagwan, who were transferred in October; and senior constable Sunit Kumar who was transferred in December.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/comply-with-transfer-orders-or-face-action-chandigarh-cops-told-317719
29-09-2021||---||195th Gunners Day celebrated at Chandimandir Military Station||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 28The Regiment of Artillery celebrated the 195th Gunners Day at Chandimandir Military Station today. It was on this day in 1827 that 5th (Bombay) Mountain Battery, the first Indian artillery unit, was raised.To mark the occasion, a solemn wreath-laying ceremony was held at the Veer Smriti war memorial in Chandimandir to pay homage to the bravehearts who had laid down their lives in the line of duty.The Regiment of Artillery has performed consistently in all roles assigned, be it in active operations, on the sports field and other spheres of military endeavours. The Regiment continues to strive for excellence and live up to its motto of “Sarvatra Izzat-o-Iqbal”, meaning Omnipresence with Honour and Glory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/195th-gunners-day-celebrated-at-chandimandir-military-station-317718
29-09-2021||---||Chandigarh: ‘Placemaking’ project begins at Indira Colony||Chandigarh, September 28At the crack of dawn today, the Municipal Corporation teams hit the ground at Indira Colony green belt to undertake the augmentation work under the ‘placemaking’ project.Twenty-two cities across India are participating in the project to transform the underdeveloped areas. Chandigarh has envisaged to develop the green belt at Indira Colony through 75-hour non-stop work.During three days, toilets, swings, high-mast lights, interactive ponds, a performance stage and herbal garden will be set up at the park. Trees and railings will be painted and decoration works will also be carried out.The park has been divided into art zone, fitness zone, elder zone and kids’ zone.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “The placemaking exercise is being undertaken as a multi-faceted approach to planning, design and management of public spaces.”MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said various activities like yoga session, interactive games for children, live painting competition, kabaddi and tug of war, were organised at the site today.Similar public engagement exercises are also scheduled for the next two days.Earlier, UT Adviser Dharam Pal launched the placemaking project to commemorate Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav in presence of senior officers and councillors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-placemaking-project-begins-at-indira-colony-317717
29-09-2021||---||Jobless teachers take to the streets in Kharar||Mohali, September 28Unemployed ETT-pass teachers today blocked the Chandigarh-Kharar flyover near Desu Majra village near Kharar. It led to huge traffic jam this evening, causing inconvenience to commuters.The police had to divert the traffic towards other roads so that the commuters do not face inconvenience in reaching their destinations.Earlier, the teachers had planned to gherao the residence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi in Kharar in protest against the authorities for continuously changing the ETT exam date.As soon as the police came to know about it, they appealed to the protesting teachers that their matter would be solved in today’s meeting.A meeting was arranged between the protesters, led by state president Deepak Kamboj and principal secretary Hussan Lal, in which a delegation of the teachers discussed its demands.The protesters said after a continuous struggle of more than four and a half years, 2,364 posts were declared out of the 6,635 posts for ETT teachers, but the government made amendments to give a chance to outsiders.They said the recruitment was still pending due to the policy of equal chance to outsiders. Instead of recruiting ETT teachers, the state government had postponed the exams thrice. They demanded that only ETT teachers should be recruited on these posts.Deepak Kamboj said due to the dilly-dallying attitude of the state government, unemployed ETT teachers were either forced to climb atop overhead water tanks, jump in canals or resort to fast unto death.Kamboj said their main demands included conducting examination for recruiting 6,635 teachers as soon as possible, give exemption in age limit to candidates who have crossed the age bar for enabling them to appear for exams and adding ETT posts of SC backlog to 6,635 posts of ETT teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jobless-teachers-take-to-the-streets-in-kharar-317716
29-09-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula: Two nabbed for Majri Chowk murder||The police have arrested two persons in connection with the murder of a 37-year-old man with sharp weapons at the Majri Chowk bus stop on the night of Sunday.They have been identified as Ravinder Been (30), a native of Fatehgarh village in Jind, and Manish, alias Chhota Bahadur (21). At present, both were residing at Kharag Mangoli village in Panchkula. DCP Mohit Handa said teams had been constituted in the case. The detective staff in-charge, Inspector Mohinder Singh Dhanda, with the help of technical facilities, managed to arrest the two suspects involved in the murder of a 2017 murder accused, Rinku.During preliminary investigations, it was revealed that the victim and the suspects had an old rivalry and many cases have been registered against them. Some of the suspects in the case have undergone jail sentence also. The police said both suspects would be presented before the court tomorrow to seek their police remand.The police said they were yet to recover the sharp weapons used in the crime. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-two-nabbed-for-majri-chowk-murder-317715
29-09-2021||Saurabh Malik||Imposition of exemplary costs not a matter of discretion: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 28The Punjab and Haryana High Court today ruled that imposition of exemplary costs was not a matter of discretion. It was a duty and obligation cast upon all courts to ensure that the legal system was not exploited by litigants using the forms of the law to defeat or delay justice.The ruling came as a Division Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri imposed Rs1-lakh costs on an “unscrupulous litigant”, who continue with “unauthorised possession of a public premise” in Sector 37 even though the lease was cancelled almost four decades back.What court observedThe Bench said it was constrained to observe that the petitioner was an unscrupulous litigant. In spite of resumption proceedings attaining finality, she continued to be in possession of the public property and derive the benefit from the resumed property by collecting rent from a bank and other tenants.The Bench further observed that the imposition of exemplary costs was a necessary instrument required to be deployed to weed out and prevent the filing of frivolous cases. The Bench was hearing a petition filed by the leaseholder against the Chandigarh Administration and other respondents. She was, among other things, seeking the quashing of order dated April 7, 1982, cancelling the lease. Directions were also sought for quashing another order dated December 6, 1989, declining her revision petition.The Bench observed the petitioner was leased out the Sector 37 site in an open auction for 99 years on October 28, 1979, at a premium of Rs1, 72,500. The Estate Officer cancelled the lease vide the impugned order, after the petitioner failed to deposit the instalments. The UT Chief Administrator, vide order dated August 3, 1984, accepted her appeal and restored the lease, subject to her depositing the entire outstanding amount within 30 days.But the petitioner preferred a revision petition instead of availing of the concession granted by the appellate authority. After the plea was dismissed, proceedings were initiated under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorized Occupants) Act and notice dated August 18, 1999, was issued by the Estate Officer.“The propensity of the petitioner to continue in unauthorised possession of public premise can be clearly seen on account of her creating a Trust in the name of `Dispute Vest Settlement Trust’ and then approaching `ADR Arbitral institute’. Arbitral proceedings were sought to be initiated by the petitioner in the absence of any agreement between the parties. The initiation of any such proceedings was without any sanctity in law...,” the Bench assertedBefore parting with the case, the Bench added it would have no hesitation in holding that the instant petition at the hands of the petitioner was a complete abuse of the process of law. The case will now come up for hearing in November second week for compliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/imposition-of-exemplary-costs-not-a-matter-of-discretion-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-317714
29-09-2021||---||59 dengue cases in Chandigarh this month||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 28As many as 59 cases of dengue have surfaced in Chandigarh this month, which is a rise of 200 per cent from the number of cases witnessed in September 2020.A total of 78 dengue cases have been registered in the city this year till now. In September last year, Chandigarh saw only 19 cases of dengue, followed by 89 in October and 116 in November. This year, the rise in dengue cases started much earlier.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “We have sent samples to the PGI to check whether the dengue serotype-2 is found in Chandigarh. The reports are awaited. We have taken adequate measures to control the spread of dengue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/59-dengue-cases-in-chandigarh-this-month-317713
29-09-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Checking stray menace: House okays renting out 3.5 acres in Mohali villages to cattle breeders||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 28Amidst uproar by Azad Group members as well as the ruling councillors, a meeting of the House of the Municipal Corporation today passed a resolution for renting out 3.5 acres to cattle breeders in Mohali villages to rid the city of the stray menace.Both ruling as well as Opposition councillors raised slogans against each other. Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu asked the Opposition councillors to state their objections to the resolution.When Opposition councillors started speaking out against the resolution, the ruling group councillors showed pictures of cattle roaming in the city and said the Opposition was in fact anti-people, as it was questioning such an important resolution. They said it was not wrong to rent out land to take strays out of the city and this would not only save precious lives lost in accidents but also help in restricting the blockage of sewerage and keep the city clean.Sidhu presented the resolution of leasing out the land to cattle breeders, which was passed unanimously by the House.MC Commissioner Kamal Garg moved an amendment to the resolution to rent the land in lieu of lease, which was accepted by the members. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Joint Commissioner Harjit Singh Dhillon and SE Sanjay Kanwar were present at the meeting. Talking to mediapersons, some Opposition councillors said they were not against giving land to cattle breeders but want a permanent solution to the problem. They alleged that the photographs shown by councillors of the ruling party were that of a gaushala and not of the city.After the meeting, the Mayor, while answering questions of mediapersons, said he would take care that the councillors of the Opposition and the ruling party did not create ruckus in the House but address the chair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/checking-stray-menace-house-okays-renting-out-3-5-acres-in-mohali-villages-to-cattle-breeders-317693
29-09-2021||Chandigarh||Now, Chandigarh can spend Rs 260 cr more each financial quarter||For development of the city, the UT Administration will get Rs260 crore each for the next two financial quarters – October to December and January to March.The Centre has withdrawn the 20 per cent cut that was imposed in the UT Budget during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Centre had suspended 20 per cent of the Budget expenditure for the UT, but now the Administration can spend the entire Budget in the remaining two quarters of this financial year.The stalled projects, which were put on hold due to the cut in the Budget, can be started now.The Centre had approved a Budget of Rs5,186.12 crore for Chandigarh for the fiscal 2021-2022. Due to the economic slowdown during the pandemic, the government had directed the UT Administration to slash the expenditure by 20 per cent and as a result, the UT had to spend nearly Rs260 crore less of the total allocation of Rs1,296 crore for each financial quarter.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said the fund would now be used to speed up the ongoing projects. The allocation of the funds for various projects would be decided in a review meeting likely to be held next week, he said, and added that a part of the funds could also be allocated to the Municipal Corporation for various development projects. The restrictions on spending were imposed for the first two quarters — April to June and July to September — due to the pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-chandigarh-can-spend-rs-260-cr-more-each-financial-quarter-317683
29-09-2021||Sandeep Rana||300 CCTV cameras catching you live in Chandigarh, challaning to begin from January||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 28Around 300 CCTV cameras installed on different junctions of the city are catching you live. A total of 2,000 cameras will go live at 287 junctions by December 31.For now, these cameras are being used for data collection on a trial basis and challaning will start only from January 2022.Under the project being undertaken by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), about 80 per cent of the total cameras have been installed and 300 are already live at various locations, including Tribune Chowk, Centra Mall, Faida barrier, Transport light point and Sector 20 Gurdwara light point.The server is at present based at BEL, Panchkula. Once the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC), which is under construction at Sector 17, is ready, all live data will be available here.“The cameras will catch traffic violations, including jumping red light, overspeeding, driving without seat belt/face mask, zebra crossing parking and talking over the phone while driving,” said an official.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra, said, “Our ongoing “Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav” event is also about independence from crime and traffic problems. And these cameras will help in a big way.”One of the camera operators shared, “These cameras will not challan vehicles like ambulances. The cameras will otherwise automatically record every traffic violation and save it in a folder. Then, the police can issue a challan. There is no need for staff to keep tracking the junctions for catching traffic violators.”Real-time surveillanceThe hi-tech cameras are being installed for the real-time surveillance of traffic junctions and other important buildings of the city such as waterworks, parks, government hospitals, community centres, parking locations and schools at around 287 locations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/300-cctv-cameras-catching-you-live-in-chandigarh-challaning-to-begin-from-january-317682
29-09-2021||---||Five Chandigarh Estate Office services go online||Chandigarh, September 28Now, ‘dilly-dallying’ work culture of the Estate Office will be a thing of the past. UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit today launched a website and online services of the office in the presence of Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and UT Adviser Dharam Pal.“The vision behind this initiative was to make the Estate Office a technology-driven organisation that provides seamless services to the citizens through hassle-free and efficient processes,” said the Administrator.The Estate Office has built a website - https://estateoffice.chd.gov.in/ that ecompasses all information about the services provided by the department, acts, rules, notifications etc.“The Estate Office has been offering various property-related services. All services will be made online in a phased manner. In the first phase, five services were launched today,” said Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer.Now, all applications have been made online allowing the citizens to access information with a click of a button. The SMS service has been introduced to keep the applicant in the loop about the status of the work done, said the DC. In an attempt to simplify the processes, the department has decided to omit the irrelevant documents. Earlier the citizens had to submit separate affidavits for different points, but now, the affidavits have been clubbed with all relevant points, added the DC.The absence of digitisation had led to a non-transparent system where the applications were delayed for months together. The citizen had no feedback system and the redressal system was weak. Owing to this lack of transparency, there were also allegations of corruption and various malpractices, stated Purohit. The Estate Office has also introduced electronic payment facility with the help of the State Bank of India.Services launchedTo go online by OCt 10By October 20Soon, track files with a single clickThe Estate Office will soon integrate all processes with Aadhaar so that all files can be tracked with a single click. We are also implementing auto-calculation of property charges. By October 20, all dues against the properties will be available at a click of the mouse. — Mandip Singh Brar, DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-chandigarh-estate-office-services-go-online-317681
