30-09-2021||---||Advocate Sandeep Moudgil recommended for appointment as judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court||New Delhi, September 30The Supreme Court Collegium led by Chief Justice NV Ramana has cleared 16 names for appointment as judges in four high courts.This includes the name of advocate Sandeep Moudgil who has been recommended for appointment as a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The other high courts where names have been recommended for appointment as judges are Odisha High Court, Bombay High Court and Gujarat High Court.The decision was taken at a Collegium meeting held on September 29, it was officially announced on Thursday.In its meeting held on Wednesday, the collegium approved the proposal for elevation of 16 names -- six judicial officers and 10 advocates – as judges of the four high courts.As per the statements uploaded on the apex court website on Thursday, the collegium has approved the proposal for elevation of four judicial officers -- AL Pansare, SC More, US Joshi-Phalke and BP Deshpande -- as judges of the Bombay High Court.Similarly, the collegium has recommended names of advocates Aditya Kumar Mohapatra and Mruganka Sekhar Sahoo and judicial officers Radha Krishna Pattanaik and Sashikanta Mishra for their elevation as judges of the Orissa High Court.For the Gujarat High Court, the collegium has approved the proposal for elevation of seven advocates -- Mauna Manish Bhatt, Samir J Dave, Hemant M Prachchhak, Sandeep N Bhatt, Aniruddha Pradyumna Mayee, Niral Rashmikant Mehta and Nisha Mahendrabhai Thakore -- as judges there.Besides the CJI, the three-member collegium which deals with the appointment in high courts includes Justices UU Lalit and AM Khanwilkar.The collegium has been taking steps by recommending names to fill up a large number of vacancies in higher judiciary in the country.After assuming charge as the CJI in April this year, Justice Ramana has recommended nearly 100 names for appointment to different high courts, besides filling up nine vacancies of judges in the Supreme Court in one go. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/advocate-sandeep-moudgil-recommended-for-appointment-as-judge-of-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-318257
30-09-2021||---||Foetus found at GMCH-32, Chandigarh||Chandigarh: A foetus was found in a dustbin at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, on Tuesday.The police said a case under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of body), IPC, had been registered against an unknown person at the Sector 34 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foetus-found-at-gmch-32-chandigarh-318226
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Joint Admission Committee admissions begin today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-joint-admission-committee-admissions-begin-today-318225
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||High-security registration plate: Soon, apply online in Chandigarh||Cop hurt in hit-and-runChandigarh: An unknown vehicle sped away after hitting a motorcycle being ridden by a UT ASI Harmesh Kumar near Matka Chowk on Tuesday. The injured victim was admitted to the GMSH-16. The A case has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-security-registration-plate-soon-apply-online-in-chandigarh-318183
30-09-2021||Mohali||Mohali medical college to be operational soon||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-medical-college-to-be-operational-soon-318151
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Vinoo Mankad Trophy: Bawa steers Chandigarh boys to victory||A day after losing to Madhya Pradesh, Chandigarh defeated Himachal Pradesh by five wickets in a Vinoo Mankad Trophy match in New Delhi today. Put in to bat, Himachal boys were all out for 170 runs in 50 overs. Mridul Surroch (60) and Vaibhav Kalta (45) made useful contributions to the total.Paras Amarjit and Arbab Iqbal claimed three wickets each. In reply, Chandigarh reached home in the 48th over with skipper Raj Angad Bawa scoring a solid 55. Iqbal contributed 42 runs to the chase. Chandigarh will now play Tamil Nadu on Friday.Odisha beat BiharAt Mohali, Odisha boys defeated Bihar by 61 runs.Batting first, Odisha scored 179/9 in 50 overs. Sushil K Barik made 41 runs, while Sambit S Baral chipped in with a timely 36. In reply, Bihar were bowled out for 118 runs in 36.5 overs.Andhra boys, meanwhile, registered a 68-run win over DDCA in a rain-truncated match at Maharaja Yadavindra Singh International Cricket Stadium at Mullanpur. Batting first, Andhra rode on skipper SK Rasheed’s 108-run knock to score 283/5 in 50 overs.In reply, DDCA could only make 196/8 after being set a revised target of 264 in 44 overs due to rain.Punjab eves winPunjab women defeated Karnataka by 22 runs in an Inter State U-19 Women’s Cricket Tournament match in Jaipur on Wednesday. Batting first, Punjab scored 168/8 in the allotted 50 overs. In reply, Karnataka were all out for 146 in 49 overs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vinoo-mankad-trophy-bawa-steers-chandigarh-boys-to-victory-318150
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University MSc offline admission||The Centre for Stem Cell Tissue Engineering and Biomedical Excellence has started admission to two years MSc course for the 2021-22 session. The offline admission form is available at the weblink https://stemcell.puchd.ac.in. Duly filled admission form, including a copy of all requisite certificates, should reach the Chairperson, Centre for Stem Cell Tissue Engineering and Biomedical Excellence, Panjab University, Sector 14, by October 3. The admission form and requisite certificates can also be sent through email cste2008@pu.ac.in with the subject line mentioning Admission form – Stem Cell. The centre will conduct an aptitude test for admission to MSc on October 4 at 11 am at the lecture hall on the second floor, Pharmacy Extension Block, Panjab University. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-msc-offline-admission-318149
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||POCSO case: 78-yr-old man denied bail in Chandigarh||A fast-track court here has denied bail to a 78-year-old man in a case registered under the POCSO Act.The accused was arrested on June 24 following a complaint by the mother of a minor girl, who alleged that he touched her seven-year-old daughter inappropriately. The counsel for the petitioner claimed that due to some misunderstanding the complainant had registered case against the accused.The public prosecutor submitted that if given bail, the accused may influence the prosecution witnesses.After hearing both sides, Swati Sehgal, Judge, Fast-Track Special Court, dismissed the bail application. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pocso-case-78-yr-old-man-denied-bail-in-chandigarh-318148
30-09-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula: Special court frames charges in Rs 3,000 crore ponzi case||A special court here has framed charges in a 2019 money laundering case, amounting nearly Rs 3,000 crore. About 31 lakh investors were allegedly cheated by way of a multi-level marketing by a Haryana-based company – Future Maker Life Care Private Limited – in a ponzi scheme.The charges were framed under Section 4, PMLA, read with Section 70 and Section 3 of the Act. The PMLA court while framing the charges said from 2015 onwards, the accused through its directors Bansi Lal and Radhey Shyam, along with others, directly or indirectly and knowingly indulged in duping various persons in the guise of giving unrealistic return to them and actively connected with the proceeds of crime amounting to Rs2,959.46 crore.Special Judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg observed: “From 2015 onwards, all the accused entered into a criminal conspiracy while indulging and knowingly assisting… being a party and actually involved in the process of cheating… and thereby cheated and duped various persons.”The 22 accused in the case, of which one person has died, even bought immovable properties worth Rs9,08,29,296, the court added. On April 6 this year, the court had granted anticipatory bail to Bansi Lal and Radhe Shyam. Earlier, the court had also granted anticipatory bail to 10 other accused, including Sunil Sharma, Deepak Sharma, Manish Grover, Ram Singh, Devi Lal, Suman Devi, Prem Kumar, Sona Devi, Sohan Lal and Bhateri Devi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-special-court-frames-charges-in-rs-3-000-crore-ponzi-case-318147
30-09-2021||---||DC reviews poll preparedness  in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 29Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia today reviewed the preparedness for the upcoming Assembly elections in the state. Kalia also visited the Election Commission’s warehouse at Phase 7, where the electronic voting Machines (EVMs) have been kept.The District Election Officer said besides the EVMs, a total of 1,284 control units, 1,769 ballot units and 1,383 VVPATs were available with Mohali district and the first-level checking of these apparatus would start from September 30.She informed that all the apparatus that were to be used for the election would undergo the mandatory checking.Kalia said the first-level checking was being undertaken in advance so that all checks were carried out without any haste in presence of representatives of political parties. The exercise has to be completed before the finalisation of the list of contesting candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dc-reviews-poll-preparedness-in-mohali-318146
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Nearly a month on, students booked for heckling Panjab University Vice-Chancellor||Almost a month after Panjab University Vice-Chancellor was heckled by the protesters outside the Law auditorium on the campus, the UT police have registered a case against the erring students.According to the police a complaint was received from Vikram Singh, chief security officer, Panjab University, against NSUI activists Rahul, Pargat Singh, Sarvottam Rana; members of the PSU Lalkar and unknown persons, who wrongfully restrained VC Prof Raj Kumar on September 1.The VC had come to the auditorium to cast his vote for the election of members of various faculties. As soon as he came out after casting vote, he was surrounded by the students.The police have registered a case under Section 341 (wrongful restraint) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), IPC, at the Sector 11 police station and initiated probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nearly-a-month-on-students-booked-for-heckling-panjab-university-vice-chancellor-318145
30-09-2021||---||4,370 counterfeit tea packets seized in Panchkula, 1 held||Panchkula, September 29The police have seized 4,370 counterfeit packets of Tata Tea brand from a wholesale supplier in Sector 20.Sajid, manager of Shri Mahabir Sales, has been arrested by the police. The haul is estimated to be worth Rs10-12 lakh, said the police.Sub-Inspector Minaxi, the investigating officer of the case, said: “We have recovered as many as 4,370 counterfeit packets of 250g and 500g adulterated tea being sold in the name of Tata Tea from the supplier’s godown.”A case has been registered against five persons – owner Manish Kumar, his brother Vinod and three managers Arjun, Kuldip and Sajid – at the Sector 20 police station under Section 420 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Copy Right Act, said the police.Minaxi said the police would further investigate from where the suspects used to procure the raw material.“They used to supply the adulterated tea in Panchkula and neighboring areas like Zirakpur and Dera Bassi,” said the police.The police had received a complaint from a company’s representative, following which a surprise raid was conducted and a huge cache of adulterated tea was seized.Recently, the police had recovered different kinds of fake materials being sold in the name of popular brands like Dettol, Harpic and Savlon from the same supplier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-370-counterfeit-tea-packets-seized-in-panchkula-1-held-318144
30-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Home Minister’s advisory panel: Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit okays draft||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit has given his approval to the draft of the revamped Home Ministry’s Advisory Committee.After getting approval from the UT Administrator, the draft has been forwarded to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for further action, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal.The Advisory Committee interacts with the Centre on various policy issues. The committee was last reconstituted in November 2016 and had 12 members, including eight nominated members.The last meeting of the committee was held in 2017. The tenure of a member of the committee is of three years which can be extended.In the committee, the UT is represented by the Administrator and in his absence, Adviser represents the city.The Member of Parliament, Mayor and Leader of Opposition in the Municipal Corporation are the ex-officio members of the committee, whereas the other members are nominated. The tenure of the committee had ended and it was lying defunct, said the Adviser. The formation of the committee has been reworked, he added.He said the MHA would now decide on the nominated members and who would nominate them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/home-ministers-advisory-panel-chandigarh-administrator-banwarilal-purohit-okays-draft-318143
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||No waste segregation at eight places in Chandigarh||The Municipal Corporation here has identified eight places in the city where waste in not being segregated at source. The civic body today started an awareness drive at three of these eight places – Ram Darbar, Vikas Nagar (Mauli Jagran) and EWS Colony, Maloya – to make people understand the benefits of waste segregation. At the remaining places, awareness drives will be launched in the coming days.As part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ celebrations to commemorate the 75th year of Indian Independence, the MC today held ‘Kachra Alag Karo Amrit Divas’. Awareness programmes aimed at encouraging door-to-door segregation of waste at source was started by Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma from Ram Darbar Colony in presence of MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra.Waste collectors and residents of the locality participated in the programme. Area councillors were also present. Addressing waste collectors, the Mayor said segregation had become a serious concern taking into consideration the amount of garbage generated and its negative effect on the environment if not segregated properly.Mitra said items like plastic, glass and metal were not biodegradable, but could be reused or recycled. Waste material that can be reprocessed/recycled should not be given or received in mixed form as it would pollute soil if buried underground, Mitra added. Kitchen waste should be segregated in different bags such as dry and wet waste and disposed of separately, said Mitra. Segregation was important for proper disposal of both categories of waste, Mitra added.The MC also announced Kala Ram as ‘Safai Mitra Shiromani’ for rendering services for sanitation and waste-to-art initiative. He was presented a jacket and a badge.Sharma and Mitra distributed T-shirts, masks and badges among waste collectors during the programme. Green and blue bags were distributed among citizens on their door steps to encourage them to segregate household waste at the source. A street play based on garbage segregation was staged by artistes of the Parmpara Theater Group. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-waste-segregation-at-eight-places-in-chandigarh-318139
30-09-2021||Vijay Mohan||Mohali institute develops reactor for cost-effective production of hydrogen using sunlight, water||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29Giving a boost to enhancing production of renewable energy, Indian scientists have, for the first time, developed a large-scale cost-effective reactor that produces a substantial amount of hydrogen using sustainable sources like sunlight and water.A team from the Institute of Nano Science and Technology (INST), Mohali, has fabricated a prototype reactor which operates under natural sunlight to produce hydrogen at a scale of around 6.1 litres in eight hours. They have used an earth-abundant chemical called carbon nitrides as a catalyst for the purpose.Hydrogen generated in this manner can be used in many forms such as electricity generation through fuel cells in remote areas, hydrogen stoves and powering small gadgets. Eventually, they can power transformers and e-vehicles, which are long-term research goals under progress.India has set a target of producing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. To achieve this in the current scenario, researchers all over the world are working towards renewable energy solutions which should be sustainable with a limited carbon footprint.One of the most economical ways is to produce hydrogen at a large scale through photo-catalytic water splitting. It is a long-term persistent solution for the growing renewable energy needs and a low-cost economic process which will benefit society in the longer term.The process had been attempted many times by many researchers using complex metal oxide, nitride or sulphide-based heterogeneous systems, but was very difficult to reproduce in large quantities.The INST team employed low-cost organic semiconductor in carbon nitrides which can be prepared using cheaper precursors like urea and melamine at ease. When the sunlight falls on this semiconductor, electrons and holes are generated. The electrons reduce the protons to produce hydrogen and holes are consumed by some chemical agents called sacrificial agents. If the holes are not consumed, they will recombine with the electrons.The research, supported by the Nano Mission Project of the Department of Science and Technology, was undertaken by Dr Kamalakannan Kailasam and his team comprising Prof Ashok K Ganguli, Dr Vivek Bagchi, Dr Sanyasinaidu Boddu, Dr Prakash PN and Dr Menaka Jha. The team has been working in the area of photo-catalytic water splitting to generate hydrogen for quite some time now.“The energy crisis and ever-threatening climate crisis urged us to work on this promising way of hydrogen production through photo-catalytic water splitting. The stability and chemical flexibility of having different organic groups in carbon nitrides triggered us to work on these cost-effective organic semiconductor materials for sustainable hydrogen production,” Dr Kamalakannan said. The team started from lab-scale process to bulk scale of developing photo-catalyst and hydrogen production through a large prototype reactor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-institute-develops-reactor-for-cost-effective-production-of-hydrogen-using-sunlight-water-318138
30-09-2021||Chandigarh||Smart bike rides not free anymore in Chandigarh, user count dips sharply||The daily count of cycle rides has halved after the facility was made chargeable under the public bike-sharing project in the city.Smart Bike’s city operations head Abhinandan Malhotra said, “When the facility was free, around 3,000 to 3,500 rides were being taken in a day. Now, the number has come down to around 1,500.”A fee of Rs10 plus the GST is charged for using a bicycle for half an hour.More cycles are visible at docking stations these days. At some points, the company has increased the number of bikes having realised the sites were often without cycles.Rides under the public bike-sharing project became chargeable from September 21. Earlier, the rides were made free after users faced issues in locking and unlocking bikes using the Smart Bike App. The company was asked to fix all problems by September 12. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/smart-bike-rides-not-free-anymore-in-chandigarh-user-count-dips-sharply-318136
30-09-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh’s wait for electric buses gets longer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29The city’s wait to get electric buses has got longer, as the arrival of 19 environment-friendly vehicles has been delayed.The city was to receive a fleet of 19 electric buses on September 30, but the manufacturer has expressed its inability to supply the buses by the scheduled date, said an official of the Transport Department. He, however, said the company had assured to supply 10 such buses by October 10 and the remaining buses in a phased manner. He added that the city would receive a total of 40 buses by the end of November.The first electric bus had hit the UT roads on August 11. After completion of a month-long trial run of the first electric bus, the UT Transport Department had asked the manufacturer to make some technical changes in the bus.The decision on running the electric buses for public would be taken after the arrival of buses, the official said. “The procurement of another 40 buses is under process. These are expected to be received by the next year,” he added.The Department of Heavy Industries, GoI, has okayed 80 electric buses for UT under the Phase-II FAME India scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-wait-for-electric-buses-gets-longer-318135
30-09-2021||---||Haryana CM Khattar opens adventure sports at Tikkar Tal, Morni Hills||Panchkula, September 29To mark the occasion of World Tourism Day, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today formally inaugurated various adventure sports at Tikkar Tal, Morni Hills, under a comprehensive plan of his government to promote tourism in the area.Aero and water sports activities, including parasailing, paramotor and jet scooter have now been made operational commercially.The Chief Minister had taken trials of sports activities at Tikkar Tal in June this year.Khattar said Tikkar Tal would now mark its identity on the country’s map. He said developing Morni was a key feature of the integrated Panchkula development plan.Paragliding at Tikkar Tal, hot balloon in Pinjore soon“With some formalities yet to be completed, the facility of paragliding at Tikkar Tal and hot balloon activity in Pinjore will also be started soon. Work is underway to make arrangements for mobile connectivity, road transportation and petrol pumps in the Tikkar Tal area,” the CM said.“Our government also plans to start water sports activities at Brahma Sarovar, Kurukshetra; Karna Lake, Karnal, Damdama Lake, Gurugram; and Tiliyar Lake, Rohtak,” he said.Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria accompanied the Chief Minister on the occasion.“The required training will be given to local youth by the Tourism Department to develop their skills for carrying out adventure activities. It will not only generate ample employment opportunities for them but will also give a major boost to the efforts for the development of tourism in Panchkula and Morni,” the government said in a press note.Brochure on home stayTo promote Haryanvi culture, the Chief Minister also released a brochure highlighting the key features of the home stay policy of the state which aims at providing tourists an excellent alternative to hotels as they can get an opportunity to live with local families in their homes and experience the native culture and cuisine.“Besides, plans have been made to promote farm tourism in this area,” he said.Earlier on Wednesday, the Chief Minister laid the foundation stone of a tourist facilitation centre at Red Bishop in Sector 1.City tour bus serviceThe CM also launched a city tour bus service “Scenic Tour Package.” The bus will run twice a week and will cover Panchkula, Kalka, Mansa Devi and Nada Sahib.Plan for more citiesOur government also plans to start water sports activities at Brahma Sarovar, Kurukshetra; Karna Lake, Karnal, Damdama Lake, Gurugram; and Tiliyar Lake, Rohtak. — Manohar Lal Khattar, Haryana CMSidhu a political tourist, says KhattarTaking a jibe at Navjot Singh Sidhu over his resignation from the post of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar termed the leader a “political tourist”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-cm-khattar-opens-adventure-sports-at-tikkar-tal-morni-hills-318133
30-09-2021||Naina Mishra||Bolster health infra for kids by March, Chandigarh dept told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 29The UT Health Department has been asked to undertake various public health infrastructural projects, including setting up ICU beds in hospitals and creating a tele-consultation hub for the paediatric population.The deadline for the completion of these projects under the Emergency Covid Response and Health System Preparedness (ECRP) initiative is March 2022.The UT has been given Rs5.6 crore for these projects under the ECRP-II. The Centre has approved Rs35 lakh for setting up an RT-PCR laboratory at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and Rs45 lakh for the procurement of essential drugs to deal with Covid-19 cases.UT task cut outSetting up RT-PCR lab at GMSH-1632-bed dedicated paediatric unit to come up at GMSH-16PGI to have paediatric centre of excellenceMedical gas pipeline system to be set up at GMSHTele-consultation hub at PGI, GMSH for paediatric patientsAbout one lakh RT-PCR kits and 50,000 rapid antigen test kits have been purchased by the UT for conducting tests till March 2022.A 32-bed exclusive paediatric unit will come up at the GMSH, for which Rs2.25 crore has been approved by the Centre. It will have 20 oxygen supported beds and a 12-bed hybrid ICU unit.Additionally, an amount of Rs12.32 lakh has been approved for 14 ICU beds at the GMSH with the rider that 20 per cent of the beds will be for paediatric patients. The Centre has sanctioned Rs50 lakh for medical gas pipeline system at the GMSH.There is also a provision for 20-bed units at the civil hospitals in Sector 22 and Mani Majra.For strengthening the tele-consultation hub, a sum of Rs45 lakh has been approved. Chandigarh sees 5 casesChandigarh: The city on Wednesday reported five cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the infection. Five patients were cured in the past 24 hours. TNS8 new cases surface in Mohali districtMohali: Eight new Covid-19 cases — four from Mohali (urban), three from Kharar and one from Boothgarh — were reported from the district on Wednesday. Two patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. TNS3 positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported three fresh Covid cases on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 30,738. The toll remained at 377 and recoveries 30,340. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bolster-health-infra-for-kids-by-march-chandigarh-dept-told-318132
