02-08-2020||News||NEP can make India a knowledge superpower | Opinion||The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 comes a staggering 34 years after it was last revised. With this comes the possibility of historical educational reform. Timely and progressive, it marks a monumental milestone in the country’s education system. In fact, the document iterated over the last few years is an exemplar of how public policy should be framed — factoring in voices of every single stakeholder.While the systemic reform agenda has gained ground in recent years through initiatives such as the NITI Aayog’s School Education Quality Index (SEQI), the Sustainable Action for Transforming Human Capital in Education (SATH-E) and even the Aspirational Districts Programme, NEP will drive change in alignment with the system’s need to focus holistically on the most critical tenets of access, equity, infrastructure, governance and learning. First, with an extensive focus on universalising access from early childhood to higher education, integrating over 20 million out-of-school children, and concerted efforts for the socio-economically disadvantaged groups, the policy ensures last-mile delivery, embodying antyodaya. Second, through a convergence of efforts, erasing traditional silos in workflows, early childhood care and education will be delivered with a new curriculum which features activity-based joyful learning. Along with a dedicated national mission for foundational literacy and numeracy, NEP 2020 will bolster the most critical phases of learning, building the strongest foundations of education. Third, NEP marks a departure from archaic practices and pedagogy. The dismantling of the rigid distinction between curricular, extracurricular and co-curricular subjects in school, and the provision of multiple entry and exit options in higher education brings in the much-needed fluidity and flexibility for students to hone their skills and interests. Revamped curriculum, adult education, lifelong learning and the vision to ensure that half India’s learners have exposure to at least one vocational skill in the next five years is characteristic of the shift from rote to applied learning. Through a skill-gap analysis, practice-based curriculum and internships with local vocational experts, NEP 2020’s Lok Vidya reflects Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s call of being vocal for local. Fourth, it is heartening to see the establishment of a national assessment centre called PARAKH (National Centre for Performance Assessment, Review and Analysis of Knowledge for Holistic development). Continuous tracking of learning, flexible board exams, conceptual assessments and Artificial Intelligence-enabled data systems will be critical to orienting the entire organisation around outcomes (as opposed to the traditional excessive focus on inputs), providing a systems-health check, as well as steering the right reform and course corrections. Fifth, teacher education is re-imagined with a new comprehensive curricular framework, multidisciplinary programmes and stringent action against substandard institutions, bolstering education through bold reform. Propelling SEQI’s vision for teacher adequacy and transparent systems for merit-based selection and deployment, the institution of online systems for teacher transfer and planning will be of the essence to ensure the right teachers in the right institutes. Sixth, the creation of an academic credit bank, the impetus to research, graded autonomy, internationalisation and the development of special economic zones are vital to rebranding India as a desired higher education destination. Further, multilingual education and efforts to enhance knowledge about India could restore the country’s educational heritage. A system that’s modern yet rooted, and at the threshold of the old and the new. Seventh, NEP marks an overhaul of the governance architecture from over-regulation and complex, diverse norms to a simplified and cogent structure. School complexes and clusters will bring about efficient resourcing of delivery structures; common standards and norms will boost the quality of institutes across all levels; a single regulatory body for higher education will serve as a template for minimal, essential regulation and maximum, effective governance. Outcome-focused accreditation will be critical to leapfrogging India’s journey towards quality education, the fourth goal of sustainable development. NEP 2020 is a welcome step in the right direction, signalling the “new normal” in education with its pivotal focus on critical thinking, experiential learning, interactive classrooms, integrated pedagogy and competency-based education. Inclusive digital education features as a cross-cutting component through all reform areas, powering India’s journey towards the fourth industrial revolution. It’s truly a multifaceted policy made in India, by India and for India.As with every other policy, the real test will be in its translation from policy to action. Backed by expeditious and effective implementation in sync with its spirit, NEP will shape the lives of India’s future generations. Through a robust education system leveraging the full potential of its demographic dividend, India has taken a major step towards establishing itself as a true knowledge superpower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/nep-can-make-india-a-knowledge-superpower/story-MT4nRgE7XbR2hh9JGNMT3L.html
02-08-2020||News||Education is not learning of facts, but training of mind. And NEP 2020 should achieve that | Opinion||Recently, the New Education Policy was announced by the Union Government in a press conference, held by senior ministers. India got its first National Education Policy in 1968 after twenty-one years of independence as the country could not decide, for more than two decades, about the direction to take as regards educating its population. Finally, in the year 1986, the New Education Policy was put in place which was modified in the year 1992 and a programme of action was announced. After a gap of thirty-four years, the Central Government has now come out with a New Education Policy.Undoubtedly, during the past three decades, we have witnessed monumental changes in the field of information and communication technology. This has totally transformed our way of living, sharing of knowledge, content creation and its dissemination and what not. Simultaneously, our country’s economy also has changed to become more service oriented with contribution of the services sector to our GDP increasing to more than half. Certainly, the education sector has to transform itself to cope with the requirements of an emerging knowledge economy.There are many new ideas incorporated in the New Education Policy which are essential to make our education system more holistic and flexible. The idea of a credit-based system is not new but unfortunately earlier attempts made in this regard could not bring the desired results. It is hoped that this time around the government will ensure its implementation at the earliest. Similarly, the universalisation of education from pre-school to secondary level with 100% gross enrolment ratio, making the Bachelor’s programme multidisciplinary in nature and doing away with the rigid separation between arts and sciences was long overdue and is a very welcome step.One of the most important recommendations made in the new policy is that teaching up to at least grade five is to be in the mother tongue/regional language. There are several arguments being advanced against this recommendation by experts. Some argue that the New Education Policy should have shown the courage to argue for English medium education from primary school onwards. Others argue that this recommendation goes against the apex court’s verdict of 2014, stating that the imposition of the mother tongue as the medium of instruction in primary classes is unconstitutional. The debate regarding the medium of instruction in our schools have been raging for the past several decades. Mahatma Gandhi had been very insistent from the beginning that the medium of instruction can not be other than vernacular. Gandhiji wrote, “In my opinion this is not a question to be decided by academicians. They cannot decide through what language the boys and girls of a place are to be educated. That question is already decided for them in every free country. Nor can they decide the subjects to be taught. That depends upon the wants of the country to which they belong. There is a privilege of enforcing the nation’s will in the best manner possible. When this country becomes really free, the question of medium will be settled only one way. The academicians will frame the syllabus and prepare text-books accordingly. So long as we the educated classes play with this question, I very much fear we shall not produce the free and healthy India of our dream.”Do we need any more argument to settle the question? History is witness to the fact that all the developed countries have ensured that the medium of instruction in their countries is in their own native language/mother tongue. It is high time we accept the reality and move on.Another myth floating around in our country for decades is that it is very difficult to impart higher education in vernacular languages. This logic was busted long back by the father of our nation Gandhi ji, who wrote: “Our language is the reflection of ourselves, and if you tell me that our languages are too poor to express the best thought, then I say that the sooner we are wiped out of existence the better for us. I had the privilege of a close conversation with some professors. They assured me that every Indian youth, because he reached his knowledge through the English language, lost at least six precious years of life. Multiply that by the number of students turned out by our schools and colleges and find out for yourselves how many thousand years have been lost to the nation.”It is critical now to provide instructions in vernacular without any further delay and ensure that equal and quality education is provided to all. The vocational education system also needs to be strengthened with vigour so that the economy does not suffer from a shortage of skilled manpower and our youth join the economic activity at the peak of their productivity. As Einstein had said, “education is not the learning of facts, but the training of the mind to think” and that should be achieved by this policy.(VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/education-is-not-learning-of-facts-but-training-of-mind-and-nep-2020-should-achieve-that-opinion/story-wd4VPiBv1vTjyB4YrqVVEN.html
02-08-2020||News||How innovators see the future of the world | Analysis||Covid-19 has brought us face to face with systemic problems we have long chosen to ignore collectively: Inequalities, environmental degradation, hunger, poverty, oppression, and the digital divide. In this age of technological progress, many of us are tempted by the promising thought of quick technological fixes to these deeply-ingrained issues.But technology alone will not save us. We must put the well-being of people, communities, and the planet back at the centre. We need to ask ourselves: What are the futures we want to create? What do we value? What kind of world do we want to live in?We need to change how we think about technology and innovation. Rather than allowing technological advancement to steer our narratives, innovation and technology should help us build bridges between the worlds we inhabit now and the ones we imagine for tomorrow. Even before the coronavirus, the 2020s were envisaged as a “decade of action” to realise the Sustainable Development Goals. Increasingly, individuals, communities, policymakers, and business executives are talking about the need for sustainable social innovation, as well as fostering social impact. To us, this signals that the world is waking up to the idea that to build a future worth inhabiting, we must change course now.Over the past few months in our work at The Futures Project, we have been heartened to see this shift in action. Through reviewing applications for the Call to Action for Innovators for the Future, we have had a window into how innovators on the ground are working for change.The Call for Innovators has received submissions from social impact projects in 92 countries. Reading these applications allows for a global pulse-check of sorts. How are the doers using the futures they want to create as blueprints to guide the action they take? What are the priorities in different world regions, and what global trends are emerging?The applicants from India envision a future in which everyone has access to education, information, and dignified living. Many of the projects pursue empowerment through education and skills training, keeping in mind potential barriers such as Internet connectivity and electricity access. Building on their deep knowledge of local realities, innovators are proposing clever reconfigurations of existing digital tools to bring uninterrupted education services to remote areas.In Europe, the applicants’ projects most commonly tackle the climate crisis, proposing innovative solutions aimed at reducing Co2 emissions and reducing the environmental impact of production and consumption. These innovators are rethinking the life-cycle of natural resources, applying scientific knowledge in service of a tangible vision: A planet that is healthy and inhabitable for future generations.The innovators from Africa focus on a vision of high-quality education for all children and universal access to adequate nutrition, health care, and clean water. While these are just some examples, overall, two trends are evident. First, the recognition that we, collectively, need to do things differently, and that this will take some serious analysis and imagination. Second, though local and regional priorities may differ, our problems are interconnected, globally. So, too, should our solutions be.Innovating for social impact is a worldwide project that requires localised knowledge as well as collaboration that spans sectors, boundaries, and borders. We must reach across the barriers we have built for ourselves and ask each other: What futures do we want to build, and how can we create them, together?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-innovators-see-the-future-of-the-world-analysis/story-G6ujgWNJ0BVm8OgiqB2SyJ.html
02-08-2020||City||Man murders wife after argument in Narela; suspect at large||New Delhi: A 24-year-old woman was allegedly strangulated by her husband at their house in outer Delhi’s Narela on Saturday night. Senior officers said the husband, a labour worker, had lost his job during the lockdown and the family had been facing financial problems. The man killed his wife after a heated quarrel, the police said. While the man is at large, the police said efforts to nab him are underway.According to the police, the Narela police station received a call around 8:25am from a woman reporting that her sister has been killed. The police team found the woman, who worked at a factory in Narela Industrial Area, unconscious on the bed. “She was taken to a hospital where the doctors pronounced her dead. Because the prima facie cause of death seems to be strangulation, the body was sent for a post-mortem examination and a case of murder registered,” said a police officer who asked not to be named.A preliminary enquiry revealed that the woman’s husband, Rehmattullah, 28, is on the run. “The woman’s sister lives nearby, and alleged that Rehmattullah killed her sister before fleeing. She said her sister is survived by her three children aged 6,5, and three-and-a-half years old. The woman’s sister and other relatives also told the police that the couple used to argue often,” the officer said. “Rukhsaar had recently also left Rehnattullah’s house and had gone to her parent’s house, but he visited her parent’s house and brought her back for Eid. Even after that, they repeatedly quarrelled over their economic problems, and it appears that during one such argument on Saturday night the man strangled his wife in a fit of rage. The children were all asleep when the murder took place,” the officer said. Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Gaurav Sharma said they have formed multiple teams to nab the suspect. “The husband is our prime suspect so far. A case of murder has been registered to probe the matter. We have strong leads and the accused will soon be arrested,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-murders-wife-after-argument-in-narela-suspect-at-large/story-mPzQGceGHJZYOhI7tfemtJ.html
02-08-2020||Gurugram||Gaps in July air quality data in Gurugram, Faridabad||Air quality monitoring stations in Gurugram and Faridabad installed in January failed to transmit or capture over a week’s worth of data in July, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) national air quality index website.The two districts have four air quality monitors each, including the new ones - two in Gurugram and three in Faridabad. They record fine and coarse particulate matter concentrations, while also recording the levels of carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide, ozone, nitrogen dioxide, all of which are calculated to arrive at the air quality index.While the two new Gurugram monitors are located on the Gurugram-Faridabad Road and sector 51, Faridabad’s are located in sector 11, sector 30 and VK Chowk in the New Industrial Township area. After testing, they began operations on March 6.While March and June went off without a glitch, gaps in data on the CPCB website emerged in July -- the Gurugram-Faridabad Road one missed 11 days’ data, sector 51 lost data for seven days. In Faridabad, the one at VK Chowk missed 11 days’ data, sector 30 did not have data for four days, while sector 11 lost nearly the month. JB Sharma, senior scientist and head of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) air quality cell in Panchkula, initially attributed these deficiencies to a possible lack of upkeep since the lockdown, that began on March 25 just days after the new monitors began transmitting data to the CPCB server in Delhi. Sharma later said, “I can’t say for sure as the matter has just been brought to my attention. It may also be a case of poor internet connectivity or erratic electricity supply, because of which the data is not being reflected in the CPCB server. I will have to check up with the regional officers of the districts before making further comments.” Kuldeep Singh, the HSPCB’s regional officer in Gurugram, and Dinesh Kumar, his counterpart in Faridabad, did not responded to requests for comment on Saturday. [QUOTE TO BE ADDED IF IT ARRIVES]Sachin Panwar, a city based air quality scientist, said, “Data from new monitors is valuable so long as it is available to researchers, scientists and policy makers. Gurugram and Faridabad are both very data deficient when it comes to air pollution, and we have been waiting for several years for the situation to change. It is good that we have got these new monitors, but maintaining credible data is a hands on process and regular checks need to be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gaps-in-july-air-quality-data-in-gurugram-faridabad/story-QPD8qV6nRo36ypFZ3vrtpK.html
02-08-2020||City||Colleges in Mumbai charging ₹500 for soft copy of prospectus, alleges students’ body||Days after admissions to first-year undergraduate university courses commenced, members of the Ambedkarite Students Association (ASA) have raised an objection to several colleges charging exorbitant rates from students for a soft copy of their prospectus. Students have alleged that until last year, hard copies of the college prospectus –which highlights the courses available at the institute and the annual fees charged – were priced between ₹50-250. However this year, some colleges are allegedly charging ₹500 for a soft copy of the same prospectus. “Reputed colleges receive thousands of student applications and charging ₹500 from each means they will earn lakhs without spending on printing of the prospectus. Students are being cheated in this process,” said a statement released by the ASA on Sunday. In a letter addressed to the vice-chancellor of the University of Mumbai and the state education minister, ASA has demanded immediate action against these colleges. “If no action is taken soon, we will hold a protest at the university campus,” added a member of ASA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/colleges-in-mumbai-charging-500-for-soft-copy-of-prospectus-alleges-students-body/story-aSeWW66e7DoKpioEos5qgO.html
02-08-2020||City||Into Day 2, over 4k samples collected for 2nd sero study in Delhi||New Delhi: More than 4,000 blood samples have been collected over two days from at least eight revenue districts in the Capital as part of the ongoing serological survey, a senior official in the Delhi health department said, adding that 115 teams have so far been engaged in the exercise. The study has also been extended by two days, officials said, till August 7.Around 15,000 blood samples will be collected, according to guidelines released by the state government that detail how the city’s second such survey to assess the spread of Covid-19 will be carried out.The study is intended to reflect how many people have contracted the Sars-Cov-2 virus and recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“So far, we have formed 115 teams and they have collected more than 4,000 blood samples from across localities that fall under the jurisdiction of eight out of 11 revenue districts over Saturday and Sunday. From Monday, the survey is likely to be spread over all 11 districts,” said a senior official in the Delhi government’s health department who did not wish to be identified.The samples are being collected through both door-to-door visits and setting up temporary centres, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/into-day-2-over-4k-samples-collected-for-2nd-sero-study-in-delhi/story-oSEAcjSqwnWPMCJeziB2XJ.html
02-08-2020||City||3 staffers of south Mumbai jewellery store booked for stealing gold bars worth ₹50 lakh||LT Marg police on July 31 registered a case of criminal breach of trust against three employees of a jewelry shop in Kalbadevi for allegedly stealing gold bars worth ₹50lakh from the store. According to the police, the owner of the store Anil Jain, in his statement said that on November 19 last year, three gold bars weighing around 1,375g worth ₹50 lakh were sent from his other store in Chennai. The gold bars were locked in the vault of their Vitthalwadi branch at Kalbadevi. “On December 5, when Jain checked the accounts, stocks and details of other business dealings, he discovered that the gold bars were missing from the safe vault. When he enquired with his employees, they said they were unaware about the gold bars,” said an officer from LT Marg police station. The complainant then checked the CCTV footage and discovered that someone tampered the dates of the CCTV camera and it showed the dates of the year 2008, the first information report filed by the police stated. The complainant checked the entire CCTV feed and found the movement of three employees suspicious, said another police officer. He then approached the police. The police first conducted a preliminary probe, which took months. On July 31, the police registered a criminal case against three employees of the store under section 408 (criminal breach of trust by a servant) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The police have also questioned some employees of the store and would be interrogating more employees to find out who stole the gold bars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-staffers-of-south-mumbai-jewellery-store-booked-for-stealing-gold-bars-worth-50-lakh/story-u4owu1FBJeNNLG7x15nI1J.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Amitabh Bachchan tests negative; Abhishek still in hospital||Veteran actor Amitabh Bachchan, 77, who was admitted to Nanavati Hospital on July 11, along with his actor-son Abhishek, 44, after testing positive for Covid-19, returned home on Sunday. Expressing gratitude to well-wishers, Abhishek on Sunday tweeted, “My father, thankfully, has tested negative on his latest Covid-19 test and has been discharged from the hospital. He will now be at home and rest. Thank you all for all your prayers and wishes for him.” Sources at the hospital said Abhishek was stable and would be discharged by Wednesday. Updating about his health, Abhishek tweeted, “I, Unfortunately due to some comorbidities remain Covid-19 positive and remain in hospital. Again, thank you all for your continued wishes and prayers for my family. Very humbled and indebted. I’ll beat this and come back healthier! Promise. On returning to his Mumbai residence, Jalsa, Amitabh tweeted, “I have tested COVID - (negative) have been discharged. I am back home in solitary quarantine. Grace of the Almighty, blessings of Ma Babuji, prayers & duas of near & dear & friends fans EF.. and the excellent care and nursing at Nanavati made it possible for me to see this day.” The 77-year-old Bollywood actor was in hospital for 21 days. On July 12, Abhishek’s actor-wife Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, 46, and daughter Aaradhya, 8, also tested positive. They were admitted to Nanavati Hospital on July 17 and discharged on July 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amitabh-bachchan-tests-negative-abhishek-still-in-hospital/story-72BpGfBeWGpTAg5GBtIZUP.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Parents initiate social media campaign urging SoBo school to reduce fees||Parents of several students of Gopi Birla Memorial School in Walkeshwar have started an online campaign urging the school management to reduce school fees as several parents have faced losses during the Covid-19 pandemic. Over the past few days, several parents have taken to social media and raised concerns about the school’s fee structure. “The school is charging around ₹1.9 lakh for senior KG which is not an issue for us otherwise, but in the current scenario where so many people have lost their jobs and faced losses in business we had requested the authorities to reduce fees. The school, however, did not listen to our demands,” said a parent of a Class 2 student on the condition of anonymity. Parents alleged that the school has stopped providing videos and online classes to children whose parents demanded a reduction in fees. “This is against the Right to Education (RTE) Act and is unjust. We had requested them to waive off charges for extra-curriculars like yoga, music etc which are not taking place currently,” said another parent. Nearly 500 parents are yet to pay the fees and have said that they would pay it if the school agrees to reduce some charges.When HT tried contacting the school, school principal Veena Srivastava said, “I do not owe you or anyone an explanation about fees. Our Parents Teacher Association has approved the fee structure.” Parents, however, said the school has not formed a PTA by due process over the past three years. “We have requested them to elect a PTA as per the process, but the school has not responded to our demand,” said a parent.The school has scheduled assessments for students in the first week of August and parents are worried about having to give it a miss. An official from the education department said the school cannot stop students from writing their exams in any case. “While fee fixation is the PTA’s prerogative, no child can be denied right to education. Parents can write to the department,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/parents-initiate-social-media-campaign-urging-sobo-school-to-reduce-fees/story-Vn75m20zIB6Z97UqmFvBzH.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Don’t defer JEE and NEET-UG exams, say parents, students in online petition||Aspirants of undergraduate engineering and medical courses have been in a tight spot over the past few months since the ongoing lockdown has delayed their all-India entrance exams. The recent announcement of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) National Defence Academy (NDA) exam clashing with the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains exam on September 6 has led to speculations that the National Testing Authority (NTA) might once again postpone JEE exams, which left students and parents unhappy.On Sunday, parents and students started an online petition to not postpone JEE and National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) UG exams any further. At present, JEE Mains is scheduled to take place between September 1 and 6 whereas NEET-UG is scheduled to take place on September 13.By Sunday evening, close to a 1,000 parents and students had signed the online petition. They also took to social media platforms to reach out to the state government, education ministry as well as NTA officials. “These students have been studying more than 12 hours a day for over two years, and every time the exams get postponed, students are losing hope and concentration,” said a parent. Many have also suggested that exams be conducted during lockdown in order to ensure that only those involved with the examination be allowed to step out of their houses. “The government can impose a strict lockdown for a day and spread out all entrance exam candidates across several schools and colleges in the state in order to ensure social distancing. Student could also be asked to present a basic Covid report,” suggested another parent. Some parents have also approached Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, suggesting that any further delay in conducting entrance exams will mentally affect aspirants.No official word regarding the entrance exams has been released yet.The Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation on July 29 filed an intervention in the Supreme Court against the University Grants Commission’s decision to allow final-year exams. The teachers’ union highlighted that Covid-19 cases in the country and in Maharashtra are increasing and added that conducting final-year exams for lakhs of students will be impossible for universities and teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-defer-jee-and-neet-ug-exams-say-parents-students-in-online-petition/story-5bY93R7F63DEWaKLLGOB4L.html
02-08-2020||City||4 arrested for raping 42-year-old woman near Thane||Narpoli police arrested four people for raping a 42-year-old woman from their village while she was returning home from a warehouse in Bhiwandi around 10pm on Friday.The four accused are identified as Anil Bihari, 28; Kumar Rathod, 25; Vishal Varte, 23, and his twin brother Monty Varte.According to Narpoli police, the woman was living alone after her daughter’s marriage and was searching for a job from the past few days. Her friend promised to employ her at a warehouse. On Friday, the woman went to meet her friend to inquire about the job at the warehouse and stayed with her for dinner.“While she was returning home at night, the four accused who were in an inebriated state, stopped her and attacked her with a knife. They then took her to an isolated spot, raped her and fled the spot after she fell unconscious,” an officer from Narpoli police station said.On Saturday morning, some villagers spotted the woman in an unconscious state and alerted the police.“We arrested the four men after going through the CCTV footage of the nearby area and based on the woman’s statement,” senior inspector Maloji Shinde of Narpoli police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-arrested-for-raping-42-year-old-woman-near-thane/story-KUv4WfIJz6RTnuVkuTJ2ON.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||HC invites complaints against negligent Covid officials||Observing that public servants had not taken adequate measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas which saw a spike in recent days, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has decided to receive complaints against negligent officials. The order was passed after the bench undertook an inspection visit to Jalna court and found that Covid-19 cases were increasing rapidly as officials were not conducting proper checks on persons returning from Mumbai and Pune. The bench, in an earlier order in response to a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL), had said that it would conduct inspection of various areas to check whether reports of public servants not doing their duty diligently were true. A division bench of justice TV Nalawade and justice MG Sewlikar, while hearing the suo motu PIL initiated after reports that many public servants assigned to Covid duty had been absent or were not contributing towards the containment of the spread, had passed orders asking authorities to take strict action against errant public servants. The court had also said that it would undertake inspection of Covid care centres, hospitals and health care centres to see whether public officials had returned to duty. During the hearing of the PIL on July 31, the bench observed that the Aurangabad administration had done a good job in containing the spread of the virus, but in Jalgaon, Nanded and other areas under the jurisdiction of the bench there have not been efforts to check persons coming from Mumbai and Pune. The court observed that during its visit to Jalna court it had seen that the officials had a very casual approach and were not asking travellers for required passes, which led to a rapid increase in Covid cases in rural areas. The court also observed that unlike cities, rural families did not disclose information if anyone contracted the infection and the authorities failed to anticipate this situation. The court then directed the authorities to follow up on whether their orders were being adhered to. “The authorities may send some persons in disguise to confirm that the officials at such points are doing the duty. Unless that is done, things will not improve,” the bench said. It further said, “This court is now feeling it necessary to allow all those persons who have grievance with regard to the care and treatment of infected persons and others to approach this court directly. They may give grievance in writing to this court either by post or on e-mail or through advocate.” The court then directed the public prosecutor to see that the part of order, particularly the intention of the court to consider individual complaint, is given publicity up to village level and posted the matter for hearing on August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-invites-complaints-against-negligent-covid-officials/story-r6hm86xBZlK8vENkuEQJ3K.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Civic body releases video on ‘Chase the Patient’ policy||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has released a video about its “Chase the Patient” policy, which was inaugurated on June 8, by starting ward-level war rooms for decentralised bed management to help Covid-19 patients get hospital beds or medical attention on time. This initiative came soon after BMC’s decision that all laboratories conducting Covid-19 tests must inform the civic body about positive patients first. In May, BMC had asked all laboratories to give Covid-19 test results within 48 hours and inform the civic body by midnight. Civic officials then clean the list of names, such as removing names which are repeated, sorting names of patients who are already in institutional quarantine as high-risk contacts, within 7.30 am. The names are then segregated ward wise and sent to respective war rooms so that they can contact patients post 8am. Based on whether a patient has symptoms, comorbidity and whether he or she has a scope to be quarantined at home, the war room coordinates hospital bed allotment. A BMC official visits homes of positive patients before they are admitted to hospitals or quarantine centres. The move came after BMC received a number of complaints regarding unavailability of hospital beds in April and May where patients had to wait several hours to get a hospital bed. While the process has been ongoing, the civic body termed it ‘Chase the Patient’ and publicised it via posting a video on social media platforms.Municipal commissioner IS Chahal said, “This is a unique bed allotment system for Covid patients. Hospital beds are allotted by BMC officials who visit the patients at their residences and either ask them to isolate at home or move them to the hospital in BMC ambulances. Patients need not step out of their homes or call anyone to get a hospital bed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/civic-body-releases-video-on-chase-the-patient-policy/story-rqjTC7DQu574yIzgFhmSpL.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for sexually assaulting 16-year-old daughter since 2016||A 44-year-old man was arrested for sexually assaulting his minor daughter for more than four years. The incident came to light on August 1 after the mother of the 16-year-old survivor approached Amboli police to file a case against the accused. The girl’s mother, in her statement to the police, said, “My daughter did not speak about it as her father had threatened her of dire consequences if she disclosed his crime to anyone. But after she realised that her father would not stop assaulting her, she finally gathered the courage and confided in me.” The police registered a case under sections 376 (2) (F) (being a relative, guardian or teacher of, or a person in a position of trust or authority towards the woman, commits rape on such woman), 376 (2) (i) (commits rape, on a woman incapable of giving consent) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Senior inspector Someshwar Kamthe from Amboli police station said,” We are investigating the case further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-16-year-old-daughter-since-2016/story-ID7Scc8dskkwxotBTfA86N.html
02-08-2020||City||July added most Covid cases to Ghaziabad’s tally but lower positivity, fatality rates bring relief||Ghaziabad Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the grim month of July, when Ghaziabad saw the maximum number of cases yet since the virus broke out here, ended with a silver lining for the district, with both, the positivity rate as well as the fatality rate having declined. While the test positivity rate in July has declined to 4.69% from 7.54% in June earlier, the fatality rate, which had touched about 4% in June, has come down drastically to below 1% last month, officials said. However, the district reported the highest number of positive cases in July so far, which stood at 3,322. Officials attributed the sudden spike to increase in the number of tests through rapid antigen kits, through which they discovered Covid cases in the district. According to official records, overall, the district at the end of July had a total of 4,937 Covid-19 cases with a fatality rate of 1.29% and a high discharge rate of 83.32%, with 759 active cases. The first case was reported in the district on March 5. With regards to sampling, the district till June 30 had completed only 21,422 sampling, while a total of 83,787 samples were taken up in July alone. The introduction of rapid antigen kits helped the district achieve overall sampling/testing of 1,05,209 people till July 31. “The month of June alone had about 1,310 Covid-19 cases. But 51 deaths had taken place due to the infection in June, the highest in all the five months, from March to July. The sampling process got a major boost with introduction of rapid antigen kits on June 26. Since then, we have conducted about 61,258 tests with rapid antigen kits. So, this helped us reduce our case positivity rate to 4.69% as against 7.54% in the month of June,” said an officer from the district health department, who wished not to be named. “There were nine Covid-related deaths in July, as against four till May 31, and 51 in June alone. So, our fatality rate touched an all time high of about 3.89% in June while it was only 0.27% in July. So, overall, July had the highest number of Covid-19 cases, but we assume it as a month of recovery in terms of reduced positivity rate as well as death rate,” the officer said. The month of July was also favourable for the district in terms of recovery rate, which in May stood at an average of 76.39%, while it fell to 45.69% by the end of June. However, by July 31, the recovery rate improved considerably to 83.32%, with a total of 4,114 patients having been discharged.Notably, the district had just 305 Covid-19 cases till May 31, which rose to 1,615 at the end of June. The district crossed the tally of 1,000 positive cases on June 23. July was the month when the district touched the figure of 2,000 cases (on July 4), 3,000 cases (July 11) and 4,000 (July 20). The district touched the 5,000-mark on August 1. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the case positivity rate declined due to high number of tests. “There was a major focus on ramping up testing across the district, and we used rapid antigen kits on a larger scale. The idea was to identify maximum number of suspected cases and refer the positive patients to Covid hospitals for early treatment. For this, our dedicated control room and our surveillance teams have been working round the clock,” said Pandey. “Our capabilities of testing through RT-PCR method will also be strengthened once our new lab starts at MMG Hospital,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/july-added-most-covid-cases-to-ghaziabad-s-tally-but-lower-positivity-fatality-rates-bring-relief/story-E1xeDa9KC0kZ2IDHe1j8HK.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||People will ask PM Modi to resign if job crisis continues: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that the people of India may seek the resignation of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi if the issues of unemployment and economic crisis are not resolved soon. Criticising the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government over the handling of the economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, Raut in his weekly column Rokhthok, in party mouthpiece Saamana, said 10 crore people have lost their livelihoods and 40 crore families are affected by the situation.“How long will people spend their days on mere hopes and assurances? In the past 15 years, not a single problem has been resolved. Israeli PM [Benjamin] Netanyahu is a friend of PM Modi. Due to the economic crisis and Covid-related problems, the people of Israel are holding demonstrations on the streets and are demanding Netanyahu’s resignation. The same situation can also happen in India,” the Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) said in the column. Raut added that with so many job losses, economic leadership has become more important than the leadership in the battlefield. “Millions are sitting unemployed today. Innumerable claims of inflation, poverty and unemployment have erupted in the society. So, economic leadership is more important than leadership in the battlefield,” the Shiv Sena leader said, adding, “Nobody is talking about the crisis. It is easy to say that crisis gives rise to opportunity. But they [government] don’t know how people are dealing with the crisis.” In a dig at the BJP, Raut said the central government’s measures to tackle the economic situation include procuring Rafale fighter jets, reciting Hanuman Chalisa , destabilising Rajasthan government and coming back to power in Maharashtra on its own. “The stoves of 40 crore families have been extinguished. What is the solution to their problems? Bhoomipujan of Ram temple will be done. BJP needs Rajasthan, it will happen. Rafale aircraft from France also came to Ambala. But how are those who lost jobs in this period coping with the situation? Will the rulers ever tell them?” the Saamana executive editor asked sarcastically.The Sena leader also criticised the government for “celebrating” Rafale’s homecoming amid the “grave threat” of Covid-19 in India. He wrote previous governments have procured other fighter jets such as Sukhoi and MiG aircraft, but such a “celebration” was never carried out. “Will Rafale jets with the bomb and missile-carrying capacity be able to destroy the unemployment crisis and economic challenges?” Raut asked.He added that the situation will force many citizens to be “slaves” again. “Earlier, the British enslaved Indians and took them to Fiji, Mauritius, Guyana and Suriname. People will be willing to go as slaves to such places even now. And if the rulers do not acknowledge this, then they can continue their celebrations over Rafale,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/people-will-ask-pm-modi-to-resign-if-job-crisis-continues-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut/story-OOZzWUJtoFXLHlslCVhXkM.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||97% Covid-positive patients are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic||Maharashtra recorded 150,658 active Covid-19 cases till Sunday afternoon, of which 97% are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Only 2% are critical and 1% are on oxygen support, show data from the state health department.For the last 10 days, the state has reported 7,000 new Covid-19 cases on an average, daily. This has pushed the cumulative number of infections in the state to close to 450,000 cases – the highest in the country. But doctors are relieved as, at present, only 3,111 patients are critical and undergoing treatment in intensive care units (ICU).Experts claim this is a good sign because chances of the spread of infection from asymptomatic patients are less. “The infectious period of the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19, in symptomatic individuals may begin within two days. It persists for over 10 days after the starting of symptoms. But in asymptomatic patients, the chances of transmitting the virus are less as these individuals don’t sneeze or cough. So, having more asymptomatic patients helps to break the chain of infection,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.Most patients are identified through contact tracing. Dr AR Gita, district health officer (DHO) of Aurangabad, which recorded 4,943 active Covid-19 cases till Saturday, said, “We have appointed teachers and local volunteers to trace close contacts of those infected. It is done in two ways. The teachers call them regularly to check on their health. If anyone complains of symptoms, we immediately test and isolate them. If we fail to track them, our local medical volunteers visit them at home. This has helped in early diagnosis and isolations.”Till Saturday, 2,011 patients with oxygen saturation is below 95% were kept on oxygen support in hospitals. “We have seen that people between the age group of 31 and 40 are prone to Covid-19. As this is a younger group with higher immunity, they often don’t develop symptoms, and gradually recover,” said Dr Awate.A similar trend has been noticed with the rapid antigen testing in Mumbai. Rapid antigen testing helps to identify antigens of Covid-19 in the body within 30 minutes. As HT reported earlier, almost 90% of the close contacts of infected patients who undergo rapid antigen testing are identified as silent carriers of the virus||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/97-covid-positive-patients-are-asymptomatic-or-mildly-symptomatic/story-oNgUvQXCU7fRUPVC3yI9mM.html
02-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Testing increases since July 21 when home isolation facility allowed||Ghaziabad: There has been a big surge in number of tests for Covid-19 since July 21 when the Uttar Pradesh government directed for initiation of home isolation facility to asymptomatic patients. According to the official figures, the period of July 21-31 witnessed about 30% rise in the testing as compared to that of the previous 10-day period.The district administration has attributed the rise in testing since July 21 to home isolation facility granted to patients and increasing awareness among the masses. According to the figures of the district health department, about 32,120 tests were conducted between July 21 and July 31, while a total of 24,553 tests were conducted during the previous 10-day period from July 11 to July 20. Also, about 27,000 tests were done from July 1 to July 10. Notably, during the period of July 2-12, the UP government had directed for a special surveillance drive across the district to trace patients with co-morbidity and also those having symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). During the drive, special teams were deployed for door-to-door surveys and to figure out the suspected cases, which were later tested. “The rise in testing activities after home isolation was allowed is an encouraging sign. Now, more people are coming in to get themselves tested. It (home isolation) is one of the major factors which have led more people to come for testing. Now, the testing centres are providing walk-in facility where anyone can come for testing. Further, there has been more awareness among the public, and their faith in the administration has got strengthened,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The Ghaziabad district has static testing booths in Vaishali, Indirapuram, MMG Hospital and Women Hospital. Besides, testing centres have been set up at IMS college Dasna, four community health centres and one primary health centre at Bhojpur. The administration has started distributing “testing slips” among the residents. Such a slip, a copy of which is with the health department, carries the details of the resident. “Our survey teams are now distributing testing slips to households. Residents having the slips can go to the nearest centre for testing. We are also monitoring the distributed slips to know whether the residents availed testing or not. We have enough rapid antigen kits, which have a major share in overall testing. Since the kit provides result within 30-40 minutes, people are availing the testing facility,” Pandey added. Till July 31, the Ghaziabad district conducted 105,099 tests, of which 61,258 tests were done through rapid antigen kits. “Initially, the residents were reluctant to come for testing as they knew they would be taken to a Covid hospital if found positive. Now, they know that they have an option to stay at home. So, more people are coming in for testing. For instance, we now have about 40-50 walk-ins per day at our booth in Vaishali, where earlier only 15-20 arrived in a day. Similarly, the number at our booth in Indirapuram has also increased to about 70-80 as against 35-40 per day,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named. “About a fortnight ago, we introduced three mobile testing vans. So these vans have also helped increase testing,” the officer said. According to the officials, the district at present has 188 asymptomatic patients who have qualified for the home isolation facility. Residents’ bodies have also echoed the similar views. “The residents have got encouraged for testing as they know they have an option to stay at home. It has come as a major relief for middle and high income group residents and has also reduced the burden on government facilities,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ association. Under the home isolation facility, the UP government allowed asymptomatic patients to stay at home with certain conditions. Prior to the facility, every positive case was getting admitted to an appropriate Covid hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-testing-increases-since-july-21-when-home-isolation-facility-allowed/story-R5buN5DlknYe8RecRKiM5J.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||IMD predicts heavy to very heavy rainfall in Mumbai till Thursday||After sunny conditions on Sunday and no rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm, the city is likely to witness a week-long spell of intense rain from Monday onwards. The regional weather bureau issued an orange alert till Thursday with the possibility of heavy to very heavy rain on Monday and Thursday and extremely heavy rain on Tuesday and Wednesday. A red alert has been issued for Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg for Monday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) headquarters in Delhi issued a red alert (extremely heavy rain warning) for the entire Konkan coast for Tuesday. Pune, Kolhapur and Satara are also likely to receive heavy showers on Tuesday and Wednesday. The weather bureau said owing to the strengthening of monsoon currents under the influence of a low pressure weather system developing over north Bay of Bengal on Tuesday, two major weather factors would enhance rain activity over the Konkan coast, including Mumbai and interior Maharashtra. “Factors such as the east-west wind convergence and shifting off the monsoon trough over the southern portions of the west coast becoming more active are likely to strengthen westerly to southwesterly winds drawing moisture from the sea and paving the way for intense rain spells,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Independent meteorologists said the city could expect around 500-550mm rain over the next four days. The average August rain for the city is 585mm. “Rain activity is expected to pick up from Monday afternoon and intensify between Tuesday and Thursday. One of these days, either on Wednesday or Thursday, is likely to see more than 200mm rainfall (extreme rains),” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay. IMD’s orange alert would not be enough for the disaster preparedness considering the forecast, said Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, the United Kingdom. “The entire Konkan coast, including the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, needs to be put on the highest alert level between Monday and Wednesday. The offshore trough is set to intensify under the influence of this season’s first monsoon depression over Bay of Bengal. As a result, MMR will witness heavy rain, daily rainfall exceeding 100-150 mm, on Monday and Tuesday,” said Deoras. “Water logging and disruptions such as rain water entering houses and damage to weak structures is expected during this period. Those living in low-lying areas need to take necessary precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/imd-predicts-heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-in-mumbai-till-thursday/story-khLA31bC1tcDDpsRr1lqJL.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees dip in Covid fatality rate||The city’s fatality rate due to Covid-19 in Mumbai has decreased to 5.5% by the end of July, from 5.8%-5.9% seen in June and beginning of July. Moreover, the number of daily deaths has reduced to 40 and 60 in the past two weeks, from at least 70 daily deaths or more (on some days) in May and June. According to figures from the state government, Mumbai had a fatality rate of 5.8% on June 30 and until the first week of July. On June 16, the state government reconciled the number of deaths in the state, including Mumbai, and added 862 deaths to the city’s toll, taking the fatality rate to 5.2% from 3.7% in a single day. Citing reconciliation of figures as a recurring exercise that would continue for over one month, BMC periodically continued adding deaths that had occurred in May or earlier in June, to the toll. Subsequently, around 750 more deaths were cumulatively added to the city’s total toll until July 3, taking the fatality rate to 5.8% on July 3. On Sunday, Mumbai recorded 49 deaths, taking the toll to 6,447. The fatality rate is now 5.5%. The per-day fatality rate on Sunday stood at 4.4% (calculated from deaths recorded on Sunday vis-à-vis new cases recorded on the day). Mumbai recorded 1,105 new cases, taking the case tally to 116,436. There are 21,394 active cases in Mumbai as of Sunday. On August 1, Mumbai recorded 45 new deaths, 53 on July 31 and July 30, respectively, 60 on July 29, 55 on July 28, 39 on July 27, 57 on July 26, 52 on July 25 and 54 on July 24. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The number of deaths reported per day has gone down to some extent. This is noticed after BMC launched ‘Save Lives’. However, every death is alarming and every life is precious. We cannot become complacent that the number of deaths per day is reducing. We have to bring the number down further. Deaths are still occurring in a scenario where there is late reportage of the infection, especially if patients have comorbidity.” ‘Save Lives’ strategy was launched by BMC on June 30, with nine points to reduce the number of deaths. Kakani said, “Save Lives strategy included locating patients at high risk of dying due to the infection, ensuring they are given the right line of treatment, ensuring all medicines are given the required number of times every day, and nothing is missed, video calls between attending physicians and senior doctors. The line of treatment for serious or critical patients is carefully chosen, and has to be approved by the head of department and head of the institution. We are also giving bed pans to patients at the right time, so they don’t leave their beds to use the washroom.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-dip-in-covid-fatality-rate/story-VBkP05tUNvZJ1kOtb50oQI.html
02-08-2020||City||Sena leader dies 15 days after discharge||A Shiv Sena corporator from Ulhasnagar who recovered from Covid-19 infection 15 days ago, died on Sunday after his health deteriorated. His latest Covid test showed he was negative.According to the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC), corporator Sunil Surve, 54, was on oxygen support at his home after he was discharged, as he suffered from breathlessness. Two days ago his health deteriorated and he was admitted to Maxlife Hospital in Ulhasnagar. He died at around 4.30 pm on Sunday at the hospital. “He had recovered from Covid-19 infection and was discharged 15 days ago, after 23 days of treatment. He suffered from breathlessness after being discharged and hence was on oxygen support. He has a history of bypass surgery and heart attack; his immunity was also low,” said Yuvraj Badhane, public relations officer, UMC. A five-time corporator, Surve is one of the senior Sena leaders in the city. He is survived by a wife, a son and daughter. Rajendra Chaudhari, president of Shiv Sena’s Ulhasnagar unit, said, “The party was relieved when he recovered from Covid-19 as he had already suffered from a heart attack and gone through a bypass surgery. He was also a dialysis patient. Doctors claimed both his kidneys have failed in the past two days. We were planning to shift him to some other hospital, but he died before that.” “This is a great loss for the party as he was a senior leader and had worked for the party and the city for long time,” added Chaudhari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sena-leader-dies-15-days-after-discharge/story-vQPUYTUUdTM1FAhCUKyITJ.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||27-year-old man stabbed over garbage dispute by neighbour in Mumbai||A 27-year-old man was stabbed in the stomach by his neighbour on Saturday in Andheri, for keeping garbage outside the accused’s flat. The victim was rushed to Cooper Hospital and is currently in the intensive care unit (ICU). DN Nagar police booked the accused under section 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for attempt to murder, and arrested him on Sunday morning.The arrested accused Samran Suleman Baloch alias Sahil, 23, and the victim Salman Salim Makrani live in the United Co-operative Society in DN Nagar, Andheri (West). According to police, a heated argument had occurred between Baloch and Makrani’s father on July 30 over a trash bin that was kept outside the former’s flat. Makrani’s relative Naved was also present, and on his intervention, the matter was resolved. However, on August 1, around 10pm, while Makrani and his relative Naved were standing in the passage area, Baloch came and started abusing Makrani, and an argument ensued.“In a fit of rage, Baloch got a knife and stabbed Makrani twice in the abdomen,” said a police officer. The accused then fled from the spot. Neighbours rushed him to Cooper Hospital where he was admitted to the ICU. The incident was reported to DN Nagar police station, and a team visited the crime scene and recorded statements of eyewitnesses. A first information report (FIR) was registered against Baloch, and he was arrested on August 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/27-year-old-man-stabbed-over-garbage-dispute-by-neighbour-in-mumbai/story-ugEssWDnPg5Y5rzhVBlZCJ.html
02-08-2020||City||Sushant Singh Rajput suicide: Maharashtra CM meets top cops||Amid a stand-off between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday held a briefing with director general of police Subodh Jaiswal and city police commissioner Parambir Singh at his official residence, Varsha, in Malabar Hill. The CM held the meeting in the backdrop of the tug-of-war over the probe between the Mumbai and Bihar Police as well as Opposition’s demands to transfer the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). A senior Sena leader said Thackeray was irked by the allegations made in social media about “so-called lapses” in the investigation and wanted a clear update on the trajectory of the city police probe. Thackeray had slammed the BJP a day earlier for politicising the issue and not showing trust in Mumbai Police’s capabilities. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had called for CBI and Enforcement Directorate probe, pointing out that people had lost faith in police probe, given the number of conspiracy theories and doubts that were floating around. On Sunday, party MLA from Andheri Ameet Satam wrote to the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) probing the case to investigate certain aspects into the deaths of Rajput and Salian to “clear the air and pave the road towards reaching a logical conclusion”. The letter sent to DCP of zone 9, Abhishek Trimukhe, raises six questions, asking the city police to look into the parties that Salian and Rajput had participated in or hosted before their deaths. It sought clarity over the findings of the post-mortem report of Salian as well as shedding light on whether she was part of any party before she died and who were present at this party. “Whom did she speak to or message on the phone 24 hours before her death? Are the mobile tower location of the place she was when she died being probed to find out who all were present and whom she met before she died,” asked the letter. Satam also asked if Rajput’s sister’s statement has been recorded to find out whether the actor was scared or threatened after Salian’s death. He also raised questions over whether Rajput used different mobile SIMs from June 8 to June 14. The letter refers to a party Rajput attended or hosted on June 13, a day before his death. “Who all were present for the party? Is the CCTV footage of his building and surrounding area recorded,” asked the letter. The asked if the police have questioned all three servants in Rajput’s house as well as his two close friends Sandeep Singh and Mahesh Shetty and manager Siddharth Pithani. He also called for reinvestigation into the preserved viscera of Rajput. The issue of parties and presence of others at these get-togethers was also raised by former minister and BJP city chief Ashish Shelar on Sunday. Shelar tweeted: “There is a constant reference about celebrity parties in the context of Sushant Singh Rajput’s case. During lockdown when one could not even attend the last rites of one’s mother, under whose blessings did these parties continue? Ministers? Officials? CBI inquiry must happen.” Even senior Sena minister and a close aide of Thackeray, Anil Parab, raised the issue, a day ago. State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday condemned the “politicisation” of the Rajput case. He said, “The death by suicide case of Sushant Singh Rajput is being probed by Mumbai police. Even though a case has been registered in Patna, under Criminal Procedure chapter 12 and 13 the investigation is carried out where the incident happens and the trial is also held in their jurisdiction. The Mumbai Police is investigating this case closely and are capable of unearthing the truth. Despite this demand is being made for political dividends to transfer the case to CBI. I condemn this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sushant-singh-rajput-suicide-maharashtra-cm-meets-top-cops/story-JL2ISVC1OxpRJ2RmibbERK.html
02-08-2020||City||Water cut in Thane due to damage in pipeline||Thane Thane residents experienced a water cut for over 10 hours on Sunday due to damage in the air-valve of a water pipeline at Shahad-Temghar Water Supply Authority (STEM) near its pumping station on National Highway number-3. The supply resumed at night and the water supply will be at low pressure on Monday and Tuesday. An officer from Thane Municipal Corporation said, “The air valve of the water pumping line of STEM plant was damaged on Sunday morning due to a cable laying work going on along the highway. The water supply to Thane city was cut off on Sunday morning and resumed at night.” STEM supplies 110 mld water to areas of Ghodbunder Road and Thane city. The officer added that the supply though resumed will be low pressure for the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/water-cut-in-thane-due-to-damage-in-pipeline/story-2yPEzGO3FR4nFtVt6BnC1L.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Juhu murder: Police arrest two after 24-year-old succumbs to injuries||Juhu police on Sunday evening arrested two accused for killing a 24-year-old on Sunday (August 2) morning by stabbing him with a knife. This incident occurred at 2am. According to the police, the arrested accused is identified as Shiva Devendra, 20 and Khalid Shaikh, 25 both are the resident of Lohia Nagar, Vile Parle.Pandharinath Wavhal senior inspector from Juhu police station said, “The victim Ganesh Devendra, 24, is a resident of Nehru Nagar, Juhu. Shiva and Ganesh were friends and they together attended a birthday party in Kandivli. Ganesh in an inebriated state abused Shiva due to which an argument broke out between them.”An officer from Juhu police said, “Shiva then left the party and asked his friend Shaikh to accompany him in taking revenge. Both waited for Shiva near Mithibai College. At around 2am, when Ganesh arrived, they accosted him and stabbed him in his stomach multiple times and fled away.”According to the police, locals informed them about the incident and rushed him to Cooper Hospital, after which he was shifted to KEM Hospital. However, he succumbed to his injuries.API Harish Biradar of Juhu police station asked to investigate the case who scanned the CCTV camera of nearby area and activated his informers. “He then received information of accused location and laid a trap near Vileparle station from where our team arrested both accused,” Wavhal added more.“A case under section 302 and 34 of Indian Penal Code has been registered against accused and investigation is on,” Wavhal said.Police sources revealed there is one robbery case registered against Ganesh (deceased) at Juhu police station and two cases of assault registered against Khalid (accused) at Santacruz police station, however Shiva has no crime history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/juhu-murder-police-arrest-two-after-24-year-old-succumbs-to-injuries/story-MBp6K9TaCI9ccrieqfbd5N.html
02-08-2020||City||Film producer held for fraud||New Delhi: Delhi police’s economic offences wing (EOW) on Sunday said they arrested a Bollywood producer for allegedly cheating nearly 100 people by promising them good returns in an investment scheme. At least 88 complaints have been received so far against the person named Chanderkant Sharma, seniors officers said . Joint commissioner of police (EOW) OP Mishra said the complainants said they were trapped into a pyramid investment scheme -- a fraudulent system of making money based on recruiting an ever-increasing number of investors -- floated by Sharma through his company, Cine Mirchi Productions Private Limited.“The directors of the company are Chanderkant Sharma and his wife Neeraj Sharma. Through this company, Sharma produced two movies -- The Great Indian Casino, which has been released, and Lust Wala Love, which is yet to be released. The complainants have alleged that the company lured people with a promise of high returns of more than 70% by investments in entertainment sector and other undefined projects,” Mishra said.Several bank accounts in Sharma’s name were detected and scrutinised. “A lookout circular was issued against the Sharma to prevent him from fleeing the country but it was learnt he was continuing with the investment schemes and relaunching his fraudulent plan from unidentified locations. This input was developed and we zeroed in on him in Chandigarh and arrested him,” the officer said.Sharma was also booked under section 506 of the IPC for criminal intimidation because many complainants said he threatened them, he said.The joint commissioner said Sharma’s modus operandi was to indulge in extensive publicity campaigns of his business. “He used to publish his photographs with leading Bollywood and Hollywood celebrities and actors to lure investors. Complainants said the couple lured investors by announcing they would make one international movie every year. They held seminars and movie launches in luxury hotels in Delhi and Mumbai,” the officer said. Sharma promised weekly payouts to investors. The approximate amount of money invested by the complainants is approximately Rs 6 crore, he said.The website of Cine Mirchi Productions Pvt Ltd displays no contact information. A mail sent to the company’s email address found online remained unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/film-producer-held-for-fraud/story-AOwUfEOSSxo1mXvTjqNUzK.html
02-08-2020||City||Illicit liquor flows freely in Patiala dist despite 1,823 FIRs in 2 years||Patiala With the Majha region battling the hooch tragedy, authorities are eager to crackdown against the trade. In an instance of this, the Patiala Police recovered 7,420 litre of lahan (raw material used to distil illicit liquor) and registered 31 cases on Sunday. To put this in perspective, over the past two years, the police had just recovered around 19,000 litre or an average of just 27 litre a day. In these two years, the police have confiscated around 2 lakh liquor being smuggled from neighbouring states, around 10,000 litre of illicit liquor distilled illegally in ‘desi distilleries’, 19,000 litre of lahan, 14,600 litre of spirit and 4,800 litre of spurious liquor from the district. There have been around 1,700 arrests for illegal manufacturing and smuggling of liquor.Despite the registration of 1,823 FIRs (First information reports) under the Excise Act in the past two years, the business of illegal distilling of liquor and smuggling of liquor from neighbouring Haryana and state capital Chandigarh continues unabated.Patiala also has links with the state’s Majha hooch tragedy in Ghanour and Rajpura areas as at least four persons have been arrested. Shambu, Samana, Patran and Ghanour, which share border with Haryana, and the villages situated on the banks of Ghaggar river, have turned havens for brewing and smuggling of illegal liquor.“Over 60% of the FIRs are registered in police stations related to these particular areas,” said a senior police official.Last year, in a major haul, district police conducted raids by the Ghaggar river and recovered 5,000 litre lahan and arrested 18 persons from Patiala district’s Marouri village, which is notorious for bootleggers.Sarpanch Gurmeet Singh said over 70% of the population belong to minority communities and most male members of the village are daily-wagers. “These people have not been getting any lucrative employement offers. They are taking up illicit liquor trade to make both ends meet,” he said. Former MP Dr Dharamvira Gandhi had adopted the village under the central government’s Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana, but the fortunes of the village did not change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illicit-liquor-flows-freely-in-patiala-dist-despite-1-823-firs-in-2-years/story-CA70lCI3aO2UF9mseXr0HL.html
02-08-2020||Bhopal||MP High Court asks sexual harassment accused to request victim to tie him a rakhi||Madhya Pradesh High Court’s Indore bench granted bail to an accused of sexual harassment on a condition that he would visit the complainant on the day of Rakshabandhan with a box of sweets and request her to tie a Rakhi on his hand while he would promise to protect her and also give a sum of Rs 11,000 to her as a gift as a part of the custom, as per the order.The court, through its order passed on Thursday, granted bail to the accused on the furnishing of a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with one solvent surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial court, as per the order.In the order, a single bench of justice Rohit Arya stated, “The applicant along with his wife shall visit the house of the complainant with a Rakhi thread / band at 11 am on August 3 with a box of sweets and request the complainant to tie the Rakhi band to him with the promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come. He shall also tender Rs 11,000 to the complainant as a customary ritual, usually offered by the brothers to sisters on such an occasion and shall also seek her blessings. The applicant shall also tender Rs 5,000 to the son of the complainant for purchase of clothes and sweets.” Also Read: MP school girl ends life since parents didn’t buy her smartphone for online classes“The applicant shall obtain photographs and receipts of payment made to the complainant and her son, and the same shall be filed through the counsel for placing the same on record of this case before this registry,” said the order. The government advocate Sudhanshu Vyas said, “The woman, a resident of Ujjain district lodged a complaint against her neighbour on April 20 that he had barged into her house and sexually harassed her. An FIR was registered with Bhatpachalana police station under section 354 (sexual harassment), 452 (house tress pass), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.” The accused’s counsel, Vishal Patidar said, “We filed a petition in the high court for a bail as he is the only bread earner in the family and since he has been arrested other members in the family have come on the verge of starvation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/mp-high-court-asks-sexual-harassment-accused-to-request-victim-to-tie-him-a-rakhi/story-wbJuHadgIMbtl00eu9oMjI.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Pune has 18k active Covid cases; 2,841 need critical care or oxygen therapy||The city currently has 18,040 active cases of Covid-19 in various hospitals of which 2,841 need critical care or are undergoing oxygen therapy, according to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) data. Of the 2,841 people who need critical care, 392 are on ventilator, 247 in the ICU without ventilator and 2,202 are undergoing oxygen treatment. Meanwhile, the city reported 1,762 fresh positive cases on Sunday, taking the progressive count to 57,523 while 31 deaths were reported and the toll now stands at 1,366. The state health department too reported 1,762 fresh positive cases taking the progressive count to 61,762. According to state data, 25 deaths were reported taking the death toll to 1,507. The city also saw 1,203 discharges on Sunday taking the total count of those discharged to 38,117, according to PMC data. A total of 2.81 lakh tests have been conducted till date of which 2,585 were conducted on Sunday. At least 15 deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital (SGH), three deaths each from Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and Pune Adventist Hospital and two from the Ruby Hall Clinic on Sunday.One death each has been reported from Jupiter hospital, Rao Nursing home, AICTS hospital, Symbiosis hospital, Sahyadri hospital (Kothrud), Naidu hospital, Bharati hospital and Lokmanya hospital. Deaths reported of residents from outside PMC limits include three from SGH, one each from Kashibai Navale Hospital, AICTS hospital, Poona hospital, AIMS Hospital and Lokmanya hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-has-18k-active-covid-cases-2-841-need-critical-care-or-oxygen-therapy/story-03Sy62vqbGLzniPh0ykxbP.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s positivity rate goes up to 24.65%, but R naught stays low at 0.8||According to state health department officials, Pune’s average positivity rate for the period between July 20 and August 1, based on the number of cases reported, stands at 24.65 per cent. During the same period, the average R0 (R naught) is 0.8 for the city. This means that for every 100 people tested, 24 are positive and one infected patient is likely to infect less than one person. On July 13, Pune’s R0 was around 0.9 while it was at 4 at the beginning of April. Both the positivity rate and R0 depend on the spread of the virus in the city and help the administration make further policies. The positivity rate determines how many people are positive among those tested while the R naught figure tells us how many people will be infected by those who tested positive. Dr Pradeep Awte of the state surveillance office, said, “The R naught and positivity rate help us understand how effective the non-pharmaceutical measures are, including people following social distancing norms, wearing masks and others. Both of these figures are not necessarily parallel, but are linked to the number of positive cases being reported on the day. Positivity rate will go up as the number of tests are increased which is what is happening currently. We have increased testing rate to five times in just one month across the state. However, if the R naught is less than one, it means that one patient is likely to infect less than one person. For example, if the R naught of Pune is 0.88 then for every 100 new positives, it is likely that they infect 88 more people. To bring down the positivity rate, the testing must be ramped up even more.” Dr Abhay Tidke, district surveillance officer, said, “R naught and positivity rate do not necessarily go hand in hand. More positivity rate only means that we are detecting more positives whereas a lower R naught means that the spread of infection is being contained.” Odd-even rule Meanwhile, the federation of trade association of Pune have written to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to reconsider the government’s decision of odd-even for shops. The traders body said during the last four days, PMC conducted a drive and carried out tests for 1,439 workers and shop owners, of which only 37 tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-positivity-rate-goes-up-to-24-65-but-r-naught-stays-low-at-0-8/story-yCYauiQqt1w07fom8FhAoJ.html
02-08-2020||City||Mind your own business, Capt to Kejriwal’s demand for CBI probe into hooch tragedy||Chandigarh In a counter to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s demand for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the hooch tragedy, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday asked his Delhi counterpart to mind his own business and not to exploit the tragic affair for reviving his defunct Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the state. “So many people have died and all you are interested in is making political meat from the incident. Don’t you have any shame?” asked the CM, of Kejriwal, telling the latter to concentrate on maintaining law and order in his own state. Trashing Kejriwal’s claim that “none of the illicit liquor cases for the past few months had been solved by local police,” the Punjab CM asked the AAP leader to verify his facts before speaking. Citing the recent April 22 case of an illicit liquor factory being busted in district Khanna, Amarinder pointed out that eight accused had been arrested and a manhunt had been launched for seven, who were absconding. In another case, the two kingpins behind an illicit liquor distillery operating in Patiala district were arrested on May 22 and June 13 this year, and on July 10, challan had been filed in the court. Expressing full faith in the Punjab Police, which had shown exemplary speed to take quick action in all recent illicit liquor cases, the CM said Kejriwal’s demand was nothing but a political gimmick. Rather than delay investigation and allow the trail to go cold in the present spurious liquor case by handing over the probe to CBI, he was more interested in ensuring swift action against all those whose greed had cost the state around 100 lives, Amarinder added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mind-your-own-business-capt-to-kejriwal-s-demand-for-cbi-probe-into-hooch-tragedy/story-wZaTrfggDED73vk18RIsgN.html
02-08-2020||City||CM rejects resignation of additional AG Rameeza Hakim||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday turned down the resignation of Rameeza Hakim, wife of advocate general Atul Nanda, as the state’s law officer. Hakim had sent her resignation as additional advocate general to chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Saturday night, citing personal reasons. “… given present circumstances and for personal reasons, I find myself unable to continue to be of service to the government of Punjab. I have hence tendered my resignation as additional advocate general with a wish to return to private practice,” she wrote in a note sent out to her colleagues. However, the CM asked the chief secretary to reject the resignation. “@CsPunjab had received her resignation late last night & has been asked by CM@capt_amarinder to reject the same as govt can’t let go of advocate of such exceptional calibre & competence,” tweeted CM’s media adviser Raveen Thukral. Hakim was appointed additional AG in April 2017 after Amarinder brought in Nanda as his government’s top law officer. Prior to this, both were practising in the Supreme Court. Hakim has played an important role in AG office and has been appearing in many high-profile cases, including 2015 sacrilege related petitions and state’s mining policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cm-rejects-resignation-of-additional-ag-rameeza-hakim/story-gvZzv5zUIV9FknWsTe5IwK.html
02-08-2020||City||Six Ludhiana blocks among top 20 in Punjab for increased enrolments in govt schools||Six blocks of Ludhiana district are among the top 20 in Punjab for increasing enrolment in government schools over the last year, as per the state education department list released on Friday.These are—Ludhiana 1, Ludhiana 2, Mangat 1, Mangat 2, Pakhowal and Sudhar. Ludhiana 1 block topped the state with 7,505 new students enrolling in government schools over the last year. The student strength rose from 19,920 to 27,425.Ludhiana 2 block ranked seventh with 3,074 new enrolments. The student strength in the 49 government schools of the block has reached 12,714 compared to previous year’s strength of 9,640. With 3,293 new students, Mangat 2 block ranked fifth in the state. The student strength in the block surged from 9,971 to 13,264, as per the state education department’s list.Mangat 1 block placed ninth in the list and has been able to increase student strength from 9,358 to 12,237. As many as 1,001 (26.32%) new students enrolled in Pakhowal Block that clinched the 17th spot on the list. Sudhar block ranked 19th with 1,218 (25.41%) new students. Bhupinder Kaur, block primary education officer, Mangat 1, said, “In our block, all primary schools have been converted to smart ones, and grants have been spent to upgrade infrastructure, which has encouraged many parents to enroll their children in our schools. School heads, teachers and faculty members have put in effort to admit new students in all classes.”Kuldeep Singh, deputy district education officer (elementary), said, “We will continue the effort and all our block primary education officers and school heads have put their best foot forward to enhance enrolment in government primary schools.” District education officer (elementary), Rajinder Kaur, said, “We have been able to achieve increase in enrolment after a lot of efforts from teachers, heads and BPEOs. We have been holding meetings frequently with the school heads, BPEOs and motivating them to increase enrolment. We are issuing one appreciation letter daily to heads and staff of primary schools to honour them for increasing enrolment in their schools. The BPEOs have been appreciated by the education secretary last month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-ludhiana-blocks-among-top-20-in-punjab-for-increased-enrolments-in-govt-schools/story-GVcPcnuYlWrlvXkesm90JJ.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||62 villages in Ludhiana’s Doraha to get waste management plants||In an effort to clean up villages, the Punjab Water Supply and Sanitation department has sanctioned Rs 2.97 crore for setting up solid waste management plants in 45 villages of the Doraha Block. The move follows a positive response from eight villages in the blocks where such plants have been set up. All villages will be covered soon.For the first time ever, all the 62 villages of the Doraha block will get the plants in the next few months, said deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma. Waste will be collected door to door in the villages to aim for removal of rooris (garbage dumps) from there, he added. Interestingly, dumping of garbage in the neighbourhood had led to a number of fights in the village, because of which women had to walk long distances to dispose of waste, said block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) Navdeep Kaur. There were fewer skirmishes in places where the plants had been set up, she added. Kaur, a corona warrior who recovered from the virus in May said that by using panchayat funds and under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, this project had already been implemented in 14 villages of Doraha block. The project was running successfully in the eight villages of Landha, Dau Majra, Aloona Tola, Chankoian Khurd, Bharthala Randhawa, Afjullapur, Ghaloti and Ghangas, she added. Six other villages to be a part of the project included Ghurala, Arraichan, Maksoodda, Cheema, Karodian and Begowal. Following effective waste management, Kaur said the block would soon be developed to complete targets under the Swachh Bharat and Tandrust missions. Doraha was the first block not just in Punjab but in north India that had been chosen for this important project.High quality organic manure was being manufactured by using dry and wet solid waste, sales of which were bringing in money for panchayats, Kaur added.It had generated employment avenues in the villages, she added. Organic manure was given free of cost to the small farmers and being sold to the forest and horticulture department. It was certified by the Punjab Agricultural University as well as the Agriculture Department.Panchayats planned to start sale of this manure through self-help groups by launching a brand at block samiti level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/62-villages-in-ludhiana-s-doraha-to-get-waste-management-plants/story-7goAtvVAFL0CipQXd5a6YO.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College: Covid lockdown halts preparations for centenary celebrations||The Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown imposed to contain its spread has halted preparations for centenary celebrations of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) scheduled for next year.The institution will complete 100 years in 2021 and had planned a 16-month long celebration from August 2021 to December 2022. PEC had also constituted a committee earlier this year to work on modalities for the celebrations, but the panel could not meet amid surging Covid cases.An event is scheduled in August next year to mark the beginning of the celebrations, but the institute’s director, Dheeraj Sanghi, said they are not sure if it will be held.“This is not our focus right now. We have started semester online and are trying to provide the best education possible to students,” Sanghi said.PEC had sought a ₹750-crore grant from the administration last year to upgrade infrastructure ahead of its 100th anniversary. The proposal was ratified during a meet of the board of governors on October 12 last year.Now, with the lockdown slowing down the economy, there is no clarity if PEC will receive the major grant.“We cannot seek a major grant from the government right now. We haven’t even sent a reminder to the administration regarding our proposal amid the current crisis,” Sanghi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-covid-lockdown-halts-preparations-for-centenary-celebrations/story-k0qCkluS4hikSIN7ME6FcM.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 death toll crosses century mark in Ludhiana||Eight Covid-19 related fatalities were reported from Ludhiana on Sunday taking the death toll to 105. Of these, seven are male, while one is female. The deceased include a 55- year-old woman from Surinder Nagar, 69- year- old from Ghuman village in Riakot, 70 year-old from Salem Tabri, 60 year-old from Azad Nagar, 57-year-old from Harkirat Pura and 67- year-old from Campa street near Giaspura. Also, a 71-year-old from Dugri and 45- year-old from old city died at SPS Hospital.The city reported its first Covid-19 casualty on March 29. July witnessed the most deaths as 67 succumbed to the virus.In August, the contagion has claimed 17 lives in just two days. Nine patients died while 193 persons tested positive on August 1.Virus claimed 54 lives in 10 days The virus claimed 54 lives in Ludhiana in the last 10 days. The city reported seven deaths on July 25, while two deaths were reported on July 26. As many as five succumbed to the virus on July 27, while six deaths were reported on July 28. The contagion claimed nine lives on July 29, whereas two persons died on July 30. Six, succumbed to the virus on July 31 and nine deaths were reported on August 1.Meanwhile, 78 fresh Covid cases were reported on Sunday, taking the district tally to 3,517. 7 cops test positiveSeven cops, including additional deputy commissioner of police (industrial security), Gurpreet Singh Sikand, tested positive for the virus. Sikand had fever for four to five days and is now undergoing home isolation. Also, an ASI from Daba police station, constable from licensing unit, home guard from special task force, senior constable from Ghumar Mandi police post, ASI from CIA-III and another ASI from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar police post tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-death-toll-crosses-century-mark-in-ludhiana/story-Qu86YXeUvUsUDfta9COOdP.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Segregation of plastic waste at source soon to be made mandatory in Chandigarh||With the UT administration notifying the draft Chandigarh Plastic Waste Management bylaws 2020, soon it will be mandatory for the city residents to segregate plastic waste at source.As per the rules of the draft, “individual household and institutional waste generators shall take steps to minimise generation of plastic waste and segregate it at source.”The draft rules have been approved by the General House of the municipal corporation (MC) and are now awaiting the UT administrator’s approval, which is expected in 10 days. “After the approval of the administrator, the MC will implement the rules. Some of the elements have already been incorporated in our waste segregation processes, others will be implemented with this notification,” said KK Yadav, MC commissioner.“Every plastic waste generator will have to segregate the waste at the source and plastic wastes shall be stored separately from other kinds of wastes within the premises of the waste generator. This responsibility shall fall upon the occupier or manager of the premises. The aforementioned entities shall hand over such segregated plastic waste to the collection agency designated/authorised by the Chandigarh MC,” the draft rules further state.NO BURNING OR DISPOSAL IN DRAINS“The waste generators shall not litter or burn the plastic waste. No generator shall dispose of the plastic waste in drains/unauthorised places within the municipal area,” read the rules.Every person responsible for organising an event in open space, which involves service of food stuffs in plastic or multilayered packaging, will have to segregate and manage the waste generated during such events in accordance with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, or the amendments from time to time.Waste generators will even have to pay plastic waste management user fees as stipulated by the MC from time to time.Significantly, the door-to-door segregation started by the MC last year in October came to a grinding halt after the coronavirus pandemic started in March this year. Even before that, the civic body was faltering to achieve waste segregation.Special drives will be conducted by the MC for bulk generators of solid waste such as cinema halls, hotels, educational institutions, shopping halls, hostels and schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/segregation-of-plastic-waste-at-source-soon-to-be-made-mandatory-in-chandigarh/story-z27lckaKS8b2LZl1jDA4PM.html
02-08-2020||City||Survey to detect coronavirus antibodies in residents begins in Mohali’s Jawaharpur village; 125 blood samples collected||To estimate the percentage of population that could have developed antibodies against the novel coronavirus, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Punjab government jointly began a two-day serological (or sero) survey in Jawaharpur village on Sunday.The survey is intended to detect whether the person being tested has developed antibodies against the coronavirus. Antibodies are proteins that are produced by the body’s immune system to fight external organisms like viruses.The survey teams went from house to house in the village and took blood samples of 125 persons in a random manner on the first day. Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi became the first Covid hotspot of the district after 46 cases were reported here in April this year. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh visited the spot and provided all possible assistance to the teams from ICMR. Dr Singh said that the survey was being conducted in five districts of Punjab including Mohali. He said that serological surveys help to assess how widespread Covid-19 could have become in a community.“Since it is not possible to test everyone, it is not clear how many people may have been infected, especially since most of the patients do not even show symptoms. Detecting antibodies in random sets of people is, therefore, an indirect way of estimating the extent of the spread of the disease in a community,” said the civil surgeon.At present, there are no positive cases in the village and all patients have fully recovered. Dr Manjit Singh said the district health department had already deputed doctors and other staff to assist in carrying out the survey. Deputy medical commissioner Dr Daljit Singh, Dr HS Cheema, Dr Vikrant, health inspector Bhupinder Singh were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/survey-to-detect-coronavirus-antibodies-in-residents-begins-in-mohali-s-jawaharpur-village-125-blood-samples-collected/story-TcKZnNFPih2GnaVj864oPK.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Leisure valley to come up in BRS Nagar’s I Block||A leisure valley will come up over a two-acre area in I Block , Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, Ludhiana (west) MLA and Punjab food and civil supplies and consumer affairs minister, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, said on Sunday. He added that a park will also come up in L Block of BRS Nagar and land for both these projects will be provided by Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT).Accompanied by LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam, Ashu visited both sites on Sunday and issued necessary instructions to staff concerned. Ashu said that both projects were long pending demands of residents and tenders for both will be floated shortly as all approvals have been granted by local bodies department. He said that the leisure valley will have amenities including dedicated footpath for morning/evening walkers, badminton and basketball courts, an open gym, swings for children and canopies. Four other leisure valleys are also coming up near DAV Public School (along Sidhwan Canal) and behind Blocks D and E in BRS Nagar and Haibowal, near Lodhi Club, the Punjab minister said. He added that several beautification projects are in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-leisure-valley-to-come-up-in-brs-nagar-s-i-block/story-sajasinaDKkZY5pHFwTnKN.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Orphanages, destitute homes in trouble as funds dry up amid Covid pandemic||Their school fees has to be paid, computers have to be set up for their online classes, many children require clothes, slippers even medical care. But as donations and funds dry up due to the uncertainty over the Covid-19 pandemic, non-government organisations (NGOs) running destitute homes and orphanages in and around Chandigarh are finding it a challenge to stay afloat. Some homes have even sent children back to relatives.Dr Harminder Singh, founder of Jyoti Sarup Kanya Asra, a home for 135 girls in Kharar, says it has been months since he bought clothes and slippers for them. Even getting ration to feed them is tough.Sending them back to relatives, however, is not an option. “They are my daughters,” he says.To tide over the crisis, Dr Singh says he has been spending from the destitute home’s rapidly depleting savings, as the monthly expenditure comes to about ₹4.8 lakh. With schools shifting focus to online learning, “we have invested in computers for the children so that their studies do not suffer,” he adds.The home now has 20 computers with a new dish to enable children to keep up with their studies, says Dr Singh.Children sent to relatives“We had no option but to send some children to their relatives,” says Kawar Singh Dhami, chairman of Gur Aasra Trust that runs a destitute home in Palsora village in Sector 55, Chandigarh. Of the 40 residents here, now just 25 including 12 children remain. “People are losing jobs, how can we expect them to donate? We are managing with whatever little money we get as donations,” he adds. Kulbir Kaur Dhami, who manages another orphanage run by the Gur Aasra Trust in Sector 78, Mohali, with about 100 girl residents, is worried about their school fees which has not been paid. “We have not been able to buy their books or school bags.”About ₹3 lakh is required to clear all dues when schools reopen, she says. “We have 60 children who go to school and do not have enough computers for their online classes or the money to buy them. The children have about four mobile phones which they share, but that’s not enough,” adds Kulbir.There are additional worries. A few days back a 15-year-old from Saharanpur found in Dera Bassi was brought to the home. “We are insisting on a Covid-19 test before the child is brought to the home for the safety of the other children,” she says.Where will medicines come from? At Prabh Asra in Mohali, which has 450 residents, including 90 children, new inmates are being refused admission.“We don’t have enough staff, as only those staying on campus are being put on duty. So there is a shortage of space too,” says Rajinder Kaur, who manages the home. It is run by the NGO Universal Disabled Care-Taker Social Welfare Society, founded by Shamsher Singh. Kaur is his wife. “There has been a 90% drop in donations, forcing us to rethink expansion plans. Expenditure on medicines and ration has increased. Surgeries of many inmates are pending,” she adds. So much so, when a pregnant teenage inmate developed complications, Kaur had to knock on many doors to get her ultrasound done as her Aadhaar card did not have the Prabh Asra address where she is lodged currently.“We have 35 school going children but we have managed to provide personal phones with WiFi to 13 students in senior classes. We have also hired teachers to help them with studies as connectivity at times is an issue,” Kaur adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/orphanages-destitute-homes-in-trouble-as-funds-dry-up-amid-covid-pandemic/story-ruc3vGezXP40GjDpyyjOzI.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Will not let Congress govt acquire panchayati land for industrial park forcibly: SAD leader||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and chief of the SAD legislature party in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, on Sunday said that SAD will not let the ruling Congress government take over the panchayati land of Sekhowal village forcibly for setting up of industrial park near Mattewara forest area. The setting up of the park has triggered outrage among nature lover in Ludhiana and residents of the village who are dependent on the panchayati land for their livelihood. Residents of Sekhowal village had staged a protest against the state government and district administration on July 31, alleging administrative high-handedness. The protesters claimed that the administration and police forcibly took the sarpanch, Amrik Kaur, and a few others to sub-tehsil office in Koom Kalan, on Thursday evening, and forced them to give consent for acquisition of 407-acre land for the project. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the allegations were false and baseless. Dhillon, who is also MLA from Sahnewal constituency, accused the administrative officials for working on the behest of ruling Congress leadership in the state. “If required, Akali dal, under the leadership of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, will take stern steps to curb the atrocities of the Congress government”, Dhillon said. Dhillon, who visited Sekhowal village, said he stands by the people of his constituency. He added that he will raise this matter in Punjab Vidhan sabha. He said that the Akali Dal- BJP government had initiated the cycle valley project at Dhanasu village during its tenure with consent of the people and panchayat of the village. He added that the project will generate employment opportunities in Sahnewal constituency in future. The issue snowballed into a political controversy after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) party leader and leader of the opposition, Harpal Singh Cheema, visited the village on Saturday and showed solidarity with the residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-not-let-congress-govt-acquire-panchayati-land-for-industrial-park-forcibly-sad-leader/story-C5VyIJERodz33h8HPQEXRM.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sectors closer to villages complain of stray cattle troubles||As the roads of the city are mostly cleared out by 10pm owing to the night curfew in place, many residents of the sectors closer to villages complain that stray cattle begin pouring in by evening, causing them a lot of trouble.President of the Sector 46A resident welfare association (RWA) Rajinder Garh said, “Many cows come here from the nearby village of Faidaan. Most of them are herded back by the farmers, but the older animals are left to wander. We have had many cases where animals have damaged parked vehicles and caused accidents of two-wheelers.”President of the Sector 48 RWA JJ Singh added that cows from Faidaan had become a nuisance in their sector as well and the authorities weren’t doing enough to enforce fines on farmers who released them.‘KEEPING GATES CLOSED NOT ENOUGH’President of the Sector 39B RWA Amardeep Singh said, “We keep the gates of the housing board societies closed, but it still is not enough. At night, these animals eat the small plants growing in the green belts here. This menace has increased during the lockdown. Even horses can be frequently seen grazing on the grass in our sector.”Councillors have also been highlighting related problems for a long time. Gurpreet Singh, the local area councillor of Sectors 32 and 46, said that he had asked the municipal corporation many a time to round up the stray animals. “Since people feed the animals, they naturally gravitate towards the residential areas.”Superintendent of the MC’s slaughterhouse, Dr MS Kamboj, said the MC teams had been working regularly rescuing cattle roaming around on roads and taking them to the pound in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. “A fine of ₹20,000 is charged to those farmers who come here to get their cattle back. The unclaimed animals are auctioned off. Since April, the MC has rescued 371 cattle from the roads of Chandigarh. Through the means of challaning and auctioneering, the department has raised ₹3.48 lakh.”REFLECTORS FOR STRAY CATTLEThe traffic police are also working on ensuring that accidents due to stray animals can be controlled. Speaking about this, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic central) SPS Sondhi said, “We have been working with an NGO, Maa, to put radial belts on stray animals roaming around on the roads. The radial belts will act as reflectors at night to prevent any accidents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sectors-closer-to-villages-complain-of-stray-cattle-troubles/story-XigHt92fzmrI347TtUZbcI.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Three-cornered contest likely for Mohali MC polls||With the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) throwing its hat into the ring the Mohali municipal corporation is likely to have a three-cornered election in October this year even as the Shiromani Akali Dal ( Badal) and the Congress are gearing up for the contest, highlighting their achievements in the last five years on social media.The splinter Akali group, Azad, floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa last month is yet to decide on contesting. The elections for which dates are yet to be announced will be held in 50 wards with 2.36 lakh people voting. The former councillors of the Congress and SAD have started reaching out to their voter base on social media with details of the work done in the last few years.. The five year term of the MC ended on April 26 this year. Previously, the Congress had won 14 seats and the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party alliance had grabbed 23 seats. The Azad group had 10 seats and two seats were occupied by independents.Then, 27 councillors, including 10 from the Azad group, 14 from Congress and two independents had elected Kulwant as mayor, but he joined SAD in August 2017. On the current elections, AAP leader Narinder Shergill said, “We have decided to contest for all the 50 seats in Mohali. We are in the process of strengthening our organisation in the district and have already begun meeting with local RWA and other groups.” Local MLA and cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Congress was ready for the polls. “The people of Mohali have seen development in the past few years and we are hopeful of winning the elections with a clean majority,” he said. Former mayor and senior SAD leader Kulwant Singh said, “We are ready for the elections and have held a meeting with former SAD councillors. We have also approaching people to list out our achievements in the past five years.” SAD ( Dhindsa) leader Tejinder Pal Singh Sidhu said a decision had to be taken on contesting. However, he added that “we will hold a meeting in this regard as we will not allow the Congress to sail smoothly.” The MC has already submitted details of all the wards with populations to the local bodies department. Of the 2.36 lakh voters, 25,000 belong to the scheduled caste (SC) category. Five seats have been reserved for SC candidates, two for women (SC), three for backward classes (BC) and two for women (BC). There are 43 general category seats, of which 23 are for women and 20 for men. In April this year, heated words were exchanged when Sidhu said credit for all development works in Mohali in the past eight months should go to the state government. Refuting the charge, Kulwant Singh had said most of the development took place in his tenure and that in the Congress most of the agenda approved by the house had remained stuck at local bodies’ offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-cornered-contest-likely-for-mohali-mc-polls/story-bcENWh8McN2JkRXaoGVIAP.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||20-year-old man in Mumbai kills colleague after fight, arrested||A 20-year-old man was held for allegedly stabbing to his colleague after a petty fight, police said on Sunday.Shivrama Devendra stabbed Ganesh Devendra (24) late Saturday night in Juhu’s Nehru Nagar locality, said an official.“He was held from Santacruz area and has been charged with murder,” the Juhu police station official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/20-year-old-man-in-mumbai-kills-colleague-after-fight-arrested/story-JX6lr0zxvkVD8W8u8YWcAM.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala man ends life, wife booked for abetment||Ambala: A 34-year-old woman was booked in Ambala’s Naraingarh block for abetting her husband’s suicide on Sunday. The man, from Mandapa village committed suicide Sunday morning at 5 am allegedly due to his wife’s “mental torture,” his brother complained to the police. “He married the woman in 2018. That was her second marriage and since then they use to fight on petty issues,” the brother said. On Saturday, the woman filed a police complaint “to harass” her husband, but withdrew it later after a family panchayat the same day. “But, they again had an argument same night and the next morning my brother ended his life,” the brother told the police. An FIR was lodged under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code against the woman at the Naraingarh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-man-kills-self-wife-booked-for-abetment/story-BL6xa9XO2kMaWxrVXNeB5M.html
02-08-2020||City||Eight mobile phones, 32 tobacco packets recovered from Ludhiana central jail||The staff at the Ludhiana central jail have recovered eight mobile phones and 32 packets of tobacco from six inmates.Assistant jail superintendent Shiv Kumar said they conducted a surprise check on Saturday late, and recovered phones from the accused identified as Sanjay Kuamr, Vinay Kalra, Gagan Vij, Lakha Singh, Jaspreet Singh and Ravi.The devices and tobacco packets had been hidden in the barracks of the inmates.ASI Tajinder Singh who is investigating the case said an FIR under Sections 52A, 42 and 45 of the Prisons Act has been registered against the inmates following Shiv Kumar’s complaint. He added that the police will bring the accused on a production warrant for questioning to know how they managed to get the phones inside the prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-mobile-phones-32-tobacco-packets-recovered-from-ludhiana-central-jail/story-HuGdNVH5jUmvPAsongftZM.html
02-08-2020||City||69 fresh cases take Himachal’s Covid-19 tally to 2,654||Himachal’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 2,654 on Sunday as 69 new infections were reported across the state.Twenty-seven cases were reported from Solan, eleven in Mandi, ten in Shimla, eight cases in Kangra, six in Hamirpur, four in Chamba, two in Bilaspur and one in Sirmaur.Active cases in the state have gone up to 1,115 while 1,559 patients have recovered till date.4 ARMY, 1 NAVY PERSONNEL TEST POSITIVEKangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said four Indian Army jawans and navy personnel were among the eight cases reported in the district.Among the patients is a 47-year-old soldier from Panchrukhi area. He has a travel history to Allahabad while another 40-year-old jawan from Banuri village had returned from Leh.A 29-year-old army jawan from Ladoh village has also contracted the disease. He returned from Arunachal Pradesh. The three have been shifted to Military Hospital, Yol.The fourth jawan to test positive is a 34-year-old from Nurpur area. The jawan has a travel history to Bhopal. He has been shifted to the Pathankot military hospital. Apart from them, a Visakhapatnam-returned 40-year-old navy personnel from Oder village has also tested positive.Three more people including a Jharkhand resident are among the patients.Three people have tested positive in Chamba. They include a 29-year-old man from Kariyan having travel history to Faridabad. The second patient is a 40-year-old from Chamroli village. He had returned from Baddi town of Himachal. The third is a power project worker from Lahal village of Bharmour.In Solan, of the total 27 cases, twenty-two have been reported from Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial belt. Remaining five cases were from other parts of the district. Among 6 patients in Hamirpur district, two are primary contacts of BJP leader and vice-president of Himachal Road Transporet Corporation (HRTC) Vijay Agnihotri. One army jawan and a pharmacist deployed at Sujapur hospital has also tested positive. In Mandi, four army jawans are among the 11 people to test positive. Of the five cases reported in Shimla, three are from Rampur and two from Rohru area. Since the outbreak, Himachal has recorded a total of 2,703 cases. Solan is the worst hit district with 690 cases followed by Kangra with 476 cases. Sirmaur has 346 cases, Hamirpur 313, Una 217, Mandi 183, Shimla 178, Chamba 113, Bilaspur 101, Kinnaur 45, Kullu 37 and Lahaul-Spiti 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/69-fresh-cases-take-himachal-s-covid-19-tally-to-2-654/story-LAqbhpONX5lG8kFEU8B5dJ.html
02-08-2020||City||Residents prevent Covid patient’s last rites in Ludhiana, lock cremation ground||Denying a dignified farewell to a 70-year-old man, who died of Covid-19, some residents of Salem Tabri locked the local cremation ground to prevent the last rites, citing fear of contracting the infection.The deceased, who had retired as a diver from the municipal corporation, was a resident of Salem Tabri.It was only after the intervention of police that the cremation went ahead.A health department team, along with the deceased’s son, had arrived at the Salem Tabri cremation ground, when area residents gathered there and stopped the ambulance from entering the premises. “The Salem Tabri SHO rushed to the spot. He counselled the residents and the deceased was cremated,” said ADCP (City 1) Deepak Pareek.“The virus has brought out the worst side of humanity, as due to the fear of infection, people do not even allow the dead to rest,” the patient’s son rued.SAD leader Madan Lal Bagga, who is the chairman of the Shamshan Ghat Committee, said the area was densely populated and the cremation ground was small. “Residents are cautious due to the rising number of cases and want the dead to be cremated at a less congested place,” said Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-prevent-covid-patient-s-last-rites-in-ludhiana-lock-cremation-ground/story-DetclhMZHQoSkzDdT6V6UO.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police recover 2 lakh litres of spurious liquor, 2 held||In a major crackdown on illicit liquor manufacturers following the deaths of 86 persons in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala the Ludhiana police on Saturday recovered two lakh litres of lahan and 55 litres of other varieties of spurious liquor. Two men involved in the racket also arrested but six of their accomplices managed to escape.Those arrested have been identified as Surjit Singh and Om Parkash of Villagr Rajapur and the others absconding are Gurcharan Singh, Soni, Paramjit Singh of Rajapur village, and Gurnam Singh, Balvir Singh and Jagir Singh of Bholewal Jadid village.Lahan, a yellow coloured viscose is raw material for producing illicit liquor and has to be distilled on fire. It contains ethyl alcohol.Assistant sub-inspector Satnam Singh said police acted on a tipoff and found the liquor hidden at a spot near the Sutlej riverbank. A case under sections 61,1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been lodged against the accused at the Ladhowal police station.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the Ludhiana police had initiated a special drive against illicit liquor. All station house officers had been directed to immediately start operations to bust the racket in their areas within the next 24 hours. All gazetted officers and SHOs would be held responsible if any such activity was reported in their areas He said police had initiated a special drive against liquor smuggling on May 18, arresting 201 men involved in bootlegging in 270 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-police-recover-2-lakh-litres-of-spurious-liquor-2-held/story-7gQUnIvyuyng4ngGt1IqhM.html
02-08-2020||City||Chandigarh, Mohali report 3 deaths, as tricity sees steepest surge of 134 cases||Three people lost battle against Covid-19 on Sunday, as the tricity also recorded its highest single-day spike of 134 cases.The previous steepest spike was 117, reported on July 29.The three cities also touched yet another grim milestones, with the tally crossing 1,100, 900 and 600 in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula, respectively, and the 2,700 mark across the tricity.While two deaths were reported from Mohali, one was from Chandigarh, a day after the tricity added four fatalities to its tally. Now, the toll stands at 38 and case fatality rate at 1.4%.The number of deaths has risen to 19 in Chandigarh, highest in the tricity. This excludes a 62-year-old man who committed suicide by jumping off the fifth floor at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, on Sunday, days after testing positive. The man who died of Covid-19 has been identified as a 63-year-old resident of Bapu Dham Colony. He succumbed at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), on Saturday night.“He was a case of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) along with coronary artery disease,” stated the health department release. “He was admitted to the SARI ward on July 31, where he was sampled for Covid-19 and tested positive on August 1.” His nine immediate family members and four other family contacts have been sampled. Their reports are awaited.Meanwhile, 38 fresh cases were reported in the city, taking the tally to 1,117. Of these, 399 remain active, with 698 being cured so far.Among those tested positive, six are above the age of 60. Maximum number of infections have been reported from Burail (5), followed by Manimajra (4). Other cases are spread across Sectors 14, 15, 22, 25, 26, 38, 42, 44, 45, 46, 48, 50 and 52, besides Dhanas, Ram Darbar and Khuda Ali Sher.BIGGEST SPIKE IN MOHALIIn the biggest surge in Covid-19 cases to date, Mohali district on Sunday recorded 45 fresh infections while two more people succumbed to the disease, taking the toll to 17. Those who died include a 62-year-old man from Kurali, who was undergoing treatment at GMCH, and a 63-year-old man from Singhpura village near Kurali, who breathed his last at the PGIMER.Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said: “Both men were suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes. They have been cremated according to the Covid-19 protocol.”The number of cases in the district has risen to 939, of which 389 are active. Of 533 patient recovered so far, five were discharged on Sunday.As many as 600 cases have been reported in the past four weeks. The fresh ones are spread across the district, with 16 surfacing in Mohali, nine in Kurali, eight in Kharar, five in Zirakpur and the remaining in Nayagaon, Dera Bassi, Banur and Jhanjeri. Dr Singh said most of the patients are either contacts of positive patients or have travel history. “Most of them are asymptomatic and responding well to the treatment,” he said, adding that samples of their family members are being collected.51 TEST POSITIVE IN PANCHKULAWith 51 fresh infections, the tally climbed to 650 in Panchkula district on Sunday. Within three days, the district has recorded more than 100 cases.As many as 23 of the new cases have been reported from Ramgarh. It is followed by six from Pinjore, four each from Kalka and Sector 20, three from Marranwala village and two from Sector 15. A case each has also surfaced in Sectors 4, 7, 9, 12, 15, 16, 25 and 27.Currently, there are 345 active cases in the district, as 303 people have been cured while two have succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-mohali-report-3-deaths-as-tricity-sees-steepest-surge-of-134-cases/story-HO2R73HtFmggtXt8SdBH2H.html
02-08-2020||Patna||Bihar health staff to get a month’s basic pay as incentive as state battles Covid 19 and floods||Bihar government has come up with a scheme to grant financial incentives to health department doctors and workers in the state. The government said the “encouragement incentive” will be equivalent to employees’ one month’s basic salary and will likely cost Rs 252.54 crore to the state exchequer, according to news agency ANI.The move to encourage health department staff has been announced at a time when the state is battling the dual challenges presented by the floods and a spurt in Covid 19 cases.The health infrastructure in the state is under pressure as the sharpest rise was seen in Covid 19 cases in the state with over 3,000 cases including the 2,500 reported in the 24 hours period ending Saturday. The death toll shot up by 14 to cross 300 casualties.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesAccording to the bulletin issued by the department on Saturday, the death toll had reached 312 while the total number of coronavirus cases stood at 54,508. The number of active cases was 18,723.Patna is the worst affected district with a total of 9,358 positive cases registered so far including 3,664 active cases. Other districts reporting high numbers of cases are Bhagalpur (2,638), Muzaffarpur (2,459), Nalanda (2,266), Gaya (2,208) and Rohtas (2,178).Meanwhile, the state continues to boast of a healthy recovery rate of 65.08 per cent and the total number of people who have been cured of the coronavirus so far is 35,473, including 1,823 who were declared fit in the last 24 hours.Watch: Sushant death: Cops look for flatmate as Bihar dy CM blames ‘Bollywood mafia’The flood situation in the state worsened on Sunday as fresh areas were inundated taking the total number of affected people across 14 districts to 53.67 lakh, according to the information released by the disaster management department. The number of people affected by the deluge has gone up by 4.62 lakh since Saturday13 lives have been lost in flood-related incidents so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-health-staff-to-get-a-month-s-basic-pay-as-incentive-as-state-battles-covid-19-and-floods/story-egOBxmYBqgVCgDvtOLtfiM.html
02-08-2020||City||Private lab in Ludhiana under lens for issuance of ‘Covid-negative certificate’||Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga has marked an inquiry against the doctors of a private laboratory at Field Gunj after the audio clip of a conversation between a doctor and patient seeking a “Covid-negative certificate” came to fore. Dr Bagga said only labs affiliated with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) were allowed to conduct RT-PCR and True Net tests to establish the presence or absence of coronavirus.“We have examined the audio clip and asked the doctor to report at the civil surgeon’s office and explain the context of the conversation. A probe is underway,” he added.In the audio clip, whose authenticity HT could not independently verify, a male patient is heard asking the doctor for a certificate mentioning “Covid-19 negative” as he was planning a trip with his friends to Morni Hills near Chandigarh. For this, the doctor asks for Rs 1,500 – Rs 1,000 for the test and Rs 500 for issuing the fitness certificate, a photo copy of his Aadhaar Card and passport-size photograph.Despite repeated attempts, the laboratory doctors were not immediately available for comments.The health department has urged residents to get tested only through government-affiliated medical facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/private-lab-in-ludhiana-under-lens-for-issuance-of-covid-negative-certificate/story-R5BrqPAxTf2fsIRgMkAT6O.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hooch tragedy: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal seeks CBI inquiry||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday demanded a CBI inquiry into Punjab’s worst hooch tragedy that has claimed 104 lives so far. Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), said the state government needs to take necessary steps to curb such mafias. “Saddened by the loss of lives in Punjab due to illicit liquor. State government needs to immediately take necessary steps to curb such mafias. The case should be handed over to the CBI immediately as none of the illicit liquor cases in the last few months have been solved by local police,” the Delhi CM posted on Twitter. Kejriwal’s tweet came on a day the AAP, the principal opposition party in Punjab, held a statewide protest. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has ordered a magisterial probe by divisional commissioner, Jalandhar. AAP’s Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan also asked the state government to look into the allegations of political patronage provided by those involved in the illicit liquor trade. “The government cannot turn a blind eye. This will not be tolerated,” he said. Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema also hit out at the Congress government for not making ambulances available to the victims’ families who had to transport the bodies in autorickshaws in Tarn Taran. “Where are your ambulances? Dead bodies brought in autorickshaws. Miserable condition of health services in the state. Go visit Tarn Taran Saheb civil hospital mortuary, see how the dead bodies are being handled. Shameful is the only word for your governance (sic),” he posted on Twitter, tagging health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooch-tragedy-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-seeks-cbi-inquiry/story-2H72FO36SJdIPx5hDMhH9K.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Prominent Pune Ganpati mandals will not seek public contribution this year||Prominent Ganpati mandals of the city have decided not to seek public contribution this year for the Ganeshotsav which is due in 20 days. The Covid-19 pandemic and its related regulations have called for a muted Ganeshotsav this year, which is otherwise, organised with grandeur in the city. “This year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, everything has changed and it applies to all of us celebrating the Ganpati festival. We have formed a group of all prominent Ganpati mandals in the city, Jay Ganesh Vyaspith. There are at least 300 mandals in the group and we have appealed to all members to keep the celebration simple, not collect varganis (public contribution) and worship the Ganpati idol for 10 days as per tradition without crowding,” said Mahesh Suryavanshi, treasurer of Dagdusheth Ganpati Mandal, one of the prominent mandals of Pune. Every year, a month before Ganeshotsav, some Ganpati mandals start collecting varganis from local residents, shop owners and traders. Through this public contribution, the 10-day festival is celebrated with pomp and show till the immersion procession. The financial turnover of these ten days in Pune city is more than Rs 100 crore. This year, the Ganpati mandals will not install big pandals as well, informed mandal members. “We have started a Covid care help centre near Dagdusheth temple, through which members of Ganesh mandals work with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials and help them with contact tracing of Covid-19 positive patients. A member of a Ganapti mandal is well versed with the local area and hence, he can help the PMC officials conduct better contact tracing. Till now, we have been able to help with at least 400 cases of contact tracing with the PMC team in Peth areas in the last 15 days. Another initiative which we have recently started is a dedicated Covid centre for patients at the Fergusson College hostel by the Pune Ganpati mandals. With a capacity of 400 beds, it has been developed by the contribution of the Ganapti mandals in Pune city,” added Suryvanshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/prominent-pune-ganpati-mandals-will-not-seek-public-contribution-this-year/story-0XKGqQysqKFeW19dyvqGMN.html
02-08-2020||City||BSF constable among three arrested for cross-border drugs, weapons smuggling||A BSF constable and two others were arrested in a cross-border drugs and weapons smuggling racket, the Punjab police said on Sunday.A 30-bore, made-in-China pistol, five live cartridges and Rs 24.5 lakh were recovered from the accused, identified as Border Security Force (BSF) constable Rajendra Prashad and two locals, Surmail Singh and Gurjant Singh, said Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta.The BSF constable is a resident of Rajasthan and was posted at a border outpost at Chhina village in Taran Tarn district.DGP Gupta said the police are working on getting the kingpin of the racket, Satnam Singh alias Satta, extradited from Muscat, Oman, where he had fled after being declared a proclaimed offender in two smuggling cases. Satta had used a fake passport and Aadhar card issued in the name of Gurmeet Singh to escape, said the DGP. Satta’s ill-gotten property, which he had purchased in the name of his relative Maninder Kaur, at Sandhu Colony Amritsar, has been frozen, he added.HOW THEY WERE CAUGHTAs per information, the Jalandhar police had apprehended Surmail Singh and Gurjant Singh on July 26 following a tip-off. They were coming in a Verna car from Delhi at the time and police had recovered 25-gm heroin from their possession. During questioning, the duo had revealed that they worked with a cross-border smuggler Satnam Singh, who was closely linked with Pak-based heroin and weapons smugglers. They also disclosed that BSF constable Rajendra Prashad was part of the smuggling racket. On July 28, the police nabbed BSF constable Prashad from his residence in Rawala Mandi in Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan. During questioning, the BSF constable revealed that he had been roped into the drug smuggling racket by Satnam Singh, who promised him money for ignoring the smuggling of arms and narcotics consignment through his border post. He then allowed the gang to bring in a consignment of 17 kg heroin and two foreign-made pistols in May. This time again, Satnam Singh, in connivance with Rajendra Prashad, Surmail Singh and Gurjant Singh, was to bring in another consignment of heroin and arms from his Pakistan-based handlers. Satnam had allegedly given Rs 5 lakh and a mobile phone to Prashad in advance for receiving this composite consignment.Prashad is the second BSF constable to be arrested by the Punjab police in a cross-border smuggling racket in the past few days. The police had recently arrested another BSF constable, Sumit Kumar, posted at Sambha in Jammu and Kashmir, in another cross-border smuggling case.With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsf-constable-among-three-arrested-for-cross-border-drugs-weapons-smuggling/story-ifGPJxvIPm5RCF8XvzYSPI.html
02-08-2020||City||Sales manager of bank arrested for cheating senior citizen||A 30-year-old sales manager of a popular co-operative bank was arrested weeks after he swapped a senior citizen’s debit card while helping him withdraw money. The accused then stole ₹40,000 from his account. The banker was arrested after police traced him using the CCTV footage. The accused confessed to stealing the money out of greed. On July 11, Ulwe resident Radheshyam Basak, 76, had gone to withdraw money from the ATM kiosk near his residence. Basak was fumbling with the card when the accused Pulkit Kumar, also an Ulwe resident, was in the kiosk. Kumar then offered to help and inserted his card correctly. While doing so, Kumar stole a glance at the senior citizen’s PIN number. He also swapped Basak’s debit card with a defunct card. When the senior citizen left, he siphoned off ₹40,000 from Basak’s account. After registering a cheating case, the NRI Coastal police procured the CCTV footage based on which the accused was identified. Officials said they were surprised by the fact that Kumar was a salaried sales manager at the bank with no criminal history. “He has worked at a private bank for seven years and is now working at the co-operative bank’s Kharghar branch. He has a monthly salary of over Rs 50,000. Even during the lockdown, his job continued and he was drawing his regular salary,” said an officer adding that the accused is married and stays with his wife at their Ulwe apartment. Following his arrest on Saturday, the police alerted the bank where he was employed. The bank has since terminated his employment, said police. “During interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime and said he did so out of greed. He has been arrested and been remanded in police custody till Tuesday,” said Ravindra Patil, an inspector at NRI Coastal police station. The police are also probing whether Kumar has similarly cheated other bank customers before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sales-manager-of-bank-arrested-for-cheating-senior-citizen/story-qm0SKBbwQMonQVUBufd66O.html
02-08-2020||City||J&K Congress demands independent panel to probe land deals by BJP leaders||Expressing resentment over the UT administration’s silence on the allegations of land deals involving senior BJP leaders, J&K Congress chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma on Sunday demanded a high-level independent commission to investigate all such deals and assets of former ministers and legislators.Taking a dig at the BJP, Sharma said one of the reasons cited for the abrogation of the erstwhile state’s special status was to check corruption and put big sharks behind the bar, but after one year, top leaders of the party, especially former ministers, are being linked to matters of illegal acquisition of lands worth crores of rupees, disproportionate to known sources of their income.“While none of the big sharks have been booked, it is necessary that all such deals and allegations be thoroughly investigated and brought to light. People have a right to know the truth about these allegations and reports in the media against those they voted to power,” said Sharma in a statement issued here.He said only a fair investigation under an independent commission can bring out the truth and law should take its own course in every case against anyone found guilty, irrespective of party affiliations.He said some top bureaucrats and officers too had acquired huge wealth through illegal means and lived in palatial bungalows and other properties which should be investigated and appropriate action should follow in a time-bound manner.“People are rapidly losing faith in their representatives and the bureaucracy due to the series of allegations against many of them. Thus, it is essential to establish and maintain their trust in the supremacy of law,” he said.Reminding the BJP, he said one of the claims about the abrogation of Article 370 was to end large-scale corruption and put behind the bars those who had looted the state money. But even a year later, there have been no results and corruption goes on unabated and people are being fleeced for their genuine works.“There is no deterrence of any sort, while in the past there used to be some window of airing grievance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-congress-demands-independent-panel-to-probe-land-deals-by-bjp-leaders/story-bMiouvYrQAvDEmMg0756TM.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Give more area to Khar resident if she is moved to farther suburbs: HC to BMC||The Bombay high court (HC) last week directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to reach a settlement with a senior citizen living in a structure constructed on a plot of land at Khar (West) which was leased by the civic body to her father in 1949.The court directed the civic body to consider giving her additional area if she agreed to move to an area farther in the suburbs.The court made the suggestion while hearing a petition filed by 67-year-old Bridget Pereira, seeking directions to the civic body to repair her residence which was damaged after a wall built by BMC collapsed and damaged her house. BMC, however, submitted that as the senior citizen would have to be provided with alternative accommodation at some point of time, rather than bearing the cost of repairing the current structure, which was built in 1949, it was offering her alternative accommodation in Santacruz, Versova, Malad, Kandivli, or Dahisar. A division bench of justice KK Tated and justice RI Chagla, while hearing the petition filed through advocate Bhavesh Parmar, was informed that the petitioner was living alone with her dog in the premise admeasuring 667 square feet (sqft), which was earlier in the name of her demised father.Parmar submitted that BMC had increased the height of the compound wall which collapsed on July 17, and damaged the structure in which Pereira lived. As BMC did not respond to her request to either repair her structure or allow her to repair the same, she approached the court. The court observed that as per BMC rules, the senior citizen should get an area equal to her existing structure if she was being offered an alternative place in the vicinity of Khar. However, if she had to go beyond Versova or farther, she should be offered more area.The counsel for BMC submitted that they had offered a 269sqft area in Santacruz as they did not have any accommodation in Khar, and added that the petitioner could choose other alternative accommodation in Versova or farther in the suburbs. After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know why BMC was only offering 269sqft area in return for the 677sqft that the senior citizen would have to vacate. “The petitioner should get alternate accommodation in Khar or Santacruz. If that is not possible, it should consider giving her 750sqft area if she decides to move to Versova or beyond,” the court said. The court then directed the BMC to arrive at a settlement by August 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/give-more-area-to-khar-resident-if-she-is-moved-to-farther-suburbs-hc-to-bmc/story-AJ6NVjLLPXUgWZH3e00eUP.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 9,509 Covid-19 cases in a day, 260 die||The Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra spiked by 9,509 cases to 4,41,228 on Sunday, the state Health department said.With 260 deaths, the total toll went up to 15,576, it said.A total of 9,926 patients were discharged in the day, taking the count of the recovered cases in the state to 2,76,809, the department said.Maharashtra now has 1,48,537 active cases.Mumbai added 1,105 fresh cases, taking its tally to 1,16,436 while the number of cases in metropolitan areas rose by 2,376 to 2,46,154.Mumbai’s total death toll now stands at 6,447 while the same mounted to 9,887 in the Mumbai Metropolitan region (MMR), it said.A total of 22,55,701 samples have been tested so far for Covid-19 in the state, the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-9-509-covid-19-cases-in-day-260-die/story-0d7HPcSWGsGZjFsRby16dO.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sector-22 mobile market may get micro-containment zone tag||The bustling Sector-22 mobile market is set be declared a micro-containment zone. The Affected Area Committee has proposed designating the market, in addition to some areas in Manimajra and Dhanas, as micro-containment zones.Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore will take a final decision on the issue, which is likely at Monday’s war room review meeting.“While around 10 houses in Dhanas and Manimajra will be designated as micro-containment zones, the entire Sector 22 mobile market in front of the Sector-17 ISBT is also likely to be sealed,” said a senior UT official, privy to the development.These three areas were discussed in the July 31 meeting of the Affected Area Committee, which comprises the deputy commissioner, municipal corporation commissioner and health experts. “These areas were proposed to be declared micro-containment zones in the meeting. The recommendations have been submitted to the administration for a review by the administrator on Monday,” the official added.In view of the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in July, the UT administration had last week decided to demarcate micro-containment zones and directed the Affected Area Committee to identify areas for this.Under the micro-containment zone policy, even three to four houses within a sector or colony can be designated as micro-containment zones.NEW HOT SPOTSDhanas and Manimajra have the maximum active cases at 36 and 35, respectively. Along with Ram Darbar, which has 15 cases, the three areas account for 25% of the city’s active cases. Apart from Bapu Dham Colony, Dhanas and Manimajra are the only two areas with over 50 cases since the outbreak of the virus in March.The mobile market in Sector 22, one of the most crowded and congested markets in the city, has also reported around half-a-dozen cases. Significantly, the UT estate office last week had sealed parts of two showrooms in the market on account of misuse. Both cases were processed earlier than the scheduled hearing in September following complaints of crowding and violation of social distancing norms.STEPS TO CONTAIN THE VIRUSNo unchecked outward movement of residents from micro-containment zones, except for maintaining essential services All vehicular movement and public transport will be restrictedExtensive contact tracing Enhanced active surveillanceTesting all suspected casesIsolation of cases and home quarantineHouse-to-house screening on a daily basis Random stratified sampling can also be undertakenSocial distancing measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sector-22-mobile-market-may-get-micro-containment-zone-tag/story-VP9SJvM0fZ5oCbhSUI3SJO.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Night curfew, Section 144 lifted in Pune||For the first time after four-and-a-half months, night curfew has been lifted in the city. The Pune police clarified that no fresh order will be issued for night restrictions which were in place since March 24, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the nationwide lockdown. As per the previous order, travelling for non-essential purposes after 9pm had been prohibited. The city police, however, have appealed to citizens to mandatorily wear masks, practice social distancing and step out only if it is needed at night. The Pune police move comes after the Centre in its notification on July 29 removed night curfews. The state government order which came later, however, did not have specific guidelines for night curfew.Joint commissioner (law and order) Ravindra Shisve has also clarified that Section 144 of CrPC has been lifted in the city, relaxing all the traffic restrictions. When the unlock period began with restrictions being lifted gradually, the city had curfew orders between 7pm and 8am on a daily basis. The curfew restrictions were gradually changed as per the requirement of the city and Covid-19 situation in the city. In July, the curfew remained in force between 10pm and 5am. During the curfew period too, the city police had issued several citizen-centric safety guidelines like mandatory wearing of masks and maintaining physical distance for those stepping outside. The restrictions were strengthened further from July 4 when Covid-19 cases spiked in the city. The city police organised nakabandi at 245 strategic locations and till July 30, booked 4,172 persons for violation of lockdown rules. As many as 2,883 persons were booked for not wearing masks in public while 7,793 persons were booked under Section 188. Also, 1,446 vehicles were seized across the city. “Though the curfew has been lifted, there are things are which are still closed and prohibited according to the law. Citizens should step out only if it is needed and must compulsorily wear masks, use sanitisers and maintain social distancing. Public safety and health is of topmost concern for the administration and citizens must ensure they follow all the norms laid down by the government,” said Shisve. Regarding the odd-even rule, Shisve said that the restrictions have been imposed in the larger interest of public health. “Few activities are banned and few activities are open. If an activity is not allowed and someone violates it then government agencies will take action against them as per the law. There are many restrictions in place and they must abide by the law as per the government order. If someone owns a shop, he will have to abide by the administrative order,” said Shisve and added that the recent order is very specific regarding what will be open and what will be shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/night-curfew-section-144-lifted-in-pune/story-UxfoTse1IfQ63BgcYnaeeP.html
02-08-2020||Kolkata||Bengal’s unemployment rate sees marginal spike in July: CMIE||Despite relaxations in lockdown curbs, the West Bengal’s unemployment rate in July has increased marginally to 6.8 per cent, according to a report released by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE).The state’s unemployment rate was at 6.5 per cent in June, it said.The Mumbai-based think-tank, which used the monthly time series data, said the unemployment rate in the country has declined to 7.43 per cent in the last month from 10.99 per cent in June as the economic activities have been growing.Industrially advanced states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu clocked unemployment rates of 1.9 per cent, 4.4 per cent and 8.1 per cent respectively in July.The rural unemployment rate in India during the month under review was at 9.15 per cent, down from 12.02 per cent in the previous month, it said. The urban unemployment rate in July was 6.66 per cent from 10.52 per cent in June 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-s-unemployment-rate-sees-marginal-spike-in-july-cmie/story-KyG4iOi3Ru0npVyPtvjCpJ.html
02-08-2020||City||Cremating unclaimed bodies to providing food, Bathinda volunteers fight covid-19||Bathinda Sonu Maheswari, 39, is a known name in the city for cremating unclaimed bodies since 2003, with the help of volunteers of Noujawan Welfare Society (NWS), an NGO he founded the same year. Undeterred by the pandemic, the NGO has also cremated bodies of six covid-19 patients in the district to date. Maheshwari, who runs a fresh juice and shake outlet at Kikar Bazar in the city, says, “Volunteers are our strength. We are contributing the best we can.” From distributing food to washing hospital linen of patients at state-run isolation and quarantine facilities, the team, from diverse professional backgrounds, has been associated with the district administration for four months. On Sunday, volunteers donated blood.“Our team follows medical protocol. By donating blood, we intended to convey that all stakeholders can contribute,” said Sukhpreet Singh, a key member. The NGO receives money and dry ration from Bathinda residents, and cooked meals for 300 on Sunday. “In April, district health authorities were in a quandary as the staff was reluctant to wash hospital linen. After SDM Amarinder Tiwana and tehsildar Sukhbir Brar broke the taboo by washing linen, NWS helped. Our volunteers are doing it every Sunday,” Sukhpreet adds. Volunteers said wearing a Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), while carrying bodies from Guru Gobind Singh Medical College in Faridkot was exhausting and dealing with sweat was a major challenge. “The administration provides us PPE kits. We have to wear these for four-five hours from transporting the body till the cremation. Wearing the PPE has helped us appreciate our health workers,” he added. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said NWS volunteers were available round-the-clock for any duty related to covid. “It is the faith of local citizenry that NWS gets the support to provide quality food to patients thrice a day, with tea and milk etc. Regular monitoring of diet that the NGO prepares and supplies shows it to be satisfactory,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cremating-unclaimed-bodies-to-providing-food-bathinda-volunteers-fight-covid-19/story-6MfG5TPJeVUsbrOTTfiWCK.html
02-08-2020||Dehradun||Over 200 rescued from rain-affected areas in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district||Over 200 people affected by heavy rainfall in Bangapani, Munsiyari and Dharchula areas of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district were rescued till Sunday afternoon, said officials. Girija Shankar Joshi, district information officer, Pithoragarh, said that different teams from Army, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are working to conduct rescue operations.“We have so far rescued over 200 people from the affected areas including 25 people who were airlifted. Continuous rescue work is underway in these areas with the help of the Kumaon squad of Indian Army, NDRF, SDRF, district and revenue police. A total of 96 personnel are involved in rescue work. In most villages all connecting routes have been blocked due to falling debris and muck, so people are being rescued before any serious disaster takes place,” said Joshi. At least 18 people have died in various rain-related incidents in the area in the last 15 days. The state government on Saturday deployed a chopper in the district to speed up the rescue operation and evacuation of people in the remotely located villages affected by heavy rains. The chopper is also being used to drop food packets to the needy ones in villages of the area. Meanwhile, in Vikasnagar area of Dehradun district, a makeshift bridge connecting villages was washed away on Sunday after heavy rainfall. In Uttarkashi district, the Yamunotri and Gangotri have been getting blocked frequently in the past week due to debris falling from mountains after heavy rainfall. On Sunday, the Yamunotri highway was blocked for the third day after which work was underway to open the road. Due to this, many villages in the Barkot area of the district have also been cut off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/over-200-rescued-from-rain-affected-areas-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh-district/story-moGQtTOZYk4qmcbCL8Q5gP.html
02-08-2020||Jaipur||5% reservation for more backward classes in Rajasthan judicial service||The Rajasthan government has approved 5% reservation to the ‘more backward classes’, including Gurjars, in the state judicial service, according to a statement. The government has amended the Rajasthan Judicial Service Rules, 2010, through the state cabinet on the initiative by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot to provide five per cent reservation in place of one per cent, an official statement said. Candidates belonging to the more backward classes have been demanding amendment in the judicial service rules for a long time so that they can get 5% reservation in the state judicial service instead of one per cent. The more backward classes include Gurjars, Raika-Rabari, Gadiya-Lohars, Banjara and Gadariya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/5-reservation-for-more-backward-classes-in-rajasthan-judicial-service/story-Y3Rw9vnSzVyMLvGmSaZqiJ.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||3% subsidy on interest rate for setting up milk, meat and animal husbandry units||To encourage farmers to diversify from the traditional crop cycle and explore allied occupations, the Punjab government has introduced a new scheme under which 3% discount will be given on the interest rate for setting up units of milk and milk products, meat, cattle feed and silage.The state’s animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy development minister, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Sunday said the scheme will continue for three years and Rs 15 crore has been reserved by the Government of India for this. “With the implementation of this scheme, new industries will come up in the state and consumers will get quality products,” the minister said. Punjab dairy development director Inderjit Singh said that only 30% of milk in the state is procured by organised sector factories. The rest of the milk is purchased by dairies, urban creameries, confectioners, restaurants and caterers. “Nowadays, consumers are opting for Ultra Heat Treated Milk (UHT) and long-kept milk from trusted companies, rather than buying milk on a daily basis,” he said, adding, “But apart from Milkfed, there is no other unit in Punjab that produces and sells this milk. Therefore, this is a golden opportunity to benefit from the scheme and make milk products.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-subsidy-on-interest-rate-for-setting-up-milk-meat-and-animal-husbandry-units/story-yZtsYRqCioQOqiyLncY1ZJ.html
02-08-2020||City||Gang that robbed people after offering lift busted by Patiala police||A gang of women that robbed people of their jewellery after offering them lift has been busted by the Patiala police.With the arrest of three female gang members, police claim to have solved five such cases in Ludhiana where women were targeted.Those arrested are Roopo of Samana, Patiala; Lachmi, alias Lachoo, of Langrai village of Patiala, and Karamjit Kaur, alias Kaki, of Bhawanigarh, Sangrur, while two members of the gang managed to flee.According to police, their modus operandi involved offering lifts to elderly women by claiming to be their acquaintances or relatives. After nicking the victims’ jewellery in the car, they would make them alight from the car and flee. While a man drives the car, two women sit with the victim in the back seat.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said the Ludhiana police will bring the accused on production warrant here for questioning.SIMILAR ROBBERIES IN 2019DECEMBER 26, 2019: A 66-year-old woman was robbed of her gold bangle by two car-borne women near Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh in Model Town ExtensionNOVEMBER 5, 2019: Two women stole an elderly woman’s gold bangles after offering her lift in their carJULY 24, 2019: The gang stole a Chandigarh resident’s gold chain on the pretext of offering liftJUNE 7, 2019: Elderly woman’s gold bangles were removed through same modus operandiMAY 26, 2019: Gang robbed a 38-year-old woman of her gold chain and bangles on Hambran RoadFEBRUARY 8, 2019: Elderly woman’s gold bangle looted in Phase 2, Urban Estate, Dugri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-that-robbed-people-after-offering-lift-busted-by-patiala-police/story-jcifVMSwAICdYsCpZhj8LL.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Sassoon General Hospital to get 325 oxygen beds from state government||The Maharashtra government on Sunday decided to place 325 additional oxygen beds at the Sassoon General Hospital. According to district collector Naval Kishore Ram, who visited the hospital on Sunday, at least 175 beds will be available at Sassoon General Hospital by August 4, while the rest of the beds will be allotted soon. “We have decided to use 50 per cent of the total oxygenated beds for Covid-19 (coronavirus) patients,” said Ram. The beds will be received at Sasoon’s Infosys facility along with its paediatric section. Sassoon currently has 446 beds of which 226 are with oxygen and 100 with ventilators, according to the dashboard prepared by the Pune divisional commissionerate. With rising Covid-19 cases, the district and civic administration is currently expanding the beds’ capacity at the public hospital while taking control of 80 per cent of beds in private hospitals. Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad currently have 17,201 beds in 100 big hospitals. Of these, 3,688 are with oxygen and 543 with ventilators, according to the dashboard. The state government will spend Rs 4 crore for these beds at Sassoon where oxygen line and other works is currently underway. The government-owned Sassoon hospital gets patients from various districts, besides Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sassoon-general-hospital-to-get-325-oxygen-beds-from-state-government/story-GgkLCkHr2YPiJNOp37wgwI.html
02-08-2020||City||A standardized bill payment due date is need of the hour||Why can’t all utilities in the country have a uniform billing cycle and a common due date for payment of bills? This would relieve consumers of the agony of having to keep tab of a variety of bills that keep coming throughout the month. It would also save time and energy spent in making the payments, besides precious money wasted on late payment fee whenever consumers forget to pay the bill before the due date.I have argued for this in an earlier column too, but the issue has acquired greater importance and urgency on account of the situation arising out of Covid-19. Today, with the threat of the deadly virus hanging over their heads, consumers may be spending more time at home, but the necessity of having to sanitize goods, including groceries that come into the house, has increased their workload at home. Besides, many households are making do with reduced house help. In other words, consumers are already overburdened with additional work and the least the utilities can do is to reduce their stress by facilitating payment of all bills on one day in a month.Today, consumers pay over a dozen different bills every month- power bills, water charges, piped gas bills, fixed line and mobile bills, cable / satellite/DTH/ OTT charges, broadband connection charges, credit card bills, equated monthly installments, service charges if living in a housing complex, well, the list goes on. However, what complicates the payment is the varying payment due dates. Some are in the first quarter of the month, while others are in the middle of the month or the last quarter. So consumers are paying bills non-stop, throughout the monthAnother problem is with the billing period. Take the energy bills, for example. In one city, the energy consumption is calculated for a month from the eighth of every month. In another, from the 27th. These dates also alter in the same city, if the energy distribution companies are different. These varied dates also cause considerable problem to consumers when they move house. One sees similar lack of standardization in the billing cycles of water supply services, telecom services, piped gas connections. Instead, why can’t every service provider calculate the charges from the first of every month to the last and have a common due date for payment?Today, paying your utility bills is certainly far easier than before. If you have an internet connection or a smart phone, you can use a number of options available for online payment. The Bharat Bill Payment System –the centralized bill payment system for utility bills- has also made it easy for even those without these facilities to go to a BBPS kiosk or agent and pay all bills under one window. But these amenities become more meaningful when all bill payments can also be made at the same time or on the same day. Besides the convenience, such harmonization would ensure prompt payment of bills, thereby bringing down considerably, payment of late fee charges by consumers. In fact the penalty imposed by some of the service providers for delayed bill payment is particularly harsh, but the most exploitative are those imposed by credit card companies who also charge usurious rate of interest on the amount due in case of such delayed payments.All this makes it absolutely imperative that we have a standardized bill payment due date across all utilities and certain financial services. And the initiative for this must come from the ministry whose raison de’tre is protection of consumer interest- the union ministry of consumer affairs. It must coordinate with all ministries concerned to enforce a common billing cycle and due date for all services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-standardized-bill-payment-due-date-is-need-of-the-hour/story-CpjFAbszlZy2yMWjOpNWmK.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Masked men rob bizman at knifepoint on eastern freeway||RCF police have booked two unknown persons for robbing a businessman at knifepoint near eastern freeway on Saturday. According to the police, the victim Siraj Ahmad Kamaluddin Ansari, 38 is a resident of Shivaji Nagar, Govandi.Ansari was heading towards Govandi from south Mumbai via the eastern freeway at 2am. He stopped his car mid-way to relieve himself. When he returned, he saw two masked men entering the car forcibly. The men then flashed a knife at him and threatened him with dire consequences. They looted ₹65,800 cash, his mobile phone and watch and fled from the spot.An officer from RCF police station said, “Following his complaint we registered an FIR against two unknown men under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and are investigating the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/masked-men-rob-bizman-at-knifepoint-on-eastern-freeway/story-q4rXDAgiAeR4lXXoKv0xDK.html
02-08-2020||City||2 arrested for stabbing constable in Bhiwandi||Bhiwandi police arrested two persons for allegedly stabbing a police constable. The police constable had tried to intervene when the two were assaulting a man in Bhiwandi.The accused are identified as, Ravindra Bhosale, 20 and Lakhan Jadhav,20. According to Bhoiwada police, constable Prafull Dalvi, 52, was patrolling near Bhandari Chowk on eve of Bakri Eid. The policemen were deployed to ensure that social distancing is maintained, while people shop for the festival.A police officer said, “Constable Dalvi was on duty around 8pm near Bhandari Chowk. Dalvi saw the two persons were assaulting an unknown person. He intervened and tried to resolve the issue when the two accused pushed Dalvi, and stab him with a knife.” The accused then fled from the spot. The police team then rushed Dalvi to a nearby hospital.The police officers arrested from Yeoor hill in Thane and booked them under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-arrested-for-stabbing-constable-in-bhiwandi/story-6GUACw1HjzmHx6BX6NgxoO.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Masjid trust offers administration place to set up 100-bed Covid-19 care centre in Wadgaon, Maval||With religious places yet to open for the public, the Jama Masjid trust in Wadgaon, Maval, has offered two rooms in the mosque to the taluka administration to set up a 100-bed Covid-19 care centre.The unanimous decision was taken by the trust after the Eid al-Adha prayers on Saturday. The trust has submitted a letter to Sunil Shelke, National Congress Party (NCP), Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA), Maval.There have been a total of 409 active Covid-19 cases in Maval, while in Wadgaon 49 active cases have been reported till August 1.“The initiative taken by the Jama Masjid trust is commendable and work at the mosque may start after 10-15 days. Currently, we are increasing beds of our Covid-19 care centres running at Talegaon Dabhade. We have 480 beds and 200 more will be added to it. With the rooms at the mosque, a 100-bed Covid-19 care centre can be set up,” said Sunil Shelke, NCP MLA from Maval.“The worship of god was currently not being performed inside the mosque rooms, hence, we wanted to support the taluka administration by giving them two rooms where 100 beds can be arranged,” said Aftab Sayyed, National Congress Party, Maval taluka, president and a trust member.Two rooms at the mosques are 2,500 square feet each.“Once the Covid care centre is set up at the mosque premises, we, as trust members, will also get an opportunity to help the patients there,” said Younis Momin, a member of the trust.“The building had been vacant for four months and providing it for the service of the people is equivalent to providing service to god,” said Maulana Mujeeb Shaikh. Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC, said, “Commendable thinking by Wadgaon Maval people as such maturity makes the job of the administration easy. Other people should take inspiration from it.”Salim Pathan who stays next to the mosque, said, “Our society members have no problem with a Covid-19 care centre being set up in our locality. We all know what precautions must be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/masjid-trust-offers-administration-place-to-set-up-100-bed-covid-19-care-centre-in-wadgaon-maval/story-YBm64eccHMUVKm7JsR0bjL.html
02-08-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh BJP chief tests positive for Covid-19||The chief of Uttar Pradesh’s BJP unit, Swatantra Dev Singh, has tested positive for Covid-19 and has quarantined himself at his home as per doctors’ advice. Singh made public this information on Sunday in a tweet in Hindi. “I had been experiencing initial symptoms of Covid-19 and underwent a test for it. I was found positive for Covid-19,” said Singh in his tweet. The leader also requested his acquaintances who came in his contact recently to get themselves tested for the infection. “I request every person who came in my contact to get themselves tested for infection and quarantine themselves as per the guidelines,” he added in his tweet. “On the advice of doctors, I have quarantined myself at my home. I request all the residents of UP to exercise caution and strictly adhere to the guidelines of the government,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-bjp-chief-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-W4qWkOzUIJGiup11lT4e3K.html
02-08-2020||City||Reopening of temples in Himachal may take little longer: Official||People of Himachal Pradesh will have to wait a little longer for temples to reopen in the state as the government is focusing on preventing the spread of Covid-19, principal secretary (revenue and disaster management) Onkar Chand Sharma said on Sunday.He was speaking to mediapersons in Una on the sidelines of a review meeting with district officials to assess the situation prevailing due to the pandemic.Sharma said the religious places and places of worship have been closed in the state to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “A decision to reopen the temples may be taken after some time. The reopening may also take in phased manner,” Sharma said.He said the state government tackled the pandemic effectively and has been successful in keeping the large population of the state safe from the infection. At present, Himachal has more than 2,600 cases and over 1,500 people had recovered, he added.Sharma said the recent surge in the infections was due to returnee migrant labourers as well as army and paramilitary personnel. He said the recovery rate of Covid-19 cases has also witnessed a drop in past few days and the authorities were making all out efforts to improve it.He said the state government and the disaster management authorities were fully prepared to counter any emergent situation arising due to the ongoing monsoon season.“There was a forecast of more than average monsoon rains this year and we have put elaborate arrangements in place. Fortunately, the situation has been normal so far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reopening-of-temples-in-himachal-may-take-little-longer-official/story-in4eLqSAad6hBIhf1RVm3K.html
02-08-2020||City||Cong asks HPPSC to cancel exams scheduled for August 6, 7||State Congress president Kuldeep Rathore on Sunday demanded Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) to cancel examinations scheduled for August 6 and 7 due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.In a statement issued by Rathore, he has insisted that the exams should be postponed until the pandemic gets under control.Rathore said since Covid-19 is spreading in the state through the people coming to the state from outside, it will be appropriate to cancel these examinations, in which candidates from other states also appear.Moreover, he said, these exams are going to take place in Shimla, Dharamshala and Mandi, and candidates may have to pass through areas which are highly affected by Covid-19, which can further increase the risk of infection.Till now, hotels, food and beverage services, and other means of transport have not started properly and candidates coming from far-flung areas may face problems due to this, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cong-asks-hppsc-to-cancel-exams-scheduled-for-august-6-7/story-fusfxUrLA2yse53BouUoGJ.html
02-08-2020||City||HP govt received ₹81.92 crore donation for Covid-19 response fund||The digitisation of decision making process has paved way for transparency and good governance at all levels in matters of development and policy implementation in Himachal Pradesh and the same was reflected in the management of Covid-19 funds, principal secretary revenue and disaster management Onkar Chand Sharma said on Sunday.He said the state government ensured full transparency in the collection and utilisation of Covid-19 funds, details of which are available on a single click. “Faced with pandemic and a devastating lockdown on economic activities, the state government has put in place measures to respond to immediate needs of frontline workers, organisations and public,” he said.The state disaster management authority has created Covid-19 State Disaster Response Fund to provide Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to health workers and other frontline warriors and ensure smooth supply of all other essential commodities like food items and medicines for contributions and donations.People of the state have generously contributed towards the Covid fund. Till July 15, 2020, donations of ₹81, 92, 62,087 have been received for the Covid response fund.“Out of the total amount, ₹79,72,00,824 has been received offline and ₹2,20,61,263 through online mode. An amount of ₹ 18,52,97,033 has been provided to different districts, departments and organisations for various relief and preventive measures,” Sharma said.He said 6,463 people have contributed through online donations and 3,945 people through offline mode.This includes industrialists, businessmen, organisations, panchayats, women and youth groups, students and other individuals.The major contributors included Baba Balak Nath Trust, Hamirpur, which contributed ₹ 6 crore. Other contributors were Radha Soami Satsang Beas, Procter & Gamble Home Product Private limited, Man Kind Pharma Limited, Pidilite Industries, HP State Agricultural Marketing Board, Himachal Road Transport Corporation.He said ₹3.65 crore was released to the various departments for purchase of PPE kits. Besides, the state disaster management authority remitted ₹ 47,67,280 to Indian Railways, ₹ 5,02,05,345 to Himachal Road Transport Corporation and ₹ 7,71,719 to commissioner, Corporation of Chennai to bring back the residents of Himachal stranded in various parts of the country.For deployment of police and home guards various districts and police department was given ₹5.11 crores. For the purchase of sanitisers and masks, ₹55 lakh were provided to civic bodies and other departments. An amount of ₹3.18 crore was given to mission director of National Health Mission to provide incentives to ASHA workers during the pandemic.He said the state disaster management authority is maintaining high level of transparency in the transactions of the funds as a result of which people have been contributing generously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-govt-received-81-92-crore-donation-for-covid-19-response-fund/story-0EMHVyjftyJIUS5MxOCXCN.html
02-08-2020||Bhopal||Woman, minor daughter gang raped, hospitalised in Madhya Pradesh||A woman and her minor daughter were allegedly gang raped by six unidentified persons in a village located at Madhya Pradesh-Maharashtra border in Burhanpur district, 343 kilometres south west of Bhopal, on Friday late night, said police. The victims were admitted to the district hospital in Burhanpur and their condition is stated to be stable. Khargone range deputy inspector general (DIG) of police Tilak Singh ordered constitution of a special team to identify and nab the accused after the crime came to light on Saturday, according to police. “The woman in her early 30s is the wife of a labourer. The family belongs to Chhattisgarh but they moved to Burhanpur a year ago from Bhusaval to work as labourers, at a stone crushing plant at the village where the crime was committed under Shanpur police station. They are living in a hut at the stone crushing plant,” said M Tarnekar, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Burhanpur. Roha teen was raped by seven before murder: Raigad PoliceThe ASP said, “The accused, six in number, barged into the dwelling of the victims around midnight on Friday. They held the labourer-- head of the family-- captive and looted about Rs 2,500 cash and a mobile phone. When they were taking away the labourer’s wife and his minor daughter, who were sleeping in the hut, the labourer cried for help, following which a neighbour came to help but was also held captive by the miscreants.Also Read: Karnal woman found dead, husband, his 3 relatives booked for murderThe accused beat them up after tying them with a rope. Later, they took the wife and her daughter at knife point to a nearby agriculture field and gang raped them.” When the miscreants fled the spot and the victims returned home, the labourer informed the police at Shahpur police station. Police took the woman and her daughter to the hospital. According to the police, the miscreants might have crossed the border, hence two teams of police personnel have been sent to the neighbouring districts of Maharashtra to track the criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/woman-minor-daughter-gang-raped-hospitalised-in-madhya-pradesh/story-Q9q86htrIjFRjfDJapE2aK.html
02-08-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Virtual learning is a safe option now, say Pune readers||The coronavirus situation has forced the shift towards online classes. Is online education the best way to assess a child’s academic progress? What are the pros and cons of brick-and-mortar and virtual classrooms? Readers share their take on the ‘homebound’ form of education...Redesign entire systemCovid-19 has given us time to rethink and redesign our education system. What is important for our kids nowadays, what they have to learn or understand for survival. The online education can be a substitute for a few days but can’t be a reality as it impacts on an individual in different ways. For living a healthy life, not only food but our surroundings and environment are equally important. Online classes will never be a healthier or fruitful option for human beings as it will somehow stop our thinking and understanding ability. It will affect our nature and behaviour as well. The kids in the future will never be caring, sharing or supportive. Never understand the value of happiness, sadness, fighting and friendship. For being a good human, we need to understand others. And that can’t be possible without meeting each other and when kids are stopped from going to school due to this pandemic. How can we all assure that they are learning the right things or we are nurturing them in a proper manner is the main issue? It will create more depression in our upcoming generation which will affect our future and at the same time our country’s progress. As per my understanding, virtual schools can be a part of our life for some time but never be a reality. Reshu Aggarwaal An alternative, not a normOnline education may be one of the alternatives but shouldn’t be made mandatory. It is not possible for a single family to arrange smartphones or computers for every child in the family. Online education may only give expertise in technology but will reduce the practical, moral and physical movements of the body. Online studies will bring a lot of restrictions on everyone. As a small kid, it is very difficult to cope with such methods of studies. Also, we cannot exclude the fact that the internet is a privilege for many students. So just like there are provisions for minimum ration, a minimum data allowance for everyone should be mandatory. It should be made sure that technology reaches every village and every household if we are thinking about normalising online education. Rohan Shetty Maintaining class decorum a problem With the Covid-19 situation still bothering us, we feel helpless but have moved on with Work from home for adults and online classes for kids. But the only question that arises here is how much are we really benefitting from all this? Though we have come up with ways to keep the kids occupied, online classes seem to be taking a toll over the kids. They are exposed to screen time which parents would avoid as it might affect their eyes. Burning sensation in the eyes and watering of eyes are a few common symptoms. Teachers are also struggling as dealing with children virtually does make much sense, especially for children who are poor in academics. Internet connectivity issues, power cuts are the other problems we have to deal with. Maintaining class decorum is not possible in a virtual situation but the children are adapting themselves to the situation. Definitely it’s going to be difficult to assess the child’s academic progress because most teachers find parents prompting the children with the correct answer when it comes to online classes. The child is just learning without understanding the concepts thoroughly. So yes, in a way virtual classes are a boon and bane as well. Teachers are also stressed to find new methods to engage the attention of the student since being at home the child’s concentration is diverted. With time and new technology, we will be able to do a better job. Once the initial teething stage is overcome hopefully there will be a vast improvement. Till then do the best with what you have. D Fernandes - ShewaleOnline tech not bad, balance is key In a normal situation, before the pandemic, we let technology take over our daily routine quite gradually, but perpetually. It did not occur to us before today, that we have a zillion apps explaining concepts to students, or informing parents about their ward’s progress, that we’re escalating so quickly in this domain- we have the wings of technology to fly. But right now, it’s all happening in our absolute focus. It’s no more peripheral. Virtual classrooms are the future. But is it thoroughly bad? I don’t think so. Yes, the screen time will increase and you can never replace the good old socializing between students in person. But learning might become convenient, with the children comfortable in their own space. Constraints of long learning hours can be replaced with interspersed learning and self-exploration. Yet, the role of a teacher is indispensable. Virtual classrooms can be a challenge for teachers who aren’t used to technology, but choosing technology over their share of experience and expertise cannot be called development. Hence, the focus should be on teachers’ training, not on their replacement. What is ‘normal’ today was not normal yesterday, and hence, we cannot expect tomorrow to be like today either. Change is the only constant, and we have to strive to maintain a balance between technology and older values. Ankita Singh Teacher-student interaction missing As the Covid-19 pandemic has caught us all off-guard, I agree that the situation and time we are dealing with, there is a need to opt for virtual learning class. But, as per my opinion, classroom teaching is preferred over the virtual classes. As daily interaction between teachers and students help them not only to complete their syllabus easily but also helps them to learn another aspect of life such as moral, discipline and this further teaches them how to deal in real life with the people in a society. Adding to this, classroom learning will always remain the key priority as it helps one to be in a disciplined life and it is the best way to impart and share knowledge and education. Wherein, virtual learning provides a good substitute for classroom learning in the current situation where everything is shut due to Covid-19 pandemic. But, along with this, it comes with other distractions as well, as children also try to surf other sites once they are done with the class, and this might have bad impact on their eyes due to continuous gaze on a computer or phone screen. Both virtual learning and classroom learning have their own importance, as the current situation is the best example where students are still learning without hindrance or gap in their education. Shalini Sharma Kids’ screen time has increasedVirtual classes are here to stay for a while till the schools reopen. I am a mother of a 15-year-old and can see how these virtual classes are affecting my child. I do understand that at times like these this is the only option and as a parent we too want our child to be safe at home and don’t want to worry about them, hoping it normalises soon as it’s taking a toll on them. My child is in class 10 and has board pressures so it gets further tricky. He spends the whole day in front of the computer screen. He has his school classes and then his tuitions all are virtual. He complains of his eyes hurting, backache and at times eats his meals in front of the computer. The discipline of the day has taken a back seat as there is no scheduled time for bath, food or relaxing or any other routine. Since they aren’t going out of the house they have started to get hooked on to the games on the computer and phones. When they aren’t studying they join their friends playing games on the screen. One can say the kids are 90 per cent of their time stuck to the screen. If this goes on for a longer time we will have the same physical and mental problems that an adult has who works on computer full day . Saroj SoparkarSchedule online classes for class 5 and aboveI agree that online classes should be taken but only from class 5 to class 10. Online classes are not that helpful for children till class 4 and parents have told kids not to use phone and other electronic gadgets because it is harmful to eyes. How we can force them to study for hours on mobile or tablet. Many schools are only taking online study to take heavy fees from parents. Atul JainHealth is wealth, safety first The Covid-19 pandemic has forced us to begin online teaching. In the interest of students’ health, we shifted to online teaching. I feel in order to keep our students safe, it’s best they are at home and we continue with online teaching. There are pros and cons to the virtual classroom. As a teacher, I feel we have lost the personal touch. At the end of the day, we do not enjoy job satisfaction, which we did earlier. From a student’s perspective, they began online learning enthusiastically, but now they are losing interest. and become moody at times. All said and done, the need of the hour is to be safe and health is wealth. Anita D’Cunha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-virtual-learning-is-a-safe-option-now-say-pune-readers/story-a2K7gjnGWzJNKNAmhKmTTM.html
02-08-2020||Business||Bengal takes Rs 1,022 crore loan from Centre to iron out discom liquidity stress||West Bengal has taken a Rs 1,022 crore transition loan from the Centre to help its power distribution company tide over liquidity stress amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The loan is part of the central government’s Rs 90,000-crore ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ package to assist stressed distribution companies.The West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Co Ltd (WBSEDCL) has been facing financial woes with minuscule collections in April and May resulting in an over Rs 2,000 crore shortfall, officials said.With a consumer base of about two crore, WBSEDCL caters to the entire state except Kolkata and a part of its adjoining districts.“We have taken a Rs 1,022-crore loan to clear dues of various Central and state entities,” West Bengal Power Minister Sobhondeb Chattopadhyay told PTI.The Centre had on May 13 decided to make an infusion of Rs 90,000-crore through Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), as a part of the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’.Under this intervention, REC and PFC would extend special long-term transition loans up to 10 years.According to reports, the 10-year loan to the West Bengal government has a three-year moratorium period and is repayable in 84 EMIs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/bengal-takes-rs-1-022-crore-loan-from-centre-to-iron-out-discom-liquidity-stress/story-IDj4D1nquzoBjL37ZXIPPP.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||62-year-old Covid-19 patient ends life at GMCH-32||A 62-year-old man diagnosed with Covid-19 and admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 died by suicide on Sunday morning, the health department announced in its evening bulletin.A resident of Sector 55, he jumped from the fifth floor of the hospital at 7.25 am and was taken to the emergency by security guards where he succumbed to his injuries at 8.05 am.The patient tested positive on July 28. On July 29, he was sent to Sood Dharamshala (Covid unit), but as he developed breathlessness, he was taken to GMCH-32 at night and administered oxygen, the bulletin read.“He jumped from the fifth floor of area 55 (Covid isolation area) at about 7.25 am. He was shifted to surgery OT and was declared dead at 8.05 am,” it added.The patient was an ex-smoker with comorbid condition of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Two of his family contacts have also tested positive.The cause of death mentioned in the bulletin was “Cardiopulmonary arrest and hypovolemic shock (a life threatening condition when more than 20% of the body’s blood is lost),” and manner of death was “suicide”.Police have said inquest proceedings have been initiated under section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code at the Sector 34 police station. Officials confirmed that till Sunday evening they had not received complaints of negligence or ill treatment of the patient by hospital authorities. However, some relatives, including the parents of the deceased were yet to be questioned, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/62-year-old-covid-19-patient-ends-life-at-gmch-32/story-hzouS0QDneSPhDFVljMWdJ.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Death toll in Punjab spurious liquor tragedy rises to 98||The death toll in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 98 on Sunday with 12 more people reported dead in Tarn Taran district after drinking spurious liquor. “In Tarn Taran, the death toll is now 75,” Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said over the phone. He, however, said the administration put the figure at 75 on the basis of the information “received from the field” as the victims’ last rites have already been performed by their families in the past a couple of days. Some of them even didn’t come forward for autopsy, he said. Apart from Tarn Taran, 12 deaths have been reported from Amritsar and 11 from Gurdaspur’s Batala, in a tragedy unfolding since Wednesday evening. Officials said some of the families were not even coming forward to report the death of their kin after drinking spurious liquor. A senior police official said they have been persuading them to report the death of their family members. Meanwhile, the Opposition AAP held protests at several places, including Patiala, Barnala, Pathankot and Moga, against the Punjab government. The protesters accused the government of “negligence”, leading to death of people, mostly belonging to poor families. Aam Aadmi Party MP Bhagwant Mann also went to Tarn Taran and met families of the deceased.Mann sought a probe by a sitting judge into the matter. The Punjab government has ordered a magisterial probe into the case. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday had announced the suspension of seven excise and six police officials. He had described the police and excise department failure to check the manufacturing and sale of spurious liquor as “shameful”. The state government has announced Rs 2 lakh ex gratia for each of the families of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/death-toll-in-punjab-spurious-liquor-tragedy-rises-to-98/story-4TzKLJIem95O0kWONIWjdL.html
02-08-2020||Patna||Bihar police looking for Sushant Singh Rajput’s flatmate, city SP leaves for Mumbai: IG Patna||Bihar police is looking for Sushant Singh Rajput’s flatmate Siddharth Pithani to record his statement in the actor’s death case but has failed to locate him so far, a top state police officer said on Sunday.Pithani is a creative content manager and flatmate of the late actor who was found dead at his Bandra apartment in Mumbai on June 14.Bihar police is looking for Siddharth Pithani to record his statement as he used to stay with the actor.Efforts to contact Pithani have been futile. He has not come forward before the police...Notice will be served if he does not appear, Inspector General, Patna Zone, Sanjay Singh told PTI.Pithani had alleged in an email to Mumbai police two days ago that he was being pressured by Rajput’s family to record a statement against his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty.Pithani had said that he shared a professional relationship with the late actor.Singh said that IPS officer Vinay Tiwary, who is posted as City SP (Central) Patna, has already left for Mumbai to lead the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the case.Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey had Saturday said, if needed, an IPS officer would be sent to Mumbai to join the investigation.Pandey had also said that Bihar police team had failed to locate Rhea Chakraborty, whom Rajput’s father has accused of abetting the actor’s suicide.Rajput’s father has also accused Chakraborty of wrongful confinement of the actor, spiriting away Rs 15 crore from one of his bank accounts, and having him undergo treatment for mental illness without keeping his family informed.A four-member team is already in Mumbai to probe the Bollywood actors death case after his father K K Singh lodged a police complaint in Patna on July 25, more than a month after his demise. Mumbai police is also parallelly probing the case.Several political leaders including Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi have alleged that Mumbai police was not cooperating with their Patna counterparts in the investigation.“Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra CM) is under pressure from the Congress-funded Bollywood mafia. So it’s bent on saving all the elements responsible in the case,” the BJP leader had tweeted in Hindi on Saturday, and accused the Mumbai police of creating hurdles before the Bihar police team.Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, meanwhile, said the state police team in Mumbai had not yet got any documents from the metropolitan police.“Apart from the FIR that we have registered, we have nothing. We have not received the inquest report, postmortem report, video footage of the building.....That the investigation moves forward and truth is unravelled is the responsibility of both Mumbai and Bihar police. Sushant’s death is not a simple matter,” he told a TV news channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-police-looking-for-sushant-singh-rajput-s-flatmate-pithani-city-sp-leaves-for-mumbai-ig-patna/story-0abJFg4tr3dZPxAcPxWlJN.html
02-08-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh witnesses light to moderate rains at few places||Light to moderate rains along with thundershowers occurred at a few places in the state with heavy rains at isolated places on Sunday. According to the Meteorological (MeT) Department, thunderstorm accompanied with lightening occurred at isolated places over the state. Heavy rains are very likely at isolated places over the state on August 2 and 3.Rainfall along with thundershowers is very likely at many places over the state on August 4 and 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-witnesses-light-to-moderate-rains-at-few-places/story-myzINGaHOymZPHwR5zcDOO.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Sharad Pawar visits Covid-19 vaccine-maker Serum Institute of India in Pune||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar visited Serum Institute of India (SII) here on Saturday afternoon.SII has signed an agreement to manufacture a potential coronavirus vaccine being developed by Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca. आज पुण्यातील मांजरी येथील सिरम इन्स्टिट्यूटला भेट दिली. #COVID19 विषाणूला रोखण्यासाठी लस तयार करण्याचे अथक प्रयत्न @SerumInstIndia करीत आहे. जगातील मोठ्या लस उत्पादकांमध्ये कंपनीचा लौकिक आहे. वर्षाला दीड अब्ज लशींचे डोस इथे तयार केले जाऊ शकतात. #CovidVaccine @adarpoonawalla pic.twitter.com/jHIXY7PUN8Pawar later tweeted about his visit to the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sharad-pawar-visits-covid-19-vaccine-maker-serum-institute-of-india-in-pune/story-HcZloAX3VQs1fW6umyd11H.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Cab drivers in Pune face difficulties as inter-district movement remains restricted in Maharashtra||Several cab drivers in Pune are bearing the brunt as the inter-district movement continues to remain restricted for almost four months now in the state amid Covid-19 crisis.Manav Vikas Cab Sangathan, Maharashtra, head president, Sanjay Nandan Pawar told ANI that the government did not even think about the cab drivers before imposing the lockdown.“It’s been four months now and our business is shut. We have also sold the jewellery we had in order to earn our livelihood,” he added. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Speaking to ANI a cab driver said, “It is difficult to manage our expenses as the business has been affected completely. Moreover, we have now started getting calls from banks for EMI’s.”Another cab driver, Praveen Narayan said that his cab was parked at his place since March due to Covid-19 crisis following which he has not earned much. He has also exhausted all his savings and has borrowed money from others to survive amid the current situation.“Earlier I used to get at least 20 trips in a month but now I get only one or two trips in a month by from which I hardly earn Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 in a month. It is difficult to run our livelihood with this income. Apart from this customer refuse to pay return fare when they apply E pass for travel, with this many customers even avoid travelling as they need to pay a double fair and apply for passes to travel from one place to other,” said another cab driver. Click here for complete coronavirus coverageMeanwhile, Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 9,601 new Covid-19 cases and 322 deaths, taking the state’s count of coronavirus cases to 4,31,719.The active cases in the state stand at 1,49,214 while 2,66,883 people have recovered from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/cab-drivers-in-pune-face-difficulties-as-inter-district-movement-remains-restricted-in-maharashtra/story-5RVYCmw9ovxsZ7wYtiiHmL.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Police’s Covid-19 tally mounts to 9,566; death toll at 103||The total number of Covid-19 cases in the Maharashtra Police force stands at 9,566, informed the police on Sunday.Out of the total cases, 7,534 have recovered and 1,929 are active. The death toll stands at 103. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Police said that as many as 2,19,975 cases were registered under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), since March 22, for the violation of coronavirus guidelines and norms.India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 17 lakh-mark with 54,736 positive cases and 853 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.“The total Covid-19 cases stand at 17,50,724 including 5,67,730 active cases, 11,45,630 cured/discharged/migrated and 37,364 deaths,” said the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-police-s-covd-19-tally-mounts-to-9-566-death-toll-at-103/story-9Z6f5KhCdB8rfFCiUKVVbO.html
02-08-2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav targets Centre, UP govt over economy, employment issues||Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday slammed the BJP government at the Centre and the state over several issues including the border, economy and employment.Taking to Twitter, Yadav said that the public is becoming hopeless in the face of the flawed policies of the BJP government.“In this coronavirus period, neither our borders are secure, nor are our businesses and jobs. The economy and the banks are going down. Interest on deposits is decreasing. People are forced to withdraw money from their providential funds. People have lost their loved ones. Due to the flawed policies of the BJP government, the netizens are becoming hopeless,” Yadav tweeted in Hindi.The former chief minister’s remark comes as the economy has been badly hit by the months-long coronavirus-induced lockdown, which has led to the exodus out of big cities and job losses.Notably, the central government has announced several relief measures and a relief package to revive the economy amid crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/akhilesh-yadav-targets-centre-up-govt-over-economy-employment-issues/story-7SxoRh3ufSEuGSB0LazjiO.html
02-08-2020||Delhi||Delhi, Mumbai Customs to start faceless cargo assessment from August 3||Delhi and Mumbai Customs will begin faceless assessment of certain imported goods beginning Monday, the CBIC has said.On June 8, 2020, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) had rolled out in Bengaluru and Chennai the first phase of “faceless assessment” scheme for imported goods, as it prepared for pan-India roll out by January 1, 2021.“Board has decided to begin the 2nd phase of All India rollout of faceless assessment w.e.f. August 3, 2020, by including Delhi and Mumbai Customs Zones and extending the scope of Faceless Assessment at Chennai and Bangalore Customs Zones,” the CBIC said in a letter to Principal Chief Commissioners of Customs and Central Tax.The CBIC said it has reviewed the first phase of faceless assessment at Bengaluru and Chennai and resolved few technical and administrative issues that arose. The board also noted that faceless assessment ushered in a smooth and faster clearance process with uniformity in assessment.Imports of items under Chapter 84, 85 of the Customs Tariff Act were covered under the faceless assessment scheme in the first phase in Bengaluru and Chennai customs zones. In the second phase, Delhi will also be included. Chapter 84 and 85 relates to certain machines and electrical equipment. In the second phase, items under Chapters 89 to 92 and 50 to 71 will also be covered and Bengaluru, Chennai and Delhi customs will clear imported goods based on faceless assessment. Chapters 89 to 92 relate to ship, boats, musical instruments, clocks and watches, and photographic, cinematographic, medical or surgical instruments and apparatus; parts and accessories thereof. Chapter 50-71 include textile items, carpet, footwear, headgear, umbrella, ceramic products, glass items and pearls, precious or semi precious stones, imitation jewellery, among others.Mumbai Customs would undertake faceless assessment of items covered under Chapter 29. This chapter relates to organic chemicals. Faceless assessment enables an assessing officer, who is physically located in a particular jurisdiction, to assess a Bill of Entry pertaining to imports made at a different Customs station, whenever such a Bill of Entry has been assigned to him in the Customs automated system. To ensure speedy and uniform assessment, the CBIC has nominated Principal Commissioner or Commissioner Customs, including in airports, to monitor the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-mumbai-customs-to-start-faceless-cargo-assessment-from-august-3/story-AdCQL9LpZpCFoiFgn7tNDM.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Rains lash Aurangabad, Solapur, Pune in Maharashtra||Aurangabad district in Marathwada region recorded the highest rainfall in Maharashtra in the last 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.In the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Sunday, Aurangabad received 86 mm downpour, Solapur-42 mm, Pune-26 mm, Ahmednagar-23 mm and Hingoli-17 mm, it said.The IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in Mumbai, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, Beed, Latur and Osmanabad districts from Monday to Wednesday.Places in Nanded, Hingoli, Parbhani, Jalna, Sangli and Aurangabad are also likely to receive light to moderate rain till Wednesday, the IMD said in its forecast on Saturday.As per IMD’s classification, “heavy to very heavy rainfall” means precipitation ranging from 64.5 mm to 204.4 mm in a period of 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rains-lash-aurangabad-solapur-pune-in-maharashtra/story-AvlJZ7MoeRffQekK03VK8M.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab hooch tragedy: Delhi CM asks Punjab govt to handover case to CBI||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday asked the Punjab government to handover the probe into the spurious liquor tragedy, which has claimed more than 80 lives, to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), saying the state police has been not able to crack the cases.The death toll in the Punjab hooch tragedy mounted to 86 on Saturday even as chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh suspended seven excise officials and six policemen.“Saddened by the loss of lives in Punjab due to illicit liquor. State government needs to immediately take necessary steps to curb such mafias. The case should be handed over to CBI immediately as none of the illicit liquor cases from the last few months have been solved by local police,” the Delhi chief minister tweeted.A majority of the victims who died consuming spurious liquor belonged to Tarn Taran, which accounts for 63 deaths, followed by Amritsar Rural at 12 and Gurdaspur (Batala) at 11.  Saddened by the loss of lives in Punjab due to illicit liquor. State govt needs to immediately take necessary steps to curb such mafias. The case should be handed over to CBI immediately as none of the illicit liquor cases from the last few months have been solved by local policeAmarinder Singh had on Saturday announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each for the families of those who lost their lives after consuming the illicit liquor. Singh also issued a warning that those involved in this business should stop immediately or face grave consequences. He announced the suspension of 13 officials during his weekly Facebook Live session with the public which includes two deputy superintendents of police and four station house officers.Punjab police said it arrested 17 more people after conducting more than 100 raids in Tarn Taran, Amritsar Rural and Gurdaspur (Batala) along with several other locations near Rajpura and Shambu border. The total arrests have gone up to 25. Dinkar Gupta, the state’s police chief, has said a woman kingpin, a transport owner, a wanted criminal, a mastermind and owners/managers of various roadside eateries--from where the illicit liquor was being supplied--are among those arrested.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-hooch-tragedy-delhi-cm-asks-punjab-govt-to-handover-case-to-cbi/story-Bxj84KeDUd4ocd9QQ6G82K.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Starting with a signal: Mumbai’s Dadar gets female figures on traffic lights||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has installed signs at a traffic junction in the Dadar area of Mumbai with female figures to promote gender quality in the city. Maharashtra’s environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray shared photos of the newly-installed signs at the junction in Dadar on Twitter Saturday.“If you have passed by Dadar, you will see something that will make you feel proud. @mybmcWardGN is ensuring gender equality with a simple idea – the signals now have women too,” he tweeted. If you’ve passed by Dadar, you’d see something that will make you feel proud. @mybmcWardGN is ensuring gender equality with a simple idea- the signals now have women too! pic.twitter.com/8X0vJR8hvQAccording to reports, Mumbai’s civic body will change road signs and pedestrian signals at 13 junctions on Cadell Road, a 4.5-km arterial stretch in Mumbai’s Dadar and Mahim.This road has Siddhivinayak Temple, Mahim dargah, Mahim church, BR Ambedkar’s memorial Chaityabhoomi and the proposed site for the memorial of Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray.The initiative has made Mumbai the first Indian city to have female symbols on road signages.Many cities in Germany and the Netherlands and Switzerland’s Geneva already have female signs on traffic lights. Authorities in Australia’s Melbourne have been using female figures to promote gender equality since 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/starting-with-a-signal-mumbai-s-dadar-gets-female-figures-on-traffic-lights/story-veOmFoWplHE8slJ3ILeaXM.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena urges Centre to address growing unemployment amid Covid crisis||Shiv Sena in its mouthpiece Saamna said on Sunday that the corona crisis has led to 10 crore people getting unemployed and economic leadership is more important than leadership in the battlefield.“Millions are sitting unemployed today. Innumerable claims of inflation, poverty and unemployment have erupted in society. Economic leadership is more important than leadership in the battlefield,” Shiv Sena said.“The stoves of 40 crore families have been extinguished. What is the solution to their problems? Bhumi pujan of Ram temple will be done, BJP needs Rajasthan, it will happen. Rafale aircraft from France also came to Ambala. But how are those who lost jobs in this period coping with the situation? Will the rulers ever tell them?” it added.Shiv Sena said that if the corona crisis is not addressed properly there may be protests on the ground against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“How long will people spend their days on mere hopes and assurances? In the last 15 years, not a single problem of people has been removed. Netanyahu, Prime Minister of Israel, is a friend of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Due to the economic crisis and corona related atrocities, the Israeli people have started demonstrating on the streets everywhere. The people of Israel are demanding the resignation of Prime Minister Netanyahu. The same time can also come in India,” it contended.Shiv Sena further said: “Colleges, factories, shops are closed. Malls, restaurants are closed. Local trains, public transport are at a standstill. Agricultural products are lying down. Wherever we go, there is nothing to hear or see except for despair. In Maharashtra, ST employees are not paid. Its provision will be made at the government level. Government employees will also be paid their salaries by taking loans.”It further questioned whether Prime Minister’s Rs 20 lakh crore package benefitted anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-urges-centre-to-address-growing-unemployment-amid-covid-crisis/story-ZZbtaWVJr5tamczpaec8yI.html
02-08-2020||Viral||Bannerghatta Biological Park celebrates birth of second calf for Roopa the elephant||A 12-year-old elephant, Roopa, at Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) gave birth to a male calf on Saturday.Both the mother and calf are healthy and are doing well, said Executive Director, BBP.“It was the second calf delivered by Roopa, she gave birth to a female calf, Gowri in 2016 at the age of 8,” said the Executive Director said.The park took to Twitter and Instagram to share the news and an adorable photo of the newborn calf with its mother.“We are delighted to announce that Elephant Roopa has given birth to her second calf today!” read the caption.Take a look:A post shared by Bannerghatta Biological Park (@bannerghattazoo) on Aug 1, 2020 at 9:47am PDTWith the addition of this calf, the present elephant population is 24 at the BBP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/bannerghatta-biological-park-celebrates-birth-of-second-calf-for-roopa-the-elephant/story-mnDikvG4yCp6sbn2OZixWN.html
02-08-2020||Lucknow||Rain, thundershowers likely in parts of Uttar Pradesh today||Rain, thundershowers and lightning are very likely during the next two hours at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday.Rain, thundershowers and lightning are very likely over Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Bahraich, Balrampur, Siddharth Nagar, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Amethi, Raebareli, Pratapgarh districts and their adjoining areas.“Rain/thundershowers and lightning very likely during next three hours at isolated places over Bareilly, Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Bahraich, Balrampur, Siddharth Nagar, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Amethi, Raebareli, Pratapgarh districts and their adjoining areas,” IMD said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/rain-thundershowers-likely-in-parts-of-uttar-pradesh-today/story-7O9n9HA90dKizQ4DQmVnNM.html
02-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand records over 12,000 coronavirus cases||Jharkhand reported 738 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 12,104, said State Health Department. The total number of cases in the State include 7,477active cases, 4,513 recovered and discharged cases and 114 deaths, the State Health Department informed.India reported 57,117 new Covid-19 cases taking the country’s coronavirus case count to 16,95,988 on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-records-over-12-000-coronavirus-cases/story-3Y5azYKwwAkpvIA6uTrRrK.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||31.6mm rain cools down Chandigarh||After 49.9mm rain lashed the city on July 30, an additional 31.6mm of rain recorded during the day on Saturday by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) with chances of light to moderate rain likely in the coming days.IMD officials said, “Conditions for rain will be unfavourable from Sunday onwards, but chances of light to moderate rain will continue for the next few days as well. Cloudy weather and winds up to 45 km/h can also be expected.”Even though the Sector 39 IMD observatory recorded 31.6mm of rain, only trace rainfall was received at the Chandigarh airport.Maximum temperature in the city went down from 34.4 degrees on Friday to 32 degrees on Saturday. Minimum temperature went down from 27 degrees on Friday to 26.6 degrees on Saturday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 34 and 36 degrees, while the minimum temperature will remain between 27 and 28 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/31-6mm-rain-cools-down-chandigarh/story-AqUz5aJkdI23vqi7IS8lWO.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER orders 2,000 antigen test kits for detection of Covid-19||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has ordered 2,000 antigen kits for detection tests of the Covid-19 disease.The kits are expected to arrive by next week.The institute is currently dependent on the time-consuming but more accurate RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) and the GeneXpert tests for the diagnosis of Covid-19.The rapid antigen tests will be conducted on patients who report to the hospital, except in emergency wards and special OPDs that are functional. Besides, patients who report for chemotherapy will also be tested.In the initial stage, however, parallel testing will be conducted on patients for understanding the authenticity of the kits. “The process will be conducted on a pilot basis. All patients who will be tested through antigen kits will also be tested through RT-PCR. The results will be collated. This will give us an experience on how and where the antigen tests will give better results. For now, the tests will not be conducted for emergency patients, but for patients who will be undergoing surgery, chemotherapy or on immunosuppressed patients,” Dr Mini P Singh, nodal officer, Covid, laboratory services and professor at the virology department said. These tests will help in streamlining the health-care services at the premier tertiary care institute, which have been disturbed due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. “Certain high-risk patients will be tested using antigen kits. Around 600 patients are attended to in the special OPDs. We can test them through antigen kits, which can deliver results in just 15 minutes. Primarily because they will save time and are less expensive. Quick, better, and cost-effective results will be beneficial for all. We are preparing for the future,” Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said. Not only with the detection of infection, the test will also be helpful in stopping the spread of infection in hospitals. This week, 44 health-care workers including two doctors were quarantined after they were exposed to the infection, some of them from the Covid-19 positive patient admitted in the ICU. On different instances, several health workers were quarantined after they were exposed to the infection through Covid-19 positive patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-orders-2-000-antigen-test-kits-for-detection-of-covid-19/story-Usucye4b3UdKZ7pW1shtkN.html
02-08-2020||City||Three arrested with arms in Chandigarh’s Nayagaon||The police, with the arrest of three gangsters wanted in Uttar Pradesh, have foiled a bid of robbery and recovered a cache of arms and ammunition from their possession.Those arrested were identified as Rohit Sharma, Rahul Kumar and Abhishek Sharma, all hailing from UP. Two pistols with two live cartridges, four magazines, two country-made .315 bore pistols and ten .315 bore cartridges were recovered. The accused were arrested on a tip-off regarding movement of armed men in Nabha village of Nayagaon late on Friday night. The accused were intercepted on a road leading to the village and after a brief chase three persons were arrested while two gave police a slip.“They are wanted criminals. We managed to arrest three of them while two men managed to escape taking advantage of darkness,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal.The accused were booked under Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for the purpose of committing dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-arrested-with-arms-in-chandigarh-s-nayagaon/story-6DuzOIaGhAxdBV3EQyGQ7M.html
02-08-2020||City||Tricity Buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making or faking news||PUNJAB SCHOOL EDUCATION BOARD BOSS TAKES TIME LOCATING OFFICE Newly appointed Punjab School Education Board chairman Yog Raj, 59, took time finding his office in Phase 8, Mohali, on Friday as it was his first visit to the PSEB headquarters. He admitted that though he had studied from a school in Faridkot district affiliated to the PSEB, he had never got a chance to visit its office. REPORTING MC PROCEEDINGS A TOUGH JOB IN COVID TIMES In Covid times, Chandigarh Municipal Corporation general house meetings are being conducted via video-conference. Though safe, and convenient, for MC officials and councillors, journalists are finding it harder to cover proceedings because the MC has refused to share the video conference link with them. Journalists who go to the MC office to watch the proceedings on the video screen set up have a tougher task on hand. The video stream quality is so poor that they can hardly make out what’s happening. An MC official admits, “There is one broadband line and more than 300 computers are running on it.” So by the end of the meeting, journalists are struggling to make sense of the proceedings. It’s like putting the pieces of a puzzle together. No wonder Chandigarh is struggling to become a smart city! UT’S OPEN BORDERS ARE A PROBLEM ON THE GROUND, NOT ON PAPER Senior UT administration officials have been blaming Chandigarh’s open borders for the rise in Covid-19 cases. But the latest steps the administration has taken, such as curtailing market timings by an hour and closing Sukhna Lake on weekends, have little to do with the open borders. Though war room press notes claim screening at borders is being practised, the situation on the ground is different. “Some senior officials don’t understand the principle of cause and effect. If you want to stop an effect (increase in cases), you need to address the cause (open borders). Screening at borders should be stringent and a priority,” said a UT official, requesting anonymity. LOW-KEY SENDOFF FOR HIGH-PROFILE DIG, TRAFFIC, SHASHANK ANAND The farewell of high-profile Chandigarh Traffic Police deputy inspector general (DIG) Shashank Anand was a low-key affair amid Covid-19 safety guidelines. The guest list for the lunch hosted for Anand was limited to IPS officers and a DSP of Chandigarh Police. “Being a law enforcement agency, we had to keep all protocols in mind to avoid negative media attention,” said a senior UT police official with a smile. The announcement of Anand’s transfer left many netizens disappointed with some terming it a “grave loss” for Chandigarh. UT adviser Manoj Parida, Chandigarh mayor Raj Bala Malik and SSP Nilambari Jagadale congratulated Anand on his successful three-year tenure. The 2006-batch IPS officer of Haryana cadre has returned to his parent state. FAMILY OF CORONA WARRIORS ALLEGES APATHY Even as the UT administration prepares to honour corona warriors on Independence Day, one such family in home quarantine in Sector 46, Chandigarh, has alleged official apathy. Ravneet Dhaliwal, whose father is a Chandigarh Police inspector, took to social media recently to share the hardship her father faced before his Covid test and once he tested positive. Ravneet and her mother also tested positive. She claimed the authorities at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, were rude and apathetic. 1,200 DUSTBINS FOR PGI CAMPUS HOUSEHOLDS The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research Campus Residents Welfare Society and the hospital administration department distributed 1,200 dustbins among campus households. Each household has been given a green and a blue dustbin for wet and dry waste, respectively, to ensure waste is segregated at source. Contributed by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh and Amanjeet Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-or-faking-news/story-8SjmkYZIrqiFi5DC1vZPoN.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Toll in Punjab’s worst hooch tragedy mounts to 86; 13 officials suspended||The death toll in the Punjab spurious liquor tragedy mounted to 86 on Saturday even as chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh suspended seven excise officials and six policemen. The state government also announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for each of the families of the deceased, officials said. Tarn Taran alone accounted for 63 deaths, followed by 12 in Amritsar and 11 in Gurdaspur’s Batala. Till Friday night, the state had reported 39 deaths in the tragedy unfolding since Wednesday night. The chief minister announced the suspension of 13 officials during his weekly ‘Facebook Live’ interaction with public. Among the suspended officials are two deputy superintendents of police and four station house officers. Strict action will be taken against any public servant or others found complicit in the case, said the chief minister, describing the police and excise department failure to check the manufacturing and sale of spurious liquor as shameful. Nobody will be allowed to get away with feeding poison to our people, he added. Most of the people who lost lives in Tarn Taran district were from Naurangabad, Bhullar, Sangha, Pandoori Gola, Kakka Kandiala villages. 25 in police net so far On Saturday, police arrested 17 more persons by conducting more than 100 raids in the three affected districts of Amritsar-rural, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, along with several other places in and around Rajpura and Shambu border (Patiala). The total number of arrests in the case has gone up to 25 as eight persons were arrested on Friday. A woman kingpin, a transport owner, a wanted criminal, a mastermind and owners/managers of various dhabas (from where the illicit liquor was being supplied) are among those arrested, said state police chief DGP Dinkar Gupta. The raiding parties have also seized large quantities of ‘lahan’ ( raw material of illicit liquor) from various villages and dhabas in the region around Shambhu border, Rajpura and Patiala, he said, adding that the raids had exposed a massive racket extending across several districts. The eateries --- Zilmil Dhaba, Green Dhaba, Chhinda Dhaba (allin Patiala district) --- have been sealed. 750 litres ‘lahan’ seized Police said 700 litres of ‘lahan’ was seized from Baghaura village from where two accused, Satnam and Rashem, who have been arrested. Their accomplice, identified as Lakhwinder, is absconding. One Darshan Rani alias Faujan was arrested by Batala cops while another key accused Beeri of Deo village in Tarn Taran is also in police net for supplying t spurious alcohol. Prem Singh, the owner of Azad Transport, and Bhinda (wanted by Tarn Taran Police) were arrested by Rajpura police in raids conducted today. Govinderbir Singh, alias Gobinda of Jandiala City, who was bringing spurious liquor from Tarn Taran to Amritsar rural area has been identified as the racket mastermind. As per police, Gurpal Singh of Dhotian village in Tarn Taran, who was arrested in Phillaur on July 9 for smuggling of spirit, is believed to be the kingpin of the racket being run in Majha. Protest by victims’ families The family members of some of the victims protested outside the morgue of the Tarn Taran civil hospital on Saturday. Bhullar village resident Kawaljit Kaur, whose brother-in-law Parkash Singh died after consuming spurious liquor, said, “The health authorities have kept 13 to 14 bodies in a morgue which is capable of storing only three.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/toll-in-punjab-s-worst-hooch-tragedy-mounts-to-86-13-officials-suspended/story-fYJDhslO3XGjl8EOOm49IM.html
02-08-2020||City||Rising Covid cases have little effect on Ludhiana residents thronging markets||Despite rising Covid-19 cases and police action, residents continue to remain unmindful of the pandemic’s threat.Violation of social distancing norms are rampant at various markets, particularly outside shops near Dandi Swami Chowk, Field Ganj, Karimpura Bazar, Dugri, Model Town main market, Jamalpur, Chandigarh Road, Dhandhari, Haibowal Chowk and surrounding areas.The police have already collected Rs 1.4 crore in fine from 30,000 violators for not wearing masks and observing social distancing.But, the FIRs against assembly of five or more people seem to have had little effect.At Dandi Swami Chowk, heavy rush of vehicles can be seen on the road with eatery owners serving eatables to customers in their cars. Similarly, at Karimpura Bazar and Field Ganj, neither shopkeepers nor visitors pay heed to ensuring adequate distance.Shahpur Road in Field Ganj, which is in close vicinity to Karimpura Bazar, was declared a containment zone in July, but has not deterred residents from still venturing out into crowded spaces.Akashdeep Singh, a shopkeeper here, said the market dealt mostly in garments, fashion accessories and grocery items, with women as the largest consumer group. They usually visited the market in groups or with their families, he added.Ravinder Singh, a resident of Civil Lines, said even if some people observed social distancing, most didn’t give two hoots to the safety protocol in public places. “People still remain in a hurry to complete their purchase before other customers and jostle to find a space at the counter,” he added.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said police have already issued a WhatsApp number – 9115-601-159 and asked the people to send videos and pictures of violations around them. “This has helped police check violations and lodge FIRs and issue challans,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rising-covid-cases-have-little-effect-on-ludhiana-residents-thronging-markets/story-P89eTAuPfHviVYNThaEN4J.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Markets in Chandigarh report dip in sales of sweets, rakhis this Raksha Bandhan||Raksha Bandhan will be celebrated in the city on Monday, but the markets in the city still wear a deserted look. There was almost no rush on the stalls and people were hesitant to touch anything laid out even though bottles of sanitisers were placed alongside for public use.As per Diwakar Sahoonja, proprietor of Dewsun in Sector 11, sales this year have been lowest in the past few years owing to the pandemic. “Due to a cash crunch, many people are not buying gift baskets that brothers would usually get for their sisters. We would sell 5,000 rakhis a day in previous years, but now we are barely selling 2,000 pieces. The sale of greeting cards has also been affected. We have special mailers with a card and rakhi and normally we would sell about a 1,000 of them daily. Now, we have managed to sell only around 200 of them.”Sahoonja also stocks high-end rakhi cards priced as high as ₹1,000 per card which in previous years, he said, some ministers and VIPs would buy from him, but he has not sold a single one this year.Naresh Mahajan, president of the Sector 23 market welfare association (MWA), said that many people had embraced e-retailers this year due to which markets had seen a low footfall. “People are too afraid to come to the markets as so many new Covid cases are being reported everyday. Instead, people are ordering rakhis online.”President of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, Anil Vohra, added that shopkeepers weren’t feeling the festive spirit associated with Raksha Bandhan. “The administration and police can be seen constantly patrolling the markets. Many times shopkeepers and their helpers are challaned even if they take off their masks for even washing their faces. Many shopkeepers are feeling harassed,” he said.Vohra added that the traders’ body had also met UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagdale regarding this.NOT TOO SWEETIn any normal year, the festival of Raksha Bandhan would be incomplete without sweets. This year, however, sales of sweets are on the lower side as many people are not celebrating the festival owing to the pandemic. Proprietor of Uttam Sweets and president of the Sector 46 MWA, Balwinder Singh, said, “Sales are only 50% of what they used to be in previous years. We used to get orders for laddoos mostly during Raksha Bandhan, but this time we are mostly getting orders for cashew barfis.”They were hopeful the response will be better on Sunday although they won’t be preparing as many sweets as they did in previous years, Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/markets-in-chandigarh-report-dip-in-sales-of-sweets-rakhis-this-raksha-bandhan/story-c8yx7zzJZ5PkbDVlEHo6hO.html
02-08-2020||City||After dry June, July remained rain rich in Ludhiana||Since the advent of monsoon in Ludhiana, while June remained rain deficient, July has recorded 232.8mm rainfall, 7% excess than the 217mm considered average for the month. The city received a mere 9.6mm rain in June against the average of 84.2mm – 88% deficient. This was the lowest in the past five years. “Except February, April and June, the remaining months this year witnessed above normal rainfall. Surplus rain in July is beneficial for Rabi crops, particularly paddy. Besides, it will supplement groundwater recharge,” said Prabhjyot Kaur, head of PAU’s department of climate change and agricultural meteorology. The year began with 39.8mm rainfall in January, followed by 26.4mm rain in February against the average of 33mm. March broke the four-year record as the city witnessed 69mm rainfall against the average of 23.6mm. April and May saw 13.2mm and 49.6mm showers against the average of 17.7mm and 23.2mm, respectively. Meanwhile, the weather department has forecast cloudy skies on Sunday with chances of rain and thunder at isolated places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-dry-june-july-remained-rain-rich-in-ludhiana/story-DiH4t7rGbclE7Gk59CGKaP.html
02-08-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Covid death toll rises to 97, case count to 3,439||The district’s death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 97 with nine more people succumbing to the virus on Saturday.Ludhiana also confirmed 193 fresh infections, taking the tally to 3,439, the highest in Punjab, followed by Jalandhar and Amritsar. Of the total cases, 1,214 cases remain active, while 2,218 patients have been discharged.The deceased include seven men and two women.Among the male patients was a 49-year-old from Urban Estate, a 47-year-old man who died at CMCH, a 60-year-old resident of Upkar Nagar, an 89-year-old from Vardhman Road, a 50-year-old from New Azad Nagar, a 40-year-old from Mundian and a 67-year-old from Hargobind Nagar. The female patients were a 67-year-old from Kitchlu Nagar and a 65-year-old from Basant Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-covid-death-toll-rises-to-97-case-count-to-3-439/story-voL46NOKu9CMiBhchajr4N.html
02-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: 81% Covid deaths in 45-plus age bracket||Patients over the age of 45 years account for 81% of the total Covid fatalities in Ludhiana as of July 31.District’s figures are in line with global trends of the disease – older patients are more vulnerable.As many as 71 of the total 88 Ludhiana residents, who succumbed to the virus, were over the age of 45. Patients aged between 60 and 74 form the largest proportion of fatalities – 43%, followed by those in the age group of 45-59 – 31%. Those older than 75 account for 6% of the Covid deaths.Among the population aged below 14, the district saw only one death (1%) – that of a six-year-old boy. Those between the 15-29 age group constitute 6% of the fatalities, while patients aged between 30 and 44 make up 12% of all deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-81-covid-deaths-in-45-plus-age-bracket/story-hjWPrhT8lgwe4OSmxrNkOI.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Ward boy molests Covid positive patient in Pune hospital’s ICU, arrested||The Hadapsar police on Saturday arrested a ward boy for allegedly molesting a Covid positive patient undergoing treatment at Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of private hospital at Hadapsar. According to police officials, Ashok Namdeo Gawali (40) molested 35-year-old Covid patient on Saturday by inappropriately touching her. The accused, according to Hadapsar police inspector Ramesh Sathe, was wearing a mask and went near the bed of the victim. He then lowered his mask and told her if she recognized him. The man then shared a personal detail with her due to which she ignored him. The man then demanded her mobile number which she refused. He then physically molested her. At that time, a woman staffer of the hospital came to the spot and recognized him. The accused then immediately left the room. “The victim lodged a complaint with Hadapsar after we sent the team to hospital We have no arrested him,” said Sathe, who is investigating the case. The accused has been booked under section 354 of Indian Penal Code, according to FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ward-boy-molests-covid-positive-patient-in-pune-hospital-s-icu-arrested/story-k1b5AqIDAMgtbmuGRRBEuK.html
02-08-2020||Pune||76 employees of Pune’s Chakan firm test positive during mass testing||As many as 76 workers of a multinational firm based in Chakan were tested positive for Covid-19 during mass testing of employees, an official from the district health department said. The firm conducted the mass-testing of around 900 employees earlier this week to check the spread of virus on its campus. Till Saturday, results of 750 employees were received of which 76 tested positive, said Dr Baliram Gadave, the Tehsil Health Officer (THO) for Khed tehsil.“The swab samples of 76 employees out of 750 members found to be contracted with the infection,” said Dr Gadave. This is the first time, mass testing of employees at this level has been carried out in Chakan and has thrown results with large number contracting to virus, an indication that Covid is spreading in rural parts of Pune district besides the city areas.As of July 31, the 13 tehsils of Pune district have reported 7,670 Covid cases of which 4,175 have recovered from the infection while 193 have succumbed to the virus. The recovery rate in these areas stands at 54 per cent. Following the reports, a health team of officials led by Gadave visited the firm on Saturday and asked the firm to separate the cases as per their place of living such as Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune rural.Dr Gadave said that the firm conducted RT-PCR tests of their employees through private labs. “We have now appealed the firms in the Chakan and nearby MIDC areas not to allow workers living in containment areas to come for work.We have also asked the firms to check pulse oxygen saturation of every employee vising the company premise and made the test mandatory for those whose oxygen level is below 95 per cent,” said Gadave.He said that he has suggested the firm to inform the administration before conducting the tests at a mass-scale as the bed management for the positive patients is what needs to be arranged. “In the present case, we have kept some of their employees at the facility in Mhalunge,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/76-employees-of-pune-s-chakan-firm-test-positive-during-mass-testing/story-YxeKsCbFG3nSHGlEDFieVJ.html
02-08-2020||City||July accounted for 76% of Covid fatalities in Ludhiana||While the number of Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana peaked to the top spot in Punjab by the end of July, the month also saw a whopping 76% of the total Covid fatalities in the district so far.Ludhiana has confirmed 88 Covid deaths since the first fatality on March 29. July alone accounts for 76% (67) of these cases.Before the curfew restrictions were lifted on June 8, 11 people had died due to coronavirus since March 29 (70 days).This number burgeoned to 88 by the end of July (53 days) – an eightfold rise.Much worse, 42% of the total deaths, at 37, took place in the last week of July.The health department had confirmed seven deaths on July 25, while two people died on July 26 and five on July 27. The number rose to six on July 28, while July 29 recorded the highest number of deaths so far, at nine. This was followed by two more fatalities on July 30 and another six on July 31.SPURT IN CASESMarch recorded one death, followed by three in April and five in May. As the borders reopened and curfew restrictions were eased in June, allowing public to venture out and businesses to reopen, the Covid positive cases shot up and fatalities rose to 12 in a month. The situation only worsened in July.Besides 67 more deaths, as of July 31, the district had 3,246 confirmed Covid cases – 1,182 among these still active. A significant 72% of these cases cropped up in July.‘NEXT TWO WEEKS CRUCIAL’According to Dr Bishav Mohan, member of the Covid-19 task force set up by the state government, the first two weeks of August were crucial as the pandemic was reaching its peak stage in Ludhiana. “There will be a further spike in Covid-19 cases. Residents need to ensure they follow government guidelines, such as maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and frequently washing or sanitising their hands,” said Dr Mohan.“As the lockdown was lifted, public ventured out in droves, with residents mindlessly also attending large social gatherings. The irresponsibility of a few puts at risk the vulnerable population, including the elderly and patients with comorbidities, leading to more deaths. It’s time to act responsibly to contain further spread of the virus and save lives,” he added. Dr GS Grewal, former president of Punjab Medical Council, said if the cases were not contained, the number of deaths were bound to rise in the near future. “Patients with comorbidities should immediately contact the health department once they notice the Covid symptoms. Delaying hospitalisation can be critical. Doctors should not give in to any pressure and admit symptomic patients swiftly,” Dr Grewal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/july-accounted-for-76-of-covid-fatalities-in-ludhiana/story-LgeRjBeHbIVDvHN20p2PaO.html
02-08-2020||City||22% cases in Rewari’s tally detected in last six days||Haryana’s Rewari district has reported as many as 397 Covid-19 cases in the last six days, accounting for 22% of its cumulative tally of 1,815, according to figures released by the local health department. The district has witnessed eight deaths due to the virus in the same period.Initially, the Rewari administration received a lot of praise for not letting the deadly virus enter its territory even though it shares border with Delhi, one of the worst-hit cities in the country, but now the source of infection of most cases is Delhi or the industrial labourers who recently came in from other states.Rewari deputy commissioner Yashendra Singh said that they have collected samples of 20,863 persons, of whom 1,815 tested positive while eight succumbed to death.“As many as 433 cases are still active and 419 sample reports are still awaited. A total of 316 patients are in home isolation, 102 in Covid-care centres and 15 are undergoing treatment in various hospitals,” the DC added.The district reported 109 cases and 90 recoveries on Saturday. Rewari civil surgeon Sushil Mahi said most of the cases have been reported from Rewari city and Dharuhera.“The new patients are either Delhi returnees or contacts of the infected patients. The rural areas are not affected in the district. The industrial workers living in congested rooms are the worst-affected and we have identified those specific areas. Majority of the contacts of infected people, who tested positive for the infection are asymptomatic,” he added.A health official said that another reason for the rise in cases is that due to the delay in test results, officials are unable to isolate positive patients, who end up passing on the infection to others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/22-cases-in-rewari-s-tally-detected-in-last-six-days/story-9FkTIxSxv9GnTNuHsQsZCJ.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Milk producers agitate on BJP call for higher prices to their produce||Hundreds of milk producers from Pune district and rest of western Maharashtra took to streets for the second time within 11 days to press for various demands including an increase in milk procurement prices. The latest agitation was carried out on Saturday on the call given by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies including the Republican party (Athwale), Rayat Kranti, and Rashtriya Samaj Paksha. The main demand for milk producers is granting a subsidy of Rs 10 per litre for milk and Rs 50 per kg subsidy for milk powder. BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil while attacking the state government said those in power are ignoring the problems of milk farmers. Patil who participated in agitation in Maval taluka of Pune also sought to know how many times chief minister Uddhav Thackeray went to Delhi to resolve the peasants’ issues. “If Thackeray does not know about farming, then there are others like Ajit Pawar or Balasaheb Thorat. The chief minister should send them to the centre to resolve the farmers’ problems,” Patil said. In Pune and other parts, the agitation passed off peacefully with milk farmers blocking the roads and distributing milk to the needy. RSP chief Mahadev Jankar and Rayat Kranti chief Sadabhau Khot also took part in the agitation by anointing the idol of Vitthal with milk at Pandharpur. The former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said, “If the state government does not accept the demands of the milk producers the agitation shall be further intensified even more.” Earlier on July 20, a state-wide agitation was organised by the Mahayuti alliance for various demands of milk producers. The dairy development minister had also called a meeting regarding the demands of milk producers. However, no decision was taken in this regard by accepting the demands of milk producers in the state cabinet meeting. Due to the fall in milk prices in these series of crisis, the condition of milk-producing farmers has become pitiable. The crisis facing the farmers in Maharashtra is increasing day by day. The government has not provided any relief to the farmers in various crises such as a denial of loans by banks, double sowing due to fake soybean seeds, shortage of urea fertilizer and black marketing of urea fertilizer, damage to crops of farmers in the Konkan region due to the recent cyclone and damage to crops due to heavy rains in many places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/milk-producers-agitate-on-bjp-call-for-higher-prices-to-their-produce/story-gVozkROwKU6mOPC2j5Sm4J.html
02-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope’s mother passes away at 74||State health minister Rajesh Tope’s mother Sharda Tope passed away at 9pm on Saturday at a south Mumbai hospital where she was receiving treatment for a prolonged illness. She was 74 years old.Sharda was the chairman of the Samarth sugar factory in Jalna. Her husband Ankushrao Tope, a former member of legislative Assembly (MLA) and member of Parliament (MP), had passed away in April 2016. Her final rites will take place at the family’s home town at Ambad tehsil in Jalna district of Marathwada on Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-health-minister-rajesh-tope-s-mother-passes-away-at-74/story-vWQ3envWF9YpIlMdOSWd4O.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Pune Metro project faces disruptions in construction, only 40 per cent workforce available||The Pune Metro which is a crucial project for the city has been badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic as almost 50 per cent of its labour force is yet to return which has delayed the work and led to uncertainties regarding the project. The trial run for the priority stretch between Sant Tukaram nagar and Phugewadi in reach one which was to commence in June end is yet to finish the station works while the priority stretch in reach two between Anand nagar and Garware is yet to be completed. In light of the uncertainties caused by the pandemic, the Mahametro which looks after the work of Pune metro is unable to set any new deadlines as of yet. The Pune Metro project which is undergoing works in two phases, reach one and reach two has been badly affected. Atul Gadgil, director (works) said, “The work force was depleted drastically in this pandemic. At the beginning of the pandemic, we had around 5,000 people working for us and currently we have close to 2,000 people including those who returned lately. The labour force is returning daily and weekly around 100-200 labourers are returning. Right now, we are working with only 50 per cent efficiency which has affected our deadline. The underground tunnelling work has completed about 2.5 kms and both the Tunnel Boring Machines (TBM) have crossed Shivajinagar. One TBM has reached the COEP underground while the other TBM is about to reach. We are targeting to reach civil court station by this month end and by September we hope that all of our staff will return.”He added that under normal circumstances without the pandemic the priority stretch in reach one between Sant Tukaram Nagar and Phugewadi would have been commissioned while the reach two priority stretch would have been ready by July end. He said, “Under new circumstances the reach one priority stretch would be ready by December and the reach two priority stretch would be about 60-65 per cent complete.”However, the staff for the underground work is available for Budhwar peth, but the area is part of a containment zone which has led to a halt in the work. The civic body is not allowing any construction work there. While the underground work at Swargate end is in progress. Brijesh Dixit, managing director at Mahametro said, “It is true that the pandemic has affected our work but it will not delay the project much. Our labour force is returning now and we have also recruited local force from within the city. However we will not be able to set new deadlines till all our labour returns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-metro-project-faces-disruptions-in-construction-only-40-per-cent-workforce-available/story-oFwOHKanJocjpNe6e8q3rI.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Speeding car injures airman, rams into boundary wall of IAS officer’s house Chandigarh||After injuring a man on a motorcycle on the dividing road of Sector 19/20, a speeding car entered the compound of an IAS officer’s residence in Sector 19 by breaking the boundary wall here on Saturday afternoon.Sergeant Pradeep Kumar Dass of the Indian Air Force sustained head injuries in the accident. Meanwhile, the three occupants of the car—Piyush, 31, who was driving the car, Dimple Chabbra, 36, of Sector 23, and Vikram Chand of Sector 12, Panchkula—also sustained minor injuries. The trio after receiving medical aid left the hospital.Sergeant Dass’ condition is said to be serious. Though he was wearing a helmet, he sustained head injuries in the collision.As per eye witnesses, at about 12.30pm, the speeding car moving towards Sector 17 from Sector 19/27/20/30 roundabout and when it reached the Sector 19/20 dividing road, it first hit a motorcycle, then climbed onto the cycle track before entering into the compound of Punjab-cadre IAS officer’s house after breaking the boundary wall. Police said Dass, who was on the bike, was wearing a helmet at the time of the accident.Police said the car occupants said the motorcycle was hit in an attempt to save a cyclist. Piyush, as per the police, lost control of the car and suddenly turned his vehicle and hit the motorcycle and subsequently rammed into the boundary wall. The occupants managed to slip from the hospital after treatment as they had sustained minor injuries. Police are now trying to trace the accused on the basis of the documents of the vehicle impounded. Police are yet to record the statement of the injured sergeant. A case under Sections 337 (causing hurt by acts endangering life) and 279 (rash driving) of Indian Penal Code was registered against Piyush who was driving the car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/speeding-car-injures-airman-rams-into-boundary-wall-of-ias-officer-s-house-chandigarh/story-kiZ8vfCU8k5XDmD5U8jWgP.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Pune doc cheated of Rs 40 lakh under false pretext of loan||The Nigdi police have lodged a complaint against a person, who posed as a private bank employee and duped a 36-year-old doctor to the tune of Rs 40 lakh under the pretext of sanctioning Rs 8 crore loan from the bank. Dr Amit Anant Wagh, 36, has a lodged a complaint for cheating. According to police, the accused called Dr Amit on his mobile number and said that he worked with a reputed private bank in Kalyani nagar and had an attractive loan offer for doctors. Wagh , who consented to the loan offer was handed over a loan sanction letter amounting to Rs 8 crore on submission of the necessary Know Your Customer (KYC) documents. He took Rs 40 lakh from the complainant and provided a forged loan sanction letter and did not disburse the loan after which the doctor approached the police and lodged a complaint. The incident took place between June 18 to July 27 when the cheating took place, police said. The Nigdi police have booked the accused under section 406 ( criminal breach of trust ) ,420 ( cheating ), 465 ( forgery ) ,467 ( forgery of valuable security ), 468 ( forgery for purpose of cheating ) and 471 ( using as genuine a forged document or electronic record ) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). According to the investigating officer, the accused has been identified as Rohan Pawar but has not been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-doc-cheated-of-rs-40-lakh-under-false-pretext-of-loan/story-YRCQSoI2YjAHHSGTgV17bN.html
02-08-2020||Pune||City’s trees overshadows its population||The city is able to keep its status as a green city as it has more trees than its population. Pune city’s (Pune Municipal Corporation area) population is 34.02 lakh and it has 41.94 lakh trees. Pune Municipal Corporation published the draft Environment status report for the year 2019-20 and highlighted the existing status of green cover, river, besides noise and air pollution. PMC environment department head Mangesh Dighe said, “Though urbanisation is increasing rapidly in the city and green areas changing for construction activity, city’s tree population is satisfactory. PMC and various organisations are ensuring that city have more trees.” The ratio of trees per person is 1.23 in the city. Garden department head Ashok Ghorpade said, “Pune city have 203 gardens in PMC area. New gardens have been proposed. Along with gardens, PMC is doing a joint programme with forest department. Joint forest programme is going at Taljai Hill, Vetal Tekdi and other places. It is all helping to increase the tree number in the city.” Dighe said, “Everybody knows the importance of trees and how they are useful for humans as well as environment.” PMC environment status report said that there are 111 rare trees in the city. Even some botanical gardens in Pune are also adding to the tree strength. PMC officials said that efforts are on to grow more local species in the city. The highlightsCity area - 331.56 square km PMC population - 34.02 lakh Total trees - 41,94,623 Trees per person - 1.23 Total public gardens in PMC -203 Joint forest management projects on various hills in the city||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/city-s-trees-overshadows-its-population/story-g819EtvRGe80vAp9NiYrrK.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Seven deaths, 793 new cases, 853 recoveries in Haryana||Haryana reported 793 new coronavirus infections and 853 recoveries on Saturday bringing down the number of active cases to 6,250. The recovery rate which for the first time since March had crossed the 80 % mark on Friday stood at 81.32 % on Saturday, a medical bulletin said. Seven persons – three from Faridabad, two from Kurukshetra and one each from Gurugram and Panipat- died of the viral illness on Saturday. The cumulative number of positive cases were 35,758 and the total number of persons who have recovered from the virus was 29,080. As per the bulletin, there were 127 critically ill patients including 16 on ventilator support. The number of patients with mild symptoms was 6,123. Four national capital region districts of Faridabad (175), Gurugram (99), Rewari (85) and Rohtak (24) threw more than 49 % of the new infections on Saturday. Several northern Haryana districts, on or along the Ambala-Delhi national highway (NH-44), also reported substantial number of infections on Saturday. They are Panipat (93), Ambala (83), Yamunanagar (40), Panchkula (38), Kurukshetra (37) and Karnal (28). Among the other districts, Hisar reported 27 new infections followed by Fatehabad (17), Palwal (15) Kaithal (13), Jhajjar (5), Nuh (2) and Sonepat and Bhiwani (1 each). No new case was reported from Jind, Sirsa, Mahendragarh and Charkhi Dadri districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/seven-deaths-793-new-cases-853-recoveries-in-haryana/story-jAEbfGzh4i0bNFF8gScrYL.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Decline in open spaces in Pune since 2005: ESR||The 2019-2020 Environmental status report (ESR) released by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday has brought out unpalatable reality of rapid, large scale concretisation across the city, resulting in gobbling up of several open spaces during the past 15 years.The satellite images published in ESR maps from 2005 till 2020 clearly shows the yellow cover (identified for open spaces and shown on map) is on decline whereas red spots indicating construction activity has drastically increased. The overall change, according to experts, has put heavy burden on the basic infrastructure, amenities and green cover of the city.The newly added 23 villages, as per ESR, has compounded infrastructural issues of the city, further adding burden of concretisation in suburban areas as seen from the map.The ESR report was put up before the PMC general body (GB) on Friday wherein geographical maps related to urbanisation and loss of green cover have been incorporated in the report. During the past one decade, the urban open spaces which were supposed to be reserved for gardens, parks and urban forests have rapidly disappeared in the concrete jungle.Currently, the city has two development plans - one for the old areas of city and the second for the new city which includes 23 merged villages. A provision for open spaces for public amenities was made, but the maps reveal that those public utilities have been occupied by concrete structures, which according to the civil society members was causing pressure on public amenities of the city.The report mentions that rise in number of private ownership of vehicles, haphazard urban growth, environmental pollution due to building construction activities was causing several environmental damage to the city. The report states that residential purpose of land use was the highest in the city which led to scouting of new lands for residential purposes in the newly merged villages. The land use for hill-cum-biodiversity park was a negligible 7.35%, while the land for residential purpose stood at 38.41 %.“The report has satellite image maps which reflect the 15-year period changes in the city and the newly merged villages with the PMC. There has been a lot of urbanisation and it is not only in the city, but also the peripheral area which are witnessing heavy urbanisation recently. The report has been prepared in alignment with the sustainable development goals stated by the UN,” said PMC environment officer Mangesh Dighe.PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar in his preface, said, “It is essential to preserve biodiversity and natural resources while carrying out development activities. PMC aims at carrying out holistic development in the city and ESR report reflects the current environmental status of the city.”Ecologist Madhav Gadgil said, “City’s open spaces and green cover is on decline for many years and this is due to a powerful lobby which pressurises government and authorities.”“Pune has lost considerable green cover and its public spaces have been taken over through encroachments by business interests. The government buckles under the pressure of corporate nexus which is a very powerful lobby behind environmental destruction in the city. This group encroaches on public space, destroys vegetation for financial gain and they don’t have any care or concern for the environment. We are already into an alarming state where nature is being destroyed with ferocity by human greed,” said Gadgil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/decline-in-open-spaces-in-pune-since-2005-esr/story-GxG52RwCwWY9zTL35m7jLI.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Multiple charges for Gurugram naib tehsildars under scrutiny||Following detection of large scale violations in the registration of sale deeds of properties in notified urban areas of Gurugram district, the Haryana government is looking into the actions of Gurugram deputy commissioner who assigned multiple registration responsibilities to certain naib tehsildars, apparently in violation of government instructions. “Prima facie the vesting of additional charge of sub tehsils Harsaru and Kadipur to Gurugram naib tehsildar Desh Raj Kamboj by the deputy commissioner for registering deeds appears to be objectionable and in violation of existing instructions of the government. Therefore, it is proposed that a detailed report regarding giving additional charge of sub registrars and joint registrars in Gurugram district by the deputy commissioner may be solicited from the Gurugram divisional commissioner in writing,” reads the file noting approved by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The state government had on Friday ordered registration of criminal case against six serving tehsil officials and also placed them under suspension after they were found guilty of flagrant violations of Section 7-A of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (HDRUA) Act during the registration of sale deeds. The Act provides for criminal prosecution of the violators. Extent of violations by tehsil officials As per findings of an interim report from Gurugram divisional commissioner, a large number of registrations of sale deeds which took place between April 20 and July 6 were in violation of Section 7-A of the HDRUA Act. The report said that 402 deeds were found to have been registered in Harsaru sub tehsil in violation of Section 7-A by Gurugram naib tehsildar Desh Raj Kamboj, who was also given the additional charge of Harsaru sub tehsil from April 20 to July 6. Similarly, 167 deeds were found to have been registered in Kadipur sub tehsil in violation of Section 7-A. Out these, 93 deeds were registered by Gurugram naib tehsildar Desh Raj Kamboj who was also holding charge of Kadipur sub tehsil during the said period, the report said. The report said Sohna tehsildar Bansi Lal had registered 305 deeds in violation of Section 7-A while Sohna naib tehsildar Dalbir Singh had registered 310 deeds in violation of the urban area law. “In Badshahpur sub-tehsil, 263 deeds were registered in violation of Section 7-A. Badshahpur naib tehsildar Hari Kishan registered 243 of these deeds and 20 deeds were registered by naib tehsildar Jai Prakash,” the report said. Kadipur naib tehsildar Om Prakash (now retired) registered 72 deeds in violation of the law while two deeds were registered by Manesar naib tehsildar Jagdish Chand, who was holding the additional charge of Kadipur sub tehsil, as per the findings of the report. Revenue officials said registration of properties without a no-objection certificate in notified urban area land under Section 7-A led to mushrooming of unauthorised settlements and corrupt practice. The requirement of a NoC stating that land transfer does not contravene any provisions of the Act was to prevent ill-planned and haphazard construction in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/multiple-charges-for-gurugram-naib-tehsildars-under-scrutiny/story-tlmiQRHBvlrX9F8MPPfBXN.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 19 deaths, 944 fresh Covid-19 cases||Punjab reported its sharpest single-day spike of 944 Covid-19 cases on Saturday which pushed the tally to 17,063, while 19 fatalities in the same period took the death toll in the state to 405. Ludhiana reported nine deaths and 193 positive cases. The district’s Covid tally is now 3,439, the highest in Punjab, after Jalandhar and Amritsar. Five people died and 101 tested positive for COVID-19 in Jalandhar. The district has reported 2,414 cases so far and 60 deaths. One person died and 35 tested positive in Kapurthala, while two deaths were reported in Amritsar, which also recorded 44 fresh cases. Also on Saturday, 35 people from Gurdaspur district positive for Covid-19.A 37-year-old man from Sunam and a 43-year-old man from Lehra died due to covid-19 at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, on Saturday. Besides, eighteen people contracted the infection in Sangrur district. Of these, seven are from Sangrur (prisoners), five from Moonak (prisoners), two from Sunam and one each from Longowal, Kauhrian, Dhuri and Bhawanigarh. Meanwhile a 74-year-old woman died and 110, including 82 migrants, tested positive in Bathinda. Fazilka reported 21 cases whereas 13 people were tested positive in Ferozepur district.In Patiala, 89 people contracted the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-reports-19-deaths-944-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-dJkeqSYpGFQzr1u4rCpmeL.html
02-08-2020||Noida||Special patrolling team formed for women’s safety, 163 hot spots identified across district||The Noida police commissionerate has formed a special patrolling team of 200 police personnel to focus solely on women’s safety in Gautam Budh Nagar, while 163 problem areas for the same have been identified across the same.The initiative was launched Saturday evening from the police commissioner’s office in Sector 108, in which 100 two-wheeler vehicles, handled mostly by women police personnel, were flagged off.The commissioner said this adds to the initiatives taken by the department to focus on women safety, after they set up mahila chaupals in residential areas and women’s safety units in police stations.“This is a new initiative of the women safety DCP, to be known as Swayamsidhh. The basic idea was to increase patrolling in hotspots where police presence needs to be enhanced for women safety. A lot of research went into the project before the routes and hotpots were finalised,” said district police commissioner Alok Singh.Police officials also said that inputs about issues and hotspots have also been taken from the public on social media. Comprising sub-inspectors, head constables and constables, who will be women, the police personnel have been equipped with body-worn cameras and batons along with helmets and raincoats for the current weather.Most of these personnel come from various police stations in different numbers in the district. Singh added that for now, they will work during the daytime hours. Most of the hotspots are around schools, colleges, industrial areas with women centric workforce, metro stations, auto stands etc. The department will keep modifying the list of hotspots based on feedback from the public.“For now we have been provided a route chart and a list of specific areas where we need to focus more. As the days progress, there will be certain modifications with our schedule depending on instructions from our seniors,” said Alka Chaudhary, a sub-inspector from Bisrakh police station.She said that for now they don’t foresee any specific challenges and are prepared for any situation that may arise.“We will be in uniform but going forward we will also run operations similar to the anti-romeo squad in plainclothes. The focus will be solely on improving women’s safety in the district,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/special-patrolling-team-formed-for-women-s-safety-163-hot-spots-identified-across-district/story-uKLjbQmSXkcrPUm61CjZvK.html
02-08-2020||Noida||Robberies, burglaries rise in GB Nagar even amid heightened police presence||Despite the Noida police claiming to have heightened presence in view of the festive season, as many as three separate incidents of robberies and burglaries were reported between Friday night and Saturday morning from areas under the jurisdiction of Sector 20, 39 and Beta 2 police stations.“There was a theft in the Sanatan Dharm temple in Sector 37 in the early hours of Saturday. The burglars took away silver ornaments and statues from the temple, after which we alerted the local police (Sector 39) about the incident,” said Shashi Vaid, chairman of the Arun Vihar Residents’ Welfare Association, (RWA).He said the incident came to light when the temple opened in the morning but from the CCTV footage, they could make out that there were two burglars who broke in around 3 am.In another incident in Zone 1, the mobile phone of a Noida resident was snatched in Sector 31 while he was out for a morning walk.The victim, Manoj Jain, in his complaint has alleged that while he was out for a walk, two men on a motorcycle came and snatched his phone and before he could react, they had fled towards the main road of Sector 61. Based on his complaint, a case of robbery was registered at the Sector 30 police station.“Both incidents are being looked into. We have CCTV footage of the temple incident and are looking at a few suspects. Teams have also been formed for the Nithari robbery and it is being looked into,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma. The third incident was reported from the Beta 2 area when a security guard was allegedly robbed of his valuables on the pretext of a lift. The victim, Mrityunjay Singh, is from Bihar who works in Sector 132. On Friday evening around 6.30pm, when he was on his way to work he was approached by the suspects in a white Swift Dzire near Pari chowk from whom he took a lift.“After some distance, one of them pulled a gun on me. They took my phone, cash and ATM card. They asked for the card’s pin at gunpoint and after I gave them a number (which was wrong), they pushed me out of the car at a secluded spot,” said the victim in his police complaint.A case was registered at the Beta 2 police station and a probe in the matter is underway.“They took his mobile and ₹20,000. The case is under investigation,” said Sujeet Kumar Upadhyaya, station house officer, Beta 2.The Noida police had said earlier that they were going to be on alert this week, with two major festivals – Eid and Raksha Bandhan – around the corner. The district administration had extended Section 144 in the district till August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/robberies-burglaries-rise-in-gb-nagar-even-amid-heightened-police-presence/story-o10OAirAFiJ3Yv8NsUcL3K.html
02-08-2020||City||Appointment of three new joint CPs in Ludhiana raises challenge of more office space, support staff||Even as the Ludhiana police commissionerate has created three new posts of joint commissioner of police (CP), providing offices and staff to the newly appointed officials remains a challenge.As per protocol, at least 25 personnel have to be deputed with each officer, which can be problematic for the police department that is reeling under a major staff crunch. Each official will be provided gunmen, reader, driver, telephone operator, wireless operator, orderly and security staff for their residence.The Ludhiana police have around 5,000 police personnel, including 44 IPS officials. Each of these officials has a staff of 25 personnel. Other gazetted officers have teams of 10 to 15 personnel.IPC officer J Elanchezhian has been given the charge of Joint CP (Headquarters). He has already served in Ludhiana as assistant commissioner of police. IPS officer Kanwardeep Kaur has joined Joint CP (Rural) and will oversee zones 2 and 4. Similarly, IPC officer Bhagirath Singh Meena has been transferred as Joint CP (City) for zones 1 and 3.J Elanchezhian has been given the office of deputy commissioner of police (DCP, headquarters), as the post was abolished recently. According to sources in the police department, joint CP (City) can be accommodated in the office of ADCP (Investigation) Dayama Harish Kumar Omparkash, as he has been transferred out of the district. Another option is at the Police Headquarters. The department could vacate the room for clerical staff. For Joint CP (Rural), the department is considering the office of AIG NRI on Chandigarh Road, as the office is vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/appointment-of-three-new-joint-cps-in-ludhiana-raises-challenge-of-more-office-space-personnel/story-lpeKXPkmMBOy8ChrISkJpJ.html
02-08-2020||Delhi||High virus in kids with Covid-19, but are they contagious?||Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rarely sickens children, and when it does, it usually causes mild disease. But a new study indicates that infected children with mild and moderate disease carry as much virus as adults, sparking debate on whether they can potentially spread infection as easily as adults.New research shows that infected children have as much coronavirus in their nose and throats as adults, with children younger with than five with mild symptoms having 100 times more virus than adults, according to results of tests that measured genetic material of the new coronavirus (Sars-CoV-2) in the nose and throat swabs of children with mild to moderate Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSars-CoV-2 genetic material, or RNA, is not infective like the whole virus, but authors note there is a correlation between higher RNA load and ability to spread disease.“Our study is limited to detection of viral nucleic acid, rather than infectious virus, although Sars-CoV-2 paediatric studies reported a correlation between higher nucleic acid levels and the ability to culture infectious virus,” said the study by researchers in Chicago and published in JAMA Pediatrics, a journal of the American Medical Association.“Young children can potentially be important drivers of Sars-CoV-2 spread in the general population, as has been demonstrated with respiratory syncytial virus, where children with high viral loads are more likely to transmit. Behavioural habits of young children and close quarters in school and day care settings raise concern for Sars-CoV-2 amplification in this population as public health restrictions are eased,” said the study. Also read: Kids in Delhi go without vaccine as Covid crisis unfoldsThe study has public health implications for opening schools and planning vaccination campaigns to include children once Covid-19 vaccination are available in 2021.Children are established drivers of respiratory infections such as seasonal flu and the common cold, but data on whether children are less likely to spread the infection remains sparse.Children and teenagers have half the risk of getting infected by Sars-CoV-2 as compared to adults, according to a large systematic review of at least 6,300 studies published in May in the preprint journal of medical sciences, medRxiv in May. The study is being peer-reviewed.The review said there was weak evidence on the role of children and young people in transmission of Sars-CoV2 at a population level. “Our study provides no information on the infectivity of children,” said the study by researchers at University College London, which analysed data from 6,327 studies published till May 16 this year.“The role of children and young people in spreading the disease depends on several factors, including their susceptibility to infection, severity of symptoms, viral load and social behaviour. We need far better understanding of the role of children in transmission as it has implications on school reopening and restoring some degree social normalcy,” said Dr Navin Dang, director and senior microbiologist at Dr Dang’s Lab, Delhi.“We don’t have data from India yet as very few children have been tested, which means that symptoms and illness even in children exposed to infection within families has fortunately been rare. We don’t have a big enough sample size needed to quantify CT values in children, but it’s data worth analysing,” said Dr Dang.CT stands for cycle thresholds, which are the number of cycles needed to amplify a virus’ RNA during a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test approved to diagnose Covid-19. The higher the viral load, the fewer cycles are needed to get a clear result.Schools across India have been shut since March 21, the weekend before a national lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24, which has limited physical interaction between children, but with some relaxation of movement restrictions, social interaction is set to increase.Studies on Covid-19 prevalence in children have produced widely varying results. Large studies from Iceland, the Netherlands and Spain and Italy showed markedly lower Sars-CoV2 prevalence among children and young people, but studies from Sweden, the UK and some areas in Switzerland and Germany found no difference in infection prevalence between adults and children.“The JAMA study is particularly significant as you cannot expect very young children to wear masks properly or follow social distancing norms without supervision in crowded classrooms, canteens and playgrounds. This can led to infection clusters in schools, from where children can spread it to staff, families and communities or neighbours without developing severe disease themselves,” said Dr Rajesh Sagar, professor in the department of psychiatry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-virus-in-kids-with-covid-19-but-are-they-contagious/story-zAwBM7i0sBt6wX1rdgSc1H.html
02-08-2020||Delhi||Shahrukh to undergo forensic checks to establish ID: Police||Shahrukh Pathan -- the man allegedly caught on camera brandishing a pistol at a policeman during the north-east Delhi riots -- will be brought to Delhi’s Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) on August 5 for his physical measurement, photography and videography to establish his identity and corroborate if he is the same person seen in the video, according to a Delhi Police officer privy to the investigation details.Forensic experts said they use this form of evidence gathering in cases where an accused is caught on tape.The crime branch team probing the riots case got approval for this procedure from a city court on July 29. In their application, police referred to Section 5 of the Identification of the Prisoners Act, which talks about “Power to Magistrate to order a person to be measured or photograph”.“...Accordingly, in view of the submissions made by the IO (investigating officer) as well as the facts and circumstances of the case, this court is of the view that conduct of physical measurement, photography, and videography of accused is essential for confirming the identity of accused as well as the purposes of investigation in the present case,” the court said while directing jail authorities to produce Pathan at Rohini lab on August 5.Pathan, 23, was arrested on March 3 from Uttar Pradesh and was charged by police in June for rioting, attempt to murder and under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act. A purported video of him, pointing a gun at head constable Deepak Dahiya during the riots on February 24, had gone viral on social media. He is presently lodged in Tihar jail. At least 53 persons died while 400 others were injured in clashes between Hindus and Muslims in different parts of north-east Delhi in February this year.“It is imperative for the investigating team to collect evidence, establishing his presence at the crime scene, and corroborate its probe that the suspect and the arrested man are the same. In cases where photographs and videos are key evidence, the defence counsel usually contest the police’s investigation by saying the suspect in the video is not his or her client as he was not present at the scene of that crime on that date. But by having an affirmative forensic report linking the arrested person and the person seen in the video, the defence counsel may not be able to use their theory in Pathan’s case,” said an investigator, who did not want to be named.Officials in the FSL said they will compare Pathan’s height, complexion, physique, his walking style, his body position at the time of the incident with the person seen in the video. They said such a procedure is usually adopted by police in cases with electronic evidence in the form of videos and photographs showing the suspect’s crime.“We usually get requests from police for obtaining videography and photography evidence from our forensic lab in their cases. In this case, the IO will be present along with the video tape of the crime and the procedure would be carried out as per his or her requirement,” said Deepa Verma, FSL director.Another expert in the FSL’s photography-videography division, who asked not to be named, said requests for similar procedure have become common in the last couple of years in cases where police get live or recorded video footage of crime.“Most requests are in cases of street crimes, ATM theft and shop burglaries, where video evidence against suspects is available. Sometimes, we visit the crime scene with the suspects, recreate the entire crime, and do photography and videography to establish a positive link between the suspects in the video and the arrested persons,” the expert said.Former IPS officer Ashok Chand, who retired from Delhi Police, explained, “This forensic evidence will positively link and establish that the person arrested in the case is the same person caught on tape wielding a pistol at the policeman. It will be an important piece of evidence against the accused.”Pathan’s lawyer, Asghar Khan, however, said the police was unnecessarily trying to make it a “very special case” and their entire effort was to delay the bail of his client, who he said had been “falsely arrested and charged”.“The whole FIR is false because it is filed on the complaint of the head constable whose statement in a TV channel interview is contradictory to what he said in the FIR. As far as the need for videography and photography of my client is concerned, I want to say he did not fire at the policeman. As my client was surrounded by people throwing stones, he opened fire in self-defence and not to injure or kill anyone,” Khan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/riot-accused-to-undergo-forensic-procedure-to-establish-identity-cops-want-to-match-him-with-man-seen-in-video-footage/story-DiLuhy6RcJpsXIzRxaV4bM.html
02-08-2020||Noida||Building owner arrested as roof collapse kills 2||The 65-year-old owner of the Sector 11 building, which had partially collapsed on Friday evening, was arrested by the police on Saturday. Two people had been killed in the incident.Around 7pm on Friday, part of the three-storeyed building in F block of Noida’s Sector 11 had collapsed. Four people were trapped in the debris and were later pulled out by rescue teams. According to the police, renovation work was going on in the 35-year-old building where electric panels were manufactured.“The owner, RK Bhardwaj, was arrested today after a case of negligence was registered at Sector 24 police station,” said Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.Bhardwaj was booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, including Section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), based on the complaint of the wife of one the deceased, the police said. The owner’s wife had also been present in a different part of the building and escaped unhurt in the incident, they said.Of the four people who were pulled out, Jaynendra and Gopi, both natives of Kanpur, died during treatment at the district hospital in Noida, while condition of two others -- Sagar and Ashu -- are now stable, said the police. Sagar was rushed to a higher medical centre in Delhi, the police said.“My husband worked as a plumbing contractor. He and three others, Gopi, Ashu and Sagar, had been employed for plumbing work in the building. The owner was aware of the structural weakness and cracks in the building but did not warn them. Yesterday around 7pm when they were working, a portion of the building collapsed and they got trapped in the rubble,” said Renu Devi, wife of Jaynendra, in her police complaint. The building owner was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, the police said.The UP chief minister had taken cognizance of the incident, and directed the Gautam Budh Nagar commissioner of police to look into the matter and provide necessary rescue and medical support.The Noida authority has set up an inquiry into the incident, district magistrate Suhas LY said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/building-owner-arrested-as-roof-collapse-kills-2/story-Kqacw9L4vR22Y6VpnY7OTL.html
02-08-2020||Delhi||Former JNU student Umar Khalid questioned in Delhi riots case, cellphone seized||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid was questioned on Friday in connection with a case related to the north-east Delhi riots, in which he and at least eight others have been booked under the Unlawful Activity Prevention Act (UAPA), and charged with sedition, murder, attempt to murder and rioting. Khalid’s cellphone was also seized, police said Saturday. The case is being probed by the Delhi Police special cell, which is probing “a larger conspiracy angle” behind the riots that took place in February. Friday was the first time that the former JNU student was questioned for his alleged role in the riots that left 53 dead over 400 injured. Joint commissioner of police (special cell) Neeraj Thakur confirmed that Khalid was questioned by his team at their office on Friday and that his cellphone was seized for investigation. Thakur, however, refused to share further details. A special cell officer, who did not want to be identified, said, “Khalid was questioned for nearly three hours. He was questioned regarding the purported provocative speeches he had allegedly delivered at two different places before the visit of US President Donald Trump in February. Khalid had allegedly appealed to the public to come out on streets and block the roads during Trump’s visit,” the officer said. More than eight people, including suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain, Jamia student Meeran Haider, Jamia Coordination Committee’s media coordinator Safoora Zargar, and Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, have been arrested under the stringent UAPA on charges of planning and executing the north-east Delhi riots. The counsels for the arrested persons have accused Delhi Police of launching a witch hunt against their clients, only because they were part of the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. According to the special cell submissions before the court, Khalid along with the other accused had hatched a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots just before the Trump visit on February 24 and 25. In at least four charge sheets, police have said Khalid had met councillor Hussain and Khalid Saifi, an activist, on January 8 at the Shaheen Bagh sit-in protest site to allegedly plan the riots. When contacted Tridip Pais, counsel for Khalid, said he did not want to comment on the case developments.  Khalid was earlier arrested in February 2016 for allegedly shouting anti-India slogans on the JNU campus along with former student union president Kanhaiya Kumar and others. They were charged with sedition. They had denied the charges and accused the police of using doctored videos to build a case against them. The case is being heard by a city court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/former-jnu-student-umar-khalid-quizzed-by-cops-over-north-east-delhi-riots/story-Z95NZ3Li6lENSKG311pA4I.html
02-08-2020||Delhi||Car hits ice-cream vendor, three others in south Delhi||Four persons, including two women, were injured when a luxury car with a 29-year-old woman behind the wheels hit them in a ‘freak accident’ near Sapna Cinema in south Delhi’s East of Kailash on Friday night. The driver of the car, identified as Roshni Arora, was arrested for rash and negligent driving, causing injuries, police said Saturday.“Arora told police she was eating ice-cream in her car with the engine on when her dog jumped and that the caused her to accidentally press the accelerator,” deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said.The car moved ahead with a jerk and hit the ice-cream vendor and a few of his customers who were standing some distance away.According to the DCP, the police control room received a call at 10.07 pm on Friday regarding the accident near Sapna Cinema. A police team reached the spot and found a luxury car, one motorcycle and an ice-cream selling cart involved in the accident. The four injured persons had already been shifted to different hospitals. Arora, who runs a ‘boutique’ at Prakash Mohalla in East of Kailash, was found at the spot. The injured persons were identified as Mukesh Kumar, Sapna Kumari, Guddu and Harshit Kaur. Mukesh suffered a leg injury while Sapna sustained an abrasion on the right knee. Guddu is the ice-cream vendor and he was injured on his left knee while Harsh got a wound in her left ankle. “We registered a case on Mukesh’s complaint,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/car-hits-ice-cream-vendor-three-others-in-south-delhi/story-xzUy8Et2FAI2du467zU4IO.html
02-08-2020||City||Buddha Nullah pollution: Expert committee to chalk out plan for modern dairy complex||A day after local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra constituted a committee to work out shifting of dairy units alongside Buddha Nullah, the special task force (STF) constituted for cleaning the nullah, asked the authorities to also plan a modern dairy complex for the same. A meeting of the STF, which was constituted by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, was held under the chairmanship of head Satguru Uday Singh (head of Naamdhari sect) in Chandigarh on Saturday. The STF directed the committee to deliberate on the facilities which will be provided in the modern dairy complex. The committee was asked to take the final decision within three months. It has the mayor as its chairman, and the deputy commissioner, the MC commissioner, the chief administrator of GLADA and the deputy director, animal husbandry as its members. The dairy shifting project has been hanging fire for a long time. As per the information, there are over 400 dairy units in Haibowal dairy complex while around 130 units are situated in Tajpur Road dairy complex. Around 200 dairy units are operational in different parts of the city and around 50 units are situated outside the MC limits. The STF also discussed the ongoing project of demarcation of Buddha Nullah. The demarcation process is being taken up by the MC, revenue department, and irrigation department. The residents living in its vicinity have been claiming that due to permanent encroachments alongside the nullah, its width has decreased, due to which it overflows during monsoons.The beautification of the nullah was also discussed in the meeting. The PPCB officials apprised the STF of the status of under-construction common effluent treatment plants (CETP) for the Tajpur Road and Focal Point industry areas. The projects are expected to be completed by December. MLA Rakesh Pandey said, “Detailed discussion on shifting of dairy units was held and the officials apprised the STF members of the steps being taken to upgrade the MC sewer treatment plants (STP). We also discussed steps that can be taken for beautification of nullah banks. The detailed report on the demarcation of the nullah is yet to be prepared.” Mayor, 3 Congress MLAs miss the meeting While the STF had invited mayor Balkar Sandhu and four Congress MLAs including, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Rakesh Pandey, Surinder Dawar, and Sanjay Talwar for the meeting, only Pandey showed up. Ashu and Sandhu claimed that they had previous commitments and had therefore informed the task force members that they would not be able to attend the meeting. Talwar said that he had some important work in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buddha-nullah-pollution-expert-committee-to-chalk-out-plan-for-modern-dairy-complex/story-cCju0OdwkYI7mftCID2kcK.html
02-08-2020||Delhi||Police scan 220 vehicles, footage from 100 CCTVs to nab driver of mini-truck that fatally hit senior police officer||After scanning more than 220 vehicles of a similar make, the Delhi Police on Saturday said they have arrested the driver who had fled after killing a 54-year-old assistant commissioner of police (ACP) in a hit-and-run accident on July 25. Police said they arrested the errant driver, Amit Pulami, 28, on Friday and impounded the mini truck that had rammed the officer, ACP Sanket Kaushik, who was posted with the Dwarka traffic circle, and dragged him for nearly 50m on a service lane near the Rajokri flyover. Kaushik had got out of his vehicle and was clearing the traffic when he was hit by the mini truck.Pulami, police said, originally belongs to Nepal and had come to India for work about one-and-a-half years ago.Footage from more than 100 CCTV cameras was scanned and over 220 mini trucks with a similar make that were found moving through the area at the time of the incident were checked to zero in on the errant vehicle and driver, police said. A broken iron angle bar of the vehicle, recovered from the mishap spot, was the only piece of evidence with the police to identify the vehicle.“We inspected the iron bar and it helped us realise that we could be looking for a mini truck. Footage from CCTV cameras on all possible routes from the spot was checked and that helped us establish that a white mini truck had fatally rammed the officer,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya.Narrating the sequence of events, Arya said on July 25, around 8pm, Kaushik had left his office in his official vehicle along with his driver and wireless operator when they came across a jam on the service lane near the Rajokri flover. Kaushik and his staff went to help clear the snarl. While his driver and operator were busy moving a car, Kaushik walked ahead on the road.“A vehicle hit him from behind and dragged him for nearly 50 metres before hitting the concrete barriers placed on the road. The ACP suffered multiple injuries and was declared brought dead at the AIIMS Trauma Centre. A case of rash and negligent driving causing death under sections 279 and 304A of the Indian Penal Code was registered and the investigation was taken up,” Arya said.Six teams were formed and they collected details of all mini trucks with a similar make and colour that passed through the MCD toll tax booth on the Delhi-Haryana border before and after the mishap. About 50 such vehicles were examined. The records of 52 mini trucks from the cargo wing at the Delhi airport were also obtained, analysed and verified. Similarly, all warehouses in Rajokri, Mahipalpur, Kapashera, Samalkha, and Bijwasan were thoroughly examined and their records checked to ascertain the movement of 120 such vehicles, the DCP said.“The entire effort helped us zero in on a white mini truck attached to a warehouse in Rangpuri. Accordingly, the vehicle was recovered and its driver, Amit Pulami, was arrested on Friday. The truck was examined and its left headlight was found broken -- Pulami had got it replaced at a local garage to mislead the police,” Arya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-scan-220-vehicles-footage-from-100-cctvs-to-nab-driver-of-mini-truck-that-fatally-hit-senior-police-officer/story-3GCPb7HBeWwlJkcEkv9acN.html
02-08-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram health department to hold 80 Covid testing camps in 54 containment zones||The Gurugram health department has identified 54 containment zones where 80 Covid-19 testing camps will be organised next week. These containment zones fall under some of the worst-affected areas such as Wazirabad, Chanderlok, Tigra, Patel Nagar, Firoj Gandhi Colony, Laxman Vihar, Gandhi Nagar, Manesar, Sohna, Basai Enclave among others. The district has 72 containment zones.Data shows that till July 29, Wazirabad has reported highest number of cases at 603 among different areas in the city. Following it, Chanderlok reported 559, Tigra (565), Patel Nagar (491), Firoj Gandhi Colony (381) and Manesar (201). Health officials said the active number of cases in many of these areas were in double digits, however, it needed to be reduced further as these were densely populated areas, especially Manesar where more than 400,000 people work in different industrial units. Dr. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The transmission has been controlled in some of these areas through increased testing. As we are seeing the number of cases has been controlled, they are no longer Large Outbreak Areas (LORs). The focus is upon containment zones now. Testing will be increased in those areas/lanes where 10 positive cases are reported in a single day. On an average 10-11 testing camps will be held in the areas notified as containment zones by the district administration.” The district administration on Saturday issued a revised list of containment zones. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, issued orders creating 64 containment areas in Gurugram, two in Pataudi and six in Sohna. In all, 72 containment zones have been identified in the district where the number of active cases is below 1000. On Saturday, 99 Covid-19 cases were reported taking the total count to 9166. Of which 919 are active cases while 8123 have recovered from the illness. The toll stands at 124, with 86 deaths due to co-morbidity and 38 without co-morbidity. As per the district health bulletin, out of the active cases 731 are in home isolation, 111 in Covid care centres and 77 patients are undergoing treatment in different hospitals.“The target is to do almost 2000-3000 Covid-19 tests in a day similar to what we have been doing in the past. Gurugram is the first district in the state to conduct more than one lakh test, which includes antigen detection test and Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR),” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-health-department-to-hold-80-covid-testing-camps-in-54-containment-zones/story-w9SeZgOfv6deGEAxSGM73I.html
02-08-2020||Pune||Pune company’s 76 employees test Covid-19 positive, more cases not ruled out||A company located in the industrial area of Pune’s district’s Chakan has confirmed at least 76 Covid positive cases among its workers and the number could go even further, according to a health official quoted by a news agency on Saturday.The development was reported on a day when the number of active coronavirus patients in Pune district rose to reach 46,345.The high prevalence of disease in a single company premises could be revealed only because the company decided to test around 900 of its employees two days ago.“So far it has received results of around 750 samples and at least 76 employees have been found to have contracted the infection,” Dr Baliram Gadave, Tehsil health officer of Khed was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Also Read: Maharashtra adds 9,601 Covid-19 cases in day; tally at 4,31,719Gadave said he visited the company on Saturday and gave them necessary instructions on containment of the disease.It is not immediately clear if the administration has taken steps for contact tracing of affected employees and how many of the firm’s remaining employees may have to undergo isolation to prevent further spread of the disease.As a precautionary measure, the district administration has asked the firms in the Chakan MIDC (Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation) area not to allow the employees who live in containment zones to report for work at present.Also Read: PMC brings down containment zones in city to 75The official quoted above said all firms in the area have been directed to check pulse oxygen saturation of every employee visiting the company premises. They have also been instructed to mandatorily test staff whose oxygen level is below 95 per cent.The total count of coronavirus patients in Maharashtra reached 4,31,719 on Saturday with 9,601 new Covid-19 cases and 322 new incidents of deaths reported over the past 24 hour period, according to the daily health bulletin released by the state government.Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state by the pandemic with 20,749 active cases in Mumbai and 46,345 in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-company-s-76-employees-test-covid-19-positive-more-cases-not-ruled-out/story-XEPqJmC9PhJBgYwSYVTEUN.html
02-08-2020||Gurugram||How RWAs are helping residents cheer up amidst Covid-19 outbreak||Being cooped up in a home can be tough although it is the safest bet to keep the coronavirus threat at bay as it spreads across the world. Several resident welfare associations (RWAs) across Gurugram, however, have tried to break the monotony.In DLF phase 1, for example, the RWA is holding weekly webinars with residents on a block-to-block basis to help neighbours interact with each other, many of whom had shifted in recently but had not the an opportunity to socialise. “A sizeable number of people live on rent in DLF Phase 1. Since February, there were many who had just moved into our township, but due to the coronavirus outbreak, did not have an opportunity to interact with others. We felt that residents in every block should interact on some online platform and get to know each other better, especially as a lot of them were feeling lonely and isolated,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson of DLF Phase 1 RWA.Bansal said that the webinars were a success as it not only had a high turnout, but also led to another idea.“We are thinking of holding small get-togethers in the neighbourhood park for residents while ensuring social distancing measures are followed. We will be replicating the webinars in other blocks of the township as well,” said Bansal. Last month, the RWA of Tulip Violet society held a contest on Facebook where residents were asked to submit entries on innovations for cleaning, recipes, painting and dancing. “We were all huddled up in our homes and society, in general, to fight against coronavirus. All residents were finding new ways to engage our children, coming up with innovative ways of cleaning house quickly, trying different recipes, decoration ideas, paintings or drawing and hence we decided to collect these memories and upload them in our society’s group through pictures and videos. We decided to create a competition and gave the incentive of the top three posts getting rewarded. This way we were able to keep residents engaged for more than a month and had around 310 entries,” said Puneet Goyal, president of Tulip Violet RWA.At The Retreat condominium in South City 1, a group of 12-15 residents got together and distributed baskets containing chocolates, plants, face masks and motivational messages among 300 families of the condominium.“During these difficult times, a few of us got together and were discussing various measures that can be undertaken to elevate the mood of residents and staff. We decided to purchase plants and chocolates in bulk and made cloth face masks as well. Each basket included a motivational message telling residents that they can overcome these difficult times and look at the bright future ahead,” said Kirti Adhikari, a resident who led the initiative. Adhikari further said that t-shirts bearing the name of “The Retreat” and sweets were also distributed amongst the condominium’s staff to keep them motivated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/how-rwas-are-helping-residents-cheer-up-amidst-covid-19-outbreak/story-wzFu5Py7OA7k9z10ogEPuM.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mental health: Share Manodarshan webpage with students: SCERT to Ludhiana DEOs||In a bid to address students’ mental health concerns during the Covid-19 pandemic, the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) on Saturday instructed district education officers to inform students about the Manodarshan webpage launched by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). The webpage features videos and frequently asked questions that will help students remain optimistic and healthy. Students can also call the toll-free number 844844632 and queries will be addressed through tele-counselling between 8am to 8pm. Tips for students 1) Spend time playing with family 2) Learning can be fun 3) Participate in home chores 4) Participate in online classes to stay productive District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “The webpage has interesting suggestions for teachers on reinforcing education through out-of-syllabus activities that will encourage children to read. This will reduce the stress due to uncertainty in examinations.” Tips for teachers1) Encourage students to narrate an inspiring Covid-19 story that they have read in a newspaper or seen on TV or witnessed in their locality where people have recovered from Covid-19 or supported a loved ones recovery. 2) Notify students verbally that they are always welcome to share their feelings regarding Covid-19 whenever they want. 3) Reassure students that they are not alone and support is always available. 4) Create a folder in google drive and name it, ‘My doubts and worries’ and encourage children to write their emotions, feelings, worries and doubts. 5) Also create another folder, “My gains and my learnings.’ Motivate children to write positive stories, of what new skill they developed and how they are spending their time with family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mental-health-share-manodarshan-webpage-with-students-scert-to-deo-s/story-TifOTsVJcH8QnTFHWjr58K.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Private hospitals in Ludhiana told to reserve 50% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients||Principal secretary health Anurag Aggawal met representatives of private hospitals in the district on Saturday, and asked them to reserve 50% intensive-care-unit beds with and without ventilators for Covid-19 patients. The move was taken as the government was facing flak because private hospitals were denying treatment to Covid-19 patients. The death of Covid-19 patient Sanjiv Nagalpal, who was allegedly referred from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and died before reaching the civil hospital, had triggered massive outrage against authorities. Two days ago, deputy commissioner Verinder Sharma had to intervene after a 83-year-old patient was denied treatment at a private hospital near RK Road. Aggarwal emphasised on the importance of tertiary care centres to tackle the rising number of cases. “It is important to lessen the number of causalities in a pandemic. Ludhiana is located in the middle of the state and has a huge network of private hospitals. We have urged private hospitals to spare 50% ICU beds with and without ventilators for the treatment of Covid-19 patient,” said Aggarwal. He said that the district administration had developed a mobile application that will provide real-time data about the availability of beds in the hospital. As many as 3,246 patients had tested positive while 88 people had succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana till July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pvt-hospitals-in-ludhiana-told-to-reserve-50-icu-beds-for-covid-19-patients/story-LqJExejrWkKaCwxSzPsulI.html
02-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana residents turn to night vigils to check open dumping of garbage||Fed up with open dumping of garbage, residents of Street 5 in Dhai Marla Colony (near Daresi) have started keeping vigil at night to stop people from throwing waste at the entry point of the street. Apart from being an eyesore, foul smell emanating from the accumulated garbage had become a nuisance for locals. Taking matters in their own hands, locals have cleaned the street and planted saplings in a bid to beautify the area. The residents have been guarding the street against litterers in two-hour shifts since July 14. Aware that residents from surrounding areas dump their garbage at the entry point of the street late at night and early in the morning, residents keep vigil in shifts from 8pm to 1am and 3am to 7am.Residents say a garbage dump had been there at the site for over three decades and despite lodging multiple complaints with the municipal corporation (MC), no relief was provided. The situation deteriorated during the lockdown and the monsoon season. Therefore, residents decided to take action on their own. One of the residents, Vinay, said, “The stench emanating from the site was unbearable. On July 13, a few residents dumped animal waste in the area, which exacerbated the situation.” Residents say a temple and the SDP College for Women were situated a few metres away but nothing was done to rectify the situation. “Some locals dump waste in the open to avoid paying charges for door-to-door collection of garbage,” he said.“RESIDENTS HEALTH COMPROMISED’ A resident, Som Nath, said,”It was shocking to see the residents dump waste in the open at 3am . We requested them to stop this practice. The health of many residents was being affected. Few residents remained adamant but eventually we were able to get the area cleaned.”Residents, Bittu Gaba, Ram Lubhaya, Raj Kumar, Sunny and Rajesh Verma, said after getting the area cleaned they had spent ₹15,000 on beautification of the area. MC supervisor Dhawal Sarswal and area councillor Prabhjot Kaur’s husband Amrik Singh also supported the residents. Councillor Prabhjot Kaur’s husband, Amrik Singh Bhola, said, “The A2Z company has been deputed for door-to-door collection of garbage and a warning has also been issued to residents. The MC supervisor also sat on guard with the residents to stop people from dumping garbage at the point.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-residents-keep-nightly-vigil-to-check-open-dumping-of-garbage/story-VDPIw6rLxpRcoJ2a7jIvQN.html
02-08-2020||World||SpaceX guiding NASA astronauts to 1st splashdown in 45 years||The first astronauts to ride a SpaceX capsule into orbit headed toward a retro-style splashdown in the Gulf of Mexico on Sunday afternoon to close out a two-month test flight.It will mark the first splashdown in 45 years for NASA astronauts and the first return in the gulf. Unlike Florida’s Atlantic coast, already feeling the effects of Tropical Storm Isaias, the waves and wind were calm near Pensacola in the Florida Panhandle.Test pilots Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken departed the International Space Station on Saturday night, and awoke to a recording of their young children urging them to “rise and shine” and “we can’t wait to see you.”“Don’t worry, you can sleep in tomorrow,” said Behnken’s 6-year-old son Theo, who was promised a puppy after the flight. “Hurry home so we can go get my dog.”Their atypical ride home by Elon Musk’s SpaceX company — the first commercially built and operated spacecraft to carry people to and from orbit — was expected to be fast, bumpy and hot, at least on the outside. Splashdown was set for 2:48 p.m. Eastern.Plans called for the Dragon capsule, named Endeavour by its crew, to go from a screaming orbital speed of 17,500 mph (28,000 kph) to 350 mph (560 kph) during reentry in the atmosphere and finally to 15 mph (24 kph) at splashdown. Peak heating during descent: 3,500 degrees Fahrenheit (1,900 degrees Celsius). Top G forces: four to five times the force of Earth’s gravity.A SpaceX recovery ship with more than 40 staff, including doctors and nurses, was poised to move in at splashdown, with two smaller, faster boats leading the way. To keep the returning astronauts safe in the pandemic, the recovery crew self-quarantined for two weeks and were tested for the coronavirus.SpaceX expected it to take a half-hour for the ship to arrive at the capsule and additional time to lift it out of the water onto the deck. A flight surgeon was going to be the first to look into the capsule, once the hatch is pulled open. After medical exams, the astronauts were expected to fly home to Houston.The last time NASA astronauts returned from space to water was on July 24, 1975, in the Pacific, the scene of most splashdowns, to end a joint U.S.-Soviet mission known as Apollo-Soyuz. The Mercury and Gemini crews in the early to mid 1960s parachuted into the Atlantic, while most of the later Apollo capsules hit the Pacific. The lone Russian “splashdown” was in 1976 on a partially frozen lake amid a blizzard following an aborted mission; the harrowing recovery took hours.SpaceX made history with this mission, which launched May 30 from Florida. It was the first time a private company launched people into orbit and also the first launch of NASA astronauts from home turf in nearly a decade. Hurley came full circle, serving as pilot of NASA’s last space shuttle flight in 2011 and the commander of this SpaceX flight.NASA turned to SpaceX and also Boeing to ferry astronauts to and from the space station, following the retirement of the shuttles. Until Hurley and Behnken rocketed into orbit, NASA astronauts relied on Russian rockets.SpaceX needs six weeks to inspect the capsule before launching the next crew around the end of September. This next mission of four astronauts will spend a full six months aboard the space station. Hurley and Behnken’s capsule will be refurbished for another flight next spring.Boeing doesn’t expect to launch its first crew until next year. The company encountered significant software problems in the debut of its Starliner capsule, with no one aboard, last year.By beating Boeing, SpaceX laid claim to a U.S. flag left at the space station by Hurley and the rest of the last shuttle crew. The flag — which also flew on the first shuttle flight — was carefully packed aboard the Dragon for the homecoming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-guiding-nasa-astronauts-to-1st-splashdown-in-45-years/story-tjnBhUajsOXnxGhz173hrO.html
02-08-2020||World||US task force leader says Covid-19 pandemic in new phase||White House coronavirus task force leader Dr Deborah Birx says widespread coronavirus infections in urban and rural America mark a “new phase” for the pandemic as she doubled down on calls to wear face masks and observe social distancing measures.Birx, speaking on CNN’s “State of the Union” Sunday morning, said “What we are seeing today is different from March and April. It is extraordinarily widespread.” The United States has the world’s biggest number of cases at 4.6 million, or one-quarter of the total, and 154,361 deaths. Birx said mitigation efforts across the west and the south are beginning to work but warned that people need to take the virus seriously and employ significant safety precautions when cases first begin to tick up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-task-force-leader-says-covid-19-pandemic-in-new-phase/story-PyuVl0bMEQM4wvMwmAifII.html
02-08-2020||World||Syria condemns deal between Kurds and US firm as ‘theft’||Syria on Sunday condemned an agreement between Kurdish-led forces in the country’s northeast and a US oil company, describing it as “theft” and an “affront to national sovereignty”.The foreign ministry denounced “an agreement signed by the SDF militia and a US oil company to steal Syrian oil... supported by the US administration”, in a statement quoted by the official SANA news agency.The SDF is the Syrian Democratic Forces, a Kurdish-led paramilitary alliance that backs a semi-autonomous administration in northeastern Syria and controls the country’s biggest oilfields.Senior US officials have confirmed an agreement to “modernise” the fields, without naming the US company or providing other details.The Syrian foreign ministry’s statement decried “an agreement between... thieves who steal and thieves who buy”.It also decried “the hostile US position towards Syria, the theft of the Syrian people’s riches and its hindrance of the state’s reconstruction efforts”. Senator Lindsey Graham, a longtime supporter of the Syrian Kurds, told a congressional hearing Thursday that he had spoken about the deal with SDF commander General Mazloum Abdi.“Apparently they’ve signed a deal with an American oil company to modernise the oil fields in northeastern Syria,” Graham said.Asked by Graham if the US was supportive of the deal, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said: “We are.”“The deal took a little longer, senator, than we had hoped and we’re now in implementation. It can be very powerful,” Pompeo said.A US-led military coalition strongly backed the SDF against the Islamic State group in Syria, helping the Kurdish-led outfit seize the jihadists’ final patch of territory there in March last year.Syria’s war began in 2011 with the violent suppression of peaceful protests and snowballed into a multi-fronted conflict pulling in multiple external powers.It has resulted in the country losing tens of billions of dollars in oil revenues.The fighting has often destroyed hydrocarbon infrastructure, which has been coveted by the various belligerents.Before the civil war, Syria produced nearly 400,000 barrels of oil per day, but output has collapsed during the conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/syria-condemns-deal-between-kurds-and-us-firm-as-theft/story-rYyrawx9I8GyQpIzE3dNeM.html
02-08-2020||World||UAE, Iran foreign ministers discuss Covid-19 challenge||The foreign ministers of longstanding regional foes Iran and the United Arab Emirates agreed on Sunday that they would strive to cooperate during the Covid-19 pandemic. In a video call during which they also exchanged greetings for the Muslim Eid al-Adha holiday, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahyan told his Iranian counterpart that strengthening bilateral cooperation was important element in tackling the coronavirus, UAE state news agency WAM said.Iran’s foreign minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said in a tweet that it was “a very substantive, frank and friendly video conversation” on Covid-19 as well as “bilateral, regional and global situations.”“We agreed to continue dialogue on theme of hope—especially as region faces tough challenges, and tougher choices ahead,” he wrote.Shi’ite Muslim Iran has long been at odds with U.S. Gulf Sunni Arab allies the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Tensions between Iran and the United States have been on the rise since 2018, when U.S. President Donald Trump withdrew from Iran’s 2015 nuclear deal with six powers and reimposed sanctions. Washington blamed a series of attacks against oil interests in the Gulf last year on Iran, while the UAE did not publicly hold a particular country responsible. The two ministers held a telephone call in March in which Sheikh Abdullah expressed the UAE’s support for Iran during the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-iran-foreign-ministers-discuss-covid-19-challenge/story-DYq8BHaBIlqzLDc9spdajO.html
02-08-2020||World||South Africa hits 500,000 infections but president hopeful||South Africa has surpassed 500,000 confirmed coronavirus cases, but President Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday said he sees “promising signs” that the rapid growth of cases has stabilised and that the country’s strained health system is managing to cope.Health Minister Zwelini Mkhize announced 10,107 new cases Saturday night, bringing the country’s cumulative total to 503,290, including 8,153 deaths. South Africa has now tallied more than 50% of all reported coronavirus infections in Africa’s 54 countries.With a population of about 58 million, South Africa has the fifth-highest number of cases in the world, behind the US, Brazil, Russia and India, all countries with significantly higher populations, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. Experts say the true toll of the pandemic worldwide is much higher than confirmed cases, due to limited testing and other reasons.Ramaphosa, in a letter to the nation on Sunday, said despite the high number of confirmed cases, he sees some positive developments.“After a rapid rise in infections over the last two months, the daily increase in infections appears to be stabilizing,” said Ramaphosa. He said the number of new infections has slowed in the provinces of the Western Cape, which includes Cape Town, the Eastern Cape and Gauteng, which hosts the major cities of Johannesburg and Pretoria.South Africa’s hospitals have been stretched to the limit but in most provinces they are succeeding in providing treatment to Covid-19 patients, he said.“The health system has so far had sufficient capacity to cope with the number of admissions,” said Ramaphosa of the hard-hit provinces of Western Cape, Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. He said, however, that in the Eastern Cape several public hospitals were overwhelmed and a specialist team has been deployed to help.He said his government is working hard with “greatest urgency” to deliver adequate supplies of personal protective equipment to areas where shortages have been reported. South African authorities are also working to root out corruption in the purchase and distribution of medical equipment, he said.“It is unconscionable that there are people who may be using this health crisis to unlawfully enrich themselves,” said Ramaphosa.South Africa’s case fatality rate – the number of deaths as a proportion of confirmed cases – is at 1.6%, significantly lower than the global average, said Ramaphosa.“While South Africa has the fifth-highest number of total Covid-19 cases globally, we have only the 36th highest number of deaths as a proportion of the population,” said Ramaphosa. “For this, we are grateful to the work of our health professionals and the innovative treatments they have pioneered.” South Africa also has a younger population than countries in Europe that were hard hit in the pandemic, and the virus kills elderly patients at a far higher rate than younger people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-hits-500-000-infections-but-president-hopeful/story-H0DWpolmtVvYVLjmoPz31I.html
02-08-2020||World||Donald Trump to act on Chinese software companies in coming days: Mike Pompeo||President Donald Trump will take action shortly on Chinese software companies that are feeding data directly to the Beijing government, posing a risk to U.S. national security, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Sunday.“President Trump has said ‘enough’ and we’re going to fix it and so he will take action in the coming days with respect to a broad array of national security risks that are presented by software connected to the Chinese Communist Party,” Pompeo said on Fox News Channel’s “Sunday Morning Futures.”The news comes after Trump told reporters onboard Air Force One on Friday that he would issue an order for social media platform TikTok to be banned in the United States as early as Saturday.Over the last several months, US officials have repeatedly said TikTok under its current Chinese parent company, Beijing-based software firm ByteDance, poses a national risk because of the personal data it handles.“They’re true privacy issues for the American people and for a long time, a long time the United States just said ‘well goodness if we’re having fun with it, or if a company can make money off of it, we’re going to permit that to happen,’“ Pompeo said. In response, under a recent proposal, ByteDance is willing to divest the U.S. operations of TikTok to Microsoft in a bid to make a deal with the White House, two people familiar with the matter told Reuters on Saturday. That offer has gained some support from allies of the president, including Republican Senator Lindsey Graham.In a separate interview on Sunday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which reviews the national security implications of foreign business deals, is looking at the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-to-act-on-chinese-software-companies-in-coming-days-mike-pompeo/story-kHkZQEDkJdmcbYCLBWN6KO.html
02-08-2020||World||Heavy rain hammers South Korea, leaving 6 dead, 7 missing||Torrential rain pounded most of South Korea over the weekend, leaving six people dead and seven others missing, officials said Sunday.The Ministry of the Interior and Safety said the heavy rainfall triggered landslides in dozens of places, flooded residential areas and roads, and damaged some riverside structures.Much of the damage occurred in the Seoul metropolitan area and the central region.The ministry said the six dead people were either buried by mud or destroyed building parts following landslides or swept away by swollen waters. Ministry officials said one died on Saturday and the other five on Sunday, all in the Seoul metropolitan area or the central region.The torrential rain also left six people injured and 360 others homeless, the ministry said.The Seoul area and the central region are expected to continue to receive heavy rain until Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/heavy-rain-hammers-south-korea-leaving-6-dead-7-missing/story-L2RxnixnlQfOXJZNFr8ZfO.html
02-08-2020||World||Former UK minister and sitting Conservative Party MP arrested on suspicion of rape||A former UK minister and sitting Conservative Party lawmaker, who has not been named as he is yet to be charged, is out on bail after being arrested on suspicion of rape. According to ‘The Sunday Times’, the allegations of rape against the parliamentarian were made by a former employee who alleges that the lawmaker assaulted her, forced her to have sex and left her so traumatised that she had to go to hospital. “On Friday, July 31, the Metropolitan Police Service received allegations relating to four separate incidents involving allegations of sexual offences and assault,” the Metropolitan Police said in a statement. “These offences are alleged to have occurred at addresses in Westminster, Lambeth and Hackney between July 2019 and January 2020. A man in his 50s was arrested on Saturday, August 1 on suspicion of rape. He has been released on bail to return on a date in mid-August,” the statement said. The ruling Conservative Party said it takes such allegations “extremely seriously”. “We take all allegations of this nature extremely seriously. As this matter is now in the hands of the police it would be inappropriate to comment further,” a party spokesperson said. The reports, which first appeared in the newspaper, claim that some allegations were raised with the party’s chief whip Mark Spencer and with Jacob Rees-Mogg, the leader of the House of Commons some weeks ago. It is understood that Spencer told the woman to make a formal complaint to parliamentary authorities, who would investigate. She later went to the police. “The chief whip takes all allegations of harassment and abuse extremely seriously and has strongly encouraged anybody who has approached him to contact the appropriate authorities, including Parliament’s independent complaints and grievance scheme, which can formally carry out independent and confidential investigations,” a statement from Spencer’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-uk-minister-and-sitting-conservative-party-mp-arrested-on-suspicion-of-rape/story-WWD5HeoJbPPXua2tAn3fSM.html
02-08-2020||World||UK reviewing Covid-19 fighting options including London lockdown||The UK is looking at all options for tackling flare-ups of the coronavirus and will use regional data to target its response, Local Government Secretary Robert Jenrick said, following newspaper reports that a London-wide lockdown is being considered if cases spike in the capital.While Jenrick said he wasn’t aware of a plan to seal off London, which the Sunday Times newspaper reported is being considered as a worst-case option by Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s inner circle of advisers, he said restrictions introduced in the northwest of England late Thursday show ministers will act where and when it’s necessary.“We don’t want to do anything that’s a blanket approach across the country; our strategy is to manage this in a localized way with targeted action,” Jenrick told Times Radio. “We will restrict in certain areas -- and that’s difficult for people who live there -- but it provides greater freedom for the rest of the country, for businesses to reopen and people to get on with their daily lives.”Ministers are seeking to balance the need to damp down flare-ups of the virus while rebooting the U.K. economy, which is facing its worst recession in 300 years. Jenrick denied newspaper reports of plans to close pubs and said restrictions on the movements of everyone over the age of 50 is “not something being actively considered.”The reports came two days after Johnson postponed the planned easing of lockdown measures amid a surge in infections. The prime minister ditched proposals to reopen leisure facilities such as bowling alleys, and canceled trials aimed at getting sports fans back into stadiums.Travel CurbsPossible measures include locking down the capital if infection rates spike and tightening quarantine rules on those flying into the U.K., the Sunday Telegraph reported. There could be travel curbs in and out of the M25 highway encircling Greater London and a ban on overnight stays if there’s a surge in cases, according to the Sunday Times.Johnson’s office said the reports were “speculation.”Less than a month ago, Johnson said the idea of a second nationwide lockdown was a tool similar to a “nuclear deterrent” -- a method of last resort. The U.K. has suffered the highest death toll in Europe and the government has been accused of waiting too long to impose the lockdown in March, raising the stakes for Johnson if he gets it wrong again.“You’d expect the government to be considering the range of all the options,” Jenrick said. “We’re taking a very localized approach following the data and I’m working, for example, with each of the directors of public health in the London boroughs who are monitoring the rate of transmission in their own areas very closely.”“There is no plan, as far as I’m aware, to do anything broader in London,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-reviewing-covid-19-fighting-options-including-london-lockdown/story-ArbvU0XktCjoS6FMAbSfzO.html
02-08-2020||World||United States condemns Hong Kong’ decision to postpone legislative council polls||The United States on Saturday condemned the Hong Kong’s administration move to postpone Legislative Council elections and urged the government to reconsider their decision.Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam announced on Friday that the Legislative Council elections scheduled for September 6 will be postponed over the Covid-19 threat.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, in a statement, said that the elections should be held as close to September 6 date as possible and in a manner that reflects the will and aspirations of the people of Hong Kong.“The United States condemns the Hong Kong government’s decision to postpone by one year upcoming Legislative Council elections originally scheduled for September 6. There is no valid reason for such a lengthy delay. It is likely, therefore, that Hong Kong will never again be able to vote - for anything or anyone,” Pompeo said in the statement published on the State Department website read.“We urge Hong Kong authorities to reconsider their decision. The elections should be held as close to September 6 date as possible and in a manner that reflects the will and aspirations of the Hong Kong people. If they aren’t, then regrettably Hong Kong will continue its march toward becoming just another Communist-run city in China,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-condemns-hong-kong-decision-to-postpone-legislative-council-polls/story-fWiQZ01oI7zF9RWhYGM0uI.html
02-08-2020||World||Despite Covid-19 threat, Black voters wary of voting by mail in 2020 US polls||Despite fears that the coronavirus pandemic will worsen, Victor Gibson said he’s not planning to take advantage of Michigan’s expanded vote-by-mail system when he casts his ballot in November.The retired teacher from Detroit just isn’t sure he can trust it. Many Black Americans share similar concerns and are planning to vote in person on Election Day, even as mail-in voting expands to more states as a safety precaution during the pandemic.For many, historical skepticism of a system that tried to keep Black people from the polls and worries that a mailed ballot won’t get counted outweigh the prospect of long lines and health dangers from a virus that’s disproportionately affected communities of colour. Ironically, suspicion of mail-in voting aligns with the views of President Donald Trump, whom many Black voters want out of office.Trump took it a step further Tuesday, suggesting a “delay” to the Nov. 3 presidential election — which would take an act of Congress — as he made unsubstantiated allegations in a tweet that increased mail-in voting will result in fraud.“I would never change my mind” about voting in person in November, said Gibson, who is Black and hopes Trump loses. “I always feel better sliding my ballot in. We’ve heard so many controversies about missing absentee ballots.”Decades of disenfranchisement are at the heart of the uneasy choice facing Black voters, one of the Democratic Party’s most important voting groups. Widespread problems with mail-in ballots during this year’s primary elections have added to the skepticism at a time when making Black voices heard has taken on new urgency during a national reckoning over racial injustice.Patricia Harris of McDonough, Georgia, south of Atlanta, voted in person in the primary and said she will do the same in November.“I simply do not trust mail-in or absentee ballots,” said Harris, 73, a retired event coordinator at Albany State University. “After the primary and the results were in, there were thousands of absentee ballots not counted.”In Georgia, roughly 12,500 mail-in ballots were rejected in the state’s June primary, while California tossed more than 100,000 absentee ballots during its March primary.Reasons vary, from ballots being received after the deadline to voters’ signatures not matching the one on file with the county clerk. Multiple studies show mail-in ballots from Black voters, like those from Latino and young voters, are rejected at a higher rate than those of white voters.In Wisconsin’s April primary, thousands of voters in Milwaukee said they didn’t receive absentee ballots in time and had to vote in person. Lines stretched several blocks, and people waited two hours or more.In Kentucky’s June primary, more than 8,000 absentee ballots were rejected in Jefferson County, which includes Louisville.Many people in Louisville’s historically Black West End neighborhood voted in person because they didn’t receive an absentee ballot or simply wanted to vote in a way that was familiar to them, said Arii Lynton-Smith, an organizer with Black Lives Matter Louisville.“That’s particularly why we knew we had to have the poll rides as an option,” she said, referring to groups offering voters free transportation to polling places. “It’s not as easy to do an absentee ballot and the things that come along with it than it is to just go in person.”Mistrust by Black voters runs deep and is tightly bound within the nation’s dark past of slavery and institutional racism.Black people endured poll taxes, tossed ballots, even lynchings by whites intent on keeping them from voting. Over the decades, that led to a deep suspicion of simply handing off a ballot to the post office. Black people were the demographic least likely to cast votes by mail in 2018, with only 11% using that method, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. By comparison, 24% of whites and 27% of Latinos reported voting by mail that year.“For Black folks, voting is almost like a social pride because of the way they were denied in the past,” said Ben Barber, a researcher and writer for the Institute for Southern Studies in Durham, North Carolina.Among the places where Black voters say they have had to overcome institutional obstacles is Shelby County, Tennessee, which includes Memphis. In the past, voters have received ballots for the wrong district, and groups have sued to challenge the security of electronic voting machines, invalidation of voter registration forms and failure to open polling places near predominantly Black neighborhoods.The Rev. Earle Fisher, senior pastor at Abyssinian Missionary Baptist Church in Memphis and a prominent Black civil rights activist, is one of the plaintiffs in a state lawsuit calling for mail-voting access for everyone. He said he’s not pushing his community to vote by mail but wants to ensure it’s an option given the health dangers.To ease doubts, he wants voters to be able to drop off their ballot at a polling place so they won’t have to worry about the post office delivering it on time.“I would like to see every righteous and creative method and measure taken, but we are up against a voter suppression apparatus that oftentimes is orchestrated by, or at least sustained by, people who are elected or appointed to office,” Fisher said.Trump has made clear he believes widespread mail-in voting would benefit Democrats. He has alleged — without citing evidence — that it will lead to massive fraud, and the Republican National Committee has budgeted $20 million to fight Democratic lawsuits in at least 18 states aimed at expanding voting by mail.The extent to which Black voters adopt it in November is likely to be dictated by the coronavirus. As infections surge, there are signs more Black voters may be willing to consider the option. In Detroit, for example, about 90,000 requests for mail-in ballots have been made so far — the most ever, City Clerk Janice Winfrey said.How well the option is promoted also is important. In 2018, Democrat Stacey Abrams’ campaign mailed 1.6 million absentee ballot requests to Georgia voters during her unsuccessful bid for governor, emphasizing that it was a safe, easy way to vote.Record numbers of Black voters voted by mail in that election. That shows they will embrace the process if they hear from friends and family that it works, said Lauren Groh-Wargo, Abrams’ campaign manager.NAACP President Derrick Johnson praised how Abrams was able to bridge that gap but said this year is different. The model can’t be replicated nationwide before Nov. 3, he said.“Stacey did a good job in the four years leading up to 2018 to build out a program to get it done,” Johnson said. “The runway between now and November isn’t long enough to get it done.”___Associated Press writers Piper Hudspeth Blackburn in Frankfort, Kentucky; Nicholas Riccardi in Denver; and Adrian Sainz in Memphis contributed to this story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/despite-virus-threat-black-voters-wary-of-voting-by-mail/story-HeSvxNf5M67TTgS8hMvh9O.html
02-08-2020||World||Rishi Sunak calls for Mahatma Gandhi, non-white icons on UK coins||Chancellor Rishi Sunak’s office confirmed on Sunday that Mahatma Gandhi’s image on a coin is being considered as part of efforts to celebrate achievements of non-white individuals such as Indian-origin British spy Noor Inayat Khan and Jamaican British nurse Mary Seacole.Sunak has written to the Royal Mint Advisory Committee that recommends themes and designs of coins, supporting a campaign called ‘We Too Built Britain’, which seeks representation of non-white icons on British currency.The idea of having Gandhi on a British coin was previously announced by former chancellor Sajid Javid in October 2019.In a letter to Zehra Zahidi, who has led the campaign, Sunak said: “Black, Asian and other ethnic minority communities have made a profound contribution to the shared history of the United Kingdom”.“For generations, ethnic minority groups have fought and died for this country we have built together; taught our children, nursed the sick, cared for the elderly; and through their enterprising spirit have started some of our most exciting and dynamic businesses, creating jobs and driving growth”.“I am writing today to the Chair of the Royal Mint Advisory Committee (RMAC), Lord Waldegrave…asking the RMAC Sub-Committee on Themes to consider recognising this very great contribution on our nation’s coinage,” he wrote.The chancellor’s office confirmed that the RMAC is currently considering a coin to commemorate Gandhi, adding that Sunak is keen that British coins commemorate the work of the previous generations who have served the UK and nations that form the Commonwealth.Campaigners previously sought Noor Inayat Khan’s image on a new £50 note, but the Bank of England announced that the new series to enter circulation in 2021 will have the image of computer pioneer and code-breaker Alan Turing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rishi-sunak-calls-for-mahatma-gandhi-non-white-icons-on-uk-coins/story-OEU3EiN2wtRRvDzfrgSbXJ.html
02-08-2020||World||China registers 49 new Covid-19 cases, 20 asymptomatic cases in 24 hours||China registered 49 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, while 14 Covid-19 patients recovered over that period, the country’s National Health Commission said on Sunday.Out of the 49 new cases, 33 are local, while the rest are imported. According to the commission, most of the local cases have been registered in Xinjiang, an autonomous territory in northwestern China, where new sparks in infection were recently reported.The country’s total number of confirmed coronavirus cases now stands at 84,385, the death toll is 4,634. The total number of recovered individuals in China stands at 79,003. The total number of imported cases is 2,085.In the past 24 hours, 20 new asymptomatic cases were registered in China, nine of them imported. More than 250 asymptomatic carriers of the novel coronavirus are being monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-registers-49-new-covid-19-cases-20-asymptomatic-cases-in-24-hours/story-cfE4x122Y306FEX6gH31LO.html
02-08-2020||World||Iran says it has arrested head of US-based ‘terrorist group’||Iran said Saturday it had arrested the head of a US-based “terrorist group” accused of being behind a deadly 2008 bombing in the southern city of Shiraz and planning other attacks.“Jamshid Sharmahd, who was leading armed and sabotage operations inside Iran, is now in the powerful hands” of Iran’s security forces, state television said, citing an intelligence ministry statement.It did not elaborate on where or when the alleged leader of the opposition royalist group known as the Kingdom Assembly of Iran, or Tondar (Farsi for Thunder), was detained.Iran slammed its arch enemy the United States for hosting Sharmahd and “supporting known terrorists who have claimed responsiblity for several terrorist acts inside” the country.“This regime must answer for its support of this terrorist group and other groups and criminals who orchestrate armed, sabotage and terrorist operations against the people of Iran from inside America and spill Iranians’ blood,” a foreign ministry statement said.The intelligence ministry said Sharmahd had orchestrated the April 12, 2008 bombing in a packed mosque in Shiraz that killed 14 people and wounded 215.A US State Department spokesperson said “the Iranian regime has a long history of detaining Iranians and foreign nationals on spurious charges”.“We urge Iran to be fully transparent and abide by all international legal standards.”Mosque bombing Iran hanged three men convicted of the bombing in 2009, saying they had ties to the monarchist group.The three men said they had been taking orders from an Iranian US-backed “CIA agent” identified at the time only as “Jamshid” to try to assassinate a high-ranking official in Iran, Fars news agency reported at the time.They were 21-year-old Mohsen Eslamian and Ali Asghar Pashtar, 20 -- both university students -- as well as Rouzbeh Yahyazadeh, 32.The three were found guilty of being “mohareb” (enemies of God) and “corruption on earth” by a revolutionary court in Tehran.Iran in 2010 hanged two other convicted members of the group, who had “confessed to obtaining explosives and planning to assassinate officials”.The statement issued on Saturday said that Tondar had plotted several other “big operations” which failed.It said that Tondar had planned to blow up a dam in Shiraz, use “cyanide bombs” at a Tehran book fair, and plant an explosive device at the mausoleum of the Islamic republic’s founder, the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.Iran’s intelligence ministry published a picture later on Saturday of a grey-haired man in a blindfold it said was Sharmahd. It did not say where or when the photo was taken.‘Complicated operation’It was not clear how Iran arrested Sharmahd, who has generally been based in the US, in what its intelligence ministry called a “complicated operation”.According to the association’s website, Sharmahd was born in Tehran in 1955 and grew up in an Iranian-German family before moving to the United States in 2003, where he started to voice anti-Islam and anti-Islamic republic statements.Tondar rejects the Iranian political system and campaigns to overthrow the Islamic republic and re-establish a monarchy similar to that of Cyrus the Great.Iran announced the arrest of a former opposition figure in similarly mysterious circumstances in October last year.It said Ruhollah Zam was arrested in a “sophisticated and professional operation”.Zam, described by Iran’s Revolutionary Guards as a “counter-revolutionary” who was “directed by France’s intelligence service”, was sentenced to death in June over “corruption on earth”.Zam, who reportedly lived in exile in Paris, ran a channel on the Telegram messaging application called Amadnews and was accused of sparking unrest during anti-government protests in 2017-18.The Islamic republic also captured the head of a Sunni Muslim rebel group in a dramatic operation in 2010 and executed him in the same year, boasting of its reach in capturing adversarial figures.Abdolmalek Rigi was arrested while on a flight from Dubai to Kyrgyzstan, when Iranian warplanes forced the plane he was travelling on to land in Iran.The rebel group Jundallah (Soldiers of God) had waged a deadly insurgency in Shiite Iran’s southeastern province of Sistan and Baluchistan for a decade before it was severely weakened by Rigi’s execution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-it-has-arrested-head-of-us-based-terrorist-group/story-LKvpYVyDodzgv4qC2LpWqJ.html
02-08-2020||World||What US ban on Chinese app TikTok would mean||President Donald Trump says he wants to take action to ban TikTok, a popular Chinese-owned video app that has been a source of national security and censorship concerns.The threat comes as Microsoft Corp. is in advanced talks to buy the Chinese app, owned by Bytedance Ltd., according to a person familiar with the discussions who spoke only on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity to the negotiations. Microsoft declined to comment.It’s not clear whether Trump would accept a divestment as a concession. But there have been reports of US tech giants and financial firms being interested in buying or investing in TikTok as the Trump administration sets its sights on the app.Questions and answers about what’s at stake:Q. What’s TikTok?A. ByteDance launched TikTok in 2017, then bought Musical.ly, a video service popular with teens in the US and Europe, and combined the two. A twin service, Douyin, is available for Chinese users.TikTok’s fun, goofy videos and ease of use has made it immensely popular, and US tech giants like Facebook and Snapchat see it as a competitive threat. It has said it has tens of millions of US users and hundreds of millions globally. But TikTok has also been a way that millions of people have built careers and made a living.Q. What would the ban look like?A. The app would be pulled from the app store of Apple and Google and not function unless used by a virtual private network, experts say.Q. How likely is the ban?A. Experts believe that while the ban may seem legitimate, it likely won’t come to that, given the pressure by ByteDance to sell its stake and any control of TikTok to a US company or completely spin off, says Ben Bajarin of Creative Strategies, an industry analysis and market research firm based in San Jose, California.“I think a total spin-off or U.S. tech firm acquisition is the likely scenario here so it can keep operating,” he added.Q. What does a ban mean for TikTok creators?A. Many are trying to move followers to other platforms like YouTube and Triller, an entertainment platform built for creators. Some are trying to monetize through sites like Patreon, a crowdfunding platform for artists, musicians and other creators, says Amber Atherton, CEO at Zyper, a community marketing platform that connects brands with the top 1% of their superfans.Atherton says teens will continue to access TikTok anyway through a virtual private network in the same way that teens access Instagram in China. But she says teenagers are devastated since TikTok is about everyday people where users can discover product demos and other information.Q. What are the political consequences for a ban on TikTok?A. Industry officials say that any ban could invoke some retaliation from China against US businesses.“It could make many companies wary of the U.S. government’s capricious decisions, which leads to instability and uncertainty, “ says Sucharita Kodali, an analyst at Forrester Research, an e-commerce research firm. ”Investors then opt to park capital in more stable, predictable environments. Something of this nature is relatively uncommon. Usually, it happens when there are sanctions or other major political action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-us-ban-on-chinese-app-tiktok-would-mean/story-OWnK15Ol1SotdR8NQpovKJ.html
02-08-2020||World||Apple Fire grows in California, nearly 8,000 to be evacuated||A major fire in California in the United States has led to evacuation of more than 8,000 people from the Riverside County. The uncontrolled blaze has spread across more than 12,000 acres, according to local authorities.It is called Apple Fire by the locals and it started as several small fires on Friday. All of them merged resulting into massive blaze.It first started in Cherry Valley, a community about 75 miles east of Los Angeles.In a tweet posted on Sunday morning, the Riverside County fire department said that the Apple Fire is now 12,000 acres and remains 0% contained. “Several EVACUATION ORDERS and warnings remain in place.” #AppleFIRE [UPDATE] 8:00 p.m. 08/01/2020 - The Apple Fire is now 12,000 acres and remains 0% contained. Several EVACUATION ORDERS and warnings remain in place. Please visit https://t.co/NNPcufL1ea to search if your address is in an evacuation area. pic.twitter.com/qyV6NMUUqTIt has also issued new evacuation orders for the area north of Morongo Road, east of Millard Canyon Road, and west of Whitewater Canyon Road.“Approximately 2,586 homes totaling approximately 7,800 people are under evacuation orders,” a fire department tweet said. NEW EVACUATION WARNING issued for the area north of Morongo Rd, east of Millard Canyon Rd, and west of Whitewater Canyon Rd.An interactive map, where you can search the status of your address can be found at https://t.co/2S9I5zv25f. https://t.co/ouQu1CM3ITPhotographs shared by the Riverside County fire department showed thick plumes of smoke filling the sky over the mountainous region.The fire had grown from 700 acres on Friday evening to its present form.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/apple-fire-grows-in-california-nearly-8-000-to-be-evacuated/story-sDU5tRrIRGKDoEM5UbJX1J.html
02-08-2020||World||China sends team to Hong Kong to do widespread coronavirus testing||Seven Chinese health officials were due to arrive in Hong Kong on Sunday, the first members of a 60-person team that will carry out widespread testing for Covid-19 in the territory as the global financial hub races to halt a third wave of illness.China’s National Health Commission on Saturday announced their scheduled arrival.Members of the team are from public hospitals in Guangdong province while a specialist team of six from Wuhan, where the novel coronavirus first appeared, will help prepare part of the AsiaWorld Expo convention centre as a facility for Covid-19 patients.The initiative is the first time mainland health officials have assisted Hong Kong in its battle to control the coronavirus.Some local residents fear China may use this as an excuse to collect DNA samples for surveillance purposes.Leader Carrie Lam said on Saturday the former British colony asked for help from the central government due to the resurgence in cases. She said the government was studying whether everyone in Hong Kong could be tested, local broadcaster RTHK reported on Saturday. The Chinese territory saw a surge in locally transmitted coronavirus cases in July and introduced a raft of tightening measures including restricting gatherings to two people and mandating face masks in all outdoor public spaces.Hong Kong has reported around 3,400 coronavirus cases and 33 deaths since January, far lower than other major cities around the world. But the daily number of new infections has been in the triple-digits for the past 11 days.Beijing recently imposed a security law that critics say undermines Hong Kong’s autonomy, which was guaranteed under a “one country, two systems” formula when the city returned to Chinese control from Britain in 1997.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sends-team-to-hong-kong-to-do-widespread-coronavirus-testing/story-dR0WpBsUoQZh4N0MCq5ZRK.html
02-08-2020||World||Mexico Covid-19 chief sidesteps calls to resign||The head of Mexico’s efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic has sidestepped calls to resign after Mexico posted a record case increase and the country’s death count rose to overtake the United Kingdom as the third-highest in the world.Assistant Health Secretary Hugo López-Gatell said late Friday that “I express my respect” to the nine of Mexico’s 32 state governors who called for his resignation, adding “I hope we can continue to work together.”On Saturday, Mexico reported yet another new daily high for confirmed cases — 9,556, which raised Mexico’s total cases so far to almost 425,000. The country also posted 784 more confirmed Covid-19 deaths, raising its accumulated total to 47,472.A letter calling for López-Gatell’s “immediate” resignation bore the names of 10 state governors, all from opposition parties, was made public Friday, but later one of those governors said he had not approved the letter and distanced himself from it.The letter blamed the administration of President Andrés Manuel López Obrador for “an erratic handling of the epidemic and a lack of efficient response” that simultaneously boosted Mexico’s death toll to the third-highest in the world while suffering an 18.9% drop in economic activity in the second quarter compared to the same period last year.Mexico has imposed a very lax and partial lockdown of economic activity that has not stopped high levels of contagion, but has strangled the economy. Rather than testing or contact tracing, the government has focused on expanding hospital facilities.The federal government has given confusing and mixed messages about whether to wear face masks. López Obrador himself almost never wears one, and said Friday “I will use a face mask when there is no more corruption,” a reference to his administration’s anti-graft crusade, which he views as the country’s main priority.Many governors have been stung by the federal government’s four-color “stoplight” scheme indicating whether a state is allowed to reopen businesses gradually. Criteria like the rate of infection or hospital occupation levels are used to determine the colors, ranging from red for the shutdown of all but essential businesses, to green for near-normality. But many have disputed the way those criteria are determined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-covid-19-chief-sidesteps-calls-to-resign/story-9TBScklqn6SuaNL7anJHTK.html
02-08-2020||World||Israel to resume international flights on August 16: Report||Israel will resume international flights on August 16, Xinhua reported citing the state’s Minister of Transport.According to the transport minister, Miri Regev, the Israel Airports Authority is already preparing to resume flights, including the setup of a rapid 20-to-30-minute coronavirus testing array.As per the report, she noted that passengers arriving in Israel from countries with low morbidity would not have to enter quarantine.According to latest data from Johns Hopkins University, Israel so far has reported 70,970 cases of coronavirus while its death toll stands at 526.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-to-resume-international-flights-on-august-16-report/story-SdDwLTgroMvxqI1Uav6PxL.html
02-08-2020||World||Connie Culp, first US partial face transplant recipient, dies||Connie Culp, the recipient of the first partial face transplant in the US, has died at 57, almost a dozen years after the groundbreaking operation.The Cleveland Clinic, where her surgery had been performed in 2008, said Saturday that Culp died Wednesday at the Ohio clinic of complications from an infection unrelated to her transplant.Dr Frank Papay, who is the chair of Cleveland Clinic’s dermatology and plastic surgery institute and was part of Culp’s surgical team, called her “an incredibly brave, vibrant woman and an inspiration to many.” “Her strength was evident in the fact that she had been the longest-living face transplant patient to date,” Papay said in a statement. “She was a great pioneer and her decision to undergo a sometimes-daunting procedure is an enduring gift for all of humanity.” Culp’s husband shot her in the face in 2004 in a failed murder-suicide attempt for which he was imprisoned for seven years. The blast destroyed her nose, shattered her cheeks and shut off most of her vision. Her features were so gnarled that children ran away from her and called her a monster, The Associated Press previously reported.Culp underwent 30 operations to try to fix her face. Doctors took parts of her ribs to make cheekbones and fashioned an upper jaw from one of her leg bones. She had countless skin grafts from her thighs. Still, she was left unable to eat solid food, breathe on her own, or smell.In December 2008, Dr Maria Siemionow led a team of doctors in a 22-hour operation to replace 80% of Culp’s face with bone, muscles, nerves, skin and blood vessels from a donor, Anna Kasper. It was the fourth face transplant in the world, though the others were not as extensive.After the operation, her expressions were a bit wooden and her speech was at times difficult to understand, but she could talk, smile, smell and taste her food again. In 2011, Siemionow said Culp had “a normal face” after doctors refined the droopy jowls and extra skin they purposely left to make checkup biopsies easier.“She’s smiling, she’s perfect. When she jokes, she kind of flickers her eyes. Her face is vivid. You can see emotions,” Siemionow said.Also in 2011, a Texas man severely disfigured in a power line accident underwent the nation’s first full face transplant.Culp made several television appearances and become an advocate for organ donation. Two years after her operation, Culp met with the family of Kasper, the donor, who had died of a heart attack. Culp told The (Cleveland) Plain Dealer: “They’re just really nice people.” Kasper’s 23-year-old daughter, Becky Kasper, said she could see part of her mother in Culp, though their bone structures were different.“I can definitely see the resemblance in the nose,” she said. “I know she’s smiling down on this, that she’s very happy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/connie-culp-first-us-partial-face-transplant-recipient-dies/story-48VmdwD6dMJ21kg5ccEEGL.html
02-08-2020||World||Australia’s Victoria state to toughen Covid-19 lockdown, says report||Australia’s Victoria state will toughen its social distancing measures in the coming days as the country’s second-most populous state struggles to contain the novel coronavirus, media reported on Sunday.Victoria’s capital of Melbourne is already under a reimposed six-week stay-home order and reported record numbers of new infections last week. Authorities warned of more restrictions ahead.Melbourne newspapers reported that plans going into effect on Wednesday would restrict movement for six weeks and close all but essential businesses.Australia has fared far better than many other countries in keeping the coronavirus from spreading, at a high economic cost. The country has recorded around 17,300 cases total and 200 deaths, but the recent surge in Victoria has proven difficult to contain.At present, Melbournians are allowed to go out for work, essential shopping, medical care and exercise, but under the new restrictions they would have to stay within 5 kilometers (3 miles) of their homes, with only one person from each household allowed to go to grocery shopping.The measures would limit public transport options and restaurants, which allow now for delivery and take-away options would be limited to contactless pick-up orders, the newspapers reported.Movement restrictions and business operations would also be limited in the rest of the state, but not to the same level as in Melbourne.The Age newspaper reported, citing sources, that Victoria officials and politicians worked late into Saturday on the details of the next stage of the restrictions, which could be announced Sunday or Monday.The state’s media office was not immediately available to comment, but Victoria Premier Daniel Andrews was expected to hold his daily briefing later on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-s-victoria-state-to-toughen-covid-19-lockdown-says-report/story-hx5bWlKLKjCvq0rxcWACpL.html
02-08-2020||World||Fires in Brazil’s Amazon rainforest increases by 28% in July: Report||Fires in the Brazilian Amazon increased 28% in July from a year ago, a state agency reported Saturday.The National Institute for Space Research, which is responsible for monitoring Brazil, said it recorded 6,803 fires in the Amazon rainforest last month, compared to 5,318 in the same month of 2019.Environmentalists expressed concern at the rise because August traditionally marks the beginning of the fire season in the region. They fear Brazil could repeat the surge seen in fires last August, when 30,900 fires were recorded by the institute.The sharp increase in fires comes amid domestic and international concern over President Jair Bolsonaro’s calls to clear land in Brazil’s Amazon to drive economic development.Addressing those concerns, on July 16, the government banned burning in the Pantanal wetlands and the Amazon forest for four months. Bolsonaro also issued an order in May for the military to coordinate environmental actions in the Amazon.But experts said the fire numbers indicate the government’s response is not being effective and also point to the possibility that this year’s dry season will be even more prone to fires than last year.Carlos Nobre, a researcher at the Advanced Studies Institute in the State University of Sao Paulo, said the deforestation index also has remained high this year until July, compared to the last couple of years.“We can conclude, with data until the end of July, that the effectiveness of government actions to reduce fires and deforestation is low,” he said.Carlos Rittl, senior fellow at the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies in Germany, also told The Associated Press that trends in the Amazon are worrisome.“The tendency is that this will be a more dry year than 2019 and this makes it easier for the fire to spread,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fires-in-brazil-s-amazon-rainforest-increases-by-28-in-july-report/story-Jf8gXTBUzdghSzqJwtwu2M.html
02-08-2020||India||HC tells accused to get rakhi tied by survivor||Bhopal: The Indore bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court has granted bail to a man accused of sexual harassment on condition that he would visit the complainant with a box of sweets, request her to tie a Rakhi on his wrist, promise to protect her and gift her Rs 11,000 as part of the customs observed on Raksha Bandhan day.The court, through its order passed on Thursday, granted bail to the man on a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with one solvent surety of an equal amount .I“The applicant along with his wife shall visit the house of the complainant with a Rakhi thread / band at 11 am on August 3 with a box of sweets and request the complainant to tie the Rakhi band to him with the promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come,” a single bench of justice Rohit Arya said in the order.“He shall also tender Rs 11,000 to the complainant as a customary ritual usually offered by the brothers to sisters on such occasion and shall also seek her blessings. The applicant shall also tender Rs 5,000 to the son of the complainant for purchase of clothes and sweets,” the order added. The bail applicant was ordered to produce photographs of the occasion and receipts of payments to the complainant and her son before the court registry. “The woman, a resident of Ujjain district, lodged a complaint against her neighbour on April 20 that he had barged into her house and sexually harassed her,” government advocate Sudhanshu Vyas said. An FIR {first information report} was registered with Bhatpachalana police station under section 354 (sexual harassment), 452 (house trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC {Indian Penal Code}.” Vishal Patidar, the lawyer for the accused, said the bail petition had been filed on grounds that the man was the only earning member of his family, which had come to the brink of starvation after his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-tells-accused-to-get-rakhi-tied-by-survivor/story-tjZ0IzXDNusYDEIyRsGJYN.html
02-08-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah tests Covid+, hospitalised||New Delhi: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday tested positive for coronavirus disease and was admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram. Amit Shah, who is the first union cabinet minister to have tested positive for Covid-19, announced this on Twitter : “After showing initial symptoms, I underwent a test for coronavirus and the report came out positive. My health is fine but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors”. The home minister also requested those who came in his contact in last few days to isolate themselves and get tested. Among those who have met Amit Shah in last few days and have gone into isolation are BJP leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and Babul Supriyo. Babul Supriyo tweeted “I had met Honble HM Amit Shah Ji day before in the evening. I am advised by doctors to confine myself, away from my family members, for the next few days with a test to be done soon”. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, who was attending regular meetings with the home minister, few joint secretaries and Shah’s personal staff as well as security personnel deployed in his close proximity are also likely to be in isolation and undergo tests, government officials familiar with the matter said. The officials added that Amit Shah has had a full schedule for the past few days: he was present at the cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last Wednesday, in which the government approved the new National Education Policy (NEP). However, social distancing was strictly followed along with wearing of masks at the cabinet meeting at the PM’s residence, the officials said. “There is a strict protocol at PM’s residence in the last few months which includes temperature checks, analyzing a person’s status through Aarogya Setu app and proper hand sanitization,” said an official who didn’t wish to be named. During the plast few days, Shah is learnt to have attended crucial meetings on security, party meetings and met several persons at his office. On Saturday, Shah addressed the Indian Council of Cultural Relations’ (ICCR) online conference on Bal Gangadhar Tilak, marking 100 years of the freedom fighter’s death August 1, 1920. While the conference was online, there was a physical component to it as well -- and Sahasrabuddhe , who is also the head of ICCR, met Shah during this. The home minister was also supposed to attend the ground breaking ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, but the officials said that this seems difficult now. There was no information available on how many leaders have been in touch with Shah in the last few days; the newly appointed state unit presidents of Haryana, OP Dhankar and Gujarat, CR Patil called on him on July 24. The party headquarters is also out of bounds for visitors, only a handful of functionaries are allowed into the building. Soon after the news of Shah’s Covid-19 positive result broke, several political leaders from various parties including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Delhi chief minister Arving Kejriwal, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel among others wished him speedy recovery on their Twitter accounts. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP President J P Nadda too posted messages wishing him good health. “Amitji, your perseverance and willpower has been an example for every challenge. I believe you will definitely win over this big challenge of coronavirus. I pray to God for your speedy recovery,” Rajnath Singh tweeted. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, is currently recovering in a hospital after he tested positive for coronavirus. According to people familiar with the matter in Medanta, Shah is in no discomfort. He was admitted around 4.30pm in the internal medicine department and is under the care of Dr Suhsila Kataria, who is an internal medicine physician at the hospital, and specializes in treating infectious diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-tests-covid-hospitalised/story-19wGUQIMLHxdmx77ckgjLJ.html
02-08-2020||India||DU prof Babu had links with insurgent groups, says NIA||New Delhi: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday claimed that the Delhi University professor Hany Babu MT had links with Manipur-based insurgent group Kangkeipak Communist Party-Military Council (KCP-MC). The agency also said that it has retrieved several communications of the DU professor with other Manipur-based outfits. Based on Hany Babu’s questioning, an NIA team also searched his residence in Noida on Sunday morning. His wife Jenny Rowena, who teaches at Miranda House, was present during the raid, which she termed as “harassment”. Babu is currently being interrogated by the NIA after he was arrested last week in Bhima-Koregaon case. The KCP is a banned northeast-based insurgent group which indulges in extortion from government offices on the pretext of protection money and is involved in several violent incidents over the years, a counter-insurgency official, who didn’t wish to be named, said. “The banned outfit is active and has a solid base in Manipur, Myanmar and Nepal. They also have strong links with the Naxals as they exchange arms and ammunition with them. It has several factions but the parent organization is KCP itself,” this official said. Talking of Hany Babu’s links with the KCP-MC, a NIA statement said on Sunday, “Hany Babu MT was found to be a co-conspirator along with other accused persons propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology. The investigation also revealed that Hany Babu was in contact with Paikhomba Meitei, Secretary Information and Publicity, Military Affairs of Kangkeipak Communist Party (MC), an organisation banned under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.” “An interview of Ganapathy, General Secretary of CPI (Maoist) was shared by Paikhomba Meitei with the accused Hany Babu. Communications of Hany Babu with other Maoists of Manipur have also been retrieved,” the agency added. It further alleged that “after the release of CPI (Maoist) leader Pallath Govindankutty, Hany Babu, along with co-accused Rona Wilson, took the initiative to help him financially by raising funds.” “Hany Babu, along with other accused persons namely Rona Wilson, Anand Teltumbde, P Varavara Rao and Surendra Gadling formed a Committee for the release of GN Saibaba who was sentenced to life imprisonment for his links with CPI (Maoist),” NIA statement said. During the raid on Sunday, the agency team recovered an account ledger, a receipt book of the committee for the defence and release of Dr GN Saibaba and several documents, it added. The agency has alleged that the Elgar-Parishad event at Pune on December 31, 2017, promoted enmity between various caste groups and led to violence resulting in loss of life and property and a state-wide agitation in Maharashtra. “The investigation revealed that the Elgar Parishad along with Maoist leaders used the incident to spread the ideology of Maoism/Naxalism and encourage unlawful activities on the instructions of the leaders of CPI (Maoist), a banned organization,” it said. Jenny Rowena said, “I was alone with my daughter, so I did not let them enter my house till I call a friend. They cannot barge into my house without any prior notice. It’s so unsafe.” Rowena said that they were looking for some specific things. “They did not search the whole house. They asked for some specific things like receipts of donations received for the Saibaba defence committee. Babu has a drawer in which he keeps all the receipts. I gave them the receipts and they left,” she said. “Babu’s bail application is going to be heard day after tomorrow and immediately before that they are running for things to show (in the court),” she added. Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) president Rajib Ray said, “I strongly protest and urge the government to desist from these illegal, strong-arm tactics and immediately stop this witch hunt against academics and scholars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/du-prof-babu-had-links-with-insurgent-groups-says-nia/story-3CQFCrdybh28xMp7XkTeXK.html
02-08-2020||India||Yogi’s visit to Ayodhya called off as minister dies of Covid-19||LUCKNOW:Uttar Pradesh minister Kamal Rani Varun died of the coronavirus disease at a hospital here on Sunday. The technical education minister was 62. Following her demise, chief minister Yogi Adityanath cancelled his pre-scheduled visit to Ayodhya, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said. The CM was supposed to visit Ayodhya to review the preparations for Ram Temple foundation laying ceremony on August 5.The state government also declared a one-day state mourning on Sunday.“She was suffering from fever, cough and breathlessness and was admitted to PGI’s Rajdhani Covid Hospital after she tested positive on July 18. She also had co-morbidities in the form of diabetes mellitus, hypertension and hypothyroidism. She had bilateral pneumonia at the time of admission and was shifted to the ICU on the day of admission itself because of high oxygen requirement,” said Dr Radha Krishna Dheeman, director of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS). “We even sought expert advice from professor Randeep Guleria, director AIIMS and professor Ritesh Agarwal, PGIMER, Chandigarh to save the minister. However, she did not respond to medical therapy. She was put on mechanical ventilator on Saturday but her condition continued to deteriorate with hypotension and multi-organ dysfunction and she succumbed to her illness on Sunday at 9:30 am,” he said. Her funeral rites were conducted at the Bhairo Ghat crematorium in Kanpur in accordance with Covid-19 protocols. “A guard of honour was given as soon as her body reached Bhairo Ghat crematorium,” Kanpur district magistrate Brahmdeo Ram Tiwari said. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, UP governor Anandiben Patel, UP Cm, cabinet ministers and political leaders across party lines condoled her demise.Meanwhile, UP Bharatiya Janata Party chief Swatantra Dev Singh has also tested positive for Covid-19. “I had been experiencing initial symptoms of Covid-19 and underwent a test for it. I was found positive for Covid-19,” Singh tweeted in Hindi. The leader requested his acquaintances, who came in his contact recently, to get themselves tested for the infection. “On the advice of doctors, I have quarantined myself at my home. I request all the residents of UP to exercise caution and strictly adhere to the guidelines of the government,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-s-visit-to-ayodhya-called-off-as-minister-dies-of-covid-19/story-t7Zk9uMa7vbDWro9OiLA8L.html
02-08-2020||India||MHA seeks three more months to frame CAA rules||New Delhi: The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has sought three more months to frame the rules of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) from a Department Related Standing Committee of Parliament, officials familiar with the development said. The Act was passed by Parliament in December last year.According to the Manual on Parliamentary Work, rules for legislation should be framed within six months of the date of the President’s assent or the standing committee on subordinate legislation should be approached for extension of time. The Act aims to grant Indian citizenship to religious minorities - Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhist, Christians and Parsis -- from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, who have fled their countries fearing religious persecution. The law, which excludes Muslims, will be applicable to those who entered India before December 2014. A senior officer cited above said that “the additional time has been sought to frame the rules as the ministry was busy in other work for the past several months. The rules will be framed soon”. The manual on Parliamentary Work states that in case the ministries/departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months, “they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension” which cannot be more than for a period of three months at a time. The government has claimed that while the rules are being framed, the non-Muslim refugees from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan will have to provide proof of their religious beliefs while applying for citizenship. The applicants belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Christian, Buddhist, Jain or Parsi faiths will also have to furnish documents to prove that they entered India on or before December 31, 2014, according to officials. After the CAA was passed by Parliament, widespread protests erupted in the country. Those opposing the CAA contend that it discriminates on the basis of religion and violates the Constitution. They also alleged that the CAA, along with the National Register of Citizens, is intended to target the Muslim community in India. However, Union home minister Amit Shah had dismissed the allegations and described the protests against the CAA as “mostly political”. He had asserted that no Indian will lose citizenship due to the Act. Lok Sabha had passed the CAA legislation on December 9, 2019 and Rajya Sabha on December 11, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-seeks-three-more-months-to-frame-caa-rules/story-57kZw6hBz1FL84dml2xoLL.html
02-08-2020||India||Graffiti, Ram dhun, diyas in Ayodhya ahead of Aug 5||Preparations are in full-swing in Ayodhya ahead of the bhoomi pujan (foundation-laying ceremony) for the Ram temple on August 5 -- all temples, ghats, streets are being spruced up ahead of the event.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in a grand ceremony, which will be attended by several dignitaries, on Wednesday.Every nook and corner of the town are being spruced up. Walls have been painted with graffiti and images depicting scenes from the Ramayan. Buildings on main streets across the temple town are being painted yellow.“Yellow is an auspicious colour. In Hindu tradition, yellow is used in all ceremonies. It symbolises purity and light,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor-designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra, the organiser of the event.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to offer prayers at Hanuman Garhi (on August 5). The entire temple is being spruced up,” said Raju Das, a priest at Hanuman Garhi.“Around 3000 sound systems are playing ‘Ram Dhun’ across Ayodhya,” said Rishikesh Upadhyay, mayor of Ayodhya. These sound systems will also play Vedic hymns during the bhoomi pujan. These sound systems will also be used by the Ayodhya administration to issue directives to public in case of any emergency situation. Nearly 500 sanitation workers are working round the clock to keep the city clean.More than a lakh diyas (earthen lamps) will sparkle in Ayodhya for two days from August 4, a day before bhoomi pujan.Around 20,000 temples across the pilgrim town have been given a new look for the ceremony. “We have requested everyone to decorate their houses with rangoli, diyas (earthen lamps) and lights to mark bhoomi pujan for construction of the Ram temple,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/graffiti-ram-dhun-diyas-in-ayodhya-ahead-of-aug-5/story-dJeFhHUAGnSVPXTatgMHeO.html
02-08-2020||India||MP police restricts leaves, DGP says Covid spreading among cops due to ‘carelessness’||An order by Madhya Pradesh’s director general of police (DGP) Vivek Johri has barred policemen in the state from leaving their headquarters except in emergency situations. He has also said that the rising number of infections in the police force were a result of carelessness shown by officials and personnel in following the anti-Covid 19 standard operating procedure (SOP).The order and the observation form part of a circular issued by the DGP, marked to heads of all police units and all superintendents of police in districts and in railways. The Congress party termed the order irrational and said that the policemen were risking their own lives to protect others. The party demanded that the state home minister withdraws the order immediately.Also Read: MP High Court asks sexual harassment accused to request victim to tie him a rakhi The DGP’s circular dated August 1, 2020 states, “In the past few days, a good number of police officials/personnel have been infected with novel Coronavirus (Covid-19). Through this office’s letter dated June 12, 2020, SOP regarding Covid-19 was conveyed to all the police units. Despite this, police officials/personnel adopted carelessness that resulted in 255 active cases of Corona among police officials/personnel and approximately four times of the same among them are in quarantine.” The circular further reasons that the increasing number of infections in the police force was due to personnel not following adequate precautions while on leave and flouting quarantine norms when rejoining duty.“In view of the increasing infections of Corona among the policemen, the leave of police officials/personnel to leave their headquarters is immediately stopped. Those who have got the leave can proceed on leave only after permission from inspector general of police concerned. It should be ensured that sanction of leave/leaving the headquarters should be allowed only in emergency situation in regard with their family and health,” said the circular. Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha wrote to home minister Narottam Mishra calling the order irrational.“The DGP’s order is not rational. Of course, protecting the jawans from Corona should be the first priority but we all know that more than 1.5 lakh police officials and personnel have risked their life while discharging their duties to protect life of people across the state in the past six months,” Tankha stated in his letter.Also Read: MP school girl ends life since parents didn’t buy her smartphone for online classesHe added that the policemen are bound to come in contact with others during patrol duty, checking of vehicles, maintaining law and order etc. and thus they are always susceptible to contracting the virus. “In the past also the police headquarters had issued an irrational order which was later withdrawn in view of its impracticality. The police personnel don’t have adequate housing facility as well. In view of the difficulties the policemen are facing at the lower level, the order should be immediately withdrawn,” Tankha’s letter said. Home minister Narottam Mishra couldn’t be reached for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-police-restricts-leaves-dgp-says-covid-spreading-among-cops-due-to-carelessness/story-AT9gpKUAzD1yoAKW0IHNaI.html
02-08-2020||India||Phase-1 of Ayodhya station modelled on Ram Mandir to be completed by June 2021||The first phase of the new Ayodhya railway station which is being remodelled on Ram Mandir is scheduled to be completed by June 2021, officials aware of the development said.The construction of the new station began in 2019 by the government’s construction arm RITES and has been sanctioned a total amount of Rs 104 crore.The move comes just ahead of the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ram Temple on August 5.The construction of the new building will be in two phases, the first phase will include the development work in the main three platforms, the development of the current circulating area and the development of the holding area. In the second phase, the construction of the new station building, and the construction of other facilities will take place.“The holy land of faith, devotion and spirituality and dignity Purushottam Lord Ram’s holy birthplace Ayodhya has been the focal point of devotion and faith in the middle of the whole world since ages… Due to this importance, the railway station of Ayodhya city also holds a special place for Indian Railways,” a northern railways spokesperson said.“Keeping in view the importance, the railways is in the direction of providing high class infrastructural facilities, passenger amenities, cleanliness, beauty and various desired facilities with high quality standards at the Ayodhya railway station,” he added. The new facilities will include renovation of the internal and external premises of the station to increase the facilities available at the station such as expansion of the number of ticket counters, waiting room expansion, three restrooms with air-conditioned facility, 17-bed male dormitory with toilet, 10-bed female dormitory with toilet, continuous work is underway towards providing other desired facilities including an additional foot over bridge, food plaza, shops and additional toilets.“Constant construction and development work is in progress, ensuring availability of many other desired facilities, including VIP lounge, auditorium and special guest house…Constant efforts are being made to provide a new form so that the division can provide modern facilities equipped with high standards for the visiting devotees and tourists visiting this station while attracting the whole world in the coming time,” said Rajiv Chaudhry, General Manager Northern and North Central Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-phase-of-ayodhya-railway-station-modelled-on-ram-mandir-to-be-completed-by-june-2021/story-KW6BaKvnhZKbfo9NzYAI1L.html
02-08-2020||India||Heavy rainfall to lash west coast, peninsular India this week; more areas flooded in UP, Bihar||Intense rainfall is predicted in Mumbai and other areas on the west coast and in peninsular India during the next three days as the monsoon is likely to strengthen over the Arabian Sea, weather forecasting agencies said on Sunday.A low-pressure area is likely to develop over north Bay of Bengal and move into Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, and then to central Maharashtra and Gujarat, bringing heavy rainfall, the India Meteorological Department said. Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal may also receive moderate rainfall on Tuesday and Wednesday, it said.A monsoon trough is likely to shift southwards and strengthen during the next three to four days and lash Goa, coastal Karnataka and Kerala with widespread rainfall.The weather office has sounded an orange alert for heavy rainfall in Kerala’s nine districts, including Kottayam, Idukki, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Wayanad, from Tuesday.Heavy rainfall in Mumbai and its suburbs from Monday may lead to widespread waterlogging and traffic jams. This will be the first heavy spell after July 15 in the metropolis and its suburbs, private forecaster Skymet Weather said.Meanwhile the flood situation in Bihar worsened as fresh areas were inundated. A total of 53.67 lakh people have been affected in the state and the number has gone up by 4.62 lakh since Saturday, the disaster management authority said in Patna.Fourteen districts have been affected by flood, including the worst-hit Muzaffarpur.Early Sunday, the Tirhut canal breached its embankment in Muzaffarpur district, inundating at least a dozen villages. Two NDRF teams have been deployed at the site.Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamlabalan, Adhwara, Khiroi, Mahananda and Ghaghra rivers are flowing above the danger level at various places and the weather department has forecast light rain in the catchment areas on Monday.Also on Sunday, over 60 villages in Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich district were inundated after Nepal released water into rivers from its three barrages. This affected over 1.50 lakh people and damaged 171 houses, a district administration official said, adding that the National Disaster Response Force personnel were rescuing people.“As many as 455 villages in 14 districts of the state have been affected by flood. Of these, 98 villages are marooned,” said a UP government spokesperson in Lucknow.The 14 districts affected by flood include Barabanki, Ayodhya, Kushinagar, Gorakhpur, Lakhimpur Khiri, Bahraich and Azamgarh.Heavy rainfall is very likely at isolated places in the state until Wednesday.A sultry weather prevailed in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab in absence of rain. The weather department said the condition will prevail for a week.The meteorology department in Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 37 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal, and humidity levels shot up to 95 per cent.Chandigarh, the common capital of Haryana and Punjab, recorded a maximum of 34.5 degrees Celsius, one notch above the normal.In Haryana, Hisar recorded a high of 37.9 degrees Celsius, up two notches against normal. Amritsar and Ludhiana in Punjab recorded above normal temperatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-to-lash-west-coast-peninsular-india-this-week-more-areas-flooded-in-up-bihar/story-MV17Sz0knpY9Dx9jgcjppK.html
02-08-2020||India||MP school girl ends life since parents didn’t buy her smartphone for online classes||A minor girl allegedly committed suicide in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhindwara district, 273 km south east of Bhopal, after her father-- a farmer with a smallholding-- couldn’t immediately afford a smartphone for her online classes, said police. The incident took place at Poama village, about 3 kilometres from the district headquarters, under Dehat police station on Thursday. However, it came to light on Saturday, said police. The girl’s mother Shashi Yuvnati said, “My daughter was enrolled for class 12 in her school this year. She wanted a smartphone for her online classes as her school is closed due to Coronavirus. We asked her to wait for some time. On Thursday, she had a fight with us over the smartphone. When we went away she consumed some poison. My younger daughter informed us about the incident. We took her to a hospital but she passed away.” Also Read: Woman, minor daughter gang raped, hospitalised in Madhya PradeshCity superintendent of police (CSP) Ashok Tiwari said, “We came to know that the girl died by suicide on July 30 as she was denied a mobile phone by her family for her online classes. Based on the information, an FIR was lodged. We are investigating the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-school-girl-ends-life-since-parents-didn-t-buy-her-smartphone-for-online-classes/story-CMx83bAkqbv5EnD8tUzh7N.html
02-08-2020||India||Local BJP leader killed in Chhattisgarh village, accused held||A local BJP leader and former sarpanch was allegedly killed by his neighbour following an argument in Janjgir-Champa district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Sunday.The accused, identified as Shivcharan Lahre (30), was arrested after he surrendered before the police after committing the crime on Saturday night, a local official said.Jangir-Champa, a neighbouring district of Korba, is located around250 kms away from capital Raipur.“As per the preliminary information, victim Gopichand Karsh (52) went to the Lahre’s house in Virra village on Saturday night after he came to know that he was creating nuisance in an inebriated state and using foul language,” he said.Karsh tried to pacify the accused, but soon an argument broke out between them. In a fit of rage, Karsh slapped Lahre in front of his family members, the police official said.“Some time later, as Karsh started returning to his house, the accused attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon, leaving him dead on the spot,” he said.After committing the crime, the accused reached Virra police station and surrendered, he said.Karsh was a local BJP leader and had been sarpanch of his village in the past, he said.He was booked under IPC section 302, the official said, adding that further investigation into the case was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/local-bjp-leader-killed-in-chhattisgarh-village-accused-held/story-DWvxYCWvO6VXFd48ez174J.html
02-08-2020||India||Bengal fixes Covid-19 tests, kits rates after hospitals found fleecing patients||Flooded by complaints of exorbitant rates being charged from Covid-19 patients for medicines, PPE kits, swab tests etc by private hospitals and laboratories, the West Bengal government has issued seven new advisories, fixing the rates. The government has also imposed curbs on use of critical care medicines carrying different price tags. Most hospitals are charging patients for the most expensive antibiotics, antifungals, analgesics and other drugs although these are available in different price ranges, the government has said in one of the advisories. “Patients’ relatives shall be offered to choose which branch they would like to purchase,” the advisory adds. On July 27, chief minister Mamata Banerjee told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he could tell the world that the Bengal government is offering “totally free treatment”. She made the remark during a virtual meeting with the PM. While Banerjee referred to government hospitals, the scenario in private hospitals is completely different if one goes by the advisories. There are 28 government hospitals dedicated to Covid-19 patients against 55 private hospitals of the same category. On Sunday, 2,739 new Covid-19 cases and 49 deaths were reported in the state. On Saturday, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission issued seven separate advisories, saying numerous anomalies had come to its notice. All hospitals and laboratories in the state are registered under the Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation and Transparency) Act. The state health department had earlier issued three notices to private hospitals but the complaints did not stop. In most cases, the patients alleged that they were charged in excess of Rs 5 lakh although antibiotics and oxygen were all they needed. The commission has said that high-end antibiotics such as “Meropenem” used in critical care management, are available under different brands having different price tags and henceforth hospitals must keep adequate stock of at least 3/ 4 brands. Unless a doctor specifically prescribes a particular brand the pharmacy must supply “Meropenem” having the lowest price tag, the commission has said. Citing the dearth of beds in hospitals, the commission said that if there are more patients waiting at the emergency compared to the number of vacant beds available, only the doctor-on-duty would assess the condition of the waiting patients and allot beds to the deserving ones, ignoring any other extraneous consideration or recommendations. “The same procedure would be followed in case of transfer of a patient from normal bed to ICU/ITU,” said an advisory. Incidentally there are numerous complaints that patients have been kept in ICU for long periods only to inflate bills. “The government has already fixed a sum of Rs 1,000 per day on account of PPE to be charged in the in-patient bill. However, some of the clinical establishments are charging additional amounts on account of sanitizer, additional gloves, head gear, etc,” said an advisory, adding that it cannot be done. “It has come to the notice of the commission that the pathological laboratories authorized to conduct Covid-19 tests by way of home collection are charging additional amounts over and excess of Rs 2,250 fixed by the government,” said one of the advisories. It said that if samples are collected from a person’s residence the laboratories cannot charge conveyance fee of more than Rs 10 per kilometre calculated on the basis of the distance between the laboratory and the customer’s home. The commission has said that many hospitals are charging various amounts in their out patients departments “in the guise of sanitary charges in addition to the doctor consultation fee”. No more than Rs 50 can be charged from a patient and another Rs 50 if the consultant doctor wears a full PPE kit, said an advisory. Reacting to the advisories, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the government has so far failed to monitor hospitals. “On the one hand we are seeing people turning paupers after footing exorbitant hospital bills while on the other the government is issuing advisories. The government should have monitored what is going on and listened to experts,” said Rahul Sinha, BJP national secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-fixes-rates-of-covid-19-tests-kits-after-private-hospitals-found-fleecing-patients/story-uUgfjfa59gDL5Sijp3UbMM.html
02-08-2020||India||‘Mind your business’: Punjab CM to Kejriwal on demand for CBI probe into hooch deaths||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday hit back at his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal for demanding a CBI probe into the state’s hooch tragedy, saying the AAP leader should “mind his own business”. Amarinder Singh further asked the Delhi chief minister “not to exploit the tragic affair for reviving his defunct Aam Aadmi Party’s stake in the state”. Kejriwal in his tweet on Sunday demanded a CBI probe into the Punjab hooch tragedy, which has claimed 98 lives so far. Slamming Kejriwal, the CM in a statement said, “So many people have died and all you are interested in is making political meat from the incident. Don’t you have any shame.” Asking the AAP leader to “mind his own business”, the Punjab CM said his Delhi counterpart should concentrate on maintaining law and order in his own state, which was “notorious for the brazen manner in which criminals and gangs were roaming the streets without fear”. Trashing Kejriwal’s claim that “none of the illicit liquor cases from the last few months have been solved by the local police”, the Punjab CM asked the AAP leader to verify his facts “before shooting through his mouth”. Citing that an illicit liquor factory was busted in Khanna on April 22, the CM said eight accused were arrested and a manhunt was launched for seven others. In another case, two kingpins behind an illicit liquor distillery operating in Patiala district were arrested on May 22 and June 13 this year, and on July 10, a challan was filed in the court, the Punjab chief minister said. Expressing full faith in the Punjab police, the CM said Kejriwal’s demand for a CBI probe was nothing but a “political gimmick”, aimed at “regaining lost foothold” for his party, which had “completely lost ground” in Punjab despite being the principal opposition party. The CM said despite the cases of targeted killings in Punjab being handed over the CBI, it was eventually the Punjab Police that had solved the same. Even in the sacrilege cases, the CBI failed to deliver and it is the Punjab Police which is unravelling the case, he claimed. Rather than delaying the investigation and allow the trail to go cold even in the present spurious liquor case by handing over the probe to CBI, he was more interested in ensuring swift action against all those whose greed had cost the state around 100 lives, the CM said in the statement. The CM asked Kejriwal to check out his facts before making “unsubstantiated and wild allegations” against his government, whose track record in curbing crime of all kinds was “exemplary”. “Why don’t you ask your Punjab unit for data and figures first and then comment on our working,” he told the Delhi CM. Singh also advised his Delhi counterpart to concentrate on his state’s “horrendous” Covid situation. “Rather than worrying about Punjab’s affairs, why don’t you take care of the health and lives of Delhiites,” the CM said. Saying that strict action is being taken against all those found guilty in cases of illicit brewing and smuggling, Amarinder Singh said in the hooch tragedy, too, 30 people have already been arrested in three districts. Moreover, 13 officials from the police and excise and taxation departments had been suspended for negligence while investigations are on to ascertain their complicity in the case, he said. A magisterial inquiry had ordered with the mandate to submit its report within a month, he further said, asking what was the need for CBI to take over the case when the local police was handling it so effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mind-your-business-punjab-cm-to-kejriwal-on-demand-for-cbi-probe-into-hooch-deaths/story-G6rWtU4lWYEmCnghCBz7cI.html
02-08-2020||India||NIA says DU professor Hany Babu has links with Manipur based insurgent group - KCP and others; raids his house||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday claimed that the Delhi University Professor Hany Babu M T had links with Manipur based insurgent group - Kangkeipak Communist Party-Military Council (KCP-MC). The agency also said that it has retrieved several communications of the DU professor with other Manipur-based outfits. Based on Hany Babu’s questioning, the NIA team also searched his residence in Noida on Sunday morning. His wife Jenny Rowena, who teaches at Miranda House, was present during the raid, which she has termed as ‘harassment’. Babu is currently being interrogated by NIA after he was arrested last week in Bhima-Koregaon case. KCP is a banned north east based insurgent group which indulges in extortion from government offices on the pretext of taking protection money and is involved in several violent incidents over the years, a counter-insurgency official, who didn’t wish to be named, said.“The banned outfit is active and has a solid base in Manipur, Myanmar and Nepal. They also have strong links with the Naxals as they exchange arms and ammunition with them. It has several factions but the parent organization is KCP itself,” this official said. Also Read: NIA arrests DU professor Hany Babu in Bhima Koregaon caseSharing Hany Babu’s links with KCP-MC, a NIA statement said on Sunday –“Hany Babu M T was found to be a co-conspirator along with other accused persons propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology. The investigation also revealed that Hany Babu was in contact with Paikhomba Meitei, Secretary Information and Publicity, Military Affairs of Kangkeipak Communist Party (MC), an organisation banned under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.” “An interview of Ganapathy, General Secretary of CPI (Maoist) was shared by Paikhomba Meitei with the accused Hany Babu. Communications of Hany Babu with other Maoists of Manipur have also been retrieved,” the agency added. It further alleged that “after the release of CPI (Maoist) leader Pallath Govindankutty, Hany Babu, along with co-accused Rona Wilson, took the initiative to help him financially by raising funds.” “Hany Babu, along with other accused persons namely Rona Wilson, Anand Teltumbde, P Varavara Rao and Surendra Gadling formed a Committee for the release of G N Saibaba who was sentenced to life imprisonment for his links with CPI (Maoist),” NIA statement said. During the raid on Sunday, the agency team recovered one account ledger, one receipt book of the Committee for the Defence and Release of Dr G N Saibaba and several documents, it added. The agency has alleged that the Elgar-Parishad even at Pune on December 31, 2017, promoted enmity between various caste groups and led to violence resulting in loss of life and property and state-wide agitation in Maharashtra. “The investigation revealed that the Elgar Parishad along with Maoist leaders used the incident to spread the ideology of Maoism/Naxalism and encourage unlawful activities on the instructions of the leaders of CPI (Maoist), a banned organization,” it said. Jenny Rowena said – “I was alone with my daughter so I did not let them enter my house till I called a friend. They cannot barge into my house without any prior notice. It’s so unsafe.” Rowena said that they were looking for some specific things. “They did not search the whole house. They asked for some specific things like receipts of donations received for the Saibaba defence committee. Babu has a drawer in which he keeps all the receipts. I gave them the recipients and they left,” she said. “Babu’s bail application is going to be heard the day after tomorrow and immediately before that they are running for things to show (in the court),” she added. Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) president Rajib Ray said, “I strongly protest and urge the government to desist from these illegal, strong-arm tactics and immediately stop this witch hunt against academics and scholars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-says-du-professor-hany-babu-has-links-with-manipur-based-insurgent-group-kcp-and-others-raids-his-house/story-KqkVGV698meodesAG0cVMM.html
02-08-2020||India||Two more die in Andaman, 88 new Covid-19 cases reported||Two more persons died due to Covid-19 in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, taking the toll in the Union Territory to seven, a senior official said on Sunday.One is a 48-year-old man, and the other an 85-year-old woman, both residents of Port Blair, he said.At least 88 fresh cases were reported in the archipelago since Saturday, pushing the tally to 636.Ten of them have recently returned to the state from Chennai, while the rest are those that have come in contact with other coronavirus-positive patients, the official said.Twelve people have recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours, he added.The Union Territory currently has 403 active cases.The total number of recoveries has climbed to 226.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-die-in-andaman-88-new-covid-19-cases-reported/story-DUEKZz08dQbMUD2CtFl6JI.html
02-08-2020||India||Centre asks states, UTs to allow hospitalised Covid-19 patients use smartphones to interact with kin||The Centre has written to all states and Union Territories stating that smartphones and tablet devices should be allowed for hospitalised Covid-19 patients so that they can interact with family and friends through video conferencing, which would provide them psychological support.Though mobile phones are allowed in hospital wards, the missive was issued following some representation from the kin of patients alleging otherwise.Director General of Health Services (DGHS) in the Health Ministry Dr Rajiv Garg in the letter to the principal secretaries of health and medical education of states and Union territories said appropriate protocols for disinfecting devices and allotting timeslots can be developed by the hospital concerned to facilitate contact between patients and their family.He underlined that administrative and medical teams should be responsive to the psychological needs of patients admitted in Covid-19 wards and ICUs of various hospitals.“Social connection can calm down patients and also reinforce the psychological support given by the treating team. Please instruct all concerned that they should allow smartphones and tablet devices in patient area so that the patient can video conference with their family and friends,” stated the letter issued on July 29.“Though mobile phones are allowed in the wards to enable a patient stay in touch with his or her family, we received representations from the patient families from some states stating mobile phones are not being allowed by hospital administrations because of which they were not being able to stay in contact with the patient,” said Dr Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-uts-to-allow-hospitalised-covid-19-patients-use-smartphones-to-interact-with-kin/story-1jBxSYk7JtFqmyJlks0uaL.html
02-08-2020||India||New sero-survey: One-fourth of samples to be taken from people in 50 and above age group||The new sero-prevalence survey in the national capital will exclude those who were part of the previous exercise and 25 per cent of the fresh samples in all districts will be taken from persons aged 50 and above, according to a standard operating procedure prescribed for it. As per the SOP for the survey that began on Saturday, each sample collection team is to collect 25-40 samples per day.  “All districts are to ensure that out of total number of samples, 25 per cent are of those younger than 18 years of age, another 50 per cent are in the age group of 18-49 years and remaining 25 per cent of those in the age group of 50 years or more,” reads the SOP prescribed by the Delhi’s Directorate General of Health Services. The fresh exercise is being undertaken for a comprehensive assessment of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, but due to Eid holiday not many samples could be collected on Saturday, officials said. Hence it has been decided to extend the survey till August 7, a senior official said on Saturday. Originally, a five-day exercise from August 1-5, it will span all 11 districts of Delhi and cover various demographic segments.  Systematic Random Sampling methodology will be used for collection of samples with mandatory exclusion of individuals or households selected during the last sero-survey conducted in June-July, the SOP says. The survey began with samples collection from various districts, including North Delhi and Northwest Delhi, to start with on Saturday. Sources said six districts are to be covered on Sunday. According to the survey’s standard operating procedure, “selection bias must be avoided” and any individual or household that was included in the previous round of sero-survey “must be excluded”. Teams in the field will collect the samples and will transport the samples the same day to the designated laboratories for processing. Sample collection must be completed latest by 2 pm so that samples reach the designated labs latest by 4 pm, reads the SOP. As per a bulletin released on Sunday, Delhi recorded 961 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally in the city to over 1.37 lakh, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 4,004. The active cases tally on Saturday was 10,356, down from 10,596 the previous day.  A senior government official on Saturday said 15,000 samples would be collected as part of this exercise, spanning different areas and age groups. Representative samples will be taken from all the 11 districts. A sero-prevalence survey involves testing the blood serum of individuals to check for the prevalence of antibodies against infection.  The last sero-prevalence survey was conducted by the Delhi government in association with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) from June 27 to July 10. It had found that around 23 per cent of the people surveyed had been exposed to the novel coronavirus, the central government had said.The previous study had tested 21,387 samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-sero-survey-one-fourth-of-samples-to-be-taken-from-people-in-50-and-above-age-group/story-FFA8NJ7aVCfrAfsoJsaU2O.html
02-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Kerala gold smuggling case probe widens with six more arrests by NIA and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala gold smuggling case probe widens with six more arrests by NIAThe NIA probe into Kerala gold smuggling case has unearthed involvement of more people leading to six more arrests in the past three days in the sensational matter. NIA also claims to have collected evidence in six raids carried out at places associated with the accused. Read moreAmit Shah admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram after testing Covid-19 positiveUnion Home Minister Amit Shah has been admitted to Medanta Hospital in Haryana’s Gurugram and is believed to be stable, after being diagnosed Covid-19 positive earlier on Sunday afternoon. The Home Minister had tweeted that he is “fine” but was getting hospitalised in keeping with the advice of his doctors. Read moreBabul Supriyo to self-isolate. He met Covid-19 positive Amit Shah a day earlierUnion Minister Babul Supriyo on Sunday said that he had met Home Minister Amit Shah a day earlier and is going into self-isolation as advised by his doctors. The Home Minister tested positive for Covid-19 earlier on Sunday evening. Read moreIPL 2020 to be held from September 19 to November 10The BCCI on Sunday confirmed that IPL 2020will be played from September 19 to November 10 in the UAE, reported news agency PTI. The decision was taken in the IPL Governing Council (GC) meeting. Read moreDisha Salian’s mother on Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: ‘How can there be a connection after meeting him just once?’Sushant Singh Rajput’s ex-manager Disha Salian’s mother feels her death on June 8 does not have any connection with his death on June 14. She also said that she is open to an investigation into her daughter’s death but doesn’t want to experience the same pain all over again. Read moreFrom Pixel 4a to Galaxy Note 20, here are the top phones launching this weekApart from the upcoming Galaxy smartphones, Google will finally be launching its budget Pixel 4a smartphone. Read moreThe future of celebrations: How will weddings, events and gigs look in the new normalNo hugging or shaking hands. No buffets. You’ll likely sit, eat and dance only with those you came with. Weddings, events and gigs, even as they gradually resume, are set to look very different. Read moreWatch: Over 40 Assam cops donate blood plasma after beating Covid-19As per reports, a total of 67 personnel of Assam Police volunteered to donate plasma for treatment of Covid-19 patients out of which 43 personnel were found eligible to donate plasma. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-probe-widens-with-six-more-arrests-by-nia-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xtDN71616cC4Hpos14jl9K.html
02-08-2020||India||‘Rafales will provide India major advantage in Tibet in case of aerial combat’: Ex-IAFchief Dhanoa||The Rafale aircraft will give India a strategic advantage in case of any aerial combat with China in the mountainous Tibet region as the fleet will be able to use the terrain to its advantage, destroy enemy air defence and incapacitate the surface-to-air missiles, former Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal (retd) B S Dhanoa said on Sunday. Dhanoa, known as the architect of the Balakot strikes, said the Rafale jets along with S-400 missile systems will give the Indian Air Force a major combat edge in the entire region and that India’s adversaries will think twice before starting a war with it. In case of Pakistan, he said the purpose of the S-400 and Rafale is to hit Pakistani aircraft inside Pakistani air space and not when they come inside Indian territory, adding the neighbouring country would not have responded on February 27 last year to the Balakot air strikes if India had the French-manufactured jets then. In an interview to PTI, Dhanoa said the Rafale, with its fantastic electronic warfare suite and maneuverability, will be able use mountainous terrain in Tibet to its advantage and blind the enemy before India’s strike aircraft penetrate hostile airspace to carry out their missions. The former Chief of Air Staff also said that the Rafales being supplied to the IAF are much more advanced than the ones being used by the French Air Force as India had asked for something “more” due to requirement to operate in unique conditions like operations from Leh. Five Rafale jets out of 36 arrived India last week at a time India is in the midst of a bitter border row with China in the high altitude eastern Ladakh region. “Rafale has got a fantastic Electronic Warfare (EW) suite (SPECTRA), fantastic weapons and therefore are capable of protecting themselves electronically besides being able to use the terrain to their advantage,” Dhanoa said. “So they (Rafales) can play an important role in doing DEAD (Destruction of Enemy Air Defence) on the Surface-to-Air Missiles that the Chinese have put on Tibet. “Once you take out those surface to air missiles, then other aircraft like Su30, Jaguars, even Mig 21s can go out and drop the bombs on the Chinese forces. The strike aircraft carrying bombs can put tonnes and tonnes of bombs on the enemy troops, freely carrying out their mission. But if you do not do DEAD then you will suffer a lot of casualties,” he said. The leading air forces globally carry out Suppression of Enemy Air Defence (SEAD) or DEAD using their top of the line aircraft or weapons before launching any major operation in hostile territories. As the Chief of Air Staff, Dhanoa had strongly defended the Rafale deal when the opposition parties ramped up attack on the government alleging massive irregularities in the procurement. The top IAF brass led by Dhanoa played a key role in implementation of the mega deal. “Against China there are big Himalayan mountains in between us which create serious line of sight issues. You can put a missile with a range of 300-400 kms on the ground in Tibet or in India. But it will only work within the line of sight,” he said. He said the Rafales, with terrain following capability, will give India a major capability enhancement. “In air combat, the first thing that is important is information dominance, you get information and deny the enemy the information. The key role the Rafales will play in Tibet is information dominance and in case of Pakistan, it is a major deterrent. Of course there will be other roles too,” he said. Asked about the comparison between the Rafales and J-20 fighter jets of China, he said the Chinese aircraft is not stealthy and presently, with its current engines, cannot supercruise unlike the newly-acquired Indian fleet. In a beyond visual range (BVR) combat, he said Indian missiles are far superior than theirs. The French avionics on board the Rafale are “far superior” than the Chinese systems in J-20s, he said. “Hence in a BVR environment the Rafales are superior to the J-20s,” he added. “With the induction of the Rafales we will have a tremendous jump in capability. That’s why I called both (Rafale and S 400) of them game changers. Both these platforms will give the IAF a tremendous capability jump. The Rafale in the air and S-400 on the ground. In October 2018, India signed a USD 5 billion deal to buy the S-400 air defence missile systems from Russia to bolster the IAF’s air defence mechanism. The ‘Triumf’ interceptor-based missile system can destroy incoming hostile aircraft, missiles and even drones at ranges of up to 400 km. The delivery of the missile systems is scheduled to begin next year. “Both S-400 and Rafales are critical game changers. Rafale is a deterrent. The purpose of deterrence is not to fight a war. Purpose of deterrence is to make the other person think twice before he starts a war or a skirmish with you,” he said. He said the Pakistanis would not have responded on February 27 last year to India’s Balakot strikes if India had the Rafale jets. In this context, he also mentioned an operation by the IAF to drop bombs on a Pakistani post along the LoC in Kel sector in 2002, and how Pakistani Air Force never dared to respond to it. “On August 2, 2002, we did bombing of a Pakistani post as the Pakistanis had intruded about 600-700 metres inside the LoC in our area and set up a post. We bombed with four Mirage 2000s and after that the Pakistanis never came back,” Dhanoa said. “The Pakistanis never ever dreamt of bombing an Indian post in retaliation because we had Beyond Visual Range (BVR) missiles on Mirage 2000, MiG 29 and the Su-30 Ks and they did not have any BVR missiles on any of their fighters,” he recalled. “They just kept quiet about it and just didn’t acknowledge that something had happened and later on played it low key when the news did break in the international media! That is what is called deterrence,” he added. Asked whether India should consider procuring two more squadrons of Rafales as it makes operational sense, Dhanoa called it a good idea and said that it will be the “cheapest option” of getting a 4.5 generation fighter into the air force. “We already have infrastructure for two squadrons. We do not need additional infrastructure for the next two squadrons. They will come, in my assessment, at 60 to 70 per cent of the cost of the current ones,” he said. “The cost of research and development for all India-specific enhancements have already been covered. The next two squadrons of Rafales will be the cheapest option of getting a 4.5 generation fighter into the air force,” he added. Dhanoa, who retired as the IAF Chief on September 30 last year, said having two more squadrons of Rafales will give the force a lot of strength. “If you have 72-80 aircraft, it will match whatever F-16s the Pakistanis have got. It will be good for deterrence,” he said adding it will make economic sense. Dhanoa also thanked all the people who stood by the Rafale deal, including the defence minister, the civil servants, the then defence secretary, the director general (acquisition) and many others in the government. “You have to give them full marks, because they stood by it despite many apprehensions. Normally everybody gets scared that this deal may be termed later as a scam and they may be hauled up by the investigation agencies after their retirement, or some other roving inquiry that may happen which may implicate them in the future. These people stood by it; we signed and executed the deal,” he said. Dhanoa said the political leadership also stood their ground and did not dump the deal. “They were going into an election. You could have always opted for a soft option of setting up a committee. Everybody stood their ground. The national leadership, the bureaucracy. That is why you have the aircraft,” he added. Dhanoa also expressed happiness that the first squadron of Rafales will be part of the Number 17 Squadron, also known as ‘Golden Arrows’, based in Ambala. “I am very happy...I was the last Commodore Commandant of 17 squadron. It got number plated in March 2012. It stopped flying in December 2011. Having celebrated our Diamond Jubilee in October 2011. Last year the Squadron has been resurrected and this year aircraft have finally come to the Squadron,” he said. “Golden Arrows have a very rich tradition. The Squadron has fought in all the wars. It participated in the Liberation of Goa, 1965 war, 1971 war, and it fought in Kargil,” he added. Dhanoa commanded the squadron during the Kargil war. “In case, there is fighting in Eastern Ladakh, we will not miss it,” the Air Chief Marshal (Retd.) said in a lighter vein.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafales-will-provide-india-major-advantage-in-tibet-in-case-of-aerial-combat-ex-iafchief-dhanoa/story-akJzsQ9TfZxQ7aR3OQ3nwL.html
02-08-2020||India||Ram Janmabhoomi land transferred to Ram Lalla, the infant lord ahead of bhumi pujan||Ahead of the Ram temple ‘bhumi pujan’ on August 5, the Ram Janmabhoomi land was transferred to ‘Ram Lalla virajman’ in official records (nuzool) of Ayodhya on Saturday. Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Jha handed over a certified copy of the land transfer to Champat Rai, general secretary of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Additional district magistrate, Ayodhya, Gorelal Shukla confirmed the land transfer. The Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on September 30, 2010 had apportioned one-third of the 2.77 acre then disputed land to Hindus, one-third to Muslims and one-third to Ram Lalla, the deity. It is this 2.77 acre land that the sanctum sanctorum of the Ram temple (on which Babri Masjid once stood) will be constructed.Also Read: 20,000 temples get fresh paint. Ram dhun reverberates as Ayodhya decks up for the big dayThis order of the high court was challenged in Supreme Court. On November 9 last year, the Supreme Court put an end to decades-old Ayodhya title suit by granting the entire 2.77 acre of disputed land in Ayodhya to deity Ram Lalla, who was one of the petitioners in the case. The infant form of Lord Ram- Ram Lalla--was deemed a perpetual minor and a ‘juristic person’ with legal rights for the purpose of the case.Also Read: A video invite for LK Advani, MM Joshi for Ram temple ceremony in AyodhyaThe deity was represented by his “next human friend”, a VHP leader, in the court proceedings in the land title dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-janmabhoomi-land-transferred-to-ram-lalla-the-infant-lord-ahead-of-bhumi-pujan/story-0zun3vvl187VDjvt43t3UM.html
02-08-2020||India||Amit Shah admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram after testing Covid-19 positive||Union home minister Amit Shah has been admitted to Medanta Hospital in Haryana’s Gurugram and is believed to be stable, after being diagnosed Covid-19 positive earlier on Sunday afternoon. The Home Minister had tweeted that he is “fine” but was getting hospitalised in keeping with the advice of his doctors.“On displaying initial symptoms of coronavirus, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors. I request that all of you who have come in contact with me in the last few days, please isolate yourself and get your inquiry done,” Shah tweeted in Hindi.The home minister also requested those who had come in contact with him to isolate themselves and get tested for the viral infection.ALSO READ | Rahul Gandhi, others wish Amit Shah speedy recovery after he tests positive for Covid-19Earlier this week, Shah was present in the last cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. Social distancing was strictly followed along with wearing of masks, officials said. The official indicated that there is a strict protocol in place at the Prime Minister’s residence for the last few months.The home minister has been leading the battle against the coronavirus from the front and stepped in to look into the health crisis in June, when Covid-19 cases started rising exponentially in national capital Delhi. Political leaders, including BJP president J P Nadda, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, DMK chief M K Stalin, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, wished Shah a speedy recovery. In Uttar Pradesh, Kamal Rani Varun, the only woman cabinet minister in the state, died of Covid-19 at a hospital in Lucknow on Sunday. She was 62.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-admitted-to-medanta-hospital-in-gurgaon-after-testing-covid-19-positive/story-WcsaUNmUZRfi8h467ugIPM.html
02-08-2020||India||20,000 temples get fresh paint. Ram dhun reverberates as Ayodhya decks up for the big day||Ayodhya, around 135 km from Uttar Pradesh’s capital of Lucknow, is getting ready for the bhumi pujan or foundation laying ceremony for the Ram temple on August 5. A cleanliness and sanitisation drive is under way in Ayodhya ahead of the event.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in a grand ceremony, which will be attended by several dignitaries, on Wednesday.The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra, the organiser of the event, is leaving nothing to chance. The temple town situated on the banks of Saryu river is being decked up for the ceremony.All roads leading to Ram Janmabhoomi, the main venue for the bhumi pujan, are sparkling clean.Every nook and corner of the town, including its lanes and by-lanes, are being spruced up with nearly 500 sanitation workers deployed round the clock. Graffiti and images depicting scenes from the Ramayan have come up on main streets of the town. Buildings on main streets across the temple town are being painted yellow.Also Read: Drones, restrictions on outsiders among security protocol ahead of Ram temple event at Ayodhya“Yellow is an auspicious colour. In Hindu tradition, yellow is used in all ceremonies. It symbolises purity and light,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor-designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the trust.The majestic Naya Ghat on the banks of the Saryu is shimmering in colourful lights.The Hanuman Garhi temple, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to offer prayers, is being spruced up as well. The majestic 76 steps of Hanuman Garhi have been cleaned.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to offer prayers at Hanuman Garhi (on August 5). The entire temple is being spruced up,” said Raju Das, a priest at Hanuman Garhi.Also Read: ‘Can’t confirm presence at event’: Uma Bharti Around 3,000 sound systems are playing ‘Ram Dhun’ across Ayodhya. These sound systems will also play Vedic hymns during the bhumi pujan.“Ram Dhun is being played all across Ayodhya to create a divine atmosphere,” added Rishikesh Upadhyay, mayor of Ayodhya.This sound system will also be used by the Ayodhya administration to issue directives to the public in case of any emergency situation.More than a lakh diyas (earthen lamps) will sparkle in Ayodhya for two days from August 4, a day before bhumi pujan. Around 20,000 temples across the pilgrim town have been given a new look for the ceremony. Vedic rituals will be performed in all temples on the bhumi pujan day. Earthen lamps will illuminate all temples.“We have requested everyone to decorate their houses with rangoli, diyas (earthen lamps) and lights to mark bhumi pujan for construction of the Ram temple,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya.The Mani Ram Das Chhavni Peeth, where trust chairman Mahant Nritya Gopal Das resides, and Karsevakpuram, the nerve centre of the Ram temple movement in the 1990s, are buzzing with activity in Ayodhya ahead of the big day. Both these centres have been spruced up for the bhumi pujan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-000-temples-get-fresh-paint-ram-dhun-reverberates-as-ayodhya-decks-up-for-the-big-day/story-4bLAzM9AgBtf9bRjS9kGmJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Babul Supriyo self-isolates. He met Covid-19 positive Amit Shah a day earlier||Union Minister Babul Supriyo on Sunday said that he had met Home Minister Amit Shah a day earlier and is going into self-isolation as advised by his doctors. The Home Minister tested positive for Covid-19 earlier on Sunday evening.Explaining that he intended to stay away from his family till he got himself tested for the viral infection, the musician turned politician tweeted, “I had met Honble HM Shri @AmitShah ji day before in the evening. I am advised by doctors to confine myself, away from my family members, for the next few days with a test to be done soon. Shall abide with all precautionary measures as per Rules and Protocol.” Babul Supriyo is the Minister of State for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, in the Union Council of Ministers.The Home Minister has also requested those who had come in contact with him over the past few days to isolate themselves and get tested at the earliest.Officials said that Shah was present in the last cabinet meeting. Social distancing, however, was strictly followed along with wearing of masks, they added.ALSO READ | Amit Shah tests coronavirus positive, tweets moving to hospitalThe Home Minister has been leading the battle against the coronavirus from the front and stepped in to look into the health crisis in June, when Covid-19 cases started rising exponentially in national capital Delhi. He tweeted on Sunday that he had contracted the infection. Shah went in for a Covid-19 test after displaying initial symptoms.“On displaying initial symptoms of coronavirus, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors. I request that all of you who have come in contact with me in the last few days, please isolate yourself and get your inquiry done,” Shah tweeted in Hindi.The Home Minister has been admitted to Medanta hospital in Haryana’s Gurgaon, in the national capital region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-to-self-isolate-he-met-covid-19-positive-amit-shah-a-day-earlier/story-eqf33L1J31xYrzE1UqL9JJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi, others wish Amit Shah speedy recovery after he tests positive for Covid-19||Wishes and prayers for Union home minister Amit Shah poured in after he tweeted on Sunday that he has tested positive for coronavirus and is getting admitted in a hospital. The minister said that his health was fine but was getting hospitalised on his doctors’ advice.Shah requested those who have come in contact with him in the past few days to go in to isolation and get tested for Covid-19. “On getting the initial symptoms of corona, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” tweeted Shah in Hindi.The defence minister of India Rajnath Singh wished speedy recovery to Amit Shah.“Amit ji, your perseverance and willpower has been an example for every challenge. I believe that you will surely overcome coronavirus. I pray for your speedy recovery,” Rajnat Singh tweeted Hindi.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wished Amit Shah a speedy recovery on Twitter. Wishing Mr Amit Shah a speedy recovery.“My good wishes for your speedy recovery Adarniya Amit Shah ji. With your resolute determination and strong will power you will soon come out of this,” Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted.My good wishes for your speedy recovery Adarniya @AmitShah ji. With your resolute determination and strong will power you will soon come out of this.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kerjiwal took to Twitter to wish Amit Shah after the minister tested positive for Covid-19.I pray for the speedy recovery of Hon'ble Home Minister Shri @AmitShah ji https://t.co/i26dkb6Q1qमाननीय गृहमंत्री श्री @AmitShah जी के कोरोना संक्रमित होने का समाचार प्राप्त हुआ। मैं ईश्वर से उनके शीघ्र स्वास्थ्य लाभ की प्रार्थना करता हूँ।Union minister Babul Supriyo went into isolation soon after Amiti Shah tweeted about testing positive for coronavirus, saying that he had met the home minister.“I had met Honble HM Shri AmitShah ji day before in the evening. I am advised by doctors to confine myself, away from my family members, for the next few days with a test to be done soon. Shall abide with all precautionary measures as per Rules & Protocol Covid-19,” he tweeted. I had met Honble HM Shri @AmitShah ji day before in the evening • I am advised by Doctors to confine myself, away from my family members, for the next few days with a test to be done soon •Shall abide with all precautionary measures as per Rules & Protocol #COVID19 #AmitShah||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-wishes-amit-shah-speedy-recovery-after-he-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-KJn6HiHDVH02wCcpXIFoLJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Vada at Rs 15, coffee at Rs 20 at Cochin airport after PMO intervenes||Tongue-tickling crispy vada and hot pazhampori (banana fritters) will now be available for Rs 15 each at the Cochin International Airport (CIAL) in Kerala, thanks to intervention by the Prime Minister’s office.Earlier, the beverages and snacks were priced at Rs 100. The change came about after a not-so happy customer, Shaji Kodankandathil, shot off a letter to the Prime Minister and others to help end the practice of overcharging at airports.“I was travelling to Delhi in April last year. When I ordered a black tea at the airport, I was asked to part with Rs 100 for a tea bag and boiled water in a paper cup. When asked about this, the shop owner told me they were bidding these shops at exorbitant prices so they are forced to fleece,” said Kodankandathil, alawyer, adding he found the explanation quite outrageous.He said he also found packed snacks with maximum retail price (MRP) tags were also being sold at much higher rates. “Usually at airports people do come at least two-three hours before their flights. So they are forced to pay up exorbitant prices for foods and snacks. Elderly and Haj pilgrims are the worst affected. Even for the MRP items, they are forced to shell out three to four times higher than the actual price,” he said. On his return, he took up the issue with the Airports Authority of India and Cochin airport but he failed to get a satisfactory reply. Then he shot off a letter to the PM and it was acknowledged immediately.“I checked the PM’s portal two days back and saw a letter signed by the senior manager of the airport Joseph Peter, regulating the prices of snacks and beverages based on my complaint. The letter said now tea will be priced at Rs 15, coffee Rs 20 and local snacks like vada, parippu vada and pazhampori for Rs 15 each. It also directed that all packed snacks should be sold at MRP,” he said. When asked about this, the CIAL communications manager PS Jayan said it had reduced prices of beverages and snacks to Rs 30 last year itself and now it will be brought down again. The officer added for good measure that it will be difficult for them to prevail over multinational eating outlets because their rates are universal. “I want all airports to take a leaf out of CIAL and reduce prices of snacks and foods. In many airports user fee is there (CIAL it is not there). Still they fleece poor passengers and all turn a blind eye towards this. I am happy a beginning has been made,” said Kodankandathil, adding he will continue his fight for fair prices for food items at airports across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vada-at-rs-15-coffee-at-rs-20-at-cochin-airport-after-pmo-intervenes/story-8ldDl6laiIQKu5fG8hIQeI.html
02-08-2020||India||Heavy rainfall expected tomorrow in several districts of Kerala: IMD||India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued an orange alert for several districts in Kerala, saying that very heavy rainfall is expected tomorrow in Idukki, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasargod districts.“Orange alert issued for tomorrow in Idukki, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasargod districts with the prediction of isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall,” said IMD, Kerala.On Saturday, IMD had predicted an increase in rainfall intensity over the Konkan region including parts of Maharashtra during the next four-five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-expected-tomorrow-in-several-districts-of-kerala-imd/story-u8cBoe4GP861qRia1oBPOI.html
02-08-2020||India||Gehlot writes to PM Modi, urges him to chair meet with CMs for Covid-19 management||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to hold a video conference with chief ministers regarding Covid-19 management in several states. “The fight against the Covid-19 pandemic has reached a decisive phase. All states with their full strength and resources have tried to stop the spread of Covid-19. At the same time, financial support has also been provided to needy people, who have lost their means of livelihood during this epidemic,” Gehlot wrote in the letter. “In such a difficult and challenging time you had meaningful dialogue with the Chief Ministers of the states through video conferencing in the last few months, which is commendable. Along with the ideals of collaborative federalism, such dialogues help in exchange of knowledge, knowledge of better strategies being adopted in various states and establishing mutual coordination,” he said. Informing about the Rajasthan government’s efforts he said, “I have been closely supervising the management of the Covid-19 epidemic in the state. Till June 17, the total samples collected for tests were 6.37 lakh, which has increased to 15.26 lakh as on August 1.” He said due to the state’s efforts, the rate of infected people which was 2.12% as on June 17 has been limited to 2.79% as on August 1. The recovery rate of these infected people is 77.29% as on August 1 in the state. “We are constantly striving to reduce the mortality rate of those infected with Covid-19. The death rate of people infected with Covid-19 has decreased from 2.31% in June to 1.62% on August 1. The daily testing capacity has been increased from 22,000 to 45,000 on August 1. The number of sample collections has also increased from 13,000 to 28,000 per day,” he said. “The last communication you had with the chief ministers of states was on June 17, the indicators of Covid-19 and the economic scenario of the states have changed a lot due to the long-term lockdown. I request you that in the current circumstances, a video conference should be organized for quick dialogue with the chief ministers regarding the management of the Covid-19 epidemic. I am confident that with mutual support and coordination, we will overcome this challenge,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-writes-to-pm-modi-urges-him-to-chair-meet-with-cms-for-covid-19-management/story-OQqTUJh5s8G8nUz5eqT2qO.html
02-08-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case probe widens with six more arrests by NIA||The NIA probe into Kerala gold smuggling case has unearthed involvement of more people leading to six more arrests in the past three days in the sensational matter. NIA also claims to have collected evidence in six raids carried out at places associated with the accused.First two of these new arrests were made on July 30, 2020, when the NIA arrested Jalal AM, a resident of Ernakulam distirct and Said Alavi E from Malappuram district. They were arrested on charges of allegedly conspiring with already arrested accused person Ramees KT and for smuggling gold through diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram.On 31st July, 2020, two more accused, namely Mohammed Shafi and Abdu PT, both residents of Malappuram district, were arrested for playing similar roles in the crime. A day later, on August 1, 2020, NIA arrested Muhammad Ali Ebrahim and Muhammad Ali, both residents of Muvattupuzha, Ernakulam district of Kerala.“Investigation revealed that they were also a part of the conspiracy besides aiding and assisting arrested accused Jalal A M in collecting the smuggled gold from Ramees K T at Thiruvananthapuram and distributing the contraband amongst other conspirators,” an NIA statement said.Also Read: Kerala gold smuggling: Junior foreign minister fasts to raise pitch for CM’s resignationThe investigating agency also claimed that Muhammad Ali, son of Abdul Kader, is a member of the controversial organization Popular Front of India (PFI), suspected of involvement in anti-national activities, and was earlier charge-sheeted by Kerala Police in professor’s palm chopping case but got acquitted after trial in 2015.This case is the first instance of NIA- created to probe anti-terror cases and those concerning national security-- probing a gold smuggling case.Fears have been expressed that this case could be linked to a wider network of terror financing and hawala operations and could also be part of sinister designs to destabilize the Indian economy.Kerala chief minister’s close aide and a top bureaucrat is also being questioned in the case and the opposition has alleged that the chief minister was aware of his former principal secretary’s activities. The NIA also carried out searches at six places associated with the arrested accused on Sunday and confiscated two hard disks, one tablet PC, eight mobile phones, six SIM cards, one digital video recorder and five DVDs besides various documents including bank passbooks, credit and debit cards, travel documents and identity documents of the accused.NIA has arrested ten accused in the case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-probe-widens-with-six-more-arrests-by-nia/story-cltVkWJWJwXkW7SLvCSK5M.html
02-08-2020||India||Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit tests Covid-19 positive, advised home isolation||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit has tested positive for Covid-19, but advised home isolation since his infection was mild, a city-based private hospital said on Sunday. The 80-year-old Purohit was in self-isolation since July 29 after three people in the Raj Bhavan tested positive for the coronavirus. A bulletin issued by the Kauvery Hospital where the Governor underwent further tests on Sunday said he has been advised home isolation and a medical team would monitor him. Purohit “tested positive for Covid-19,” hospital Executive Director Dr Aravindan Selvaraj said in the bulletin. “He is asymptomatic and clinically stable,” it said, adding the Governor underwent further tests and assessment at the hospital located at Alwarpet area here. “As the infection is mild, he has been advised home isolation and will be monitored by the medical team of Kauvery Hospital,” it added.Purohit had earlier gone on seven-day self-isolation on July 29 based on doctor’s advice after three people in the Raj Bhavan tested positive for coronavirus.Earlier, as many as 84 security and fire services personnel deployed in the Raj Bhavan tested positive for the virus on July 23, but the Governor’s office had then said none of them came into contact with Purohit or senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-governor-banwarilal-purohit-tests-covid-19-positive-advised-home-isolation/story-QNAJNBPrEH4WdBePsQl91H.html
02-08-2020||India||TMC leader killed in Bengal’s Bankura, many workers hurt in two other districts||Babar Ali, a Trinamool Congress (TMC) panchayat-level leader, was murdered allegedly by his rivals in the party, in the Beliatore area of Bengal’s Bankura district on Saturday night. Local TMC leaders accused Rahim Mondal, husband of the head of the local panchayat who switched over from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and said Left supporters had masterminded the violence. Ali, the former head of the panchayat, was hacked to death after he suffered bomb injuries. While police detained five people till Sunday afternoon, Amiya Patra, CPI(M) state secretariat member representing the district, said his party was not involved in any way and the violence was the fallout of internal feud in the TMC. Shyamal Santra, TMC district president said, “Police are probing the violence and the real culprits will surely be rounded up.” In similar violence in South 24 Parganas district, Muhammad Sheikh and Shahrukh Sheikh sustained bullet injuries in a clash between two groups of TMC workers in the Basanti area. Additional superintendent of police Indrajit Basu said raids were being conducted and the injured had been admitted in hospital. There were two incidents of violence in West Midnapore district. Five people were injured when some men hurled bombs at the house of a Bharatiya Janata Party worker in the Mohanpur area while a local TMC leader was attacked in Ghatal. The injuries were not critical and raids were on, said local police at both these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-killed-in-bengal-s-bankura-many-workers-hurt-in-three-other-districts/story-EZt1gKSdzpKKI6vSukAtFK.html
02-08-2020||India||Home ministry seeks additional 3 months to frame CAA rules||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has informed a department related standing committee of Parliament that it needs three more months to frame the rules of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), passed by Parliament in December last, officials familiar with the development said. According to the Manual on Parliamentary Work, rules for legislation should be framed within six months of the date of the President’s assent or the standing committee on subordinate legislation should be approached for extension of time. The amended Act aims to grant Indian citizenship to six minorities - Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhist, Christians and Parsis from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, who have faced or fled fearing religious persecution.The law, which excludes Muslims, will be applicable to those who entered India before December 2014. A senior officer cited above said that “the additional time has been sought to frame the rules as the ministry was busy in other work for the past several months. The rules will be framed soon.” The manual on Parliamentary Work states that in case the ministries/departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months, “they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension” which cannot be more than for a period of three months at a time.The government has claimed that while the rules are being framed, the non-Muslim refugees from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan will have to provide proofs of their religious beliefs while applying for citizenship. The applicants belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Christian, Buddhist, Jain or Parsi faiths will also have to furnish documents to prove that they entered India on or before December 31, 2014, according to officials. After the CAA was passed by Parliament, widespread protests were witnessed in the country. Those opposing the CAA contend that it discriminates on the basis of religion and violates the Constitution. They also allege that the CAA, along with the National Register of Citizens, is intended to target the Muslim community in India.However, home minister Amit Shah had dismissed the allegations and described the protests against the CAA as “mostly political”. He had asserted that no Indian will lose citizenship due to the Act.Lok Sabha had passed the CAA legislation on December 9, 2019 and Rajya Sabha on December 11, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-ministry-seeks-additional-3-months-to-frame-caa-rules/story-eB0j8dlmWvbFBPIqKPIyMJ.html
02-08-2020||India||BSF constable, two others held in Punjab for cross-border smuggling of drugs and weapons||A BSF constable and two others have been arrested in connection with a cross-border smuggling racket of drugs and weapons, the Punjab Police said on Sunday.A .30 bore pistol of Chinese make along with five live cartridges and Rs 24.50 lakh were recovered from the three accused, identified as Border Security Force Constable Rajendra Prashad and two locals, Surmail Singh and Gurjant Singh, Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said.The Punjab Police is working to nab kingpin Satnam Singh alias Satta, extradited from Muscat, Oman, where he had fled after he was declared a proclaimed offender in two smuggling cases. He used a fake passport and Aadhaar card issued in the name of Gurmeet Singh to escape, Gupta said, adding that the accused had five cases of smuggling registered against him earlier. The BSF constable is a resident of Ganga Nagar district of Rajasthan and was posted at a border outpost at Chhina village in Tarn Taran district.He is the second BSF constable to be arrested recently by the Punjab police in a cross-border smuggling racket. A few days earlier, the police had arrested another BSF constable, Sumit Kumar, posted at Sambha in Jammu and Kashmir, in another similar smuggling case.Acting on a tip-off, a Jalandhar Rural police team had on July 26 apprehended two smugglers, who were travelling in a car from Delhi. The police had recovered 25 gm of heroin from them. On questioning, the duo identified themselves as Surmail Singh and Gurjant Singh.Further investigation led to the recovery of the pistol along with five live rounds. During questioning, the duo also revealed that they were working with a cross-border smuggler, Satnam Singh alias Satta, a resident of Taran Tarn district who was closely linked with Pakistan-based smugglers for smuggling of drugs and weapons from Pakistan. They also disclosed that BSF constable Rajendra Prashad was a part of the smuggling racket. The DGP said that he contacted his counterparts in the BSF and Rajasthan, DGP BSF and DGP Rajasthan, and asked for help from the central agencies, for arresting the BSF constable, who was apprehended by the Punjab Police from his residence in Rawala Mandi, where he was on leave. During questioning, the BSF constable revealed that he had been roped into the drug smuggling racket by Satnam Singh, who promised him money for ignoring the smuggling of arms and narcotics consignment through his border post. He then allowed the gang to bring in a consignment of 17 kg of heroin and two foreign-made pistols in May. This time again, Satnam Singh, in connivance with Rajendra Prashad, Surmail Singh and Gurjant Singh, was to bring in another consignment of heroin and arms from his Pakistan-based handlers. Satnam had allegedly given Rs 5 lakh and a mobile phone to Prashad in advance for receiving this composite consignment.The DGP said out of Rs 24.5 lakh, Rs 15 lakh was recovered from the residence of Satnam Singh, Rs 5 lakh from the BSF constable and Rs 4.5 lakh from Gurjant Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-constable-two-others-held-in-punjab-for-cross-border-smuggling-of-drugs-and-weapons/story-uIAEeGBDt4b6QHN7aQ9flL.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid negative, distressed passengers exempted from institutional quarantine upon arrival in India||The government’s fresh guidelines for international passengers travelling into India have granted exemption from mandatory seven days of institutional quarantine upon arrival to people in situations of distress like death, serious illness, pregnancy or to parents with children under 10-years of age, according to a government notification posted by Air India on Sunday.These people citing the compelling reasons mentioned above will need to undergo 14 days of home quarantine instead, however, they will be eligible for availing this exemption only if they apply 72 hours before boarding the aircraft on the online portal—www.new delhi airport.in, the release clarifies.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe new guidelines also allow travelers to escape institutional quarantine provided they submitted a negative RT-PCR test upon arrival, which should not have been conducted more than 96 hours before the scheduled journey.“The test report should be uploaded on the portal for consideration. Each passenger should also submit a declaration with respect to the authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise,” the guidelines state.Also Read: Amit Shah tests coronavirus positive, tweets moving to hospitalAccording to the new notification, all travellers to India need to furnish a self declaration form on the above portal at least 72 hours before departure of their flight along with an undertaking to undergo seven days of paid institutional quarantine at their own cost followed by seven days of home quarantine with self monitoring.The new guidelines, that will come into effect from August 8, also reiterate some other measures in force to prevent the spread of coronavirus during the journey including social distancing and wearing of masks during travel. It says that those who fail to fill the self-declaration form before their travel will be given an opportunity to fill it on board the flight or ship, to be handed to immigration officials upon their arrival at destination. Additionally, they will also be given opportunity to fill the declaration online at the arriving airport/seaport/landport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-negative-and-distressed-passengers-exempted-from-institutional-quarantine-upon-arrival-in-india/story-k5RhzA26CV7yNmpZlPELUM.html
02-08-2020||India||Two-day-old baby dies of Covid-19 in Tripura||A two-day-old baby has died due to Covid-19 in Tripura, becoming the state’s youngest coronavirus fatality, a Health Department official said on Sunday.The baby was born on Thursday at the Agartala Government Medical College (AGMC) and her swab sample was collected as her mother was a coronavirus patient.“The two-day-old girl tested positive for coronavirus and succumbed to the disease at the hospital on Saturday,” the official said.A 62-year-old man also died of the disease on Saturday while undergoing treatment at the hospital, he said.The patient was admitted to the AGMC on July 31 after he suffered a heart attack.With these new fatalities, the toll has risen to 23 in the state, he said.Meanwhile, 253 fresh coronavirus cases pushed the state’s tally to 5,251, the official said.The maximum of 101 new cases were found in West Tripura district, followed by 39 in Khowai, 38 in Gomati, 32 in North Tripura, 19 in Sepahijala, 11 in Dhalai, 10 in South Tripura and 3 in Unakoti.According to the official, returnees from other states have contributed to the spurt in the coronavirus cases in Tripura.The number of active cases in the state now stands at 1,747, while 3,463 people have been cured of the disease.Eighteen patients have migrated to other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-day-old-baby-dies-of-covid-19-in-tripura/story-450hXhDOjaQOPY94mUvNRI.html
02-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Bihar police to probe Sushant Singh Rajput’s call records, family of ex-manager and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sushant Singh Rajput’s call records, family of ex-manager on Bihar Police’s probe radarSushant Singh Rajput’s phone records will be tracked and the family of his former manager, Disha Salian, will be questioned in connection with the death of the Bollywood actor, Bihar police have said. Read moreDelhi logs 961 new Covid-19 infections, 15 more deaths take toll past 4,000-markDelhi on Sunday logged 961 new cases of Covid-19 taking the infection count in the national capital to 1,37,677, while the death toll touched 4,004, health department data indicated. Read moreThe Way We Were: Premchand’s lost months in BombayPremchand arrived in Bombay on 31 May 1934. He was 54 years old, married with three children, the country’s most famous living Hindi writer – and a man in dire financial difficulties. Read moreSamsung Galaxy S20 Ultra review: To be or ‘Note’ to beInnovations happen every year in the smartphone space. Sometimes even within months. However, each year there’s always that one smartphone that stays in the limelight and is given as an example whenever people talk about flagships. This year it is the Galaxy S20 Ultra, Samsung’s most powerful mobile device created till date. Read more‘I’m not blaming anyone’: Irfan Pathan opens up on Greg Chappell sagaIt has been over a decade since Greg Chappell left the position as the head coach of India. And yet, his time as the coach is still remembered as one of the most controversial periods in Indian cricket history. Read moreVideo of woman hand feeding a peacock has won people over. WatchThe Internet is filled with videos of peacocks showing their magnificent plumage or graciously dancing around. Those are the videos which often make people go “wow” and leave them amazed too. Read morePM Modi to pray at Hanumangarhi ahead of Ram Temple event: Key detailsPM Modi will visit the Hanumangarhi temple ahead of the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The head priest of the temple said that they have been given seven minutes times in which PM Modi will take a tour of the temple and also offer prayers. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-bihar-police-to-probe-sushant-singh-rajput-s-call-records-family-of-ex-manager-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qwTPg6k7juvBIcpY1d03RM.html
02-08-2020||India||Amit Shah tweets he tested positive for coronavirus, hospitalised||Home minister Amit Shah tweeted on Sunday afternoon that he has tested positive for coronavirus, adding that he is “fine” but getting hospitalised as advised by doctors. “On getting the initial symptoms of corona, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” tweeted Shah. WATCH | Covid: Amit Shah found infected, hospitalised on ‘advice of doctors’The home minister also requested those who had come in his contact to isolate themselves and get tested.Officials said that the minister was present in the last cabinet meeting. Social distancing was strictly followed along with wearing of masks, they added. The official underscored that there is a strict protocol at the PM’s residence for last few months.Soon after the news broke, BJP chief JP Nanda tweeted saying he is praying for the minister’s speedy recovery.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and a host of BJP leaders wished the leader a quick recovery. In the lead-up to today, the minister has maintained a busy schedule and has been active on social media. On Saturday, Shah addressed the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) online conference on freedom fighter Bal Gangadhar Tilak, marking 100 years since his death on August 1, 1920. The minister also welcomed the first batch of Rafales that arrived in the country this week.On July 24, the BJP’s newly elected Rajya Sabha MPs from Manipur, Leishemba Sanajaoba, called on Shah. On July 21, the minister received a delegation of the National Backward Classes Commission (NCBC) under the under the leadership of Bhagwan Lal Sahni.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, another big BJP leader, is presently recovering in a hospital after he tested positive for coronavirus.Earlier today, UP cabinet minister for technical education Kamal Rani Varun succumbed to Covid-19 at the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow.In May, there was a lot of buzz around Shah’s health, at the time the minister took to Twitter to dispel rumours, adding he has been preoccupied with his work and has no ill feelings for those who have been spreading such misinformation. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-tests-coronavirus-positive-tweets-is-getting-admitted-on-doctors-advice/story-c7oHdKw7iBfj5TuawueO3L.html
02-08-2020||India||Pollution in Ganga: NGT directs UP Jal Nigam to complete sewer work expeditiously||The National Green Tribunal has directed UP Jal Nigam to expeditiously complete the work of sewer connectivity to households at Narora town in Bulandshahr district to ensure that no untreated water is discharged into the Ganga.The green panel slammed the Jal Nigam over non-functional sewage treatment plant at Narora and discharge of untreated sewage in a pond adjacent to the river.“UP Jal Nigam must perform its responsibility and cannot take the plea that fault was of the contractor. The work of sewer connectivity to households be completed expeditiously which may be reviewed by the principal secretary, Urban Development, UP,” a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said.It said the Jal Nigam is held liable to pay Rs 5 lakh for their default which may be deposited with the state pollution control board within one month to be spent for restoration of the environment.The NGT was perusing a report filed by an oversight committee headed by former high court judge which said the chief engineer of the Jal Nigam had informed it that the Naraura Project was sanctioned in 2015 and as per the project, it was proposed that treated water shall be discharged into river Ganga.“The sewage treatment plant was installed in 2018 but became operational since February 2. As per the inspection report submitted by UPPCB, the capacity of Naraura STP is of 4 MLD (million litres per day), but current total utilisation is of 2 MLD. Despite having excess capacity, still 5 MLD untreated sewage is being discharged in river Ganga through drains,” the committee said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by residents of Nodai Wagar village in Narora town, alleging that the STP unit was discharging untreated wastewater in the Ganga.There was no pipeline for discharging treated effluent, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-in-ganga-ngt-directs-up-jal-nigam-to-complete-sewer-work-expeditiously/story-gQtwOv3lx9TUGYImDuq9lO.html
02-08-2020||India||World’s highest railway bridge over Chenab river in J-K to be ready by next year||The world’s highest railway bridge over river Chenab in Jammu and Kashmir will be ready by next year, and will connect the Valley with the rest of India by train for the first time by 2022, officials said on Sunday.The bridge, which has a central span of 467 metres, is being built at a height of 359 metres from the bed level. The height of Qutab Minar in Delhi is 72 metres and that of the Eiffel Tower in Paris is 324 metres.  “This is the tallest railway bridge in the world and the maximum designed wind speed for the bridge is 266 kmph,” a senior government official said.The construction work of the bridge was accelerated in the last one year under the direct supervision of the top echelons of the central government, the official said According to the plans, Kashmir will be connected with train by December 2022.The Udhmapur-Katra (25 Km) section, Banihal-Quazigund (18 Km) section and Quazigund-Baramulla (118Km) section have already been commissioned.The last remaining section, the 111 km Katra-Banihal section is currently under execution.It is targeted for completion in December 2022. The 126 km out of 174 km of tunnels on this section has already been completed.There has been a greater push in the last one year for implementation of various projects under the Rs 80,068 crore Prime Minister’s Development Package (PMDP) announced on November 7, 2015, the official said.The package is meant for strengthening socio-economic infrastructure and balanced regional development of Jammu and Kashmir.The programme touches practically every sector and provides for massive investments in basic infrastructure, another official said.After the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019, the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir was left with 54 projects under the PMDP with an outlay of Rs 58,627 crore.A total of nine projects with an outlay of Rs 21,441 crore were transferred to the UT of Ladakh.   “The work in the PMDP since June 2018 and particularly in the last one year has been the rapid and unprecedented,” the official said.  The expenditure on various projects, which was 27 per cent of the sanctioned cost in June 2018, has shot up to 54 per cent in July 2020.The number of completed projects and substantially completed projects has correspondingly shot up from seven in June 2018 to 17 in July 2020.  Bottlenecks, which were holding up as many as nine projects about two years ago, have been removed.Some of the major PMDP projects which have witnessed considerable progress or have been completed in last one year include the Rambagh flyover in Srinagar, which was opened for traffic after a delay of over five years The IIT Jammu has started functioning from its own campus and over 2 lakh sq ft area was newly created for it.The Srinagar Leh power transmission line and 220 KV Srinagar-Alusteng-Drass-Kargil–Leh power transmission system have also been completed.With this, Ladakh now stands connected to the national grid. This has ensured grid connectivity and reliable quality power supply to the Ladakh region.Ladakh can be supplied power in winter and surplus power can be evacuated from there in summer, reducing reliance on diesel, boosting economy and protecting environment, the official said.Construction work of AIIMS in Jammu has started. Two years ago, the land for the project had not been handed over and the project was stuck up for want of land and other clearances Similarly, the AIIMS at Awantipora (Kashmir) project was stuck for want of land and other clearances. Now, the tender for the AIIMS campus at Awantipora has been floated and is likely to be awarded soon.The semi ring road in Jammu will be completed by next year and all land acquisition and related hurdles have been removed.In this project, 30 per cent of the work has already been completed.The 8.45 km new Banihal tunnel will be opened by next year as 86 per cent of the work completed.Work on major roads like Jammu–Akhnoor Road, Chenani-Sudhmahadev Road has been accelerated A sum of Rs. 881 crore has been earmarked for rebuilding of health institutions  As many as 144 projects have taken up and work on 60 projects completed while work is underway on 80 projects at a fast pace.  Despite having 20,000 MW hydropower potential, Jammu and Kashmir had been able to tap only 3,500 MW in 70 years.In last two years alone, about 3,000 MW capacity projects were revived and put on track. Work on 1,000 MW Pakal Dul and 624 MW Kiru started and two more projects -- 800 MW Ratle and 540 MW Kwar have been put on fast track.Officials said a number of projects have been taken up to prevent floods.The Rs 2,000 crore Jhelum flood recovery project was a key one aimed at increasing the carrying capacity of the river Jhelum and the flood spill channel.Phase-1 of the programme at a cost of Rs 399 crore is already nearing completion.This has resulted in the discharge carrying capacity of Jhelum being increased by 10,000 cusecs.Phase-II of the programme will begin shortly and when completed, it will increase carrying capacity by an additional 15,000 cusecs. Jammu and Kashmir, particularly the Kashmir division witnessed the worst-ever floods in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-s-highest-railway-bridge-over-chenab-river-in-j-k-to-be-ready-by-next-year/story-4tmzm7bcU9Ul6KRhVPFPjO.html
02-08-2020||India||Intensity of Indian monsoon may decline due to rapid warming of Bay of Bengal, says new study||Warming of Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean is likely to weaken the India monsoon further in the near future, which could be accentuated by land mass changes across the country, says a new study by the National Institute of Oceanography at Goa published in a peer-reviewed journal. The study is significant as it reviewed the under sediment cores derived from the Krishna Godavari basin of the Bay of Bengal to understand how the monsoon rainfall pattern has changed in the past 2,000 years. Most of the studies on Indian monsoon pattern are based on temperature and rainfall variations available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) since 1901 for land and sea. “The intensity of the monsoon depends on the difference in temperatures on the Eurasian landmass and the waters of the Indian Ocean during the spring each year. If the landmass is warm and the sea waters are cool we will have a strong monsoon. But if the land is warm and the sea is also relatively warm, the monsoon will be weak,” Dr Divakar Naidu who led the two-year long study, said. In the study, researchers have modelled the decade-wise variations in the monsoon rains over the subcontinent over the last two thousand years. The study, published in the journal Nature-Scientific Reports has found that decades that reported warm sea surface temperature corresponded with weaker monsoon rains due to bigger variation in land and sea temperature which prevents adequate cloud building. Variation in the Indian monsoon rains has a direct bearing on the livelihoods of more than two billion people on the Indian subcontinent and much of South and South East Asia. Monsoon rains is the main water source for agriculture in half of India with irrigation facilities being limited. “The Indian Ocean is warming and it has a negative effect on the Indian monsoon because (when) the thermal contrast between Indian Ocean and Eurasia decreases and the rainfall decreases accordingly,” he added. This has also been corroborated by weather data available with IMD since 1901, the study said. From the study, he said, it could be easily concluded that the global warming scenarios will have a “negative effect” on the Indian Monsoon on a decadal time scale. A layman may think that warmer air should hold more water and therefore, global warming should be good for Indian monsoon. “It is actually counter intuitive,” Naidu said. But in the case of the Indian monsoon it is not so, he said, adding that warmer earth and sea restrictions movement of clouds to low depression areas to cause rainfall. Sudden, spikes in sea water temperatures also mean lesser continuous longer period rainfall. “That is the reason that India is getting more high intensity shorter period rainfall which leads to higher water run-off,” he said. K J Ramesh, former director-general of IMD, said the study is clear indicator of how climate change was impacting Indian monsoon on the longer term basis. “There is clear evidence that warming of sea surface temperatures have reduced intensity of monsoon rains in several places in India, especially the north-east, where the dip in average annual rainfall is 6-8% since 1980s,” he said. The study was done as part of the project to build models that can project annual monsoon rainfall for future. The researchers studied variations in the monsoon intensity over the past 2,000 years in order to build models that will be able to offer insight into future variations in the monsoon especially with warmer oceans associated with global warming, the study said. “Instrumental records (means rain gauge data) are available only for the last 150 years. In order to improve our forecasting we need to have long term rainfall records. We have reconstructed monsoon variability by using marine sediment cores. We examined the zooplankton trapped in these sediment cores for oxygen isotopes, which in turn would offer insight into the flow of fresh water into the KG-basin. When we plotted this corresponding to the sea surface temperatures we found the strong correlation,” Dr Naidu said. The study covered the time span of the last 2000 years with a time resolution which is the first of its kind monsoon record from the marine side, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intensity-of-indian-monsoon-may-decline-due-to-rapid-warming-of-bay-of-bengal-says-new-study/story-iq6DO5qRlutt9L0NlXBYrM.html
02-08-2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu associates Ayodhya Ram Temple with Indian culture, secular values||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday highlighted a Vedic scholar’s views of Lord Ram being a secular figure and said the August 5 Bhumi Pujan ceremony for building a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya could lead to a societal spiritual rejuvenation in the country. He added that reading the Ramayana in the right perspective captures the unique Indian vision of Dharma or righteous behaviour.Naidu’s comments defining Lord Rama as an embodiment of Indian culture follow similar views expressed by RSS ideologue Bhaiyyaji Joshi, who described the ground-breaking ceremony in Ayodhya as the beginning of a new era carrying the message of “human welfare” to the world.“Rama’s ideas as told in the Indian texts are secular in origin, their influence on the life and thought of people having been profound over at least two and a half millennia,” Naidu quoted Vedic scholar Arthur Anthony MacDonnell in his post titled “Rebuilding the shrine, Enshrining the values”, on Sunday.Also Read: A video invite for LK Advani, MM Joshi for Ram temple ceremony in AyodhyaAIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi had earlier claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s participation in the foundation stone-laying ceremony for Ram Temple in Ayodhya will be a violation of his oath as the head of a secular country. Some other leaders had also raised similar objections.Naidu’s post argues that Lord Ram and Ramayana’s teachings have left an indelible influence on the composite Indian culture and the construction of Ram temple represents the Indian vision of righteous behaviour.“Indeed, this is a moment that could lead to a societal spiritual rejuvenation if we can understand the essence of Ramayana and understand it in the right perspective and see it as a tale that captures the unique Indian vision of Dharma or righteous behaviour,” Naidu said in the post.Also Read: Telangana BJP leader invites Asaduddin Owaisi to mega Ram temple eventHe further builds on the theme by talking about Mahatma Gandhi’s usage of “Rama Rajya” to symbolize a state with people-centric democratic governance founded on values of empathy, inclusion, peaceful co-existence and constant quest for a better quality of life. Naidu adds that the story of Lord Rama’s life is about adherence to a set of values imbibed in the Indian culture, such as truth, peace, collaboration, compassion, justice, inclusion, devotion, sacrifice and empathy.“It is this set of values that are at the core of Indian world view,” Naidu said.Yesterday, RSS leader Suresh Bhaiyyaji had said that the movement for building of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya didn’t aim to add one more temple in the list. “It is not completely true to see it only as a centre for religious faith…,” he had said, while insisting that the Ram Temple should be seen as a symbol of Indian culture and national pride instead. Several organisations have appealed for lighting of earthen lamps and decoration of every Indian home on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-associates-ayodhya-ram-temple-with-indian-culture-secular-values/story-cja4491FXGrLTpEQZtg4IL.html
02-08-2020||India||74 IPS transfers in Gujarat; Ahmedabad, Surat get new top cops||In a major reshuffle, the Gujarat government has transferred 74 IPS officers and appointed new police chiefs of Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara.The order was issued late Saturday night, a day after Ahmedabad Police Commissioner Ashish Bhatia was appointed as the state director general of police (DGP).As per the order, Sanjay Srivastava, a 1987-batch IPS officer and DGP-CID (crime and railways), has been appointed as the police commissioner of Ahmedabad.Special Commissioner of Police (crime), Ahmedabad, Ajay Kumar Tomar, a 1989-batch IPS officer, has been made the police commissioner of Surat, replacing R B Brahmbhatt, who has been appointed as the police commissioner of Vadodara.Anupam Singh Gahlaut, a 1997-batch IPS officer, who was serving as Vadodara police commissioner, has been appointed as inspector general of police (IGP-intelligence) in the state capital Gandhinagar.Gahlaut has also been given the additional charge of executive director, Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited at Vadodara, replacing K G Bhati, the government said in its notification.Bhati, a 1999-batch IPS officer, who was also the joint commissioner of police (traffic), Vadodara, has been appointed as inspector general of police, Ahmedabad range, replacing J R Mothaliya.Mothaliya, a 2001-batch IPS officer, has been appointed IGP (border range), Bhuj, replacing S G Trivedi.Additional Director General of Police (CID) Shamsher Singh, a 1991-batch IPS officer, has been appointed as additional DGP (technical services and state crime record bureau).Amit Kumar Viswakarma has been appointed as joint commissioner of police (crime), Ahmedabad. The 1998-batch IPS officer was joint commissioner of police, sector-1, Ahmedabad.Viswakarma will also hold the charge of additional DGP (ATS and coastal) and IGP (operation), Ahmedabad.Besides, Secretary (Home) Brajesh Kumar Jha has been appointed as IGP (administration), replacing H G Patel.IGP (Gandhinagar range) M A Chavda has been appointed as JCP (traffic), Ahmedabad, while Gautam Parmar, DIG-CID (crime and railways), has been appointed as additional commissioner of police (sector-2), Ahmedabad.Surat’s Additional Commissioner of Police (traffic and crime) H R Muliyana has been transferred as ACP (sector-2) in the same city.H R Chaudhary, a 2005-batch IPS officer, has been appointed as joint executive director of the Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited, Vadodara. He was serving as DIG (armed units), Vadodara.Several deputy commissioners of police and superintendents of police (SPs) of various districts have also been transferred and promoted in the late night reshuffle.SP (Ahmedabad rural) R V Asari, a 2006-batch IPS officer, has been appointed as assistant commissioner of police (sector-1), Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/74-ips-transfers-in-gujarat-ahmedabad-surat-get-new-top-cops/story-wF4vZmVwd15xQY37WHDYZO.html
02-08-2020||India||For Mehbooba Mufti’s release, a poke at Centre from Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and his sister Priyanka on Sunday demanded the release of Jammu and Kashmir’s former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, two days after the government extended her detention under public safety act (PSA) by another three months.“India’s democracy is damaged when GoI illegally detains political leaders. It’s high time Mehbooba Mufti is released,” Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet.As if on cue, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi also accused the central government of shying away from dialogue and of being undemocratic by keeping the leaders under detention. “The BJP government is making the detention of leaders its weapon to shy away from dialogue, the strongest style of democracy. Keeping under house arrest is undemocratic and unconstitutional. She should be released,” she said.On Friday, the Jammu and Kashmir administration extended Mufti’s detention even as it released Peoples Conference chief Sajad Gani Lone in Srinagar, a week ahead of the one-year anniversary of the revocation of the troubled region’s special status and its bifurcation.Mufti, who has been held under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA), is among 20-odd political leaders in the Valley who continue to remain under detention following parliament’s revocation of J&K’s special status on August 5 last year. Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar, the two former chief ministers, were released on March 13 and March 24, respectively.Earlier, another congress leader P Chidambaram had asked for a collective campaign for the immediate release of Mufti, questioning how she was a threat to public safety.“The extension of the detention of Ms Mehbooba Mufti under PSA is an abuse of law and an assault on the Constitutional rights guaranteed to every citizen,” he said in a series of tweets.“Why should she undertake not to speak against the abrogation of Art 370? Is it not part of the right to free speech? I am one of the counsels appearing in a case in the SC challenging the abrogation of Art 370. If I speak against Art 370 — as I must — is that a threat to public safety?” he said.Mufti’s party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), ran a coalition government in the undivided state with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) until the alliance collapsed in June 2018 that prompted the imposition of Governor’s Rule.Under the PSA, a person can be kept under detention for up to two years without any trial in the court.The former CM was arrested on August 5 from her official residence and lodged at Chesmashahi huts. She was moved to a government building close to the MLA hostel, where other detainees were held, in November. In April, Mufti was shifted to her official residence at Fairview on Gupkar Road.The PDP condemned the extension of Mufti’s detention. ‘It’s high time the BJP realises that we as Kashmiris refuse to be trivialised,” the party said.Nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders were detained hours before the central government nullified Article 370 of the Constitution, which accorded special status to the region, and bifurcated the state into two union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislature and Ladakh without one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-mehbooba-mufti-s-release-a-poke-to-centre-from-rahul-and-priyanka-gandhi/story-mX7UphCls6VahkBuC9C98K.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid-19 digital push: Railways moves over 5 lakh files, 12 lakh documents online||In the past four months when the entire country was in various stages of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the Railways has digitised over 12 lakh documents like letters, bills, office orders, project drawings and more than four lakh files, scrapping their manual handling and reducing not just physical contact between officials but also operational costs. The use of Railways’ e-office has grown manifold since the pandemic hit the country -- the number of e-receipts increased from 4.5 lakhs during March 2019 to March this year, to 16.5 lakhs in April-July this year; the number of e-files increased from 1.3 lakhs to 5.4 lakh during the same periods respectively.The e-office platform provided by RailTel is a cloud enabled software developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and aims to provide reliable, efficient, and effective ways of handling office files and documents. “Due to availability of e-office, majority of file work in Railways can continue smoothly without physical presence in offices which is a boon in a time of crisis like this,” RailTel CMD, Puneet Chawla told PTI.He said it was a big challenge for the team to complete the work during the lockdown phase as resource movement was restricted. “We couldn’t visit the division offices and the implementation work needed to be done remotely and it was very time consuming as well. The crucial part of implementation is the training of officials to handle the platform,” Chawla said. The official said since physical presence of RailTel officials and Railway users was not possible, the entire training was also done remotely using video conferencing and on call support. Training videos were prepared so that users could watch them again and again to get a grip on the e-office usage procedure. As of July 31, there are 1,04,3,32 users in 106 units of Indian Railways of the e-office platform. There are 16,55,748 e-receipts and 5,47,681 files which have been created, according to RailTel data. The work of the remaining 60 workshops has been sanctioned.RailTel also provided Virtual Private Network connections to around 9,500 railway officials for enabling them to process the file works remotely. The system, officials said, promises absolute transparency as anything once written on the file cannot be changed or undone and there is also a monitoring mechanism to check where the files are held up, thus accounting for delays. “Even the big drawings including project drawings are being prepared and being sent for approval to the various departments on the e-platform. This e-drawing approval system has ensured quick approvals of drawings and transparency resulting in faster project implementation,” Chawla said. The Railways’ push to promote contactless communication between its officials has geared momentum through the Covid-19 pandemic, primarily with two things in mind -- to reduce the spread of the disease and also to cut costs. In circulars issued through these months, officials have been asked to rely on video-conferencing for meetings, emails for communication and special applications for procurements and tendering. On Sunday, in a first, the Railways held a virtual retirement function for 2,320 superannuating officials connecting all Zones/Divisions/Production Units which was attended by Railway Minister Piyush Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-digital-push-railways-moves-over-5-lakh-files-12-lakh-documents-online/story-Ut9CKdYYFTSteULGo0J9lJ.html
02-08-2020||India||India reports 55,000 coronavirus cases, Florida faces hurricane||India reported nearly 55,000 new coronavirus cases on Sunday and Japan recorded more than 1,500 for a second day while Florida braced for a hurricane that threatened to hamper anti-disease efforts.A curfew was imposed on Australia’s second-largest city, Melbourne, following a spike in infections.The United States, India and South Africa are struggling to rein in their first wave of infections while South Korea and other countries where the disease abated try to avert a second wave as curbs on travel and trade ease.India’s 54,735 new cases were down from the previous day’s record 57,118 but raised the country’s total to 1.75 million. The month of July accounted for more than 1.1 million of those cases.The major cities of New Delhi and Mumbai might have passed their peaks, said a government expert, Randeep Guleria. Subways, cinemas and other public facilities are closed until Aug. 31.In Japan, the government said all but five of its 1,540 new cases were transmitted domestically. The daily total was close to Friday’s record of 1,579.The spike in Japanese cases, most of them in their 20s and 30s, prompted warnings young people were letting their guard down. Gov. Yuriko Koike of Tokyo, which has about one-third of the new infections, says she might declare an emergency to contain the outbreak.In Florida, authorities were trying to prepare storm shelters while enforcing social distancing as Hurricane Isaias churned toward the heavily populated state. It was due to be near the coast early Sunday.Florida reported 179 deaths on Saturday, raising its total to more than 7,000.The governor warned residents to expect power outages and said they should have a week’s supply of water and food.In Australia, Premier Daniel Andrews of the southern state of Victoria announced a 8 p.m.-to-5 a.m. curfew on Melbourne, a city of 5 million people. Schools statewide are to return to home-based teaching and day care centers were closed.Andrews said there were seven deaths and 671 new cases since Saturday.“If we don’t make these changes, we’re not going to get through this,” Andrews said.Also Sunday, China and South Korea reported more infections but spikes in both countries appeared to be tailing off.China had 49 new confirmed cases, up from the previous day’s 45. Thirty were in Xinjiang in the northwest, where authorities are trying to contain an outbreak focused on the regional capital, Urumqi.Three cases were found in students who returned from Russia to Wuhan, the southern city where the pandemic began in December. Most anti-disease controls were lifted there after the ruling Communist Party declared victory over the disease in March.Hong Kong reported 125 new infections as authorities tried to find the source of its latest outbreak. The Chinese government said a team of seven virus testing experts was sent to the city to help.South Korea reported 30 new cases, raising its total to 14,366 with 301 deaths, but said only eight were acquired in the country.The government warned earlier case numbers would rise as South Koreans came home from the Middle East and other places with outbreaks. Authorities say cases from abroad are less threatening because arrivals are quarantined for two weeks.On Saturday, the leader of a secretive Korean church was arrested in an investigation into whether the group hampered the anti-virus response after thousands of worshippers were infected in February and March.Governments worldwide have reported 684,075 deaths and 17.8 million cases, according to data gathered by Johns Hopkins University.The United States has the world’s biggest number of cases at 4.6 million, or one-quarter of the total, and 154,361 deaths.On Saturday, South Africa reported 10,107 new cases, raising its total to 503,290.That put the country fifth behind the United States, Brazil, Russia and India in total cases, though its population of 58 million is much smaller than theirs.In Europe, the number of new cases reported in Italy dipped below 300 for the first time.In Austria, an employee in the chancellery tested positive for the virus but didn’t work directly with Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, the Austrian Press Agency reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-55-000-coronavirus-cases-florida-faces-hurricane/story-k4OdvUwWsUwb3TLe7Q3NrL.html
02-08-2020||India||‘Will be in Ayodhya but can’t confirm about presence at event’: Uma Bharti after getting Ram temple invite||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Uma Bharti on Sunday said that though she will be in Ayodhya for the groundbreaking ceremony of Ram temple on August 5, it is still not clear if she will be present at the venue of the event.The clarification came in the form of a series of tweets (12 to be exact) in which Bharti recounted the struggles of thousands of kar sevaks who took part in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and appealed to her supporters to celebrate the event from their homes.“I shared the information yesterday about the invitation I received from the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas to be in Aydohya from August 4 to 6. I thought it’s important to share this information because people were asking questions in this regard,” Bharti said in her first tweet about the event in Hindi. 1.कल जब मुझे 4 अगस्त को अयोध्या जी पहुंचकर 6 तारीख तक वहां रहने का निर्देश राम जन्मभूमि न्यास की ओर से मिला तो मैंने आप सबसे इसकी जानकारी शेयर की। जानकारी देना इसलिए जरूरी लगा क्योंकि आप सब मुझसे निरंतर इस संबंध में प्रश्न कर रहे थे।She then talked about the “interview offers” she has received, but said she doesn’t want to mention her efforts in a movement “that has been going on for 500 years”. “There were many wars and struggles, it started in 1984 and many kar sevaks were martyred, many families were destroyed. It is because of all this that the momentum was not lost. We have to remember their courage,” the BJP leader said.“It is a matter of pride for me that the temple’s construction will begin in my lifetime. Our honourable Prime Minister will inaugurate the event on behalf of all Indians,” she added.Bharti then turned attention towards the Covid-19 pandemic and said it has been turning into something horrible. “So, even if we are in Ayodhya, it won’t be confirmed till the last hour who will be present at the venue of the groundbreaking ceremony.”“The way rivers merge into ocean, we have merged into PM Modi and his presence at the event will signify our presence,” Bharti said on Twitter. 8.जैसे नदियां समुद्र में समा जाती हैं हम सब @narendramodi जी में समा गए हैं उनकी शिलान्यास स्थल पर उपस्थिति ही हम सबकी उपस्थिति है।Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat and a host of senior RSS and BJP leaders have been invited for the event. The groundbreaking ceremony that marks the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya.LK Advani and senior leader Murli Manohar Joshi - the two senior leaders who were the face of the Ramjanmabhoomi movement - will attend the event through video conference.A senior BJP functionary not wishing to be quoted said both the leaders are held in reverence, but owing to their advanced age and the ongoing pandemic, it has been “found advisable” to have them join the ceremony online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-be-in-ayodhya-but-can-t-confirm-about-presence-at-event-uma-bharti-after-getting-ram-temple-invite/story-uoIAS0vzqpqIStaP7yxUdJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Drones, restrictions on outsiders among security protocol ahead of Ram temple event at Ayodhya||Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya have put in place several security arrangements, including Covid-19 protocols and preventive measures, ahead of the ceremony to lay the foundation stone on August 5 for the construction of the Ram temple, a senior official said on Sunday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in a grand ceremony, which will be attended by several dignitaries, on Wednesday.Deepak Kumar, deputy inspector general (DIG) of Ayodhya range, talked about the elaborate security arrangements in the temple town before and during the bhoomi pujan ceremony. “A protocol would be followed for the security of PM Modi during his visit to Ayodhya. A Covid-19 protocol has also been followed. Covid warriors will also be deployed,” Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“We are continuously keeping a watch across the VIP routes via drones. There are no movement restrictions for the people residing in Ayodhya. I urge people not to step outdoors to contain Covid-19. We will not let outsiders enter the city,” he added.The senior police official also said that more than five people will not be allowed to gather at a place but shops can open in the temple town.Police personnel, who have tested negative for the coronavirus disease and are below the age of 45, will be deployed in the Prime Minister’s security detail on the day.“The inner security ring will be handled by the Special Protection Group (SPG) officers. But police personnel, who have tested negative for the infection as well as those kept in reserve in complete isolation, would preferably be deployed closer to the inner security ring of the PM,” Hitesh Chandra Awasthy, UP’s director general of police (DGP), had said on Friday.Police have also planned route diversions and put in barricades at a dozen places in the town to ease traffic movement.The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, set up in accordance with the Supreme Court verdict, is organising the ceremony. The construction of the Ram temple will begin after the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-restrictions-on-outsiders-among-security-protocol-ahead-of-ayodhya-event/story-s38mI5xYILtfqDqiWLICHJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Delhi logs 961 new Covid-19 infections, 15 more deaths take toll past 4,000-mark||Delhi on Sunday logged 961 new cases of Covid-19 taking the infection count in the national capital to 1,37,677, while the death toll touched 4,004, health department data indicated.At least 15 people succumbed to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, taking the toll past the 4,000 mark. On Sunday, 1,186 coronavirus patients recovered and were discharged from city hospitals. A total of 1,23,317 patients have recovered, migrated or been discharged while the number of active cases in the capital currently stand at 10,356.Delhi has witnessed a sharp decline in the number of coronavirus cases over the last week. The national capital, earlier this week on Monday, recorded 613 new coronavirus cases, the lowest in the last two months. The city’s recovery rate has climbed to 88 per cent, but Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has cautioned people about being complacent and asked them to continue taking all necessary precautions.ALSO READ | Second sero survey in Delhi begins with four districts sampled on Day-1The data of 613 Covid-19 cases was the lowest since May 27 when 1,024 fresh cases were recorded. However, the decline in fresh cases also coincided with lesser number of tests carried out in the capital.A total of 4,289 RT-PCR and 8,441 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, the health department data showed.Cured Covid-19 patients in India crossed the 11 lakh-mark on Sunday with over 51,000 patients recuperating in a 24-hour span, the highest recorded so far, pushing the recovery rate to 65.44 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Sunday.There are 5,67,730 active cases of the coronavirus infection, which is the “actual caseload” of Covid-19 for the country now and account for 32.43 per cent of the total cases.ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 tally over 1.75 million; recoveries go beyond 1.14 millionIndia’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 17 lakh mark with 54,736 fresh cases and 853 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra -- the worst affected state from the infection -- has a total of 1,49,214 active cases and 15,316 deaths. A total of 4, 31,719 coronavirus cases have been recorded in the state up to Saturday, according to the state health department.Tamil Nadu has a total of 60,580 active cases and 4,034 deaths.The total number of Covid-19 samples tested up to August 1 in the country is 1,98,21,831 including 4,63,172 samples tested yesterday, said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-logs-961-new-covid-19-infections-15-more-deaths-take-toll-past-4-000-mark/story-0vk7BsQKsV5SCSS7LbSHHI.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Hyderabad International Airport receives mass fever screening system||The Hyderabad International Airport on Sunday said it has received a UNICEF-funded Mass Fever Screening System from the Central government which will help enhance the efficacy of the screening process as part of its fight against Covid-19.The new thermal scanner, which will be used by the airport health officials, is a ceiling mounted Mass Fever Screening System, a release from GMR Hyderabad International Airport Limited (GHIAL), the company that operates the city airport said.This system is capable of scanning, detecting and tracking febrile persons with elevated skin temperature. The system automatically adjusts and adapts to the surrounding ambient temperature without any human intervention, it said.With its Intuitive User Interface and Dual-Displays (Day Camera + Infra-Red), it provides easy identification of passengers with elevated temperature, while simplifying operations and minimising handling, it said.The new thermal scanner imparts more control to the Hyderabad Airport Health Organisation, along with the existing thermal scanners at the International Arrivals, the release said.GHIAL CEO Pradeep Panicker said: “We are thankful to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in having this modern equipment installed at the Hyderabad International Airport. With this facility, it makes the task of the health officials who serve at the airport round-the-clock, a little more easy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-hyderabad-international-airport-receives-mass-fever-screening-system/story-k158y62NH73c44qUDnwMXJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Release of water by Nepal inundates 61 villages in Bahraich||Over 60 villages in the Bahraich district here have been inundated following the release of water by Nepal from its three barrages into rivers, a district administration official said on Sunday.The release of water has affected over 1.50 lakh people and damaged 171 houses, he said, adding National Disaster Response Force personnel have been deployed in the area to rescue people.“Following the release of lakhs of cusec of water by Nepal, at least 61 villages in the district have been inundated. The administration is providing relief to the affected people,” Additional District Magistrate Jai Chandra Pandey said.He added that 61 villages located in Kaisarganj, Mahsi and Mihipurva tehsils with a population of over 1.50 lakh have been affected. “The condition is very bad in seven villages. As many as 131 kutcha houses have been damaged. Twenty-three flood posts have been made. Apart from this, one motorboat, 179 boats, one platoon of flood PAC and NDRF have also been pressed into service,” Pandey said.He also said 48 medical teams along with veterinary teams have also been deployed for relief work. Medical facilities, vaccination of animals, tarpaulin sheets and food packets are being distributed, he added.“About 3.15 lakh cusec water was released into rivers from Sharda, Girijapuri and Saryu barrages. The levels of rivers at these places were below the danger mark, but Ghagara was flowing 108 centimetres above the danger mark at Elgin bridge. Along with the barrages, the embankments are also being constantly monitored,” said Executive Engineer (Flood) Shobit Kushwaha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/release-of-water-by-nepal-inundates-61-villages-in-bahraich/story-uvtwBXyODuU6QpW6OMa6WK.html
02-08-2020||India||Assam issues new Covid-19 guidelines, allows inter-district travel on 2 days of week||The Assam government has issued a new set of guidelines, allowing inter-district movement on two days of the week, and hundred per cent office attendance from Monday to Friday.Night curfew from 6 pm to 6 am on all days and total lockdown on weekends, however, will continue to remain in force for now, an order issued on Sunday by Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said.Inter-district movement of people is allowed on Monday and Tuesday and no separate permission or approval will be required for travel within the state on these two days, the order, which will come into force on Sunday, 7 pm and continue till August 14, said.All central and state government offices, including banks, insurance companies and Non Banking Financial Companies, shall be allowed to operate with hundred per cent attendance, and point-to-point bus service will be available for the employees.Pregnant women have been told not to attend office.As part of the new guidelines, shopping malls, gymnasiums have been granted permission to operate between Monday and Friday, subject to certain conditions.Restaurants and other hospitality services will also get to run their businesses on these five days, with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols.Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will continue to remain shut.Social, political, entertainment, academic and religious functions, sporting events, and other congregations have also been barred.People above the age of 65 years and children below ten years are advised to stay indoors, except for unavoidable medical reasons, the order by chief secretary said.Non-contact sports in open space shall be allowed, provided social distancing norms are not violated, it stated.Wearing of mask is compulsory in public places, in workplaces and during movement in vehicles, and any violation will attract a fine of Rs 1000 for the first offence, it said.Assam has reported 41,726 Covid-19 cases so far, of which 31,442 have recovered and 101 have died. Three persons have migrated out of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-issues-new-covid-19-guidelines-allows-inter-district-travel-on-2-days-of-week/story-qYR8a3Z1d0AsACHVCiRVsO.html
02-08-2020||India||‘People will demand resignation of PM Modi if unemployment crisis not resolved’: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that the people of India may seek resignation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi if issues such as employment and livelihood are not resolved, adding that people’s can’t survive long on “hopes and assurances”. Criticising the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government over the handling of the economic scenario in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, Raut, in his weekly column in the party mouthpiece Saamana, said that 10 crore people have lost their livelihood and the pandemic has affected 40 crore families.“How long will people spend their days on mere hopes and assurances? In the last 15 years, not a single problem of people has been removed. Prime Minister of Israel [Benjamin] Netanyahu is a friend of Prime Minister Modi. Due to the economic crisis and corona related atrocities, the Israeli people have started demonstrating on the streets everywhere. The people of Israel are demanding the resignation of Prime Minister Netanyahu. The same time can also come in India,” he said in his column Rokhthok.Raut added that the corona crisis has led to 10 crore people getting unemployed and economic leadership is more important than leadership in the battlefield. “Millions are sitting unemployed today. Innumerable claims of inflation, poverty and unemployment have erupted in society. Economic leadership is more important than leadership in the battlefield,” Shiv Sena said. “Nobody is talking about the crisis, employment. It is easy to say crisis gives rise to opportunity. But, nobody knows how people are dealing with the crisis,” the Shiv Sena leader added. Taking a dig at the BJP, he listed the government’s measures to tackle the economic situation which he said include procuring Rafael fighter jets, reciting Hanuman Chalisa daily (BJP MP’s comment), destabilising Rajasthan government, and coming back to power in Maharashtra on its own. “The stoves of 40 crore families have been extinguished. What is the solution to their problems? Bhoomi pujan of Ram temple will be done, BJP needs Rajasthan, it will happen. Rafale aircraft from France also came to Ambala. But how are those who lost jobs in this period coping with the situation? Will the rulers ever tell them?” the Saamana executive editor asked in a sarcastically toned column.The Sena leader said that the “threat” of coronavirus on India is “grave”, and the “measures” taken by the government to “defeat” it includes bringing fighter jets. He wrote that before Rafale, Indian governments have procured other fighter jets like Sukhoi and MiG, but such a “celebration” was never done. “Will Rafale jets with the bomb and missile-carrying capacity be able to destroy the crisis of unemployment and economic challenges?” Raut asked. The Shiv Sena leader added that the economic situation of the country is very bad and said that people will again be ready to become “slaves”. “People will be ready to become slaves. Earlier, the British enslaved Indians and took them to ports such as Fiji, Mauritius Guyana, Suriname, etc. People will be ready to go as slaves now too. If the rules do not acknowledge this, then they can continue to celebrate over Rafael,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-will-demand-resignation-of-pm-modi-if-unemployment-crisis-not-resolved-sanjay-raut/story-C4dt02zSAK5AXpsLKIPcmO.html
02-08-2020||India||Assam allows inter-district travel on 2 days of week; night||The Assam government has issued a new set of guidelines, allowing inter-district movement on two days of the week, and hundred per cent office attendance from Monday to Friday.Night curfew from 6 pm to 6 am on all days and total lockdown on weekends, however, will continue to remain in force for now, an order issued on Sunday by Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said.Inter-district movement of people is allowed on Monday and Tuesday and no separate permission or approval will be required for travel within the state on these two days, the order, which will come into force on Sunday, 7 pm and continue till August 14, said.All central and state government offices, including banks, insurance companies and Non Banking Financial Companies, shall be allowed to operate with hundred per cent attendance, and point-to-point bus service will be available for the employees.Pregnant women have been told not to attend office.As part of the new guidelines, shopping malls, gymnasiums have been granted permission to operate between Monday and Friday, subject to certain conditions.Restaurants and other hospitality services will also get to run their businesses on these five days, with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols.Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will continue to remain shut.Social, political, entertainment, academic and religious functions, sporting events, and other congregations have also been barred.People above the age of 65 years and children below ten years are advised to stay indoors, except for unavoidable medical reasons, the order by chief secretary said.Non-contact sports in open space shall be allowed, provided social distancing norms are not violated, it stated.Wearing of mask is compulsory in public places, in workplaces and during movement in vehicles, and any violation will attract a fine of Rs 1000 for the first offence, it said.Assam has reported 41,726 Covid-19 cases so far, of which 31,442 have recovered and 101 have died. Three persons have migrated out of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-allows-inter-district-travel-on-2-days-of-week-night/story-2ZogzJU9LlSGY0qbzDEJTL.html
02-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s call records, family of ex-manager on Bihar Police’s probe radar||Sushant Singh Rajput’s phone records will be tracked and the family of his former manager, Disha Salian, will be questioned in connection with the death of the Bollywood actor, Bihar police have said.According to news agency ANI, the four-member team from Patna Police, which is in Mumbai to probe Rajput’s death, has said that none of the SIM cards that were being used by the actor was registered under his name.‘’One of them was registered in the name of his friend Siddharth Pithani. We are now tracking the call detail records (CDRs),’’ a member of the team was quoted as saying by the news agency.The 34-year-old actor, who was found dead in his Bandra apartment in June, used at least 50 SIM cards, according to reports.One of the members of the Patna Police team also said that they will question the family of Salian, who died a few days before Rajput.‘’Even after constant attempts to connect with them on phone, we have failed to establish any contact,’’ an official said, according to ANI.The team has recorded the statements of Rajput’s former girlfriend Ankita Lokhande, friend Mahesh Shetty, sister Meetu Singh, Dr Kersi Chawra in Mumbai as well as his cook and sweeper. Some more people will be examined in connection with the case. The team also visited several banks to gather details about transactions from Rajput’s accounts.Also Read: Sushant had no Godfather, says his sister in appeal to PM Modi, wants him to step inRajput’s father, Krishna Kumar Singh, had lodged a complaint against Chakraborty and six others including her family members in Patna last week. The case was registered under various IPC sections including 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 306 (abetment of suicide).His father accused that Rhea Chakraborty befriended his son in May 2019 with the intention of furthering her own career and exploiting him. He also alleged that at least Rs 15 crore was withdrawn from his son’s bank account to which Chakraborty and her family members had gained access. He also said that barely a week before Rajput was found dead at his Bandra residence, Chakraborty had visited his house and taken away his laptop, ATM card and other important documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-call-records-family-of-ex-manager-on-bihar-police-s-probe-radar/story-CkfXUjGYyMusPh5cEuPo3M.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 65.44%, case fatality rate drops further to 2.13%||Recoveries among Covid-19 patients in India crossed the 11 lakh-mark on Sunday with over 51,000 patients recuperating in a 24-hour span, the highest recorded so far, pushing the recovery rate to 65.44%, the Union health ministry said on Sunday.There are 5,67,730 active cases of the coronavirus infection, which is the “actual caseload” of Covid-19 for the country presently and account for 32.43 per cent of the total cases, it said.All active cases are under medical supervision either in hospitals or in home isolation.With 51,225 patients cured and discharged in a day, India’s total recoveries have surged to 11,45,629 and exceeded active cases of Covid-19 by 5,77,899 as on date, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 2.13%.“Coordinated implementation of Covid-19 management strategy by the Union and state and UT governments and selfless sacrifice of all frontline healthcare and other workers and Covid-19 warriors across sectors have ensured that the recoveries are continuously on the rise,” the ministry said.“The gap between the recoveries and the active cases has seen a steady rise. On June 10, for the first time, the total number of recovered patients exceeded the active cases with a difference of 1,573, which has increased to 5,77,899 as on today,” it said.The successful and coordination implementation of the effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on a comprehensive standard of care framework, have resulted in a consistent trend of rising recovery rate and progressively reducing case fatality rate (CFR).   “India has one of the lowest case fatality rate at 2.13 pc as compared to the global average,” the ministry said.     India’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 17.50 lakh with 54,735 cases being reported in a day, while the death toll rose to 37,364 with 853 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-65-44-case-fatality-rate-drops-further-to-2-13/story-gZGxwTY7oQaRsupfEXic8H.html
02-08-2020||India||3-yr-old Kerala boy dies after swallowing coin; kin allege govt hospitals refused admission||A three-year-old boy died after he accidentally swallowed a coin at his home near Aluva, with relatives alleging that government hospitals where he was taken to had refused to admit him as he came from a Covid-19 containment zone.Kerala health minister K K Shailaja termed the incident as “very unfortunate” and directed the principal secretary (Health) to submit a report after a thorough enquiry.Stringent action would be taken if any lapses were found, she said in a statement.The boy’s relatives alleged that he was denied treatment as their residence fell in a Covid-19 containment zone at Kadungallur near Aluva.They said the incident occurred on Saturday morning following which the parents took the child to the Aluva government hospital, where an X-ray was done and revealed the presence of the object.However, the hospital authorities allegedly did not admit the childA senior doctor there claimed that the boy was not admitted as there was no paediatric surgeon and so he was referred to the Ernakulam General Hospital.Doctors there examined the child and referred him to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha,for better medical care, where, too, he was allegedly not admitted.The doctors reportedly advised the parents to give their child fruits, which, they said, would result in the coin passing through his motion.The parents, who belong to a poor family, took the child back to their home in Kadungallur.However his condition worsened by evening and they rushed him to Aluva government hospital, but he died en route, police said.The body would be handed over to the parents after post- mortem, health authorities said.His swab has been collected for Covid-19 test, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-yr-old-kerala-boy-dies-after-swallowing-coin-kin-allege-govt-hospitals-refused-admission/story-oZucheCok8138kQalQcJ7J.html
02-08-2020||India||Tracking the political journey of UP minister Kamal Rani Varun, who died of Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh’s cabinet minister for Technical Education Kamal Rani Varun succumbed to the coronavirus disease on Sunday. She was the first minister in Uttar Pradesh to die after contracting coronavirus. Kamal Rani was 62.On July 18, the minister tested positive for coronavirus and was admitted to the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Hospital here. She was later shifted to the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences.Born on May 3, 1958, Kamal Rani was among the 18 members inducted in the council of ministers headed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on August 21, 2019, the first such reshuffle since the BJP government came to power in March 2017.Kamal Rani was the only woman cabinet minister in UP following Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s resignation after getting elected to the Lok Sabha.She was elected to the 11th Lok Sabha in 1996. In 1998, she was re-elected to Parliament for a second term.Kamal Rani had won from Ghatampur assembly seat in the 2017 assembly election. She secured 48.52 per cent of votes in the election, wresting the sea from Samajwadi Party.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the minister’s death.In a condolence message issued here on Sunday, Adityanath said, “Kamal Rani Varun died on Sunday at around 9.30 am. She was an experienced and capable leader. She discharged her responsibilities with competence. She was a dedicated public representative, who was always working for the welfare of deprived and oppressed sections of the society.”The chief minister cancelled his visit to Ayodhya scheduled for the day, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said.Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel conveyed condolences to Kamal Rani’s family.“The sudden death of Kamal Rani is shocking. She was very active during her stint as Member of Parliament in the 11th and 12th Lok Sabha. I express my deepest condolences to her family in this time of grief,” Anandiben Patel said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracking-the-political-journey-of-up-minister-kamal-rani-varun-who-died-of-covid-19/story-m2rfd5RInB7ZyB94DqKcbI.html
02-08-2020||India||BCG vaccine could slow down Covid-19 spread, says research but warns it’s not a ‘magic bullet’||Scientists have found that the Bacillus Calmette-Guerin or BCG slows down the rate of infection and death of the coronavirus disease. The research says that the effect is very prominent in the first 30 days of the BCG vaccination.The research comes as countries race to find a vaccine for Covid-19, which has devastated almost the entire globe.The study, published in one of the journals of non-profit American Association for the Advancement of Science, says that the United States - the worst-affected country by Covid-19 - would not have such a high fatality rate if the government there had instituted mandatory BCG vaccination several decades ago.The findings suggest that BCG vaccination policies can be effective in fight against Covid-19. The BCG vaccine is usually given at the time of the birth of a child to prevent tuberculosis. The research says that the BCG vaccine helps develop immunity against various other infectious diseases, perhaps including Covid-19.The experts analysed daily rate of increase of confirmed cases in 135 countries and deaths in 134 countries in the first 30-day period of each country’s outbreak. It was seen that “mandatory BCG vaccination correlated with a flattening of the curve in the spread of Covid-19”.However, the researchers did not portray the BCG vaccine as “magic bullet” against Covid-19, and said more analysis is needed.There are nearly 100 vaccine candidates for Covid-19 which are at different stages of research and trials across the world. In India, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan announced on Saturday that 16 vaccine candidates are in different stages of development.“The BCG vaccine is undergoing phase 3 trial, Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine is in phase I/II trial and 4 vaccine candidates are in advanced stages of pre-clinical study,” he said.Vardhan said that five good clinical laboratory practice clinical trial sites have been developed and six animal models for vaccine development studies are also ready.The minister also announced the completion of pan-India 1000 genome sequencing of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bcg-vaccine-could-slow-down-covid-19-spread-says-research-but-warns-it-s-not-a-magic-bullet/story-kz8w51afZlOF11wirRHoLK.html
02-08-2020||India||Senior Patna Police official to head team probing Sushant Singh’s death: Report||A superintendent of police from Bihar will lead the four-member team investigating the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, which is already in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported on Sunday.Vinay Tiwari, Patna (Central) superintendent of police, has left for Mumbai, according to the news agency.The team from Patna Police reached Mumbai on July 27 and began its probe after Rajput’s father lodged a complaint under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including those pertaining to abetment of suicide and fraud, against actor Rhea Chakraborty and six others.KK Singh has accused actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was said to have been in a relationship with Rajput, of using his son’s position to promote her own career, trying to drive a wedge between him and his family, getting him fed with medicines for mental illness with the help of conniving doctors and blackmailing him with threats of making his medical history public to tarnish his reputation.Also read: Sushant had no Godfather, says his sister in appeal to Modi, wants him to step inHe also alleged that at least Rs 15 crore was withdrawn from his son’s bank account to which Chakraborty and her family members had gained access. He also said that barely a week before Rajput was found dead at his Bandra residence, Chakraborty had visited his house and taken away his laptop, ATM card and other important documents.Gupteshwar Pandey, Bihar’s director general of police (DGP), said on Saturday that the force was capable enough to investigate the matter as a chorus for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) grew louder and that a senior official will lead the probe into Rajput’s death.“Why would we ask for a CBI probe? Bihar Police is capable enough of probing the case. If needed, an IPS-rank officer may be sent to Mumbai to lead the investigation,” Pandey had said.Also read| Sushant Singh Rajput’s therapist: ‘He was suffering from depression and hypomania, Rhea Chakraborty his strongest support’Pandey had also said the Patna Police team had recorded the statements of Rajput’s former girlfriend Ankita Lokhande, friend Mahesh Shetty, sister Meetu Singh, Dr Kersi Chawra in Mumbai as well as his cook and sweeper. Some more people will be examined in connection with the alleged suicide, he had said. The team also visited several banks to gather details about transactions from Rajput’s accounts.Pandey said the Bihar Police wants all medico-legal evidence related to the case handed over to it, asserting that it will bring out the truth at the earliest. He said they want the forensic science laboratory reports, inquest report, post-mortem report and relevant CCTV footage in order to facilitate the probe.The Bihar Police also wants details of those who were examined by the Mumbai Police and what they have said in their statements, the police chief said.Also read| From theft to cheating: Sushant Singh Rajput’s father charges against Rhea ChakrabortyPandey has also urged Chakraborty to join the investigation into Rajput’s death being conducted by Patna Police in Mumbai if she has nothing to hide.“She was the one who called for a CBI probe… I don’t know why she wants the Mumbai Police or the Bihar police to investigate the case. If she is innocent, she should come forward and should say it openly that any agency can probe the case,” Pandey told Aaj Tak.“She should say I am here and anyone can ask any question and probe whatever they want to. Why play a game of hide and seek?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-patna-police-official-to-head-team-probing-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case-report/story-Xmm3CYuOf9OGu8zDiFuYfP.html
02-08-2020||India||IMD plans to use artificial intelligence in weather forecasting||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) is planning to use artificial intelligence in weather forecasting, especially for issuing nowcasts, which can help improve 3-6 hours prediction of extreme weather events, its Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said on Sunday.He said the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning is not as prevalent as it is in other fields and it is relatively new in the area of weather forecasting. The IMD has invited research groups who can study how artificial intelligence (AI) be used for improving weather forecasting and the Ministry of Earth Sciences is evaluating their proposals, Mohapatra said.He said the IMD is also planning to do collaborative studies on this with other institutions. The IMD uses different tools like radars, satellite imagery, to issue nowcasts, which gives information on extreme weather events occurring in the next 3-6 hours. The IMD issues forecasts for extreme weather events like thunderstorms, dust storms. Unlike cyclones, predictions of thunderstorms, which also bring lightning, squall and heavy rains, are more difficult as the extreme weather events develop and dissipate in a very short period of time.Last month, over 160 people died due to lightning alone in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The IMD wants to better the nowcast predictions through AI and machine learning. “Artificial intelligence helps in understanding past weather models and this can make decision-making faster,” Mohapatra said.The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) of the US announced new strategies this year to expand the agency’s application of four emerging science and technology focus areas -- NOAA Unmanned Systems, artificial intelligence, Omics, and the cloud -- to guide transformative advancements in the quality and timeliness of NOAA science, products and services.Omics is a suite of advanced methods used to analyse material such as DNA, RNA, or proteins. With regards to AI, it said the overarching goal of the NOAA Artificial Intelligence (AI) Strategy is to utilise AI to advance NOAA’s requirements-driven mission priorities. The NOAA said through this, it seeks to reduce the cost of data processing, and provide higher quality and more timely scientific products and services for societal benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-plans-to-use-artificial-intelligence-in-weather-forecasting/story-HiQBHdop48z0BHKiBJizpL.html
02-08-2020||India||ICMR plans to set up registry of hospitalised Covid-19 patients to facilitate research, policy making||A registry of hospitalised Covid-19 patients across the country is being mooted to collect real time data which will help improve treatment outcomes, analyse trends in the progression of the pandemic and calibrate response, officials said. The ICMR in collaboration with the health ministry and the AIIMS is planning to set up the National Clinical Registry which will help researchers and policy makers understand effectiveness of investigational therapies, adverse effects taking place and generate evidence for improving the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “The aim is to collect data of the hospitalised COVID-19 patients like clinical and laboratory features, their demographics, comorbidities, treatment outcomes, complications in all age groups among others,” officials said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2 and the illness it is causing has so many unknown parameters that are a barrier to the proper understanding and management of the disease, they said.“A systematically collected, comprehensive database covering different regions of the country will enable both researchers and policy makers to generate pertinent hypotheses, to inform crucial understanding of COVID 19, to detect trends in the progression of the pandemic and to accordingly calibrate response to the pandemic,” an official said.Fifteen institutions of national repute including the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh, AIIMS Delhi, AIIMS Jodhpur, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru and Armed Force Medical College in Pune will connect with the hospitals and medical colleges to get them on board.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage These 15 institutions would be the registry sites and would be mentoring around 100 Covid-19 hospitals  which would be called satellite centres from where the data would be collected as part of the exercise. The proposal has been sent for approval to the  Central Ethics Committee on Human Research (CECHR) of the ICMR.  “The data will help improve the clinical management protocols as the repository would help us know which drug is working better in which age group, effectiveness of investigational therapies and adverse effects taking place. The idea is to generate evidence for improving the treatment of COVID-19 patients,” another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-plans-to-set-up-registry-of-hospitalised-covid-19-patients-to-facilitate-research-policy-making/story-NJCf4UyCVMcensgJTB4HIL.html
02-08-2020||India||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi discharged from hospital, says top doctor||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, who was admitted to Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Thursday, was discharged on Sunday afternoon, a senior doctor said.The 73-year-old Gandhi was admitted to the hospital on Thursday evening for what the doctors called “routine tests and investigations”.“Congress President, Mrs Sonia Gandhi who was admitted on 30th July 2020 evening at 7 p.m to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, has been discharged today at 1 p.m. Her condition at the time of discharge was stable,” Dr DS Rana, the chairperson of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital’s board of management, said.Gandhi had on Thursday held a virtual meeting with her party’s Rajya Sabha lawmakers to discuss the political situation and the impact of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. The meeting was attended by Congress’ top leaders, including former prime minister Manmohan Singh.Gandhi was admitted to the Ganga Ram Hospital in February this year after she had complained of stomach ache.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-chief-sonia-gandhi-discharged-from-hospital-says-top-doctor/story-hfmOKHTZ6wnMHztKo2YRLM.html
02-08-2020||India||A grand temple for Lord Ram’s mother to come up in Chhattisgarh||Even as preparations are in full swing in Uttar Pradesh for the bhoomi pujan (ground-breaking ceremony) of the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has announced that a grand temple of Mata Kaushalya, Lord Ram’s mother, will be constructed near Raipur. CM Baghel said that the original form of Mata Kaushalya temple will be preserved while beautifying its premises. He said proper facilities will be developed for the devotees visiting the temple. Notably, the Chhattisgarh government is developing important locations on Ram Van Gaman Path as tourist spots and planning to build a temple at Chandkhuri, where Mata Kaushalya was born. The CM claimed that Chhattisgarh is the maternal home of Lord Ram, where the Lord is believed to have spent a significant amount of time while in exile. “The state government is developing Ram Van Gaman Marg as a tourist destination so as to glorify it at national and international-level,” said the CM, adding that the construction work of the temple in Chandkhuri will start in August.  प्रभु श्री राम के ननिहाल चंदखुरी का सौंदर्य अब पौराणिक कथाओं के नगरों जैसा ही आकर्षक होगा।राजधानी रायपुर के निकट स्थित इस गांव के प्राचीन कौशल्या मंदिर के मूल स्वरूप को यथावत रखते हुए, पूरे परिसर के सौंदर्यीकरण की रूपरेखा तैयार कर ली गई है।।।जय सिया राम।। pic.twitter.com/6Rm1cGk48UA blueprint for the same has been prepared, said the CM, tweeting out pictures. He has directed the officials to build a bridge on the pond, well-equipped dharamshalas and toilets. The Chhattisgarh government is developing nine places on Ram Van Gaman Paryatan Paripath, believed to have been traversed by Lord Ram before entering South India. This includes Sitamadi-Harchauka (Koriya), Ramgarh (Ambikapur), Shivrinarayan (Janjgir-Champa), Turturiya (Balodabazar), Chandkhuri (Raipur), Rajim (Gariband), Sihava-Saptrishi Ashram (Dhamtari), Jagdalpur (Bastar), Ramaram (Sukma). These nine proposed destinations have been included in the concept plan worth Rs 137.45 crore prepared by the tourism department for the project. The state government had provisioned Rs 5 crore in the budget of previous year 2019-20 and has provisioned Rs 10 crore in the budget of current fiscal year (2020-21) for Ram Van Gaman Paryatan Paripath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-grand-temple-for-lord-ram-s-mother-to-come-up-in-chhattisgarh/story-0IsEIg1GMlSZZ5RYgBoUeN.html
02-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Junior foreign minister fasts to demand Kerala CM’s resignation over gold smuggling case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala gold smuggling: Junior foreign minister fasts to raise pitch for CM’s resignationMinister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan on Sunday started a day-long hunger strike to demand the resignation of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the gold smuggling case in the southern state. Muraleedharan, who belongs to Kerala, is holding the day’s fast at his official residence in New Delhi. Read moreAssam issues fresh unlock guidelines; malls and gyms to open from MondayShopping malls and gymnasiums in Assam will start operations from Monday, according to a fresh set of unlock guidelines released by the state government today. As per an order issued by chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna, the new directives will come into force from 7 pm on August 2 and will remain valid till 7 pm of August 14. Read moreUP govt recommends CBI probe in Kanpur lab technician’s kidnapping and murder caseAfter facing major embarrassment over alleged negligence and delayed action from the police, the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday recommended probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with kidnapping and murder of lab technician Sanjeet Yadav in Kanpur. Read moreWhat US ban on Chinese app TikTok would meanPresident Donald Trump says he wants to take action to ban TikTok, a popular Chinese-owned video app that has been a source of national security and censorship concerns. Read moreHere’s how to be a good friend, spend time together and more this Friendship DayFriends are the families we choose and they’re always around when you need them -- whether it is to share a joke, a piece of gossip, or even to lighten our mood in stressful moments. One can always count on them, and at the same time be grateful for all the love you get from another human being. Read moreAaditya Thackeray tweets images of female pedestrians on traffic light and sign board in Mumbai’s Dadar areaMaharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray recently took to Twitter to share an image and wrote that it shows “gender equality with a simple idea.” Now, his post has received tons of reactions from tweeple. Read more‘My one-day record is actually good’: Ousted India batsman eyes ODI comebackHe may have become an indispensable part of India’s Test set-up, but as far as limited-overs formats are concerned, some claim Ajinkya Rahane leaves a lot to be desired. Rahane has scored 2962 ODI runs from 90 matches at an average of 35.26 of which 843 have come from batting at No. 4 in 27 matches with an average of 36.65. Read moreWatch: Demonstrators chant ‘Modi, Modi’, praise India in Toronto’s anti-China protests||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-junior-foreign-minister-fasts-to-demand-kerala-cm-s-resignation-over-gold-smuggling-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-f6kMXAGzOO1GA982PYngLP.html
02-08-2020||India||Assam issues fresh unlock guidelines; malls and gyms to open from Monday||Shopping malls and gymnasiums in Assam will start operations from Monday, according to a fresh set of unlock guidelines released by the state government today.As per an order issued by chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna, the new directives will come into force from 7 pm on August 2 and will remain valid till 7 pm of August 14.The fresh guidelines were issued “after due consideration of the Covid situation as it prevails in the state of Assam and taking into consideration latest directives issued by ministry of home affairs on July 29”. All shops, business establishments and offices (barring those exempted) will be allowed to operate on one side of the road on alternate days in Kamrup Metropolitan district and on both sides of roads in other districts between 7 am and 5 pm from Monday to Friday. “Malls and gymnasiums are allowed to operate between Monday and Friday on same side of the street on which other shops are allowed in Kamrup Metropolitan district and both sides in case of other districts,” the order read. Restaurants and hospitality services are allowed to function on all days except Saturday and Sunday with maintenance of Covid-19 protocol and social distancing. Hotels are allowed to operate on all days while maintaining Covid-19 protocol. Inter-district movement of people will be allowed on Mondays and Tuesdays and no separate permission/permit will be required to travel from one district to another on the specified days. All state and central government offices including banks, insurance companies shall operate with 100% attendance except for pregnant women employees. Buses will be provided for easy transportation of employees.Non-contact sports will be allowed in open spaces while maintaining social distancing norms. Like before, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and all other similar places of public gathering will remain closed. All social, political, sports, academic, entertainment, religious functions and all other large congregations shall remain banned. Movement of individuals will remain strictly prohibited between 6 pm and 6 am from Monday to Friday while no one will be allowed to travel or move around on Saturday and Sunday at any time. People over the age of 65 and children below 10 years are advised to stay indoors except for unavoidable health reasons. Wearing of face masks is compulsory in public places, workplaces and transport and violation would attract a fine of Rs 1000. Assam had recorded 41,726 Covid-19 positive cases till Saturday with 31,442 recoveries and 101 deaths. Kamrup Metropolitan district, which includes Guwahati, alone had accounted for 14,616 of the total cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-issues-fresh-unlock-guidelines-malls-and-gyms-to-open-from-monday/story-2w2Oa80FG0lnypanB56LhJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Telangana BJP leader invites Asaduddin Owaisi to mega Ram temple event||Telangana BJP Leader and Chief Spokesperson Krishna Sagar Rao has invited AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi to participate in the ‘bhoomi poojan’ of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.“The Ayodhya Ram Mandir bhoomi pooja will be performed and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in it and initiate construction of magnificent Ram Mandir. The place of birth of Lord Rama will be celebrated from here on with Bhavya Ram mandir, and the BJP is proud that it is in our term that this realisation of the dream of crores of Hindu’s across the world has become a reality,” Rao said.He said objections being raised by “frivolous groups” like Leftists and AIMIM are “trivial”. “I do not think anybody needs to respond to these kinds of baseless allegations and objections because the constitution of India provides freedom of practising religion for every citizen, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is no exception to that right,” he said. “I also invite the communist leaders who are objecting and also Asaduddin Owaisi to come and participate in the bhoomi pooja. So that they can exhibit the secular fabric spirit of their own parties and their individual tolerance towards brotherhood,” he added. Also read: MP Cong leaders to hold special prayers before Ram temple’s Bhumi Pujan ceremony “The Constitution of India provides freedom of practising religion for every citizen, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is no exception to that right. In fact, he has more rights than anybody else, to perform his own religious rights and rituals as a citizen of India,” Rao said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5.Also read: Ram Temple marks the beginning of a new India, says RSS’ Bhaiyyaji JoshiThe construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya will begin after the ceremony to lay the foundation stone in which chief ministers of several states, ministers from the Union Cabinet and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, among others are also likely to participate.The Supreme Court had on November 9 last year directed the central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-bjp-leader-invites-asaduddin-owaisi-to-attend-ram-temple-event/story-eUolDkHi7SuAs226WU1UFP.html
02-08-2020||India||UP govt recommends CBI probe in Kanpur lab technician’s kidnapping and murder case||After facing major embarrassment over alleged negligence and delayed action from the police, the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday recommended probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with kidnapping and murder of lab technician Sanjeet Yadav in Kanpur.Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Home, Awanish Awasthi, confirmed that the UP government has decided to recommend CBI enquiry in the case. He said the recommendation has been done on the request of Yadav’s family to ensure that they are satisfied with investigation.The state government had earlier suspended 10 policemen, including woman IPS officer Aparna Gupta, who was posted as Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) South, Kanpur, the then Circle Officer Govind Nagar Manoj Gupta, and the then inspector of Barra police station Ranjeet Rai as well as sub-inspector Rajesh Kumar, reportedly for negligence.The government had also deputed Additional Director General (ADG) rank police officer BP Jogdand to conduct an enquiry about the controversy over paying ransom amount to kidnappers reportedly in consultation with the police.Yadav went missing on the evening of June 22. His sister Ruchi had alleged negligence and delayed action by Kanpur Police since beginning of the investigation.She had even alleged that her family arranged Rs 30 lakh after getting ransom call from kidnappers on June 29 and delivered the amount to them as per the instructions from Kanpur Police. The cops had planned to catch the kidnappers if they turned up to collect the money. Ruchi said the police’s plan failed as the kidnappers easily disappeared after collecting the bag.The police later arrested five kidnappers, including four friends of the lab technician but couldn’t recover the ransom amount and find Yadav, who had been murdered by that time. The police claimed that the kidnappers revealed that they had strangled the lab technician to death on the intervening night of June 26 and 27 when he reportedly tried to flee from their captivity and thereafter made the ransom call on June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-recommends-cbi-probe-in-kanpur-lab-technician-s-kidnapping-and-murder/story-8fu3SS5sqwoHeMR7buXW6O.html
02-08-2020||India||‘High time Mehbooba Mufti is released’: Rahul Gandhi targets Centre||Accusing the Central government of undermining democracy by ‘illegally” detaining political leaders, Congress’ Rahul Gandhi on Sunday pitched for release of Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti from home detention. Mufti, who has been held under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA) since the early hours of August 5 last year, is among 20-odd political leaders in the Valley who continue to remain under detention.“India’s democracy is damaged when GOI illegally detains political leaders. It’s high time Mehbooba Mufti is released,” tweeted the Congress leader. India’s democracy is damaged when GOI illegally detains political leaders. It’s high time Mehbooba Mufti is released.The tweet follows the Jammu and Kashmir administration’s decision to extend the detention of former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti by three months even as it released People’s Conference chief Sajad Gani Lone in Srinagar on Friday. “In exercise of powers conferred by section 8 (1) a read with clause a of sub section (1) of section 18 of JKPSA 1978, the government hereby directs that the period of detention of Mehbooba Mufti, D/O Mufti Mohammad Sayeed R/O Bijbhera A/P Nowgam Srinagar be extended for further period of three months and she may be lodged in subsidiary jail Fairview Gupkar Road Srinagar,” read the order issued on Friday. This is the second time that PSA has been extended in Mufti’s case. Under the PSA, a person can be kept under detention for up to two years.‘It’s high time the BJP realises that we as Kashmiris refuse to be trivialised,” the PDP said soon after the leader’s detention was extended.The National Conference, in a tweet, questioned the rationale of holding on to the Public Safety Act, saying the law does not exist anywhere else in the country. “Good to hear that Sajad Lone has been released from illegal house arrest. I hope others under similar illegal detention will also be released without delay,” said Omar Abdullah, who also spent considerable time in detention. The PDP ran a coalition government in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir with the BJP until the alliance collapsed in June 2018 that prompted the imposition of the Governor’s rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-time-mehbooba-mufti-is-released-rahul-gandhi-targets-centre/story-UOjUrXX1azvE1VOtnXT7MO.html
02-08-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling: Junior foreign minister fasts to raise pitch for CM’s resignation||Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan on Sunday started a day-long hunger strike to demand the resignation of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the gold smuggling case in the southern state.Muraleedharan, who belongs to Kerala, is holding the day’s fast at his official residence in New Delhi.“This is not only a gold smuggling case but it is related to India’s security. It is also related to the financing network of terrorist organisations. A thorough probe should be conducted. Kerala CM must resign. This is our demand,” Muralidhar Rao, the BJP’s national general secretary, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The opposition has stepped up pressure on the Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government over the gold smuggling case and asked him to step down taking moral responsibility for the scam.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) began a one-day fast on Saturday and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) has also announced a series of protests from Wednesday.“The CM is planning to get his way by sacrificing some officials. Everything happened under his nose. Some reports even suggest the proceeds of smuggling were used to fund anti-national activities. He has to own up moral responsibility and resign,” Muraleedharan had said on Saturday.“During one of the recent protests (anti-Citizenship [Amendment] Act, 2019) against the Union government, the CM had sat on a dharna blocking the road in Thiruvananthapuram,” he had said.The gold smuggling case surfaced on July 5 when PS Sarith, a former employee of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in the state capital of Thiruvananthapuram, was arrested.Sarith was arrested when he had come to receive a consignment that had arrived from Dubai in the name of a consulate official. Later, 30 kilograms of gold was retrieved from the consignment and the case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Swapna Suresh, a senior information technology (I-T) consultant and her friend Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru on June 10. Vijayan’s powerful principal secretary Sivasankar, a senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, has been suspended over his alleged liaison with Suresh.The Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), which is a key constituent of the LDF government, has slammed the Congress and the BJP for joining hands to topple a democratically-elected dispensation.“The CM had recommended a central agency (NIA) probe soon after the case surfaced. Let them go to the NIA and submit all proofs if they have. We are not worried about the ongoing investigation,” Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, the party’s state secretary, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-junior-foreign-minister-holds-fast-as-bjp-raises-pitch-for-cm-s-resignation/story-xD4Kj1HK6SHnTUdjL9lGMN.html
02-08-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath’s Ayodhya visit cancelled after minister Kamal Rani Varun’s death||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s visit to Ayodhya to review preparations for the bhumi pujan ceremony for the construction of the Ram Mandir on Sunday was cancelled after Kamal Rani Varun, a minister in his cabinet, died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Kamal Rani Varun, 62, had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 18 and she died at a hospital in Lucknow on Sunday due to the viral infection.“The information about the untimely demise of my colleague in the government of Uttar Pradesh, cabinet minister Smt Kamal Rani Varunji, is disturbing. The state lost a devoted public leader today. My condolences to her family. May God grant the departed soul a place in their feet. Om Shanti,” the chief minister tweeted in Hindi.The minister of technical education represented Ghatampur constituency in Kanpur in the state assembly. Her sample was tested at Civil Hospital in Lucknow after she developed symptoms of the viral disease and then was admitted to the PGI Hospital.Adityanath was scheduled to visit Ramjanambhoomi premise, the venue of the bhumi pujan, to take stock of preparations for August 5 ceremony. Adityanath was also scheduled to hold a meeting with district officials and members of the trust to review arrangements for the ceremony. The construction of the Ram temple will begin after the groundbreaking ceremony to lay the foundation stone in which chief ministers of several states, Union ministers and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will be present among other dignitaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-s-ayodhya-visit-cancelled-after-minister-kamal-rani-varun-s-death/story-cpPZ64RRfVfworOYi2PAhL.html
02-08-2020||India||India and China hold crucial disengagement talks, focus on Finger Area||Senior military commanders of India and China are holding a meeting in eastern Ladakh to implement a disengagement plan along the Line of Actual Control or LAC. The meeting is being held in Moldo, on the Chinese side of the LAC.This is the fifth attempt of both the countries to discuss disengagement since the face-off in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. The talks are expected to focus on the critical Finger Area and the strategic Depsang plains, according to people aware of the developments.The plan is also to discuss reducing tensions aggravated by a significant military build-up on both sides of the contested, they said. The Indian side is working on restore status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) along the LAC.A mutual consensus to disengage from all friction areas along the contested LAC was reached during a marathon meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders at Moldo in June.The talks that went on for nearly 11 hours were aimed at cooling tensions and thinning the military build-up on both sides of the border.But after initial progress, the disengagement process has virtually come to a halt. While China has claimed that disengagement has been completed at most locations, New Delhi has called on Beijing to work sincerely for complete de-escalation and full restoration of peace along the LAC.Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi recently said that disengagement between forward deployed Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction areas along the LAC was a complex and intricate process that required diligent execution. Joshi said disengagement was initiated after four rounds of talks between senior Indian and Chinese military commanders, and it was being verified on the ground to “ensure its veracity and correctness.” De-escalation of the border conflict will begin after complete disengagement.The ground situation remains unchanged in the Ladakh sector where both armies have amassed almost 100,000 soldiers in their forward and depth areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-hold-crucial-disengagement-talks-focus-on-finger-area/story-OWpPfVcKQgGGpdwZRORWRP.html
02-08-2020||India||Nepal to send updated map to India, international community, says minister||Nepal government intends to send its recently revised map to India, Google and international community by the middle of August, a minister has said. The revised map includes Indian territories of Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani. “We will be sending the updated map including Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura to various UN agencies and the international community including India. The process will be completed by the middle of this month,” Padma Aryal, minister for land management, cooperatives and poverty alleviation told ANI.The ministry has asked the department of measurement to print 4,000 copies of the updated version of Nepal’s map in English language and send it to the international community.The department of measurement has printed on 25,000 copies of the latest version of the map, which have been distributed around the nation. Provincial and all other public offices will be given copies free of cost while people can buy it at Nepali Rupees 50. The Nepal government on May 20 had released the revised political and administrative map incorporating the disputed territories of Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani.India has said that Nepal’s unilateral action is “not based on historical facts and evidence.”India also said that the move is contrary to the bilateral understanding to resolve the outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue and “such artificial enlargement of territorial claims will not be accepted by India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-to-send-updated-map-to-india-international-community-says-minister/story-qOk4o8O4ofXCK7nBTfKxcL.html
02-08-2020||India||PM Modi to pray in Hanumangarhi ahead of Ayodhya ceremony, priests to offer special mantras against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first stop in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya on August 5 will be a shrine dedicated to Lord Hanuman, where he will offer prayers ahead of the grand foundation laying ceremony for the construction of the Ram temple.Mahant Raju Das, the head priest of Hanumangarhi, said they have been allocated seven minutes for Prime Minister’s rituals at the temple, according to news agency ANI.Vedic priests will escort the Prime Minister while reciting mantras to the Hanumangarhi temple where the ceremony will also include prayers for his wellbeing and to reduce the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.“We have been given seven minutes for the whole premises tour of which three minutes have been allocated for prayers. Today, it will be decided which route the Prime Minister would be coming from. The front has 85 stairs and there are 36 at the back,” said Das.“After the Prime Minister’s arrival special mantras will be recited,” Das said about special prayers to be conducted in PM Modi’s presence. The head priest said only four priests are likely to conduct the prayers in the 10th-century temple.“We have to follow social distancing, these are the orders we have received from the Prime Minister’s Office. So, following the norms, no one will be allowed to touch the Prime Minister neither will they offer him ‘prasad’,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust is organising the bhumi pujan to start the construction of the temple. The construction of Ram temple will begin after the ceremony to lay the foundation stone in which various political and religious dignitaries, apart from RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, are likely to participate.Senior officials of the Uttar Pradesh government are regularly visiting Ayodhya to review arrangements for PM Modi’s visit. Personnel of the Special Protection Group (SPG), which is in charge of PM’s security, reached Ayodhya on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-pray-in-hanumangarhi-ahead-of-ayodhya-ceremony-priests-to-offer-special-mantras-against-covid-19/story-xBZhgc6ATCgowsosTYy7BP.html
02-08-2020||India||Kamal Rani, minister in Yogi Adityanath cabinet, dies of Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Kamal Rani, who was undergoing treatment for coronavirus at a Lucknow hospital, died on Sunday morning. She was 62.Kamal Rani, minister of technical education in the state government, was admitted to a Rajdhani Covid hospital on July 18. “The condition of minister deteriorated after infection in lungs. She was put on life support system. Despite the best efforts of doctors she passed away on Sunday,” said Director PGI professor Radha Krishna Dheeman.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the demise of the minister. The CM, who was set to review today preparations for Ram temple bhoomi pujan ceremony on August 5, has cancelled his Ayodhya visit after the news of the minister’s death. Rani was an MLA from Ghatampur constituency in Kanpur.Rani was also a member of the 11th and 12th Lok Sabha.“Kamal Rani Varun respected public aspirations as a minister. As a minister, she made commendable contribution in efficiently discharging departmental functions,” tweeted UP chief minister’s office.“Her death is an irreparable loss to the society and the government. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, while paying a humble tribute, expressed his deepest condolences to the bereaved family,” read another tweet from the CM’s office.Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who is being treated for Covid-19 in a hospital, tweeted his condolence message for the minister. “Sad news of untimely demise of cabinet minister Kamal Rani ji in Uttar Pradesh government. I pray to God for the peace of the departed soul and the strength of the family to bear this profound sorrow,” tweeted Chouhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-kamla-rani-minister-in-yogi-adityanath-cabinet-dies-of-covid-19/story-Qt6mtDn69q2nRNKHXm085L.html
02-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 1.75 million; recoveries go beyond 1.14 million||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went past the 1.75 million mark on Sunday, more than 180 days after the country’s first Covid-19 case was reported in Kerala in January end, Union health ministry’s data showed.The country had crossed the 100,000-mark in 110 days after the country’s first Covid-19 case was reported in Kerala on January 30. India’s infection tally had crossed the 1.6 million-mark on July 31, just three days after reporting 1.5 lakh infections. July alone has accounted for about 65.48% of the cases of the viral infection reported in the country so far.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here According to the Union health ministry’s dashboard updated at 8am, the country recorded 54,735 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours taking the tally to 1,750,725. This is the fourth consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000.The death toll increased to 37,364 after 853 people succumbed to the viral disease between Saturday and Sunday morning, it showed.The number of recoveries has surged to 1,145,629 after a record 51,255 patients were cured in the last 24 hours. The recoveries had crossed the million mark on July 30. The gap between active cases at 567,730 and recovered people has now reached to 577,899. Also read: Speed, safety, fairness key for Covid-19 vaccine, says WHO regional directorThe recovery rate of coronavirus disease patients now stands at 65.43%.“… The successful implementation of effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardized clinical management protocols based on a comprehensive Standard of Care approach have resulted in a consistent addition of more than 30,000 recoveries/day,” the health ministry had said on Saturday.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) has been continuously reducing from around 3.33% in mid-June to 2.15%, the lowest since the first lockdown was clamped in the last week of March, the health ministry also said.Also read: After 4-month curb, Centre allows export of made-in-India ventilatorsIn the global platform, India continues to register and maintain the lowest Covid-19 mortality rate, it said and asserted that this is a testimony to the focused, coordinated, pre-emptive, graded and evolving “test, track, treat” strategy and efforts of the Centre, states and Union territories.Maharashtra has most of the number of Covid-19 cases in the country’s tally with 422,118 infections, including 14,994 deaths. Tamil Nadu follows with 245,859 Covid-19 cases, which includes 3,935 fatalities. In Delhi, there have been 135,598 cases and 3,963 deaths. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage According to data, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh are new hotspots with the number of coronavirus disease cases on the surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-1-75-million-recoveries-go-beyond-1-14-million/story-UjoIjslQah0nWW9pINwUAL.html
02-08-2020||India||India, China set to hold fifth round of commander-level talks today on LAC disengagement||Senior military commanders of India and China will hold a meeting in eastern Ladakh on Sunday in their fifth attempt to implement a disengagement plan and reducing tensions aggravated by a significant military build-up on both sides of the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the developments said. The meeting between corps commander-ranked officers will take place held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC. It is expected to begin around 11 am.The talks are expected to focus on the critical Finger Area and the strategic Depsang plains, they said. The Indian side is working on restore status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) along the LAC. Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi recently said that disengagement between forward deployed Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction areas along the LAC was a complex and intricate process that required diligent execution. India and China lately failed to make a breakthrough in reducing border tensions despite intense negotiations at the military and diplomatic levels, and the disengagement process at some friction points virtually stopped. Also read: How the cold will alter the India-China power equation next month in LadakhJoshi said disengagement was initiated after four rounds of talks between senior Indian and Chinese military commanders, and it was being verified on the ground to “ensure its veracity and correctness.” De-escalation of the border conflict will begin after complete disengagement. The ground situation remains unchanged in the Ladakh sector where both armies have amassed almost 100,000 soldiers in their forward and depth areas. Also read: Talks with China on but no guarantees:, says Rajnath SinghDuring a visit to Ladakh on July 17, defence minister Rajnath Singh indicated that the negotiations to resolve military tensions along the LAC were complex. He said progress in negotiations should help resolve the border dispute but added that he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-set-to-hold-fifth-round-of-commander-level-talks-today-on-lac-disengagement/story-ObZxq1WttgI8WSmp0TaxLJ.html
02-08-2020||India||India, China to hold commander-level talks today, disengagement in finger area key focus||India and China will hold military-level talks at Moldo to discuss the disengagement along the contested areas of Line of Actual Control (LAC).The Corps Commander-level talks will be held on the Chinese side of the LAC, according to Indian Army. It is likely to start at 11 am.The Indian side will focus on complete disengagement by China in the Finger area.Both the countries have held a series of talks since a face-off in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. India had lost 20 soldiers in the skirmish, and China never officially announced the number of casualties it suffered.A mutual consensus to disengage from all friction areas along the contested LAC was reached during a marathon meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders at Moldo in June.The talks that went on for nearly 11 hours were aimed at cooling tensions and thinning the military build-up on both sides of the border.The meeting was held between the delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.But after initial progress, the disengagement process has virtually come to a halt. While China has claimed that disengagement has been completed at most locations, New Delhi has called on Beijing to work sincerely for complete de-escalation and full restoration of peace along the LAC.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava acknowledged last week that there has been “some progress” towards disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC, though the process is far from complete.People familiar with developments had said that the Chinese side is yet to deliver on understandings regarding disengagement reached during the July 5 phone conversation of the Special Representatives on the border issue and meetings of corps commanders.Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi had recently said that disengagement between forward deployed Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction areas along the contested LAC was a “complex and intricate process” that required “diligent execution”.The Chinese have, meanwhile, have maintained a build-up of close to 40,000 troops with heavy weaponry deployed in front and depth areas.India has made it clear that for the situation to be normalised, the Chinese will have to completely de-escalate and move back troops to their permanent locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-military-officials-to-meet-today-talks-to-focus-on-complete-disengagement-by-china-in-finger-area/story-w0z2dKKf1mdeXYKCSoN6RL.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid-19: UP govt relaxes weekend curbs, allows opening of sweet, rakhi shops on Sunday due to Raksha Bandhan||The Uttar Pradesh government has allowed opening of sweet shops and those selling rakhis on Sunday. The decision has been taken in view of the Raksha Bandhan festival on Monday.In an official release on Saturday, the UP government said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath has allowed free travel for women on Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) on Rasha Bandhan day.The free bus travel for women is applicable from midnight of August 2 to midnight of August 3, the order said.Instructions have also been given to the police for intensive patrolling on the occasion.Chief minister Yogi further directed the officials to ensure that the protocol for Covid-19, including social distancing norms, should be followed on Raksha Bandhan. He said that no public programmes be organised and the festival be celebrated at home.The state government had ordered closure of markets on Saturdays and Sundays in view of the cleanliness and sanitisation campaigns that are carried out on weekends.The state government had earlier released guidelines for Unlock 3, the third phase of easing of restrictions imposed as part of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The chief minister had directed officials to maintain utmost caution at all levels to break the chain of Covid-19 infection and ensure strict compliance of Unlock 3 guidelines issued by the central government.At a regular meeting with senior officials, Adityanath stressed on the need for continuous efforts to create awareness about the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-govt-relaxes-weekend-curbs-allows-opening-of-sweet-rakhi-shops-on-sunday-due-to-raksha-bandhan/story-ymEXKM6J2Jo3gatLSyFUeP.html
02-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Political parties in Bihar urge EC to postpone state polls due to floods, Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bihar political parties urge Election Commission to postpone state polls due to Covid-19, floodsThe political parties in Bihar have requested the postpone the assembly election in the state due to Covid-19 and floods, reported Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan. While the state recorded its biggest spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday, it has seen close to 5 million affected by the floods. Read moreRhea Chakraborty must come forward, join probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case: Top Bihar police officialBollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty must join the investigation into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput being conducted by Patna Police in Mumbai if she has nothing to hide, Bihar’s top police official has said. Read moreRs 3 lakh crore credit facility will cover professionals, says FMA Rs3 lakh crore emergency credit facility targeted at small enterprises will now be extended to professionals such as doctors and chartered accountants as well to help them tide over the crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday, warning that the timing of a full economic recovery is tough to predict when the pandemic is still to play itself out. Read moreChina sends team to Hong Kong to do widespread coronavirus testingSeven Chinese health officials were due to arrive in Hong Kong on Sunday, the first members of a 60-person team that will carry out widespread testing for Covid-19 in the territory as the global financial hub races to halt a third wave of illness. Read moreIPL 2020: Franchises seek clarity as Governing Council meetsThe IPL Governing Council (GC) will meet virtually on Sunday evening to put in place processes and protocols for staging the Indian Premier League in the UAE. The tournament is planned from September 19 to November 8, although the Indian board is still awaiting permission from the Indian government to hold the event abroad. Read moreAnkita Lokhande on why she didn’t go to Sushant Singh Rajput’s funeral: ‘I knew if I see him like that, I will never be able to forget’Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s ex-girlfriend, actor Ankita Lokhande, said that she decided not to attend his funeral as she could ‘never forget’ it if she saw him like that. Sushant’s last rites were performed at the Pawan Hans crematorium in Mumbai on June 15, a day after his death by suicide. Read moreFeline gently bonks kitty sibling on the head. What happens next is unexpected. WatchIf you’re someone who avidly watches cat videos, then you may agree with us when we say that our furry feline friends are mysterious beings. It is often tough to guess the reason behind their derpy actions captured in some of the most beloved clips, but that may be what makes them so exciting to watch. Read moreFriendship Day 2020: Wishes, images, quotes and greetings to share with your friendsFriendship Day, is celebrated on the first Sunday of August in India and falls on August 2 this year, it is the day people come together with their friends celebrate each other and the relationship that exists between them. No matter how old or young we are, friends are what keep us going. Read moreWatch| ‘12 lakh jobs’: Govt woos iPhone makers, Samsung, others to ‘make in India’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-political-parties-in-bihar-urge-ec-to-postpone-state-polls-due-to-floods-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-PMBWYog0SnD39bny315PUM.html
02-08-2020||India||Ayodhya decked up ahead of Aug 5 Ram temple bhoomi pujan, Yogi Adityanath to visit today||Preparations for the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya are in full swing. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will visit here on Sunday for the second time in a week to take stock of preparations.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple here on August 5 after which the construction of the temple will commence in Ayodhya. Several dignitaries are expected to participate in the ceremony.Speaking to ANI BJP veteran leader who has been closely associated with Ram Temple Movement Vinay Katiyar told ANI that with the Prime Minister arriving at Ayodhya on August 5 for laying the foundation stone of Ram Temple it is the responsibility of the chief minister of the State that he should oversee the preparations.Preparations for decorating the whole of Ayodhya is also being carried out under the supervision of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. On Saturday, several areas of Ayodhya were illuminated with diyas (earthen lamps) and colourful lights. Over the last one month all the top officials of the state, including Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya have also visited Ayodhya. Be it the widening of the roads or the other developmental activities in Ayodhya. The picture of the whole city looks like changed now.On Saturday, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Ayodhya, said that Covid-19 protocols have been put in place.Also read: Ram Temple marks the beginning of a new India, says RSS’ Bhaiyyaji Joshi“We have requested everyone to not let more than five people gather at a place. We have also planned route diversions at 12 places to ease traffic movement,” the SSP said.A local resident of Ayodhya Ramesh told ANI that commencement of work for the Ram temple was a proud moment for them. “This is a historic moment for us and govt is doing wonderful work for all-round development of this city,” he said.The Supreme Court, on November 9 last year had directed the Central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of the Ram Temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-decked-up-ahead-of-aug-5-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-yogi-adityanath-to-visit-today/story-cMOZUiiplPvIyTetCGT92N.html
02-08-2020||India||Techie from Chennai claims Chandrayaan 2 rover intact, uses Nasa images to show it moved a few metres||A techie from Chennai has claimed that the rover onboard Chandrayaan 2, the Indian Space Research Organisation’s (Isro) moon mission, is present on the lunar surface and has even moved a few metres.The Chandrayaan 2 was India’s second mission to the moon which was sent to the space last year. It had a lander Vikram and a rover named Pragyan, which translates to wisdom in Sanskrit.The techie Shanmuga Subramanian has posted a series of images on Twitter which he claims show Pragyan is intact and “has rolled out few metres from the skeleton Vikram lander whose payloads got disintegrated due to rough landing”. Chandrayaan2's Pragyan "ROVER" intact on Moon's surface & has rolled out few metres from the skeleton Vikram lander whose payloads got disintegrated due to rough landing | More details in below tweets @isro #Chandrayaan2 #VikramLander #PragyanRover (1/4) pic.twitter.com/iKSHntsK1fSubramanian had earlier identified Vikram’s debris using Nasa’s images. And he has used the US space agency’s images this time too to back his claim.“1.Debris I found was of Langumir probe from the Vikram lander. 2. Debris NASA found might be from other payloads, antenna, retro braking engines, solar panels on side etc. 3. Rover has rolled out from lander & has actually travelled few metres from the surface,” he said in one of his tweets. 1.Debris I found was of Langumir probe from the Vikram lander2. Debris NASA found might be from other payloads, antenna, retro braking engines, solar panels on side etc.,3. Rover has rolled out from lander & has actually travelled few metres from the surface(2/4)Subramanian said that it was difficult to detect the rover because it is present on the South Pole of the moon, which is “not always well lit”. And that is the reason, the techie says, it was not detected in Nasa flyby on November 11.He further tweeted: “Update: It seems the commands were sent to lander blindly for days & there is a distinct possibility that lander could have received commands and relayed it to the rover.. but lander was not able to communicate it back to the earth.”Scientists lost contact with the Vikram lander less than two minutes before it was supposed to make a soft landing on the lunar surface.Vikram lander was trying to make history by making India the first country to “soft land” on the South Pole of the moon. Scientists believe there could be water ice on the moon’s South Pole.Pragyan was expected to examine the surface of the moon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/techie-from-chennai-claims-chandrayaan-2-rover-intact-uses-nasa-images-to-show-it-moved-a-few-metres/story-mmXpLIDgwHcZcyrkrHfZ3M.html
02-08-2020||India||Come forward, Bihar top cop tells Rhea Chakraborty on Sushant Singh Rajput probe||Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty must join the investigation into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput being conducted by Patna Police in Mumbai if she has nothing to hide, Bihar’s top police official has said.A four-member team of the Patna Police is in Mumbai to probe Rajput’s death after the actor’s father lodged a complaint under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including those pertaining to abetment of suicide, cheating and fraud, against Chakraborty and six others.The team reached Mumbai on July 27 and began its probe. Also Watch | Rhea Chakraborty under ‘our watch’, say Bihar cops on Sushant death caseGupteshwar Pandey, Bihar’s director general of police, said in an interview to a Hindi television news channel on Saturday that Chakraborty must have the courage to face any investigator.Also read: Sushant had no Godfather, says his sister in appeal to Modi, wants him to step in“She was the one who called for a CBI probe… I don’t know why she wants the Mumbai Police or the Bihar police to investigate the case. If she is innocent, she should come forward and should say it openly that any agency can probe the case,” Pandey told Aaj Tak.“She should say I am here and anyone can ask any question and probe whatever they want to. Why play a game of hide and seek?” he asked.Pandey said they are not accusing anyone and the probe into Rajput’s death shouldn’t be turned into a Maharashtra versus Bihar battle amid reports that the police team from Patna is not being helped by the force in Mumbai.Also read: Rhea Chakraborty booked by ED as politics heats up in Sushant Singh Rajput death case“I am saying a simple thing that one should look at the sentiments of the country’s people. People say that he was a vibrant, enthusiastic and successful young man. They feel there is some kind of mystery if a man who had money and fame hangs himself,” he said.“That mystery must be probed and truth must come out. Why should anyone have any problem with that? Bihar Police have registered an FIR and started a probe,” he added.The top official said they are not out to frame or let anyone off and that they do not have any personal enmity with her without naming Chakraborty.Also read| From theft to cheating: Sushant Singh Rajput’s father charges against Rhea ChakrabortyThe Patna Police team, he said, is using every channel to get in touch with Chakraborty.“We have been saying they should come forward. If there is no evidence we wouldn’t arrest them but the day we have the evidence we wouldn’t let anyone off—director, producer, a billionaire, a big businessman,” he added.“It is our moral responsibility to tell the people of the country what’s the truth and not make it any more mysterious. It’s a big responsibility we have to bear. Mumbai Police also have that responsibility,” he added.The DGP said they don’t have any document or evidence related to the case except the FIR lodged by Rajput’s father. Pandey said Bihar police want the forensic science laboratory reports, inquest report, post-mortem report and relevant CCTV footage in order to facilitate the probe.They also want details of those who were examined by Mumbai Police and what they have said in their statements, the top police official said.“We don’t want to arrest just anyone and don’t want to be called a hero by maligning anyone. The people of Bihar and this country just want to know why has this case become so mysterious,” he said.Also read| Ankita Lokhande writes cryptic post after Sushant Singh Rajput’s family files FIR against Rhea Chakraborty: ‘Truth wins’Pandey had said earlier that the Bihar police is capable enough to investigate the matter and it was for the family of the actor to demand a CBI probe. “We do not and should not demand CBI enquiry. Bihar Police is capable of doing the investigation in the case. A senior IPS officer would be sent to Mumbai for assisting the four-member team,” he said.Chakraborty has moved the Supreme Court, seeking the transfer of the FIR filed in Patna to Mumbai. The top court will hear her plea on August 5. Both Bihar and Maharashtra governments have already filed caveats in the Supreme Court that they should be heard before any order is passed on Chakraborty’s plea.Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-must-come-forward-join-probe-into-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case-top-bihar-police-official/story-W7LTiRA5cCCnQE2o08GTYN.html
02-08-2020||India||Ambulance out of reach, pregnant woman carried across river in makeshift basket||A pregnant woman from Kadnai village of Surguja was carried on a makeshift basket through a river, as the ambulance could not reach the village due to lack of proper road connectivity.The woman was later taken to the nearby government hospital.In a video, four men were seen carrying the women seated in a basket strung on a long lathi that is lifted on the shoulders of two men while crossing the heavily flowing river. “It is not a matter of not having good health facilities. There are a few remote villages where people find it difficult to commute during rainy days,” said Sanjay Kumar Jha, Collector, Surguja.  #WATCH: A pregnant woman from Kadnai village of Surguja was carried on a makeshift basket through a river, as ambulance couldn't reach the village due to lack of proper road connectivity. The woman was later taken to the nearby govt hospital. #Chhattisgarh (1/8) pic.twitter.com/eenlZaWLOJThe collector said that for places like this the administration is planning to use small cars to minimise the hardship of the people.“For such remote places, we are planning to use small cars to reach people. It will not be possible to reach residences of the people via cars but we will strive to reach as near their residences as possible to help the people in need,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambulance-out-of-reach-pregnant-woman-carried-across-river-in-makeshift-basket/story-unvVo4NofyPOs2SVX9SdiO.html
02-08-2020||India||107 new cases push Indore’s Covid-19 tally to 7,555||With 107 new Covid-19 positive cases reported on Saturday, Indore has recorded 7,555 Covid-19 cases so far. According to the official data, three deaths have been reported here, taking the total deaths to 315. Total 1,671 samples were tested in Indore on Saturday while 71 patients were discharged in the district. India reported 57,117 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the country’s coronavirus case count to 16,95,988.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/107-new-cases-push-indore-s-covid-19-tally-to-7-555/story-1lS5K4EJDwn8hpFirDQ4NJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Rs 3 lakh crore credit facility will cover professionals, says FM||A Rs3 lakh crore emergency credit facility targeted at small enterprises will now be extended to professionals such as doctors and chartered accountants as well to help them tide over the crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday, warning that the timing of a full economic recovery is tough to predict when the pandemic is still to play itself out. The government estimates that around Rs1 lakh crore of the facility would be used by the professionals. Also read: GST collection fell 14% to Rs 87,422 crore in July: Govt“Some pockets are still under containment... decided by states, which is the right thing as states are better placed to judge [the ground situation]. We appreciate that,” Sitharaman said at an interaction with media in North Block. “But there are disruptions in the value-chain which is not just confined to raw materials. It also involves manpower [movement] and outsourcing of services. Hence,it is difficult to do an assessment [of a full economic recovery].”She said migrant workers who had left the cities for their homes in the hinterland after the lockdown was enforced on March 25 to curb the spread of the disease were returning to work in one positive development for the economy. “Some of them [workers] have approached their employers... One-two industrial groups have made arrangements to bring them back,” she said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is getting regular feedback on the economic situation and the government is keeping all options open to facilitate a faster economic recovery, Sitharaman said. Even so, the government is cautious about overstating the green shoots of a recovery visible in the economy, she added.Sitharaman said the Rs3 lakh crore emergency working capital loan scheme meant for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) had attracted significant response and its scope has been expanded at the request of industry so that more units and individual professionals can get financial support as well.“After consultations with stakeholders and taking into account the remaining headroom under the scheme, it is decided to include individual loans for business purposes within its ambit,” she said. The scope of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) has also been expanded in line with the revised definition of MSMEs and the cap on funding under the scheme doubled from Rs5 crore to Rs10 crore.Also read: Govt to come out with strategic sectors list soon: Nirmala SitharamanThis is the latest in a string of stimulus measures announced by the Modi government to cushion the impact of the coronavirus disease pandemic, which struck at a time when a slowdown in householding spending and corporate investment had already become a drag on economic growth, which decelerated to 4.2% in fiscal 2019-20, the slowest pace in 11 years.It follows precipitous growth contractions reported by the US and European countries after the pandemic closed shops, factories and restaurants, signalling a period of recession. The US economy posted a second-quarter contraction of 9.5%, the worst figure on record. Europe as a whole saw GDP fall by 12.1% in the Eurozone and 11.9% across the bloc. Most economists expect India’s economy to shrink by at least 5% this financial year. India’s gross domestic product numbers for the April-June quarter are expected at the end of August; for two of those months, the country was under a hard lockdown, and that is expected to have taken its toll on Asia’s third largest economy.ECLGS is one of the key components of the Rs20 lakh crore economic stimulus package under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Initiative) launched in mid-May, which offered additional working capital finance of 20% of the outstanding credit as of February 29, 2020 in the form of a term loan to units with up to Rs25 crore outstanding and revenue of up to Rs100 crore.Explaining the amended eligibility criteria Debashish Panda, secretary in the department of financial services (DFS) said, “It is decided to increase the upper ceiling of loan outstanding from Rs25 crore to Rs50 crore, and to increase the annual turnover ceiling from Rs100 crore to Rs250 crore in line with the new definition of MSME.”The Cabinet on June 1 raised the upper limit of turnover for a MSME to Rs250 crore.As of July 29, over Rs1.36 lakh crore had been sanctioned and Rs87,227 crore disbursed under ECLGS, Panda said. “We expect some headroom of about Rs1 lakh crore under the scheme that could be used by individual professionals. For example, a doctor can avail this facility to purchase diagnostic equipments, etc,” he said.CA Vijay Kumar Gupta, former Central Council Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), said the move to extend the emergency credit benefit to professionals was positive.“But the government should take more measures to boost demand. Unless there is demand for goods and services, businesses would not take loans. They will take loans only if they are sure of their ability to repay,” he added.Sitharaman said the process of government stake sales in Air India and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) was underway, and she was confident of meeting the government’s target of raising Rs2.1 lakh crore in disinvestment proceeds during fiscal 2020-21.In May, the government announced an elaborate disinvestment strategy along with the Rs20 lakh crore stimulus package. The strategy aims at capping the number of public sector companies in strategic sectors at four. It proposed to eventually disinvest state-owned firms in the non-strategic segments. Sitharaman said the Cabinet will soon decide which public sector units would come in the strategic sectors. In order to define the strategic sector, the government will soon announce a new public sector enterprises policy, government officials said, requesting anonymity. To provide relief to the industry, the government is in talks with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on various matters, Sitharaman said. Industry has been demanding a one-time loan restructuring; private banks are not in favour of extending loan moratoriums any further, out of concern that even borrowers capable of paying back loans may be dissuaded from doing so in case of an extension. RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is scheduled to meet next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-3-lakh-crore-credit-facility-will-cover-professionals-says-fm/story-ygHusWXx0IxpVztj3xMXrI.html
02-08-2020||India||Will welcome back rebels if party brass forgives them, says Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday that he would welcome back former deputy chief minister Sachin pilot and other dissident Congress legislators if the party’s high command forgave them. “If the high command forgives them (dissident MLAs), I will hug them. I have no prestige point,” Gehlot said while talking to media outside a Jaisalmer hotel, where the MLAs loyal to him were shifted ahead of the assembly session from August 14. The fissures in the state Congress leadership came to the fore when Pilot and 18 other MLAs rebelled against the Gehlot government in July. The chief minister has accused Pilot of trying to topple the government and alleged that he did nothing substantial as the Rajasthan Congress president in a seven-year tenure. Gehlot, however, has now said that he would do as the party’s brass decides. “The party has given me so much. I have been on many posts -- three times chief minister, state party chief… What all I am doing is to serve people. Whatever the high command decides, I have no objections to it,” the 69-year-old leader said. Stating that the democracy in the country was “under threat”, Gehlot said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was playing a “big game of horse trading”. He urged Prime Minister Nraendra Modi to stop all attempts to topple his elected government. “We have no quarrel with anyone. In a democracy, fights happen over ideology, policies and programmes and not for toppling a government. Modi should get stopped whatever is going on in Rajasthan,” he said. Gehlot said Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat should resign on moral grounds, stating that his involvement in a “conspiracy” to topple the Rajasthan government was now known. Shekhawat’s name was linked to the audio tapes, purportedly of conversations detailing the plot to topple the Gehlot government. The Union minister has denied it was his voice on the audio clips and said he was ready to face any investigation. State BJP chief Satish Poonia rejected Gehlot’s charges and asked him to focuss on his party instead of attacking the BJP. “If they had the numbers [number of MLAs needed to prove majority], this situation would not have arisen and the MLAs would not have been confined to a hotel. They have lost the mandate mentally,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-welcome-back-rebels-if-party-brass-forgives-them-says-gehlot/story-klt0tbLx010CGmZvSYA3lL.html
02-08-2020||India||As science gains ground, fewer students opting for MBA, engineering||An engineering degree followed by an MBA is often been seen as the most successful career trajectory in India. This belief might be losing ground, shows an HT analysis of a National Statistical Office (NSO) report on education which was released in July. In fact, general courses such as humanities, sciences and commerce are now becoming more popular, a trend experts attribute to a growing gap between the skills professional degrees impart and what is needed in the job market. The NSO released the findings of its 2017-18 survey on Social Consumption of Education in India last month. A comparison with a similar report from 2014 shows that management and engineering courses have seen the biggest proportionate fall in their share of students. For management, this has almost halved, while engineering has suffered a 22% decline. Science courses have registered the biggest increase during this period. Overall, general courses have seen a 6.3 percentage point increase between 2014 and 2017-18, while the share of students going to professional courses has declined by the same amount. To be sure, engineering is the most popular professional course in India. According to the report, the share of students pursuing engineering courses is equal to the all other professional courses put together. The report lists these as: medicine, agriculture, law, management, education, chartered accountancy, IT and computer courses and courses from vocational training institutes.Also read: New Education Policy emphasises on making ‘job creators’ instead of ‘job seekers’, says PM Modi The fall in share of engineering students should not be very surprising given the problems engineering colleges including the IITs have been facing. In December 2019, minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank told the Lok Sabha that 128 engineering colleges in India closed down between 2016-17 and 2018-19. Even the IITs have been facing the problem of vacant seats. According to a written parliament answer on July 27, 2017, 3 IIT seats were vacant in 2014, 50 in 2015, 96 in 2016, and 121 in 2017. In 2018 too, 121 of 10,988 seats remained vacant, according to another parliament answer on April 5, 2018. The answer also stated that the then Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD) has advised all centrally funded technical institutions “to review seats in each discipline based on employment opportunities, national requirements, available infrastructure and scope for future”. “New Courses and Disciplines may be introduced only after carrying out market opportunity analysis,” the reply added. No IIT seats were vacant in 2019 as a consequence of these efforts, according to a PTI report last year.Also read: How innovators see the future of the world | AnalysisStatistics from the NSO report support these anecdotal findings. Both government and private unaided institutions suffered a fall in share of engineering students between 2014 and 2017-18. To be sure, more than half of engineering students still study in private unaided institutions. What explains the fall in popularity of engineering, India’s most popular professional course? A class-wise analysis offers useful insights here. While the share of students pursuing engineering has fallen across income groups, the fall is higher among those who are neither the richest nor the poorest. This can be seen from a quintile-wise analysis of students according to monthly per capita consumption expenditure (MPCE) classes. The share of students belonging to the bottom and top 20% pursuing engineering has fallen by 9% between 2014 and 2017-18. For the rest of the MPCE classes this is more than 20%.  Supply of engineering graduates getting ahead of demand, wage premium shifting in the market in favour of workers traditionally thought to be less skilled, and employers gradually recognising that a degree is not an indicator of the skills needed for the job could be reasons behind this shift, said Manish Sabharwal, chairman, Teamlease Services. “Wages in the past were a lazy filter for skills, but the fastest growing segment in the Indian market is sales, customer service, and logistics. Engineers who join there don’t feel that they get the wage premium there that they feel they should. But why should companies pay them higher wages if they don’t have the skills that they are looking for?” he said. This is the last of a two-part data journalism series on inequalities, aspirations and ongoing changes in India’s education landscape. The first part looked at role of inequalities in access to education in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-science-gains-ground-fewer-students-opting-for-mba-engineering/story-Qf7uhGQrhyZduVEqvvNZtJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Chinese firms, mobile apps blocked, India could next target university tie-ups||India’s education ministry has decided to review in the coming week, the setting up of local chapters of the Confucius Institutes in association with seven local colleges and universities after security agencies alerted it to the growing Chinese influence in higher education in India. The ministry also plans to review 54 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) signed between prestigious educational institutions including IITs, BHU, JNU and NITs and Chinese institutions. It has already issued a notification to the Ministry of External Affairs and the University Grants Commission.The Confucius Institutes are directly funded by Ministry of Education of People’s Republic of China with the ostensible aim to promote Chinese language and Culture. But they have come in for criticism all around the world, including the US and the UK for helping spread Chinese propaganda. Most recently, according to a BBC report of September 2019, Australia launched an investigation of “whether the agreements between universities and the institute have broken anti foreign-interference laws”. Also Read: China moves PLA battalion across India’s Lipulekh Pass. It’s a signalAround the same time, several universities around the world shut down programmes operated by the institute, that report added. Ranking members of the Chinese Communist Party Politburo Standing Committee have been quoted saying that Confucius Institutes are part of the overseas propaganda to project Beijing’s soft power. The decision to review the Confucius Institutes and the MoUs comes at a time when the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has been amassing more than 50,000 troops, tanks, missiles and artillery guns in occupied Aksai Chin, in an open display of aggression against India along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. The PLA has even spread the deployment to the middle sector in Uttarakhand and the eastern sector in Arunachal Pradesh.Also Read: Army won’t take eyes off Ladakh, preps to shop for Siachen-like gear for troopsAccording to high ranking officials in the government, the Confucius Institutes in India to be reviewed are at: the University of Mumbai; Vellore Institute of Technology; Lovely Professional University, Jalandhar; . O P Jindal Global University, Sonepat; School of Chinese Language, Kolkata; Bharathiar University, Coimbatore; and KR Mangalam University, Gurugram. The officials, who asked not to be named ahead of the review said Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University also has an MoU with Hanban (the Confucius Institute’s HQ) though it hasn’t set up a centre. Also Read: Security agencies red-flag Chinese fronts in education, not just power and telecomThe MoU was signed between JNU and Peking University around 2005 during the-then Chinese premier’s visit to India. The institute was never set up since there some disagreements over constitution of the board . Since the MoU was signed for five years, it lapsed. Chinese officials wanted to revive it later but the university did not show much interest,” said sinologist BR Deepak, chairperson at JNU’s Centre for Chinese and South East Asian Studies, who was an associate professor at the varsity when the MoU was signed. The education ministry called the review after security agencies made a presentation before Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on July 15 to red-flag Chinese penetration in the Indian telecommunication sector and higher education. The meeting was attended by the senior-most secretaries to Government of India. It was in this meeting that the decision to review Beijing’s presence in the two highly sensitive sectors was taken. It isn’t clear what the government will decide after the review but HT learns that the education ministry will question the universities, colleges and institutions whether they took permission from it (until recently, the ministry of HRD) or the ministry of external affairs before signing the MoUs with Chinese universities or Hanban. Interestingly, this isn’t the first time the education ministry is acting along these lines. On October 1, 2019, the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued a circular asking universities to get approvals from the central government before offering courses in association with any Chinese institutions. The University of Mumbai maintained that the circular was not valid for existing institutes.“The (Confucius) Institute first started eight years ago with a grant that came from the Chinese government of about Rs 90 lakh. Ever since there’s been no additional grants but we have managed to keep the institute up and running by increasing courses,” said Vibha Surana, director of the Confucius Institute at the university. She added that learning Mandarin “has opened many job prospects for students in the past.” The Confucius Institute was established in 2013 at the University of Mumbai following an MoU with Hanban in the same year. It was set up as an apex Chinese institution providing standard international certification and assuring quality Chinese language teaching.There was no response to queries seeking comment from KR Mangalam University and Lovely Professional University. HT couldn’t immediately reach the other universities and colleges that have partnered to set up Confucius Institutes. Among the other MoUs reviewed by the ministry will be those involving the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) with top Chinese technical institutions for research, student and faculty exchange, and language courses. These institutions account for around 30 of the 54 MoUs. According to a central government document accessed by HT, the list of 54 MoUs that will be reviewed this week at a high-level committee are:IIT Kharagpur - (1) Tianjin University, (2) Henan Polytechnic University [HPU], (3) Chang Gung UniversityIIT Bombay - (1) Central University of Finance and Economics, (2) Tongji UniversityIIT Madras - (1) Beijing Jiaotong University, (2) Huazhong University of Sciences and Technology, (3) Shanghai International Studies University, (4) Dalian UniversityIIT Delhi - (1) Chang’an University, (2) City University Of Hong Kong Hiksar Peoples & Republic of China, (3) China Jiliang University, (4) Nanyang Normal UniversityIIT Guwahati - (1) Hunan University, (2) Shantou University, (3) Soochow University, (4) University of Macau, (5) Yunnan UniversityIIT Gandhinagar - (1) Confucius Institute Headquarters [HANBAN]IIT Roorkee - (1) The Center for Monsoon System Research of the Institute of Atmospheric Physics at Chinese Academy of Sciences, (2) East China Normal University [ECNU]IIT Bhubaneswar - (1) Engineering Centre of Materials, Manufacturing, School of Materials Science & Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong - University, China [during state visit of President of India to China]NIT Durgapur - (1) Tianjin Polytechnic University, (2) Hohai University, (3) Integrated Risk Governance Project, Future Earth Program [hereafter IRGP/FE], Beijing Normal University, (4) Southwest University for Nationalities [SWUN], Chengdu, (5) Beijing Normal University, (6) School of Materials Science and Engineering, Jiangsu University, (7) Hunan University, Changsha, HunanNIT Surathkal - (1) Institute of Radio Frequency and optoelectronics Integrated Circuits plus State Key Lab of Bioelectronics, Southeast UniversityNIT Warangal - (1) Chang’an UniversityIISER Kolkata - (1) Hubei University, (2) Changshu Institute of TechnologyIISC Bangalore - (1) China University of GeosciencesJawaharlal Nehru University - (1) Tsinghua University, (2) Beijing Normal University, (3) Shandong University, Jinan, (4) Guiyang University, Guiyang, Guizhou, (5) Tongren University, Tongren, Guizhou, (6) Guizhou Minzu University, (7) Sichuan University of People’s Republic of China, (8) Jinan University, (9) Yunnan Academy of Social Sciences/ the Chinese [Kunming] Academy of South and Southeast Asian Studies, (10) Yunnan Minzu University, (11) Shenzhen University, Guangdong, (12) Renmin University of China, BeijingManipur University - (1) Yunnan Open UniversityCentral University of Punjab - (1) Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, (2) Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xishuangbanna, YunnanBanaras Hindu University - (1) Soochow University, School of Law, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China (2)Beijing Language and Culture University, (3) Beijing Foreign Studies University, (4) North China University of Water Resources & Electric Power, (5) Dali University||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-confucius-institutes-face-heat-over-propaganda/story-AZCHG9fp66KxXnHCF56JeO.html
02-08-2020||India||Rs 3L-cr credit facility will cover professionals: FM||A Rs 3 lakh crore emergency credit facility targeted at small enterprises will now be extended to professionals such as doctors and chartered accountants as well to help them tide over the crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday, warning that the timing of a full economic recovery is tough to predict when the pandemic is still to play itself out. The government estimates that around Rs 1 lakh crore of the facility would be used by the professionals. “Some pockets are still under containment... decided by states, which is the right thing as states are better placed to judge [the ground situation]. We appreciate that,” Sitharaman said at an interaction with media in North Block. “But there are disruptions in the value-chain which is not just confined to raw materials. It also involves manpower [movement] and outsourcing of services. Hence,it is difficult to do an assessment [of a full economic recovery].”She said migrant workers who had left the cities for their homes in the hinterland after the lockdown was enforced on March 25 to curb the spread of the disease were returning to work in one positive development for the economy. “Some of them [workers] have approached their employers... One-two industrial groups have made arrangements to bring them back,” she said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is getting regular feedback on the economic situation and the government is keeping all options open to facilitate a faster economic recovery, Sitharaman said. Even so, the government is cautious about overstating the green shoots of a recovery visible in the economy, she added.Sitharaman said the ~3 lakh crore emergency working capital loan scheme meant for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) had attracted significant response and its scope has been expanded at the request of industry so that more units and individual professionals can get financial support as well.“After consultations with stakeholders and taking into account the remaining headroom under the scheme, it is decided to include individual loans for business purposes within its ambit,” she said. The scope of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) has also been expanded in line with the revised definition of MSMEs and the cap on funding under the scheme doubled from Rs 5 crore to Rs 10 crore.This is the latest in a string of stimulus measures announced by the Modi government to cushion the impact of the coronavirus disease pandemic, which struck at a time when a slowdown in householding spending and corporate investment had already become a drag on economic growth, which decelerated to 4.2% in fiscal 2019-20, the slowest pace in 11 years.It follows precipitous growth contractions reported by the US and European countries after the pandemic closed shops, factories and restaurants, signalling a period of recession. The US economy posted a second-quarter contraction of 9.5%, the worst figure on record. Europe as a whole saw GDP fall by 12.1% in the Eurozone and 11.9% across the bloc. Most economists expect India’s economy to shrink by at least 5% this financial year. India’s gross domestic product numbers for the April-June quarter are expected at the end of August; for two of those months, the country was under a hard lockdown, and that is expected to have taken its toll on Asia’s third largest economy.ECLGS is one of the key components of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Initiative) launched in mid-May, which offered additional working capital finance of 20% of the outstanding credit as of February 29, 2020 in the form of a term loan to units with up to Rs 25 crore outstanding and revenue of up to Rs 100 crore.Explaining the amended eligibility criteria Debashish Panda, secretary in the department of financial services (DFS) said, “It is decided to increase the upper ceiling of loan outstanding from Rs 25 crore to Rs 50 crore, and to increase the annual turnover ceiling from Rs 100 crore to Rs 250 crore in line with the new definition of MSME.” The Cabinet on June 1 raised the upper limit of turnover for a MSME to Rs 250 crore.As of July 29, over Rs 1.36 lakh crore had been sanctioned and Rs 87,227 crore disbursed under ECLGS, Panda said. “We expect some headroom of about Rs 1 lakh crore under the scheme that could be used by individual professionals. For example, a doctor can avail this facility to purchase diagnostic equipments, etc,” he said.CA Vijay Kumar Gupta, former Central Council Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), said the move to extend the emergency credit benefit to professionals was positive.“But the government should take more measures to boost demand. Unless there is demand for goods and services, businesses would not take loans. They will take loans only if they are sure of their ability to repay,” he added.Sitharaman said the process of government stake sales in Air India and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) was underway, and she was confident of meeting the government’s target of raising Rs 2.1 lakh crore in disinvestment proceeds during fiscal 2020-21.In May, the government announced an elaborate disinvestment strategy along with the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package. The strategy aims at capping the number of public sector companies in strategic sectors at four. It proposed to eventually disinvest state-owned firms in the non-strategic segments. Sitharaman said the Cabinet will soon decide which public sector units would come in the strategic sectors. In order to define the strategic sector, the government will soon announce a new public sector enterprises policy, government officials said, requesting anonymity. To provide relief to the industry, the government is in talks with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on various matters, Sitharaman said. Industry has been demanding a one-time loan restructuring; private banks are not in favour of extending loan moratoriums any further, out of concern that even borrowers capable of paying back loans may be dissuaded from doing so in case of an extension. RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is scheduled to meet next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-3l-cr-credit-facility-will-cover-professionals-fm/story-7WRDbdWTu0tTk2lFtwh2qO.html
02-08-2020||India||Speed, safety, fairness key for Covid-19 vaccine: WHO regional director||“Vaccine Nationalism” must not stop equitable access to a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) when it is eventually discovered, international experts said at an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) conference on novel ideas in science and the ethics of vaccines against the pandemic.India, with its vaccine manufacturing capability, would play an important role in access to a vaccine once it becomes available, US infectious disease expert Dr Antony Fauci said at the event via video conferencing on July 30. Dr Peter Piot, director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, stressed the need to make vaccines both accessible and acceptable to the people.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDr Poonam Khetralpal Singh, the World Health Organisation’s regional director for South-East Asia, said in an interview with Anonna Dutt that governments, health agencies and civil society must work together to ensure those who need it the most get vaccinated on a priority basis, irrespective of their nationality, where they live, their education levels, socioeconomic status, or gender. Edited excerpts from the interview:When do you expect the first vaccines to become available?Traditionally, it takes 5-10 years, or even more, for a new vaccine to be developed before it can be used in humans. In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic which continues to affect millions of people across the world, timelines are being compressed to develop a vaccine as soon as possible.However, despite accelerated efforts, the availability of Covid-19 vaccines would depend on the outcome of the clinical trials that are still ongoing. While several candidate vaccines are progressing to phase III trials, it cannot be said with certainty what the results of these trials will be – both in terms of efficacy and safety – and by when we will have a vaccine available for use in populations. Once developed, a Covid-19 vaccine must be considered a global public good that can be accessed by all of humanity. To facilitate this, WHO co-launched the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator and is supporting the COVAX Facility. Both these mechanisms are expected to help low- and middle-income countries gain rapid and equitable access to safe and effective vaccines. Speed, safety and fairness are the key principles that should be followed for Covid-19 vaccines.Will the speed of vaccine development affect acceptability? How can governments increase confidence in the vaccine?The confidence and trust in the vaccine will be critical. The speed of vaccine development should not affect community trust if scientific and ethical standards are applied during the development of the vaccine. To increase confidence in the potential vaccines, a transparent communication strategy on the efficacy and safety of the vaccine will be critical and addressing concerns of the people will be equally important. We have lessons from other vaccination programmes such as polio that can be emulated for increasing acceptability of Covid-19 vaccines.The regulatory authorities will play an important role in building confidence in the vaccine by ensuring that licensure of these vaccines is based on standards laid down for this purpose. Post-marketing surveillance to assess any adverse events would further help enhance confidence in the vaccine.In the past – as with the H1N1 pandemic – the vaccine was available after the peak of the disease was over. How have things been done differently now?The speed of Covid-19 vaccine development has been extraordinary. Work on developing vaccines began as soon as Chinese scientists published the sequence on 11 January. First phase 1 trial started 8-10 weeks after that. WHO has been involved in R&D {research and development} efforts since January 2020.Currently, over 165 candidate vaccines are at some stage of development. Of these, about 26 vaccine candidates are in human trial. We know of at least 3-4 going into phase III. AstraZeneca/Oxford, Moderna and CanSino are in or starting phase III; we also understand that a Russian candidate vaccine is entering this phase. There are several others currently in phase I/II, which will enter phase III in the coming two months. We have a very robust pipeline – the more candidates, the more opportunities for success.Should controlled human infection model studies be allowed to speed up human trials for Covid-19 vaccines?There are benefits and risks associated with controlled human infection studies or “human challenge studies”. However, these studies can be particularly valuable for testing vaccines and can help provide (preliminary) estimates of efficacy and safety.Such studies can be used to compare the efficacy of multiple vaccine candidates and thus select the most promising vaccines for larger studies. Well-designed challenge studies might thus not only accelerate Covid-19 vaccine development, but also make it more likely that the vaccines ultimately deployed are more effective.Challenge studies are also used to study infection and immunity. Such findings could significantly improve the overall public health response to the pandemic.How is ample production and equitable access being ensured?In April 2020, a global collaboration of governments, global health organizations civil society groups, businesses and philanthropies came together to form the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator, or the ACT Accelerator. The idea is to form a plan for an equitable response to the Covid-19 pandemic. There are four pillars under the ACT Accelerator, of which vaccines is one.A COVAX Facility has been established recently under the vaccine pillar of the ACT Accelerator to manage the large, diverse portfolio of Covid-19 vaccines that are under development, to ensure a global sharing of risks associated with the development of Covid-19 vaccines and an equitable access based on fair allocation of the available vaccines. The COVAX Facility is a mechanism designed to guarantee rapid, fair and equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines worldwide. By connecting a pool of demand to a pool of supply, it will allow countries access to a broad portfolio of Covid-19 vaccines and provide manufacturers access to a demand-secure market.All countries are being invited to participate in the facility. The participating countries are expected to receive access to vaccines procured by the Facility at the negotiated price.WHO is also developing a global allocation framework, for vaccines and other Covid-19 tools, based on fair and equitable access principles. The framework is currently being developed with member-state input.Along with accelerating research and ensuring manufacturing capacity, WHO is also working with countries to develop regulatory capacity, as well as supportive policies and delivery channels. These will be essential to get a successful vaccine out to people.WHO is committed to and will continue to advocate to countries to ensure that as medicines and vaccines are developed, they are shared equitably with all countries and people.Who should receive the vaccines first?This was discussed extensively at the recent International Symposium on Novel ideas in Science and Ethics of Vaccines against Covid-19 pandemic, in which leading experts from across the globe participated.It is anticipated that the initial tranche of doses will be made available to all countries to ensure health and other essential frontline workers can be immunized, followed by other high-risk populations. The allocation framework for Covid-19 vaccines also aims to help countries prioritize at-risk populations as they develop in-country vaccination strategies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speed-safety-fairness-key-for-vaccine-who-regional-director/story-HCKQgn8bt2tkHetihgkVmL.html
02-08-2020||India||CBI files fraud case against realty developer||New DelhiThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a fraud case against a real estate developer Rahul Gaur and his wife Navneet Gaur for allegedly cheating Bank of Baroda (BoB) and the Syndicate Bank of Rs 80 crore in the name of developing a high-end residential complex planned by their firm Brys International Private Limited. Gaur is son of a top builder but the company said their name should not be dragged with him as it has nothing to do with him. According to the CBI FIR, accessed by HT, the company had taken a credit of Rs 250 crore (Rs 150 crore from BoB and Rs 100 crore from the Syndicate Bank) in 2015-16. The company was supposed to develop luxurious apartment complex comprising 291 luxury apartments at Sector 150, Noida. The project was abandoned by the borrowers at initial stage itself, CBI said. The company also submitted fake bills showing purported purchase of material from certain supplies which could not be located and the vehicle particulars mentioned in the bills of supplies were also found to be bogus, according to the FIR. It is alleged that the initial deposits by the buyers should have been credited to the escrow account but it was not done. A forensic audit of the company’s account showed round-tripping and diversion of funds, opaque functioning and misrepresentation of facts, it added. Rahul Gaur could not be located for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-fraud-case-against-realty-developer/story-G0unKH6duP0wN7tOe8FgCJ.html
02-08-2020||India||After 4-month curb, Centre allows export of made-in-India ventilators||NEw Delhi The export of indigenously manufactured ventilators was approved by group of ministers (GoM) on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at their 19th meeting on Friday, the Union health ministry said in a statement on Saturday.“The Group of Ministers (GOM) on COVID-19 has considered and agreed to the proposal of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare allowing the export of made-in-India ventilators. This decision has been communicated to the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) for further needed action to facilitate the export of indigenously manufactured ventilators,” said the statementAccording to officials in the ministry aware of the matter, India now has the capacity to manufacture ventilators indigenously, allowing it to export the machines.“We now have at least a couple of dozen manufactures of ventilators in the country as opposed to a few some six months ago. The data before us suggests Covid-19 patients in India largely need oxygen therapy and not mechanical ventilation as much, and our case fatality rate is also very low, which is why in terms of demand and supply we are pretty comfortably placed. It opens up export avenues and that’s why the idea was discussed. Fortunately, everyone was on same page on this,” said one of the ministry officials, who did not wish to be identified.Between them, a couple of big manufacturers who earlier used to produce about 50-100 ventilators in a month can now manufacture anywhere between 5,000 and 10,000 ventilators.DGFT had prohibited the export of ventilators in March to ensure domestic availability of the machines to effectively fight the viral disease.Through a notification issued on March 24, 2020, all types of ventilators were prohibited for export. “…Now with export of ventilators having been allowed, it is hoped that domestic ventilators would be in a position to find new markets for Indian ventilators in foreign countries,” the health ministry statement read.As on July 31, 2020, 0.22% of about 500,000 active cases were on ventilators across the country.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) has been progressively declining, which also means fewer patients are on ventilators. According to the government data, India’s CFR on June 18 was 3.33%, which came down to 2.72% on July 10; it currently stands at 2.15%.“We have managed to curtail deaths due to Covid-19 quite well, and one of the reasons could be we are detecting cases early, and patients who are sick enough to require hospitalization is a small number. The number of cases could increase but how well an outbreak is managed depends largely on how many lives a country is able to save,” says Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the pulmonary medicine department at the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-4-month-curb-centre-allows-export-of-made-in-india-ventilators/story-RRfEqPsRjj0xNgWp89StrJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Eleven killed as 70-tonne crane collapses at Vizag’s shipyard||Hyderabad Eleven people died on the spot when a 70-tonne jetty crane crashed on them at Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL), a Government of India undertaking, at Visakhapatnam on Saturday afternoon, officials said. Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand told reporters that the accident happened when the workers were testing the load capability of the crane. The base portion and the overhead cabin got separated, resulting in the collapse of the crane on the ground, he said. All the 11 workers were crushed to death as they came under the iron equipment. While one victim could not be identified immediately, the other 10 were identified as R Venkat Rao, Chaitanya, Ramu, P V Ratnam, P Naga Demudu, Satyaraj, Shiva Kumar, P Bhaskar, K Jagan and K Prasad. The collector, who inspected the site, said that the jetty crane was originally erected by Anupam Cranes of Mumbai two years ago, but had not been commissioned for regular operations. Later, HSL outsourced the crane operation to Greenfield Company which co-opted Lead Engineers and Squad7 Company for its maintenance. “These contractors have commenced full load trials now and the testing was being done when the tragedy occurred,” Vinay Chand added. There were 10 people in the cabin of the crane: three employees of Greenfield company, two of Lead Engineers and one from Squad7, apart from four permanent employees of HSL. “All of them died when the cabin crashed. One other person who is yet to be identified also died. The bodies have been retrieved and sent for post-mortem,” he said, adding that no one else was injured in the mishap. Vinay Chand said the HSL had initiated an inquiry by an internal committee, headed by its director (operations), while chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered an independent probe by a committee of engineers, comprising heads of departments of civil, mechanical and electrical engineering of Andhra Engineering College, to investigate the cause of the crane accident. “The committees will probe if there is human negligence led to the mishap,” the collector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eleven-killed-as-70-tonne-crane-collapses-at-vizag-s-shipyard/story-xfuCF3uNb6Jf4thIXI9NTP.html
02-08-2020||India||Punjab hooch tragedy toll rises to 84; Oppn attacks Amarinder||AMRITSAR: The death toll in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 84 as 43 more people died on Saturday, officials familiar with the matter said. A majority of the deaths, 62, were reported from Tarn Taran district, with Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts registering 11 deaths each. The police have arrested 25 people, including one of the key accused-- Darshan Rani, alias Faujan, in connection with the deaths across the three districts, officials said. The police have seized large quantities of ‘lahan’ (raw material used for making liquor) from various villages and ‘dhabas’ in the region around the Shambhu border, Rajpura and Patiala, Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said. The raids have exposed a massive liquor racket, extending across several districts, he said, adding that several dhabas at Shambhu, Banur and Rajpura of Patiala have been sealed.An excise department official said on condition of anonymity that though reports of the chemical analysis of the material seized in police raids were yet to arrive, a preliminary check showed that the material was denatured spirit, generally used in the paint or hardware industry.News agency PTI reported that chief minister Amarinder Singh has ordered the suspension of seven excise officials, along with six policemen over negligence of duty. Among the suspended officials are two deputy superintendents of police and four station house officers, the news agency said. The CM also announced Rs 2 lakh ex gratia for each of the families of the deceased.Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal attacked the state government over the deaths. “The hooch tragedy is the direct and natural consequence of the patronage given to Congress leaders, including ministers and MLAs, for freely carrying out rampant illicit liquor trade in the state,” he said in a statement. Reacting to the charges, Amarinder urged not to “politicise the tragedy”, saying such cases had happened earlier too under the SAD-BJP regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-hooch-tragedy-toll-rises-to-84-oppn-attacks-amarinder/story-BzMkqwvWPBQkDHeiGtyItK.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid-19 consequences: GST kitty dips, but shows recovery signs||Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections in July declined 3.8% to Rs 87,422 crore from the previous month and dropped 14.3% year-on-year as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic took its toll on the economy, according to figures released by the finance ministry on Saturday. In June, GST collections amounted to Rs 90,917 crore, In July 2019, revenue collections were Rs 1,02,082 crore. Conceding that July collections were lower than June’s, the finance ministry pointed out in a statement “...it is important to note that during the previous month, a large number of taxpayers also paid taxes pertaining to February, March and April 2020 on account of the relief provided due to Covid-19.” That means July’s actual collections are almost certain to have been higher than June’s -- pointing to a revival in business activity which is still well below pre-pandemic levels. Also read: Rs 3 lakh crore credit facility will cover professionals, says FMTaxpayers with a turnover of less than Rs 5 core still enjoy a respite in filing of their returns until September 2020, the ministry added.GST collections have been badly hit in the current financial year because of a 68-day nationwide lockdown enforced since March 25 to check the spread of Covid-19. Collections in April plunged 72% to Rs 32,172 crore compared to the same month last year. The year-on-year decline in May was 38% to Rs 62,151 crore. The year-on-year fall in June this year narrowed to 9%.Experts said the trend in GST collections, a bellwether of economic health, was positive. “June and July data reveal that broadly the collections are stabilising between 85-90% of the corresponding period last year. This is also corroborated by the number of E-Way bills being generated on a daily basis, which indicates that supply chain is getting back to normal.”E-Way bills, or Electronic Way bills, are required for movement of goods by GST-registered entities.Gross GST revenue collected in July was Rs 87,422 crore, of which central GST (CGST) was Rs 16,147 crore, state GST (SGST) was Rs 21,418 crore and integrated GST (IGST) Rs 42,592 crore. The cess collection in the month was Rs 7,265 crore, the finance ministry statement said.“The government has settled Rs 23,320 crore to CGST and Rs 18,838 crore to SGST from IGST as regular settlement. The total revenue earned by Central Government and the State Governments after regular settlement in the month of July,2020 is Rs 39,467 crore for CGST and Rs 40,256 crore for the SGST,” it added.Jain said: “This augurs well for the government and collections are likely to improve further as lockdown is eased progressively. Industry can perhaps hope for some more GST relief, particularly in form of liquidity support as they navigate through the slowdown.”MS Mani, partner at consulting firm Deloitte India, said:“While the overall GST collections for the month are heartening , the collections in many of the major states coming close to last year’s collections indicates that the recovery process has slowly started with the unlockdown process underway in these states.”“The progressive unlockdown steps taken by various states in June are reflected in the improvement in GST collections for July although the figures also include some transactions in respect of earlier months,” Mani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-consequences-gst-kitty-dips-but-shows-recovery-signs/story-z8qHKGj0HPPad8Cy0r2xSP.html
02-08-2020||India||China moves troops near Lipulekh Pass||New Delhi China has mobilised a battalion strength of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers near Uttarakhand’s Lipulekh Pass, one of the locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) where movement of Chinese troops has been noticed over the last few weeks outside of the Ladakh sector, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times.India and China have been engaged in a standoff in Eastern Ladakh beginning in early May that flared up on June 15 into the bloodiest clash between soldiers of the two countries in 45 years. Twenty Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of PLA men died in the clash. Three weeks later, both sides agreed to start disengagement and de-escalation of troops at the standoff points after a conversation between National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi.There has been thinning of troops at the standoff points, but the disengagement is still a work in progress.Simultaneously, Indian military officers in Ladakh noticed a huge effort by Chinese troops to bolster their strength in their “depth areas,” and give infrastructure projects on its side a hard push. Chinese troops have augmented their presence on its side of the LAC elsewhere too.“There has been accretion of PLA troops across the LAC at Lipulekh Pass, parts of North Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh,” a top military commander said, requesting anonymity.Lipulekh Pass, which falls on the Mansarovar Yatra route, has been in the headlines over the last few months after Nepal objected to an 80-km road built by India to the Himalayan pass. The Lipulekh Pass is also used for annual barter trade during June-October between tribal populations living on either side of the Indo-China LAC.Kathmandu escalated tensions with India this year after it changed its political map to count the Kalapani area including Lipulekh - which lies close to the tri-junction of India-China-Nepal - as its own.At Lipulekh Pass, PLA has moved a battalion - approximately 1,000 soldiers - at some distance from the border.“It is a signal that the Chinese troops are prepared,” a second army officer said. He added that India had matched the strength of the PLA troops and was keeping a close watch on Nepal in context of its recent border claims.“The situation on the Line of Actual Control remains dynamic with the PLA trying to emphasise its presence beyond Ladakh by building infrastructure on their side of the LAC,” the top military commander quoted above said.In Ladakh and elsewhere, the troop movements and mistrust has led the army to prepare to station soldiers in the icy heights of Ladakh through the winter irrespective of how the disengagement and de-escalation efforts pan out.The government has already sounded out its embassies in the US, Russia and Europe to locate manufacturers of high-altitude clothing and snow tent manufacturers for emergency purchases. If the supply still falls short, Plan B is to divert stocks from locations such as Thoise, the base station for soldiers deployed in the Siachen Glacier.“It looks unlikely that we would be able to take our eyes off the border,” said the army officer, underscoring that this could be the only way for now to make Indian territory off-limits for an expansionist China and hold peace on the border.“After the PLA aggression, we don’t trust the Chinese and fear that they will come back again north of Pangong Tso as summer arrives in 2021,” said the military commander.Although the PLA has disengaged from patrolling points 14 (Galwan), 15-16 (Hot Springs), a smattering of adversary troops are still on forward location at patrolling point 17 A (Gogra) and withdrawal from all contested finger features is a distance away at Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-moves-troops-near-lipulekh-pass/story-nSE7PjSaGar6rGawwLoQkK.html
02-08-2020||India||Muted Eid celebrations grim reminder of 2019 in Srinagar||Srinagar Gulzar Ahmad Rather spent Eid-Ul-Adha like any other Saturday, mostly indoors. There were no mass prayers, no congregation in the local mosque, no visiting homes of relatives or ritual sacrifice of a goat. The morning prayers were offered in a small batch, the noon meal was simple and shorn of delicacies, and afternoon tea was without any cake or cookies. In the evening, his three sons decided to not go out to meet friends and stay indoors. It was an early night for the family.For Rather, a 48-year-old vegetable vendor in Srinagar, the muted celebration was a reminder of Eid-Ul-Adha on August 12 last year, when an unprecedented lockdown and a communications blackout was clamped on the Valley in the wake of the government’s decision to strip the region of its special status and bifurcate it. But unlike last time, when passions ran high and tension was palpable in old Srinagar, the coronavirus pandemic and a depressed economy forced people to scale down celebrations this year. “That time, we, as a community, were emotionally hurt. There was anger and frustration. This time it is universal and there is an understanding that it is from God. Everyone is involved this time,” he said.With infection surging in the Valley – there are 2,700 cases in the 1.2 million-strong Srinagar alone – roads, markets and local shops were deserted on Saturday as no Eid prayers were offered in major mosques and shrines. To keep the virus at bay, people preferred to offer prayers at home -- either individually or in small groups of family members only. The barricades were lower than last year, the barbed wire fencing cordoned off fewer roads and there were no troops marching through city streets, but fear of the virus kept most people indoors. Asim Jan, a 21-year-old engineering student, said he was confined to his room for the first time on Eid. “I am reading a book on Eid because there is nothing to do. We can’t even move out,” he said.In a city with no cinemas and few avenues for entertainment, Eid-al-Adha is easily the most grand event. Known locally as big or Badi Eid, the celebration involves the traditional Qurbani, or sacrifice of goat, people buy traditional jewellery, clothes and an assortment of baked goods. Even the peak of the militancy in the 90s didn’t ebb the enthusiasm and long queues at overcrowded bakeries were a common sight. But the turmoil of the past year has denied local residents any cheer. Last year, Eid-ul-Adha fell just a week after the effective nullification of Article 370, which accorded special status to Kashmir. Then Eid-ul-Fitr this year was in May when the pandemic was fast spreading across the country. With Eid-ul-Adha celebrated a week before the one-year anniversary of the Article 370 move on Saturday, local residents said the anger over politics from last year was replaced by fear and hopelessness about the state of the economy and health care system. “We took limited orders for Eid. The pandemic has changed everything. And for us, this is the third Eid when we are making below-average sales,” said Arshid Ahmad, manager of a prominent bakery at city’s Residency Road.On the road, coils of barbed wire and iron barricades have been replaced by colorful road blocks. “I am in the city centre Lal chowk after a month only to get medicines. Who will celebrate Eid?” asked Saqib Mansoor, a local resident.Even home kitchens are without the usual delicacies like Yakhni, Rogan Josh, Methimaaz.”This time we didn’t purchase anything because of the situation. We are taking precautions and have not ordered anything,” said Suhail Ahmad, a Srinagar resident.Travel restrictions imposed to break the chain of infection stopped sheep traders from neighbouring states and the lack of tourism meant that people had no money to buy animals for the traditional qurbani. “This time, animals are not visible in the markets due to pandemic,” said Zahoor Ahmad, a resident of Lal Bazar. Local authorities threw open all markets three days before Eid but quickly rescinded the decision as cases piled up – only shops selling essential supplies were allowed. Many residents said they felt trapped throughout the past year – first by political tensions, then the lockdown and communications blackout, and when finally some normalcy was returning to the streets, the pandemic. “It feels like for one year, I have been doing nothing. We have virtually been in the lockdown for the past one year,” said Danish Ahmad, a local school teacher.The virtual year-long lockdown has ravaged the local economy, hurt small traders and ensured that ordinary people have little money to spend. “Jobs have been lost in every sector. On Eid, sales used to go 200 to 300 percent up but from last three Eids, the situation is going from bad to worse,” said Sheikh Ashiq, president of Kashmir Chamber of Commerce. A major generator of jobs – tourism – has been shuttered. Manzoor Ahmad Bhat, 35, a cab driver, hasn’t made a single trip to any tourist spot since August 5, 2019. “Before the restrictions last year, there were many tourists here and I used to make multiple trips in a month but since then I have not made a single penny for the whole year. How will I celebrate Eid when I don’t have anything to feed my wife?” Bhat asked.Javaid Ahmad Mir, who owns a laundry business, said that mood among locals had shifted from anger about the political situation to despair about personal finance. “Article 370 was on the minds of people last year and every heart was bleeding, this time people are more worried about the economy,” he said.“It will take another 10 years for us to recover”.Every Eid, Kashmir would welcome a large number of expatriates from West Asian countries who travelled home to celebrate the festival with their families. Bilal Ahmad, who works in a logistics firm in Dubai, travelled to old Srinagar with his wife and two young children last year, only to get trapped in the lockdown for months. This year, he decided to not come – but regretted spending the festival in a foreign country without family. “Last year, Eid was very tense but was still better than this one in the UAE. But there were no flights and uncertainty is still prevalent in Kashmir, so I decided to not come,” he said over phone. The uncertainty around the region’s political future, economy and the pandemic has left the local population drained. Mohammad Ramzan, 58, said that as a result of these three factors, people just fulfilled their religious obligations on Eid-Ul-Adha on Saturday, instead of a grand celebration. “Khushi kaha hai (Where is happiness?)” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muted-eid-celebrations-grim-reminder-of-2019-in-srinagar/story-4ZoHHGuo8GPjbsajchsewL.html
02-08-2020||India||New education policy aims to produce job creators: PM||New Delhi Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday strongly backed the push in the newly unveiled National Education Policy (NEP) for use of local languages as the medium of instruction in schools.Most countries that are in the top 20 in terms of the size of gross domestic product (GDP) use the local language as the medium of teaching, Modi said in a speech at Smart Hackathon 2020, an initiative to promote a culture of product innovation and a mindset of problem-solving among students.“In our country language has always been a sensitive subject. That is why the local languages were left uncared for and had little chance to develop. Now changes have been made in the education policy which will let these languages advance. They will not only boost Indian knowledge, but also unity,” Modi said.A major advantage of this approach would be that students would get to lean during their initial years in their own language. This will help them learn without pressure, he said.“Even if we look at the top 20 countries GDP-wise, than most of them provide education in their native language. These countries help their youth develop understanding in their own language but also focus on other languages to communicate globally. This policy and strategy will be very useful for India of the 21st century,” the prime minister said.On Wednesday, the cabinet headed by Modi approved the much-awaited NEP 2020, which says that wherever possible, students until class V and preferably until class VIII should be taught in their mother tongue. There has been much debate on the medium of teaching after the policy was released. The human resource development ministry has stressed that the policy seeks to encourage local languages, but is not urging a shedding of the English language.Modi said NEP was not just a policy document but reflected the will of the people. Modi also said flexibility was a hallmark of the policy, which will enable students to study music with math or coding with chemistry.“Many children still feel that they are judged on the basis of a subject,” Modi said, adding that they were forced to study subjects in which they had no interest. The NEP aims to change this approach and rectify past lacunae, Modi said, adding that both the intent and content of education were being transformed.“We are shifting from the burden of the school bag, which does not last beyond school, to the boon of learning which helps for life. From simply memorizing to critical thinking. For years, the limitations of the system had an adverse effect on the lives of students. No longer!” Modi said, elaborating on the rationale behind the policy.Stressing the breaking of subject-stream barriers, Modi said history has examples of stalwarts like Aryabhata, Leonardo da Vinci, Helen Keller and Rabindranath Tagore, who excelled in diverse fields. Now, the government has done away with some traditional boundaries between arts, science and commerce, he said.He said the NEP was also aimed at helping turn young Indians into job creators from job seekers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-education-policy-aims-to-produce-job-creators-pm/story-bKVorW5OMJ6TvLkYBOtVJI.html
02-08-2020||India||Food rationing system digitised in 24 states: Centre||India’s food-rationing system has been fully digitised in 24 states, allowing beneficiaries to receive subsidised food handouts in any of these states, a boost for migrant labourers, food minister Ram Vilas Paswan said on Saturday. The “One Nation One Ration Card” system, a digital platform which ensures in-kind welfare benefits move with migrants, now covers 650 million citizens in these states these states and Union Territories. It will cover rest of the states by March 2021. The nationwide portability of rations comes as a boost for migrants, potentially helping them to come back to cities from their home states, after a widespread lockdown imposed in March to contain the spread of Covid-19 forced millions to go without ration. In May, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while announcing the Modi government’s Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus plan, had said that following the coronavirus outbreak, the government would accelerate the process of creating a portable food security system. The One Nation One Ration Card system currently enables 80% of all ration card holders under the National Food Security Act to withdraw their entitled quota of foodgrains from any fair price shop anywhere in the country,” Paswan said. The Internet-based system links Aadhaar biometric details of ration cards holders with their entitlement details, enabling a software to allow dispensation of foodgrains to any beneficiary anywhere. Until now, beneficiaries could only get access to rations in their home towns, which meant those who migrated elsewhere for work lost food aid. “If one beneficiary member of a family which hails from Ranchi works in a factory in Chennai, he can withdraw his share of the quota as subsidised grains are allotted on a per head basis,” Paswan said. The portability system essentially allows ration-card holders to draw rations from any electronically linked fair price shops. A digitized, portable public distribution system is a boon for labour mobility because beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act who lose out on their monthly quota of subsidised food when they migrate will now be fully covered. The scheme is now fully geared for seamless inter-state transactions in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Inter-state portability, whereby a migrant draws subsidised food in a state other than his own, was initially tried on “clusters” of 12 “contiguous” states to iron out teething problems. Ration quota under the National Food Security Act is designed on a per capita basis. Under the law, the poor receive 5kg of foodgrain per person per month at a subsidized rate of Rs 2-3 per kg. Experts say the programme’s design has to account for the scale of internal migration. The Economic Survey 2016-17 used some new metrics to give updated data on migration. It suggested an annual inter-state migration flow of close to 9 million from 2011 to 2016 in a “circular” fashion based on data from railways. A novel cohort-based migration metric, a statistical tool developed by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian, revealed an annual “inter-state migrant population of about 60 million and an inter-district migration as high as 80 million” between 2001 and 2011. Subramanian had called for full portability of all welfare doles. “The system is aimed to help migrant labourers, but we have come across routine cases of Internet connectivity and inclusion errors, whereby the needy don’t get foodgrains. So, we continue to demand universalisation of access to ration, without the need for Aadhaar,” said Ayesha, a Right to Food campaigners who goes by one name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-rationing-system-digitised-in-24-states-centre/story-xLidpADiyJlwAMD3kKxt4I.html
02-08-2020||India||Construction of Ram temple will be the beginning of a new India: RSS||NEW DELHI: The construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya is not the last mile, but the beginning of a new India, said Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) general secretary, Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi, on Saturday.Days ahead of the August 5 ground breaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town, Joshi said the construction marked the completion of one part of the struggle. “It is the new beginning of a new era. The Hindu samaj (society) wants to give a message of human welfare to the world. We should not remain meek, but should be powerful and the temple construction will mark the beginning of that,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, Joshi and a host of other Sangh leaders are expected to attend the ground-breaking ceremony.The RSS, considered the ideological fount of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, and its frontal organisation, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, were at the forefront of the Ramjanmabhoomi movement that pushed for the construction of a Temple at the site where the Babri Masjid stood before its demolition in 1992. The RSS functionary said the struggle was not for the construction of just another place of worship as there are hundreds of temples across India. “Our ambition was not to add one more temple in the list. It is not completely true to see it only as a centre for religious faith…When we think of this temple there are other things that have to be taken into account. Lord Rama lived life as a man of principles and he was considered Maryada Purushottam. Therefore, his ideals and principles and his administration as a ruler will serve as an inspiration,” he said. Joshi also said the issue of national pride is also associated with the temple. “All those who attacked India left something behind and it pains us to see monuments and other buildings left behind by them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/construction-of-ram-temple-will-be-the-beginning-of-a-new-india-rss/story-fSwa0RDfVi53q6FkcGogOJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Amar Singh’s death mourned across parties||Almost everyone in New Delhi has an Amar Singh story (usually told to them by the man himself), an indication of the kind of connections across party lines that he had in the country’s political capital and also a reflection of the 1990s and the 2000s (his prime years), when coalitions ruled Delhi.Singh is widely credited with having played a role in saving the Congress-led United Progress Alliance government in 2008, by convincing Mulayam Singh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party to support it.The messages of condolence that followed his death on Saturday, in Singapore, at the relatively young age of 64, reflect this — from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to President Ram Nath Kovind, from Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav (whose father was Singh’s long-time mentor , although Yadav Jr and he did not see eye to eye), and from Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad to Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.“Amar Singh Ji was an energetic public figure. In the last few decades, he witnessed some of the major political developments from close quarters. He was known for his friendships across many spheres of life. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his friends & family. Om Shanti,” the Prime Minister tweeted on Saturday.Singh was a Rajya Sabha MP at the time of his death, but he wasn’t well for much of the past decade — he underwent a kidney transplant in 2011. In the decade before that, sometimes it seemed he was everywhere — in New Delhi but also in Mumbai, India’s business hub and home to Bollywood, where Singh’s connections extended to top businessmen (he was very close to Anil Ambani at one time and also to the Sahara Group’s Subrata Roy) and actors including Amitabh Bachchan, whom he used to refer to as his brother, but with whom he had a falling out, reportedly because the actor didn’t visit him in jail.Also read: Amar Singh and the Bharatiya Janata Party - so near and yet so farSingh’s family traces its roots back to Azamgarh, but he was born in Aligarh, in 1956; he grew up in Kolkata’s Burrabazar (his family was in the locks business) and studied law. He entered politics, like many in India do, through the Congress, but his fortunes changed in the early 1990s when his path crossed that of a man who would go on to become his friend and mentor — Mulayam Singh Yadav. By 1996, Singh was in the Rajya Sabha, a nominee of the Samajwadi Party.On Saturday, Akhilesh Yadav tweeted out a photograph that shows Amar Singh with him and Mulayam Singh Yadav and said: “On being deprived of Amar Singhji’s affection, care, my heartfelt condolences and tributes.”Singh’s latest stint in the Rajya Sabha was also facilitated by the party — he won as an independent, but supported by the party (he was expelled from it in 2010, but made up with Mulayam Singh Yadav in 2015). He was named the party’s national general secretary in 2016, but was again expelled from the party in early 2017. He flirted with the Bharatiya Janata Party after that.In 2018, after a period of exile from the public eye following his second expulsion but also partly on account of his failing health, he appeared on stage during a meeting addressed by PM Modi. At the meeting, while lashing out at his political opponents for their nexus with industrialists, PM Modi referred to Singh and said he could disclose the details.Clearly enjoying the attention, Singh later told mediapersons that he would give out the names when the time was ripe. “Lab khulenge to utar jayenge chehre saare…” (people will regret it when I open my mouth) he said to a television channel.But he never joined the party.Singh also worked his way into the good books of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the BJP’s ideological parent; not only did he support the demand for a Ram temple at Ayodhya, but also donated his ancestral house in Azamgarh to the Sangh.He also supported the BJP on both demonetisation and the abrogation of Article 370.While speaking during the debate on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill in the Rajya Sabha on August 5 last year, he said he could not be called a “dal badloo” or a party hopper. “I did not leave the party, though I was expelled twice,” he said on the floor of the House and proceeded to support the BJP.Ironically, it was the same party which he worked against during the 2008 trust vote that the UPA won. Indeed, some would say the story of how the high-profile right-hand man of Mulayam Singh Yadav and friend of Amitabh Bachchan ended up in jail (albeit for just four days) is also the story of how the UPA government won the trust vote in 2008. That stay in jail came after his arrest in a case over allegations that three Bharatiya Janata Party lawmakers were bribed to vote for the UPA in the 2008 trust vote. Singh was acquitted for want of evidence.Singh claimed (and this was subsequently confirmed by then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in an interview to Karan Thapar) the UPA got in touch with him when the Left parties threatened to cease supporting the UPA over signing the India-US nuclear deal. The best option for Singh’s government was to have Mulayam Singh Yadav and his 39 MPs on its side, but this was tricky because the SP’s socialist credentials could be hurt if they were seen getting close to the Americans.Singh said that at the time, the SP actually enjoyed a better relationship with the Left parties than it did with the Congress. But the Congress’s floor managers knew if there was anyone who could convince Netaji (as Mulayam Singh Yadav is called), it was the flamboyant Singh himself. But for that, Singh would have to forget an old hurt — how Congress president Sonia Gandhi ignored him at a meeting she called for potential allies in 2004 at the time of the formation of the UPA. Singh did — and some believe that he helped save the government of the day. The UPA would go on to win again in 2009.The return of a dominant party after nearly three decades may have dimmed Singh’s political relevance, but this also came at a time when his health was failing.Over the past few months, the always-friendly Singh was ready to forgive. Tweeting from his hospital bed in Singapore in February, while being treated for his long-standing kidney ailment, he said, of his relationship with Bachchan: “Today is my father’s death anniversary and I got a message for the same from @SrBachchan ji. At this stage of life when I am fighting a battle of life and death, I regret for my over reaction against Amit ji and family. God bless them all.” On Saturday, Bachchan took to his blog to express his grief: “Struck with grief, bowed head, only prayers are left. Close life, close relationship, the soul is no more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amar-singh-s-death-mourned-across-parties/story-8PAsWQKX0nl3Z78sUbclrJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Plea in SC seeks scrapping of section that criminalises contempt of court||New Delhi Hindu Group director and journalist, N Ram, along with journalist and former Union minister Arun Shourie and advocate Prashant Bhushan moved the Supreme Court on Friday challenging the validity of section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Act which criminalises publication of any matter that could scandalise or lower the authority of courts. The petitioners contended that the provision is violative of freedom of speech under Article 19 of the Constitution and effectively gags discourse on matters of public importance. “It violates right to free speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a). It is unconstitutional as it is incompatible with preambular values and basic features of the constitution,” the plea said. The Supreme Court had recently invoked the provision to issue notice to Bhushan for his tweets against Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde and the Supreme Court. A three- judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra had issued notice to Bhushan in the case on July 22.By criminalising criticism of court in sweeping and absolute terms, the provision raises a prior restraint on speech on matters of public and political importance, it was submitted. “The offences of scandalizing the court is rooted in colonial assumptions and objects and have no place in legal orders committed to democratic constitutionalism,” the petition said. The Contempt of Court provides for two kinds of contempt – civil contempt and criminal contempt. Civil contempt is defined under section 2(b) as wilful disobedience to any judgment, order or direction of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court.Section 2(c) deals with criminal contempt and attempts to punish publication of any material or commission of any act against courts. This provision has three sub-clauses which explain when such a publication or act could amount to criminal contempt. First, if such publication or act scandalises or lowers the authority of any court (sub –clause i), second, if it prejudices or interferes with any judicial proceeding (sub-clause ii) and third, if it interferes with or obstructs administration of justice (sub-clause iii).The petitioners have challenged only sub-clause (i) which criminalises any publication or act on the ground that it scandalizes or lowers the authority of the court. The provision, it was contended, has an extremely wide import and is incapable of objective interpretation.“For example, a mere interrogation by a traffic constable about the red beacon on the hood of a judge’s car was held to be contempt on the ground of scandalizing the court,” the petition highlighted. It was argued that the provision uses vague terminology whose scope and limits are impossible to demarcate. “In particular the terminology ‘scandalizes or tends to scandalize’ invites subjective and greatly differing readings and applications. Thus, it violates Article 14 which demands equal treatment and non-arbitrariness,” the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-seeks-scrapping-of-section-that-criminalises-contempt-of-court/story-QVeWjeWQgbAQG4eiLA496N.html
02-08-2020||India||CISF asks for social media IDs of personnel||New Delhi: The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has issued social media guidelines, asking its personnel to share their user IDs from Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube and other such platforms, and refrain from criticising the government’s policies on these portals, failing which strict legal and disciplinary action will be taken against the defaulters. The fresh guidelines, issued on July 31, will apply to about 140,000 personnel of the force. The force guards airports, Metro services and nuclear and space facilities apart from several sensitive government installations”. The latest social media policy, issued by the CISF headquarters, said: “In spite of clear guidelines, there have been instances where social media platforms were used by the force personnel to share sensitive information about the nation/organization and to criticize the policies of government”. HT has reviewed a copy of the guidelines.Asserting that social media platforms pose a threat to the national security and the general discipline of the force, CISF has asked its men to “disclose their user ID of all social media platforms (Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, etc) being used by them to the department, through (their) respective units/formations”. The personnel have also been asked to inform the department in case of any change of the user ID or the creation of a new ID. The CISF’s personnel have been strictly asked “not to create and use anonymous or pseudonymous User ID”.The directive also says that the “personnel should not use any social media platform to criticize the policies of the government on any matter”. The jawans have been told that social media platforms shouldn’t be used as a tool to bypass the chain of command and the proper channel to air the grievances, according to the directive.“In case of any violation, strict legal and disciplinary action should be initiated against the defaulters as per existing laws and rules,” it added. The CISF’s top brass did not respond to HT’s calls or text for a comment on the guidelines. The public relations officer was also not available for a comment.An officer who was in favour of the policy said: “It doesn’t stop anyone from using Facebook, Twitter or Instagram. Only the users IDs of personnel are being asked for because often it happens that security personnel are trapped by enemy countries on social media and then forced to divulge sensitive information”.Several serving officers in the CISF said that the policy appeared “arbitrary”. “It’s better that they should give us a basic phone and a 2G connection otherwise smart phones have no use for us if such policies are implemented,” said a company commander in CISF, who did not wish to be identified.Another commandant rank officer said “we are mostly away from our families for months and social media is the only source to keep us entertained or express our opinions, which should not be taken away”.Former Director General of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) K Durga Prasad said: “In a security related job, social media needs to be carefully used. Security personnel cannot equate themselves with civilians. We may say things on such platforms which can inadvertently affect the national security or our job. We have seen a number of cases in the past, when security personnel are targeted on social media by enemy forces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-asks-for-social-media-ids-of-personnel/story-R5Frz0m4jYaYN6E4pSEBlM.html
02-08-2020||India||1,886 Sars-CoV-2 genomes sequenced||Indian researchers have sequenced over 1,800 genomes of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which will help them monitor mutations of the virus and trace the spread of the infection.“So far, 1,886 genomes have been sequenced by various laboratories across the country. Of these, 833 are of very good quality and give us a lot of data. What we have learnt so far is that A2A is the dominant strain in India – the same as the globally prevalent strain – meaning that any drug or vaccine developed in other parts of the world should theoretically work here (factoring in the difference is response of people, of course),” Dr Rakesh Mishra, director of the Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We have also seen that the virus is very slow to mutate. We have seen over 2,700 mutations even in the A2A strain but it doesn’t make it very different and certainly doesn’t change the clinical findings,” he said at a media briefing through video link. “The mutations act like a bar-coding system where we can trace the path of the spread of the virus.”Union minister of health and family welfare, and science and technology Dr Harsh Vardhan said interpretation of the findings and correlating them to global findings will help Indian researchers understand the behaviour of the virus, which surfaced at the end of 2019 in the central Chinese city of Wuhan and spread rapidly across the world.“The samples from parts of the country have been collected and the genome sequencing has been done – there are areas in the country that have resemblance to the virus from Wuhan, then there are areas where the virus resembles that from Italy,” he said.The most interesting finding was the A3i or A4 strain that was unique to India – once accounting for 40% of the Covid-19 cases – has now started declining and constitutes only about 5% of cases.“The A4 strain – also referred to as the A3i strain -- has almost disappeared in India. This was a big cluster of cases that came in from an East Asian countries such as Brunei and spread across India in a cluster of cases. And, although the A2A strain is better adapted to infect humans binding more easily to the ACE2 receptor, I think the A4 strain died out because of aggressive contact tracing and quarantine,” said one of the scientists involved in the project, requesting anonymity.The path traced using the mutations of the strain imply that it travelled with members of the Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat, who gathered in Delhi for a religious congregation in March, the scientist said. “Although the strain has almost died out in southern India, there are still some cases of the strain in Delhi,” the scientist said.“We get anonymised samples, but it is a possibility. The strain is present only in South East Asia and seems to have travelled from Malaysia to Delhi and then Hyderabad, where we first detected the strain. From what we have learnt about the strain, however, is that it seems weaker. Of the A3i genomes we sequenced, none of the patients had died,” said Dr Mishra. The study of mutations in the Sars-Cov-2 strain also has implications for diagnostics and vaccine. “If we talk about diagnostics, the RT-PCR {or reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, test uses probes of the N, S, E and RdRp gene to detect Sars-Cov-2. What we have observed is that the N gene has had more mutations than the others and therefore probes of N gene are likely to throw up more false negatives and be the first ones to fail. This will be different for different countries, of course. Monitoring the S or spike protein is also important as it helps the virus bind with ACE 2 receptor to enter cells. A study of the mutations will also be helpful for vaccine development programmes,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB).  ACE2 receptor is the protein that provides the entry point for the coronavirus to infect human cells.The institute has sequenced almost 800 genomes already and is likely to complete 1,000 by next week. “The most important thing has been studying the spread of the infection in various waves – the first being the ones from Wuhan in Kerala, then subsequent waves coming in from Europe, North America and the Middle East with the international travellers,” said Dr Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-886-sars-cov-2-genomes-sequenced/story-2IyEtIPZNKsNszwWCprE9L.html
02-08-2020||India||Sushant had no Godfather, says his sister in appeal to Modi, wants him to step in||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to ensure no evidence is tampered with in the probe into her brother’s death even as Bihar Police said it was capable of probing the sensational case on its own.Kirti posted a message tagging the prime minister on social media amid growing controversy and politics surrounding 34-year-old Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found dead in his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14.“We are from a very simple family. My brother had no Godfather when he was in Bollywood nor do we have anyone right now. My request to you is to immediately look into this case and make sure that everything is handled in a sanitised way and no evidences are tampered with. Expecting justice to prevail,” Kirti wrote in her appeal.Also read: Ankita Lokhande says people sent her videos of Sushant Singh Rajput’s body: ‘Saddest thing that can happen’The developments came on a day Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said he could hand the case over to the Central Bureau of Investigation if the family of Sushant Singh Rajput made the demand. Kumar said it was the duty of the Bihar Police to conduct an investigation and it was doing so. “Mumbai police should cooperate with Bihar police since a case was lodged by the actor’s father. Bihar police is investigating the case with full honesty and sincerity. The family should get justice.”Bihar’s director general of police Gupteshwar Pandey insisted his force was capable of investigating the case, and said the four-member Patna Police team in Mumbai had recorded the statements of Ashok Kumar (Rajput’s chef), Neeraj (Rajput’s help), Ankita Lokhande (Rajput’s former girlfriend), Mahesh Shetty (Rajput’s friend), Meetu Singh (Rajput’s sister) and Dr Chawra (who treated Rajput).When asked if Rhea Chakraborty, who was in a live-in relationship with Rajput, would be interrogated, an official of the Bihar police said, “It is not required as of now. But she is under our watch.”In Mumbai, parliamentary affairs minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab said the government asked police to question people levelling allegations of political involvement in the probe. The statement came a day after actor Shekhar Suman said the case was not being handed over to the CBI to save son of a politician.“Honourable chief minister has clarified on Friday that whoever has any information related to the case should come forward and give it to the police. On the other hand, I have also appealed to the police that they should summon the people who have been making such claims. They should take the information about the information of the involvement of any politician,” Parab said. The minister reiterated that Mumbai police are competent to handle the case.Investigation in the case stoked a row last week after Rajput’s father, KK Singh, lodged an FIR in Bihar where he named Chakraborty and her family members and alleged that they developed an acquaintance with his son as part of a deliberate conspiracy so that she could establish herself in the film industry, and with an eye on his son’s money. He claimed there were unexplained transfers from his son’s account including a Rs 15 crore transaction. He also alleged that on June 6, less than a week before Rajput was found dead in his house, Chakraborty left with many of his belongings, including his laptop, ATM card and some documents.Since then, the governments and police forces of two states, top Bollywood stars and politicians have waded into the row. Chakraborty released a statement on Friday rejecting the allegations. Her plea asking for the transfer of the probe from Bihar to Mumbai will be heard in the Supreme Court on August 5. The governments of Bihar, Maharashtra and Singh have all filed caveats in the case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also registered a money laundering case.In Bihar, attention has been focused on Chakraborty with the DGP saying on Saturday that the police team could not locate her. “The police team visited banks to gather details about the transactions. All evidences are being collected. The team also tried to collect CCTV footages, video clips, FSL report, medico-legal report, postmortem report and all related papers from the Mumbai police,” he said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajput-s-sister-appeals-to-pm-nitish-calls-for-justice/story-jgeWgvw6LAegopgPNuq9aO.html
02-08-2020||India||5 bio-repositories for clinical, viral Covid-19 samples set up||India has set up five dedicated bio-repositories for clinical and viral samples linked to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that will be shared with researchers from the academia and industry to speed up innovations to combat the pandemic. The department of biotechnology has supported the setting up of the bio-repositories at the NCR-Biotech Science Cluster-Translational Health Science And Technology Institute, Faridabad; Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi; National Centre for Cell Science, Pune; InStem, Bangalore; and Institute of Life Sciences Bhubaneswar.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Today, five bio-repositories have been created at five places across the country, two in Delhi and adjoining Faridabad. Researchers from across the country – not just within the government setup but outside it too – can have access to bio-samples such as serum (blood), stool, urine, sputum, or swabs of virus sample whatever it is. I am sure that this concept will be a boon for the whole scientific community, especially the young researchers and startups,” Union minister for health and family welfare and science and technology Dr Harsh Vardhan said at the launch.“These repositories are authorised to share these samples with academia and industry involved in development of diagnostics, vaccines, etc. after scrutinising the purpose of request and ensuring benefit to the country,” the minister said.The repositories already have over 44,000 clinical and 17 viral samples in the bank. Of these, over 5,000 samples have already been shared with 30 institutes or companies.“The repositories in Delhi and NCR {National Capital Region} have the highest number of samples. We are trying to get more institutes on board,” said Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology.Not just with clinical samples, the department of biotechnology has supported innovations for India’s fight against Covid-19 through its industry consortium, which has supported 120 projects and scientists either in development or manufacturing.These include 19 projects and scientists working on developing a vaccine against Covid-19 and a supporting ecosystem for animal and clinical trials; 50 on diagnostics development and scaling up of manufacturing, 25 projects and scientists working on developing either novel molecules or therapies or repurposing already existing ones, and 26 other biomedical interventions, according to Dr Swarup. “We have supported vaccine development right from early development to clinical trials. Now we are looking at preparing our manufacturing capacity as well. One of the vaccines supported by us – developed by Zydus – has already progressed to clinical trials in humans. Four others are in advanced stages of preclinical studies and should go into trial in another four to six weeks. As for the trial to see whether BCG vaccine has any impact on Covid-19 infection, the volunteers have been recruited,” said Dr Swarup.The organisation has also started preparing sites for large phase III clinical trials at five places across the country – INCLEN Trust International’s Haryana chapter; KEM Vadu, Pune; Christian Medical College, Vellore; Society for Health Allied Research Education (SHARE), Hyderabad. The trial sites will provide access to cohorts of 50,000 to 100,000 people and a serological study will begin Saturday onwards to check for the prevalence of antibodies at the sites.“We have kept the sites ready for the phase III trials in five places. The preparation had started for dengue and chikungunya trials under the national biopharma mission launched two years ago and was quickly converted for Covid-19. In addition, we are preparing six other trial sites that are likely to be ready by year end. We are already in talks with the World Health Organisation that is about to begin its solidarity trials and India would like to be a participant,” said Dr Swarup.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-bio-repositories-for-clinical-viral-covid-19-samples-set-up/story-fsnjKFoReTFjZiyC1cszEM.html
02-08-2020||India||Key UPA-era leaders close ranks||Key leaders of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) closed ranks on Saturday and attempted to project the “junior versus seniors” fight as an attempt by some Rahul Gandhi aides, who held the UPA responsible for the declining fortunes of the Congress, to undermine the legacy of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Shashi Tharoor and Milind Deora, who both served as ministers in the UPA regime, came out on Twitter to support former information and broadcasting minister, the Congress’s Manish Tewari,who wrote on the microblogging site this week that the question whether the former ruling coalition had been sabotaged from within must be gone into.Another UPA-era minister, Anand Sharma, wrote 11 tweets to say that “honest introspection” was always helpful and “Congressmen must be proud of UPA’s legacy.” Party insiders said the seniors’ move to label members of the young brigade as critics of Manmohan Singh’s legacy was aimed at isolating some Team Rahul members because the Congress brass can’t afford to let the achievements of the UPA era to be dragged into ugly infighting.  “No party disowns or discredits its legacy,” Sharma wrote. “Nobody expects the BJP {Bharatiya Janata Party} to be charitable and give us credit but our own should respect and not forget”.Deora invoked Manmohan Singh’s words—”history will be kinder to me”—to say, “Could he have ever imagined that some from his own party would dismiss his years of service to the nation & seek to destroy his legacy - that, too, in his presence”. Tewari, who had lashed out at Congres MP Rajiv Satav on Friday, continued his attacks. “BJP was out of power for 10 years. Not once did they ever blame {Atal Bihari} Vajpayee or his government for their then predicaments. In @INCIndia unfortunately some ill–informed would rather take swipes at Dr. Manmohan Singh led UPA govt than fight NDA/BJP. When unity reqd (required) they divide,” he tweeted. Tharoor supported both Tewari and Deora and tweeted, “UPA’s transformative ten years were distorted & traduced by a motivated & malicious narrative. There’s plenty to learn from our defeats & much to be done to revive @INCIndia. But not by playing into the hands of our ideological enemies.” Many team Rahul leaders have been critical of the second term of Manmohan Singh as allegations of corruption -- in the allocation of 2G telecom spectrum and coal blocks, for instance -- let the Congress down in the 2014 elections, when the party won its lowest ever tally of 44 seats in Lok Sabha.But senior leaders point out that all allegations were dismissed in the courts and the hallmark of Singh’s government was rights-based legislation that brought about social empowerment. On Thursday, at a meeting of Rajya Sabha MPs with party chief Sonia Gandhi, when Congress veteran Kapil Sibal called for introspection, party MP Rajeev Satav retorted, “People who are asking for introspect should have introspected much earlier. UPA 2 brought Congress down to 44 MPs.” Later, KC Venugopal also countered former finance minister P Chidambaram and accused the seniors of not backing Rahul Gandhi. As the Team UPA versus Team Rahul tussle escalated on Saturday, a Congress leader did not rule out the possibility of some seniors approaching or writing to the leadership about attempts by a section of young leaders to “demean” Manmohan Singh and his team of ministers. “If we dropped to 44, it was a collective responsibility. You cannot single out the UPA government and absolve the party organisation of its responsibilities,” the Congress leader said, requesting anonymity. “Also, you cannot demean a person of the stature of Dr Singh who has all along displayed grace and dignity. I am surprised that the person (Rajeev Satav) was not rebutted by seven UPA ministers present in the meeting,” the leader added. Sharma, too, showered praise on Manmohan Singh and pointed out that the need of the hour was to fight the BJP. He listed major achievements—unprecedented social and economic transformation and empowerment of the poor and vulnerable Indians, the rural job guarantee programme and the Right to Food legislation,and rapid economic growth -- during the UPA regime.The UPA government was a “victim of a grand political conspiracy and malicious disinformation campaign of the BJP, political opponents and powerful vested interests,” he said. “Congress as a democratic party is always open to a debate on its achievements and failures. Honest introspection and analysis are always helpful and gives strength to move forward,” he tweeted, “History will honestly record the commendable contribution of former PM Dr Manmohan Singh and UPA Chairperson Sonia Gandhi. The two leaders led India to a decade of compassionate and inclusive growth which all of us are proud of.”Late Saturday evening, Rajeev Satav, too took to Twitter to hit back. “The malicious attempt to draw Dr Manmohan Singh into this exchange is reprehensible. To say my observations cast a shadow over Dr Singh’s leadership of UPA II is a lie, a total misrepresentation of facts. I hold Dr Singh in high esteem. He is above reproach,” Satav said, adding that he will discuss his comments “or those made by any other esteemed colleagues, on internal party forums only.” In a series of tweets, he maintained that the meeting of Congress’ Rajya Sabha MPs with Sonia Gandhi was “extremely fruitful” and said party has given many platforms “to voice our views freely”. He claimed that he has never been comfortable discussing internal discussions publicly but added that as “a few of my esteemed colleagues and seniors have reacted on social media” it has compelled him to clear the air. Satav hailed UPAII as a “good govt, people’s govt” and said, “The success of UPA II is reinforced when we compare it to the sharp slide under Modi. Elections are on the anvil in Bihar& Assam. BJP’s misdeeds have piled up. We need to jointly stand together under the leadership of Soniaji,Dr Singhji,Rahul Ji” He also praised Singh for his “commendable contributions to building modern India. He will always be held in high regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-upa-era-leaders-close-ranks/story-4vRsQTNvHQ92V5SRqJPKBK.html
02-08-2020||India||Second sero survey in Delhi begins with four districts sampled on Day-1||Health officials in four of Delhi’s 11 districts began collecting on Saturday blood samples for the second round of serological surveillance to check of the prevalence of Covid-19, an exercise that will go on till August and determine whether the city is any closer to the crucial herd immunity threshold. In all, 15,015 samples – from a cross-section of people selected to represent Delhi’s population demographic and – will be collected and tested for Sars-Cov-2 antibodies that will indicate a past infection. The samples are likely to be analysed and the results available by third week of August, according to officials from Delhi’s health department. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHT reported on Saturday that the highest number of samples has to be collected are from the Northwest district (2,200), followed by West (2,145), and Central (1,548). The fewest will be from New Delhi district, where 885 have to be collected, according to the break-up given in the standard operating procedure (SOP) of the government, a copy of which is with HT. “On the directions of Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal, the Delhi govt has begun monthly sero-survey in the city from today. The survey conducted in June showed 24% Delhi residents have developed antibodies. This will aid the govt to tailor it’s strategy to changing circumstances,” said a tweet from the chief minister’s official handle. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had on July 22 announced that a sero-surveillance will be undertaken in Delhi during the first week of every month will be conducted to determine the silent spread of the infection in the city. In North district – one of the four districts to start sample collection on Saturday – 300 samples were collected on the very first day. “The households had been identified by our teams that go into the field. And, the people selected as per the random sampling were called to the nearby dispensaries for a blood draw. We should be able to complete collecting all the 1,074 samples within three to four days,” said an official from the district. Unlike the first round of the surveillance, where all of the samples had been collected door-to-door, the government has also allowed collection at selected spots and health centre. “We have detailed break-up of dispensary-wise number of samples to be collected and the days on which it has to be done. We started the sample collection today because the numbers are likely to dip on Monday because of Rakshabandhan,” the official said. The repeated surveys will not only help in estimating the number of people who have been exposed to the infection, but will also help the government determine the number of new infections that might have been asymptomatic and gone undetected. “The repeated surveillance will show us the increase in the percentage of people who might have immunity to the infection – represented by the presence of antibodies – but it will also tell us the number of new infections that have happened over the period,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College. She is part of the state government team that helped design the sample for the second round of the survey. In the Central district – which has to collect the third-highest number of samples – sample collection will begin on Sunday. “We will collect the samples over a period of seven days. Sixteen teams have been formed for the sample collection and the total number of samples to be collected each day will be close to 300,” said an official from the district, on condition of anonymity. Each team, which can collect 25 to 40 samples a day, will consist of ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), a phlebotomist or a lab technician, and a community volunteer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-sero-survey-in-delhi-begins-with-four-districts-sampled-on-day-1/story-JPu7cCLiFAmFaKux7HLNbM.html
02-08-2020||India||Bihar reports highest spike in Covid-19 cases with 3,521 new patients, scales up testing||A senior officer of the Patna district administration, leading the Covid-19 battle in the state capital, tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, on a day Bihar reported the biggest spike in Covid-19 cases with 3,521 new infections and 14 deaths. The officer, who played a proactive role in combating the virus and ensuring that the government’s intervention reaches the Covid-19 affected in Patna, has opted for home isolation after he suffered a bout of fever, prompting him to take the test. A bureaucrat-turned-MP of the JD(U) also tested positive for the virus. The spike in cases coincided with the highest number of testing of samples —28,624 — reported by the state health department on Saturday. “Of the 3,521 cases reported Saturday, 2,502 samples were tested on July 31 and 1,019 on July 30, taking the state’s overall case tally to 54,508, with 18,722 active cases,” said Bihar’s health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh during the media briefing on Saturday. The government’s Covid-19 bulletin, which was tweeted through the state health department Twitter handle, mentioned of 14 deaths till Friday. Nine Covid-19 deaths were reported from AIIMS-Patna and three from the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) on Saturday. Munger and Patna reported three deaths each, Bhagalpur and Muzaffarpur two each, while Araria, East Champaran, Rohtas and Siwan reported one death each, as per the government’s Covid-19 bulletin. Two deaths were reported at AIIMS from Patna, and one each from East Champaran, Bhojpur, Saran, Vaishali, Aurangabad, Saran and Nalanda, according to Dr Sanjeev Kumar, Covid-19 nodal officer for AIIMS-Patna. Besides, two deaths were reported at the NMCH from Patna and one from Gaya, according to Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the hospital. As part of Bihar’s test, track and treat strategy, Singh said the department had been able to ramp up testing to 28,624. These samples were tested on Friday. It had tested 22,742 samples on the previous day, he added. “A total 1,823 patients had recovered during the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 35,473, with a recovery rate of 65.08%,” added Singh. Bihar’s chief minister Nitish Kumar, who inspected some hospitals through video conferencing, asked the hospital administration to ensure availability of doctors and also provide telephonic medical consultation to people. He asked his officials to ensure that doctors visited the patients regularly at the hospital. He also asked officials to ensure sufficient availability of ambulance to ferry patients, said Auupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department. Redressal of patient grievance In keeping with the CM’s directive, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal visited the COvid-19 district control room and asked his officers to speak to patients and their relatives through video and phone calls to redress any grievance they had. He also advised them to prepare summary chart as per the requirement of patients, which should address issues like availability of ambulance, medicines, need for Covid test, requirement of doctors and paramedics, etc. He also asked officers to document questionnaire based on patient feedback. He advised them to ensure round the clock duty of doctors and paramedical staff at the Covid hospitals. He said people could avail of the facility of telephonic medical consultation by calling up the Covid-19 toll free number. Of the total 54,508 cases, Patna, which reported 442 cases on Saturday, topped the chart with an overall case tally to 9358, followed by 2638 cases in Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur (2459), Nalanda (2266) and Gaya (2209).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-reports-highest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-with-3-521-new-patients-scales-up-testing/story-hLgQ8eS9Tlb4nUzQ7cjjSP.html
02-08-2020||India||Nitish Kumar ready to let CBI probe Sushant Singh’s case if his family requests||Amid growing demand for a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Bihar government Saturday said it could hand over the case to the central probe agency if the late actor’s father so demands, even as one of the actor’s sisters urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene.Sushant was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.Talking to news channels on Saturday, chief minister Nitish Kumar said if Sushant’s father K K Singh, who had lodged the FIR with Patna police, demands a CBI probe, his government could think of recommending it to the ministry of home affairs (MHA).Kumar said it was the duty of the Bihar Police to conduct an investigation and it was doing so.“Mumbai police should cooperate with Bihar police since a case was lodged by the actor’s father. Bihar police is investigating the case with full honesty and sincerity. The family should get justice,” he said.Water resource minister Sanjay Jha had earlier said the chief minister would definitely recommend a CBI probe if Sushant’s family demanded so.Also Read: Thackeray under pressure from Bollywood ‘mafia’ to derail Sushant probe: Sushil ModiSushant’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene expressing fears that the evidence in the case could be tampered with. She requested the PM to ensure everything was handled in a “sanitised way”.Meanwhile, talking to media persons, Bihar’s DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said it was for the family of the actor to demand a CBI probe. “We do not and should not demand CBI enquiry. Bihar Police is capable of doing the investigation in the case. A senior IPS officer would be sent to Mumbai for assisting the four-member team.”He also dismissed reports that Mumbai police were mistreating Bihar police officials.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty ‘under watch’ of Bihar policeThe DGP said the police team had recorded the statements of Ashok Kumar (Sushant’s chef), Neeraj (sweeper), Ankita Lokhande (former girlfriend), Mahesh Shetty (friend), Meetu Singh (sister) and Dr Chawra (doctor) in Mumbai.“Sushant was not only Bihar’s son, he was India’s son,” Pandey said.The DGP said the police team could not locate Rhea Chakarborty, the prime accused in the FIR filed by Sushant’s father in Patna. “The police team visited banks to gather details about the transactions. All evidence is being collected. The team also tried to collect CCTV footage, video clips, FSL report, medico-legal report, postmortem report and all related papers from the Mumbai police,” he said, adding that he would not talk about the investigation details at this stage as the matter was sub judice.Also Read: Mumbai police can’t be trusted to do a fair and impartial investigation: Tanushree DuttaRhea had earlier moved the Supreme Court, seeking transfer of FIR filed in Patna to Mumbai. Sources said the apex court could hear her plea on August 5. Both Bihar and Maharashtra governments have already filed caveats in SC that they should be heard before any order is passed on Rhea’s plea.The Enforcement Directorate (ED), which registered a money laundering case soon after the FIR was filed in Patna, has sought details of the financial transactions of the Vividrage Rheality in which Rhea is a director, and Front India For World, in which her brother Showik is a director.A senior official said that Bihar police had also questioned director Rumi Jafferry since he was going to do a film with Sushant and Rhea. Rumi had earlier claimed he knew about Sushant’s condition. The four-member Bihar Police team will also question the cast of Sushant’s last film.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-may-give-sushant-s-case-to-cbi-if-family-desires-sister-seeks-pm-modi-s-intervention/story-juHnaQEK6wQfZlp9vqaZfK.html
02-08-2020||India||China moves PLA battalion across India’s Lipulekh Pass. It’s a signal||China has mobilised a battalion strength of People’s Liberation Army soldiers near Uttarakhand’s Lipulekh Pass, one of the locations along the Line of Actual Control that have witnessed movement of Chinese troops over the last few weeks outside of the Ladakh sector, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times.India and China have been engaged in a standoff in East Ladakh beginning early May that flared up on June 15, leading to the bloodiest clash between soldiers from ṭwo sides in 45 years. Three weeks later, both sides agreed to start the disengagement and de-escalation of troops at the standoff points after a conversation between National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Foreign Minister Wang Yi.ALSO WATCH | Rafale jets should worry those threatening India: Govt’s message to ChinaThere has been thinning of troops at the standoff points but the disengagement is still work in progress.Also Read: Army won’t take eyes off Ladakh, preps to shop for Siachen-like gear for troopsSimultaneously, Indian military officers in Ladakh noticed a huge effort by Chinese troops to bolster its strength in the depth areas, and give infrastructure projects on its side a hard push. Chinese troops have augmented its presence on its side of the LAC elsewhere too.“There has been accretion of PLA troops across the LAC at Lipulekh Pass, parts of North Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh,” a top military commander said.Lipulekh Pass, which falls on the Mansarovar Yatra route, has been in the headlines for the last few months after Nepal objected to a 80-km road built by India to the Himalayan pass. The Lipulekh Pass is also used for annual barter trade during June-October between tribal populations living on either side of the Indo-China LAC.Kathmandu escalated tensions with India this year after it changed its political map to count the Kalapani area including Lipulekh - which lies close to the tri-junction of India-China-Nepal - as its own.Also Read: China says it treats Nepal as an ‘equal’ in gushing exchange on 65th year of tiesAt Lipulekh Pass, PLA has moved a battalion - approximately a 1,000 soldiers - at some distance from the border.“It is a signal that the Chinese troops are prepared,” a second army officer said. He added that India has matched the strength of the PLA troops and is keeping a close watch on Nepal in context of its recent border claims.“The situation on the Line of Actual Control remains dynamic with the PLA trying to emphasise its presence beyond Ladakh by building infrastructure on their side of the LAC,” the top military commander quoted above said.In Ladakh and elsewhere, the troop movements and the mistrust has led the army to prepare to station soldiers in the icy heights of Ladakh through the winter irrespective of how the disengagement and de-escalation efforts pan out.The government has already sounded out its embassies in US, Russia and Europe to locate manufacturers of high-altitude clothing and snow tent manufacturers for emergency purchases. If it still falls short, the plan B is to divert stocks from locations such as Thoise, the base station for soldiers deployed in Siachen Glacier.“It looks unlikely that we would be able to take our eyes off the border,” said an army commander. Underscoring that this could be the only way for now to make Indian territory off-limits for an expansionist China and hold peace on the border.“After the PLA aggression, we don’t trust the Chinese and fear that they will come back again north of Pangong Tso as summer arrives in 2021,” said a military commander.Although the PLA has disengaged from patrolling points 14 (Galwan), 15-16 (Hot Springs), a smattering of adversary troops are still on forward location at patrolling point 17 A (Gogra) and withdrawal from all contested finger features is a distance away at the Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-moves-pla-battalion-across-india-s-lipulekh-pass-it-s-a-signal/story-hnIx2metf8n3wTGZ63JEDO.html
02-08-2020||India||When these sons stood by a hapless mother||The COVID-19 pandemic increased the number of deprived people, and made it harder for those who were already struggling.But there’s good in the world and probably that’s what holds it together. An old woman in Rupnagar, Punjab, who has a neurological disorder, collects garbage to be able to look after her son who has a similar condition. A video showing her working, so hard, despite her condition, went viral. Hoshiarpur based fitness expert Mandeep Singh Manny and activist Ajaib Singh Goldy, located her and visited her home to provide her rations and financial aid.The fitness expert had come to his hometown from Italy before the lockdown and like many others got stuck here. For the past three months, he has been helping daily wagers, footpath vendors, migrant labourers with rations and essentials. For this woman and her son, he made extra efforts and provided them with essentials too.Mandeep says, “I saw a video on a social media site wherein I saw the plight of this woman and her son. Instinctively, I wanted to help her.”Social distancing and government restrictions had put many volunteers out of reach. However, motivated helpers have time and again found ways to serve others remotely.He adds, “I made an appeal on my social media and urged people to find the address of this mother-son duo. To my surprise, I got the address within a week. So my NGO, Humanity First, immediately got into action and provided them with ration and some money for their daily needs.”The NRI says, “We tend to get caught up in thinking that only medical personnel and first responders can make a meaningful difference during this crisis. Yet in the coronavirus era, simply reaching out to people is being helpful and heroic in small ways. We all can make a positive difference by tapping into our compassionate nature.”Mandeep has been getting the son and the mother treated at a hospital in Mohali. He says, “It is my duty to help anyone in need. And I will make sure that they are treated by the best doctors in India.”Coronavirus has enabled many people to take the time and space to evaluate their relationship with the world, people and themselves. Over three months, people have realised that it’s only kindness in the world that holds real importance. The pandemic has enabled people to take new perspectives on life with a renewed focus on meaningful experiences. In the latest development, Mandeep efforts have borne fruit and people have donated copious amounts for their treatment and also for the construction of a house for them. He says, “It is amazing how people have come together to help them. It makes me believe that kindness and compassion does exist in this world and I salute all these people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-these-sons-stood-by-a-hapless-mother/story-IvGCC3scHI4g4DSFTmGjLL.html
02-08-2020||India||Changing lives, one stitch at a time||The deadly pandemic brought life to a standstill for many. While some were extremely fortunate to have a roof on their head and the company of their loved ones, there are some who had to fight for survival with each passing day. The haplessness of these communities was given the attention it deserved by many social media initiatives and NGOs. A large number of tailors lost their livelihood in the pandemic. An initiative called Ek Chadar Meri Bhi is helping generate income for them.The program urges you to donate lightly used bed sheets to these tailors who will turn them into shopping bags which will also reduce carbon footprint. These bags will be sold to stores and will be available at a very nominal cost.Nidhi Sati, who donated a chadar for the project, says, “We all know how difficult it had become for these daily wage workers to survive during the pandemic. The roadside tailors and even the tailors at boutiques were rendered unemployed. Ek Chadar is an initiative for these tailors. With basic equipment, these people can earn from home. One double bedsheet can easily produce 20 bags.”She further adds, “I encouraged all my friends, neighbours and colleagues to pitch for this project. A friend of mine who owns a grocery store ordered about 150 bags today itself. People are coming forward to buy in bulk which is a great start.”Charanjeet Dhiman, project convenor, Anything Will Do NGO, that launched this initiative says, “As human beings, it’s our responsibility to help the most vulnerable amongst us in times of need. We will do everything in our capacity to help them.”Shobha, a karigar from Faridabad, says, “With this project, I earn a daily wage of Rs 500-600 which helps me buy my groceries and milk for my family. I learnt stitching as a kid and it has helped me wade through these times.” Dhiman has also been instrumental in feeding needy kids across India. He says, “With many kids going without the daily intake of milk, we decided to start the Milky Way project. We associated with milk booths that supplied milk to any needy person who came asking for it. So, any poor kid who came to get milk was given half a litre packet. We locked in some money with the booth well in advance so that the project could run smoothly. To maintain transparency, we encouraged the booth manager to click a picture with the person.”With the project, Anything Will Do fed milk to thousands of small children across India during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/changing-lives-one-stitch-at-a-time/story-amFg12TehZUIZGkl5uZiMN.html
02-08-2020||Editorials||The economic situation is grim | HT Editorial||On Saturday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced that the government was extending its credit facility, originally announced for medium and small enterprises to private professionals such as doctors and chartered accountants. This, the minister said, was being done after stakeholder consultations. The decision is an indicator of the stress faced by professionals such as doctors and accountants, as economic activity is far from normal and new Covid-19 cases continue to rise in most parts of the country. But this is not the only indicator of a troubled economy. The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in the month of July dropped to Rs 87,422 crore from Rs 90,917 crore in June. In July 2019, this number was Rs 1.02 lakh crore. Most analysts have been warning that economic revival has started plateauing in July after showing a brief spike due to lockdown induced pent-up demand in June. Ms Sitharaman herself said that the “government is cautious about overstating the green shoots of a recovery visible in the economy”. As Covid-19 cases continue to climb and large parts of the country experience intermittent lockdowns, the pandemic’s economic challenge will only get more difficult. Supply chains remain disrupted; demand continues to be low; unemployment is still high; and the Centre’s budgetary numbers may not quite hold because of both revenue shortages and new expenditure commitments. Among the most complex challenges will be loan-default related difficulties in the financial sector, especially once the ongoing moratorium comes to an end. Any large crisis on this front will necessitate a bailout and impose an additional strain on the government’s already stretched fiscal resources. A sudden withdrawal of credit relief can make firms unviable, and trigger an inflationary shock as productive capacity suffers. These questions will hopefully be discussed at the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting this week. Signalling on this front will matter more than any decision on policy rates, which many private forecasters believe will see a pause. It will also be interesting to see whether the MPC makes a GDP forecast for this year and whether there has been any revival in consumer confidence after lockdown restrictions have been eased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-economic-situation-is-grim/story-7anZbKkQ6WRRxjV2JGe5pM.html
02-08-2020||Editorials||A testing week for India | HT Editorial||This is a significant week for Indian politics and society. On August 5, the first step in the construction of a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya will take place, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi scheduled to attend the bhoomi pujan ceremony in the holy town. The same day also marks one year since the decision to change the constitutional status of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Both Ayodhya and Kashmir have long been a part of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s core ideological beliefs. The merits of each case aside, it is but natural that the party will seek to showcase both the construction of the temple and the one year mark of “integrating” Kashmir completely with the rest of India as a political triumph. But it is important to remember that these events have been politically contentious. The Opposition, particularly the Congress and mainstream regional parties in J&K, opposed the changes to the erstwhile state; a big part of the old secular establishment and the country’s minorities, particularly the Muslims, have been uncomfortable with the Ram Janmabhoomi temple mobilisation.The point here is not to suggest who is right and wrong — but to underline that these events spark politically polarised responses, and have an impact on social faultlines. And that is why it is important to ensure that sobriety, rather than triumphalism, marks August 5. It is also important to ensure that the law and order machinery remains on alert, in Kashmir and outside, particularly the Hindi heartland, to ensure that no untoward incident occurs and peace prevails this week. Those who think they have won must be magnanimous in victory; those who think they must resist must remain democratic and peaceful; and the State must remain vigilant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-testing-week-for-india/story-UYa38x1Itu0UPemoV8FRdI.html
