05-08-2020||News||J&K: A year of hope and despair | Analysis||The creation of the state of Jammu and Kashmir by my ancestor Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1846 was a significant geopolitical event in the subcontinent. It resulted in the extension and consolidation of the northern borders of India all the way up to Central Asia (Gilgit-Baltistan) and Tibet (Ladakh). These Dogra campaigns involved the heavy sacrifice of lives but finally resulted in the creation of the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), the largest princely state in India. This multi-regional, multilinguistic, multi-religious and multicultural state finally disappeared a year ago.It is important to understand that J&K was a unique state which encompassed far-flung areas that had not previously been administered by India. The end of the state a year ago, therefore, had significant geopolitical implications. These involve Gilgit-Baltistan, which we lost in 1947 along with Pakistan-occupied J&K as well as Aksai Chin, which we lost in 1952, and the Saksham valley, which has been handed over to China by Pakistan. Although these areas were not after 1947 under Indian administration, the dismantling of the state into two Union Territories (UTs) seems to have disturbed both our neighbours.Internally, while the Ladakhis welcomed the realisation of their long-standing desire to become a UT, the response in J&K was very different. For Kashmiris, who took pride in their special status, and were pressing for more autonomy and nursing unrealistic expectations, to have not only lost that status but also been reduced to a UT and virtually locked down for almost a whole year along with the closure of educational institutions has been traumatic. In Jammu, the move was generally welcomed as it was around the country. To be fair, this policy had been on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s agenda for many years, though no one expected the dramatic manner in which it was implemented. The restoration of full statehood for J&K is a demand from both the regions. There is no reason why the erstwhile state should be demoted to the category of a UT, which is looked upon as a humiliation. The restoration should also involve a structure that ensures for the first time a fair distribution of political, financial and administrative authority between the J&K regions. The expensive and obsolete darbar move can be dispensed with, and a new structure put in place that ensures undisturbed year-round administration to both the regions. Domiciliary provisions for safeguarding public appointments and purchase of land by non-residents should be adopted on the same lines as in the hill states of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.The restructuring promised enhanced economic development to both regions and has raised high expectations. But the state and its people have suffered massive financial losses over the last year. Tourism, which is the mainstay of the Kashmiri economy, has totally collapsed as a result of which thousands of people involved in the tourism trade have been rendered unemployed. Horticulture has also suffered and there has been a sharp drop in the export of apples from the Valley. The cancellation of the Amarnath Yatra in Kashmir and the Mata Vaishno Devi Yatra in Jammu has also caused extensive unemployment and commercial losses. The first task before the government, which is now directly administering the state, therefore, must be to compensate for these massive losses without delay. It is only once the financial distress has been contained that economic development can begin and investors will feel secure enough to start putting money into new projects. Ladakh has also been badly hit by the drop in tourism. The disturbing influx of Chinese troops, which has been pushed back by our security forces, continues to be a source of deep national concern, especially to the people of Ladakh. While the official claim is that militancy has decreased over the last year, militant attacks still occur from time to time.However, we must now look realistically to the future. The first requirement is the resumption of normal political activity. This will necessarily involve a fresh unbiased delimitation based on the 2011 Census, followed by elections to the state assembly as may be decided by the Election Commission. The delimitation should include allotting additional seats due to the hundreds of thousands of refugees in the Jammu region who remained disenfranchised. It is also necessary for political parties to start functioning again. The BJP is already active, but the Congress must get its act together. The two main regional parties — the National Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party — would be well advised to restart political activities in light of the new realities. Some recent statements seem to indicate that mature elements are beginning to come to terms with the changed situation. In this context, the restoration of full Internet services, which the Supreme Court itself has favoured, will be an important step towards normalisation, as will be the release of political prisoners.A year later, the disappearance of J&K and its replacement by two Union territories presents a mixed picture of hope and despair, expectation and disappointment. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has often reiterated his determination to further the welfare of the people of the erstwhile state. He and the home minister must now personally ensure that this is achieved. The state administration needs to be far more proactive than it is, and once the political process starts, we hope to see the situation return to fresh stability. Then, the people of the erstwhile state can finally embark on a new chapter of welfare and all-round development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/j-k-a-year-of-hope-and-despair-analysis/story-qjDG17d1zRhIlRfXEIEyIN.html
05-08-2020||News||To win the trust of the people of J&K, trust them | Analysis||Different sections of Indians hold sharply divided views about the developments of August 5, 2019, in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Were these, in fact, as many Indians believe, simply a consummation of a process initiated by the state’s accession to India upon Independence, which had left it with a special status? After all, Article 370 was titled “Temporary Provisions”. Or was it, as several other Indians including Kashmiris see it, a repudiation of a commitment guaranteed by the Constitution, the abrogation of which has betrayed even a semblance of the freedom that the state was promised?The personnel appointed to administer the two new Union territories (UTs) are, without a doubt, of great merit. The officer chosen as lieutenant governor (LG) of the UT of Ladakh was Chief Information Commissioner of India who has accepted a demotion in status in the service of the nation. But Ladakh is left with a makeshift administration, without a recruitment agency to fill gazetted posts, no formal bank and locked in a dispute over the location of its headquarters — Muslim-majority Kargil or Buddhist-majority Leh in what is a Muslim-majority UT. Although in contrast, the officer appointed LG for J&K is a bureaucrat of the Gujarat cadre, he is assisted by an array of advisers of outstanding reputation. The administration won approbation for the efficiency with which it arranged testing materials on the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak and the return of students stranded abroad and also migrant labour. But the virus’ spread has been exacerbated by the import of migrant workers to work with the public works department. Many of them have tested positive. Many young people are out on the streets of Srinagar without any form of protection despite government advice.In the Rajya Sabha debate on the J&K Reorganisation Bill 2019, reading down Article 370 of the Constitution, home minister Amit Shah said the state’s special status was the root cause of corruption. But a year since Article 370 was abrogated, a long-time campaigner for the right to information, good governance and transparency in the J&K government, Raja Muzaffar Bhat, found that corruption remains pervasive.The Centre has been busy in enacting legislation such as the domicile law and the UT government in issuing sanctions. Five medical colleges, including two All India Institutes of Medical Science, have been inaugurated and colleges of nursing sanctioned. Announcements are regularly made of the LG sanctioning a host of hydel projects in the power-deficit state, which nonetheless is a major contributor to the national power grid. Long-pending road construction has been approved. But educational institutions remain shut with no provision for distance learning except in a single school in Pulwama. Power and water supply are fitful; roads await maintenance for years including vital link roads along the Line of Control.A Forum for Human Rights in Jammu and Kashmir constituted by retired justices of the Supreme Court and the high courts, ex-civil servants, former senior defence personnel, academics and campaigners for human rights recently released its first report, Jammu and Kashmir: The Impact of Lockdowns on Human Rights covering the year following August 5, 2019. Their findings: One, the absolute priority given to counter-insurgency has brought across-the-board violations of human rights and increased terrorist activity. Two, in the 11 months of lockdown, the public saw incessant harassment through closures, barricades, checkpoints and suspension of communication, crippling public health, with pervasive post-traumatic stress disorder even among children. Three, education flounders at every level with the limiting of networks to 2G thereby making online classes dysfunctional, in violation of the constitutional right to education. Four, commerce and industry have suffered massive losses. Tourism and cottage industries, reliant on 4G networks, are out of business. Local employment is at a standstill. Five, journalists have faced harassment with recourse taken even to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Six, the military presence has been accentuated.After August 5, 2019, the Concerned Citizens Group, of which I am a member, made two visits to Kashmir on September 17-18, 2019 and November 22-26, 2019. In our statement of May 20, 2020, we said that J&K has continued in a social, economic, political and communication lockdown since August 5, 2019, now doubly reinforced by the pandemic. “Senior political leaders,” we wrote, “including a former chief minister, continue to be in detention, in several cases under the draconian Public Safety Act. Meanwhile, there are attempts to incubate artificial political processes — through village and local body elections and facilitating the launch of a new political party. However, these processes have failed to fill the political vacuum.”Following the August 5, 2019 decision, there have been discussions in the US Congress, the European Union parliament, the UN Security Council and statements by the UN Human Rights Commission on Kashmir. Many security analysts believe that J&K’s change in constitutional status has brought about the Chinese intrusion into Ladakh. But while many residents protest that their lands have been occupied by China, the Union government has maintained a degree of ambiguity on the issue.Where do we go from here? For residents of J&K and Ladakh, democracy and secularism must be real as they have been for all other Indians by making them participants in governance. The government knows this, which accounts for its abortive efforts to institute panchayat raj. But gestures will not do. The country must place its trust in its own people if it expects their trust in return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-win-the-trust-of-the-people-of-j-k-trust-them-analysis/story-AOb4sl6p853Hln1QDe2PkI.html
05-08-2020||News||The rise of the proud, global Hindu||The pandemic is certain to ensure that the bhoomi pujan of the proposed Ram Janmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya on August 5 will be an extremely sanitised affair, despite the extraordinary significance of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s presence. No doubt the occasion will be solemn and will be marked by the presence of a few hundred guests, carefully chosen for their contributions to a movement that has dramatically altered the politics of India and the mentality of a majority of Hindus.Yet, it will be a very different occasion from the shilanyas on November 9, 1989, when Kameshwar Chaupal, a Dalit, was specially chosen to lay the first consecrated brick for the temple at a spot that the Congress government of the day had, after much agonising and calculation, deemed to be undisputed. The day had a special significance: It coincided with the fall of the Berlin Wall, an event that culminated in the collapse of the erstwhile Soviet Union. It also marked the first occasion in independent India that there was a mass mobilisation of kar sevaks in Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple and, by implication, the removal of the 16th century Mughal shrine that had, however, been functioning as a Ram temple since 1949.What the jurist Nani Palkhivala described as the Ayodhya years were heady times marked by high emotionalism and political polarisation. Beginning with the consecration of nearly 200,000 bricks from all over the country and culminating in the 1996 general election that saw the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) displace the Congress as the largest party in the Lok Sabha, India was in ferment. On the face of it, the mass mobilisation of Ram bhakts was aimed at the construction of a temple on the spot where lord Ram was believed to have been born — a quasi-religious movement that also incorporated the demand to right a historical wrong. However, the significance of the Ayodhya movement was more far-reaching.First, the movement reopened a debate that had been left deliberately inconclusive by the founding fathers of the Republic: The meaning of secularism in the Indian context. The premise that the Indian State would maintain a measure of equidistance from all faiths and show equal respect to all beliefs was understood. The Constitution also guaranteed statutory protection to minority religions. At the same time, despite the attempts by modernists to rise above all forms of symbolism, it was generally accepted that the cultural underpinnings of Indian nationhood were, loosely-speaking, Hindu — but not exclusively so.This loose consensus based on good sense and mutual accommodation was broken in 1976 when, at the height of the Emergency, Indira Gandhi injected the term secularism into the Constitution. Hitherto, secularism had been understood in spirit but never written into the rule book of public life. The immediate consequence of this shift to “progressive” politics were attempts at a codification of Jawaharlal Nehru’s belief — as elucidated by his official biographer S Gopal — that “the problem of minorities was basically one for the majority community to handle. The test of success was not what Hindus thought but how Muslims and other communities felt…” Translated into secularist politics, this implied that Hindus must live in a state of permanent magnanimity, and, in the realm of competitive politics, never assert themselves as Hindus. The Ayodhya movement challenged this pseudo-secularism — LK Advani’s coinage that acquired popularity in the 1990s — frontally.Second, in attempting to re-establish the Hindu underpinnings of Indian nationhood, the Ayodhya movement brought the political Hindu to the centre stage of public life. There was undeniably an element of faith in the movement for a Ram temple, but its mass appeal owed almost entirely to a political context. There was the outbreak of separatism in the Kashmir and the expulsion of Hindu Kashmiris from the Valley, a momentous development that the secular parties chose to brush under the carpet. Then there was the Rajiv Gandhi government’s infamous U-turn on the Supreme Court’s Shah Bano judgment that sought to effect minor reforms in Muslim personal laws. These, plus the prevarication over the Ram temple and a tacit endorsement of the demolition of the Babri shrine on December 6, 1992, contributed significantly to the belief that Hindus must have a distinctive voice in politics to overcome the sectional veto. This manifested itself loosely in the elections of 1996, 1998 and 1999 and then more powerfully in 2014 and 2019.Hindutva, as defined by Veer Savarkar in the 1920s and 1930s, was too ideological for popular tastes and its appeal was limited, especially when pitted against Mahatma Gandhi’s leadership of the national movement that resonated with Hindu symbolism. The new Hindutva that evolved after the post-liberalisation rise in living standards blended cultural pride with a sense of national assertiveness. The Ayodhya movement was an important input in forging this new mentality and Narendra Modi became its icon. But whereas the first phase of the Ayodhya movement was defined by mass mobilisation, civil unrest and an outpouring of passion, its post-1996 articulation was marked by a quiet confidence that comes with the awareness that the main battle has been won. Ayodhya helped shape the transformation of the meek Hindu and the submissive Hindu into a proud Hindu and even a global Hindu, along the lines Swami Vivekananda had hoped for.The monument to lord Ram, built on the site of an ancient temple, could yet become a powerful symbol of resurgent nationhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-rise-of-the-proud-global-hindu/story-IES3s3JpircVlOVNy1NqgL.html
05-08-2020||City||Auto driver, accomplice kidnap woman, nabbed while fleeing||A 25-year-old auto-rickshaw driver and his accomplice were arrested in an encounter after they allegedly held a 19-year-old woman hostage in the vehicle in Greater Noida in the early hours of Wednesday. Both the suspects received bullet injuries on their legs and the victim was rescued.Varun Pawar, station house officer, Knowledge Park police station, said a team was conducting checking near the Hindon Pushta road at 1am when they noticed the vehicle. “The auto-rickshaw coming from Safipur, however, zoomed away, ignoring the police’s signal to stop for checking. The police officials heard a woman’s rescue call from the auto. The police team chased the auto and forced the driver to stop after a 200-metre chase,” he said.“The two suspects abandoned the auto and tried to escape after opening fire from a country-made gun. The police also fired shots in which the two suspects were injured, and then apprehended,” he said. The driver was identified as Nadeem, a resident of Bijnor and his allegedly accomplice Imran, a resident of Surajpur. The suspects allegedly told the police that the woman had hired an auto from Surajpur for Pari Chowk. “She wanted to go to her native place in Agra. But the two suspects drove the auto on the wrong route intentionally to commit crimes. They had held the woman hostage, but the police acted on time and rescued the woman,” police said. The two suspects were booked under Section 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) and Section 376 (rape) of IPC. “The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said. The vehicle used in the crime has been seized. The victim, who works as a domestic helper, lives on a rented accommodation in Surajpur. The police have sent her for a medical examination and a report is awaited. Police said a woman sub-inspector has been assigned to investigate the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auto-driver-accomplice-kidnap-woman-nabbed-while-fleeing/story-8E3cgoi3o6etWhuo7Xm4fO.html
05-08-2020||City||750 additional cops deployed in Thane to be released||More than 750 additional policemen posted across Thane commissionerate for Covid duty, will now be released from duty and sent to their original postings as patrolling in the city has been eased following the lifting of lockdown restrictions. The State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) and other special teams too, will leave the city after August 7. The commissionerate has five zones, and apart from its 9,000 police personnel, the department had deputed 750 additional personnel to control the movement of people during the pandemic. Several platoons of SRPF and other special forces were deployed in different parts of the commissionerate, especially in the containment zones. The notice to release them was sent by the police commissioner to the deputy municipal commissioners of all the zones in Thane on August 5. “Containment zones have been reduced and the government has now opened the state borders. Apart from at Covid centres, not much police force is needed on the ground. Moreover, with the festive season soon to begin, the teams also need to prepare for the same,” said a police officer, on condition of anonymity.In the Thane commissionerate, 926 police personnel tested positive, of which 856 were discharged. Deputy commissioner of police, special branch, B Patil said, “We had 9,000 police personnel from our own force, while 750 additional officers were called in. We will now release these personnel while the special forces will be released on August 7. This, however, does not mean that there will be no patrolling in the city. We have enough teams to manage the situation. If there is a staff crunch at a particular police station, we will deploy additional staff there accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/750-additional-cops-deployed-in-thane-to-be-released/story-mDkOWFfP3z3RoVXmN9P2ZL.html
05-08-2020||Noida||Covid effect: No change in circle rates this year in GB Nagar||The district stamp and registration department in Gautam Budh Nagar has decided not to change circle rates this year as the real estate sector is facing a slump and has been hit hard by the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown. There were zero registrations in April this year. SK Tripathi, assistant inspector general (registration), Gautam Budh Nagar, said the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the real estate sector. “In April, we did not register any property and hence stamp duty collection was zero in that month. In May, we registered some property and collected Rs 11 crore. In June and July, we have collected Rs 60 crore and Rs 101 crore, respectively,” he said. The department could manage only Rs 171 crore in stamp duty from April to July this year against the annual target of Rs 3,158. Tripathi said that due to Covid-19 and the lockdown, the department was not able to conduct surveys of properties. “We have not received feedback from stakeholders on circle rate revision this year. The district administration plans to keep the circle rate unchanged,” he said. The circle rates, if revised, would have come into effect from August 7/8. In 2019, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration had waived the 6% surcharge levied on additional facilities such as swimming pool, community centre, club and gyms in group housing projects. The administration had also decreased circle rates of Noida’s commercial properties by 21.5%. Circle rates are the minimum rates that form the basis of calculating stamp duty and registration charges. PPS Nagar, advocate and patron Noida Bar Association, said circle rate should correspond to the market rate. “We know the market rate is very low this time and there are no buyers. The rate of commercial property is skyrocketing in certain areas. I feel the circle rate should be revised to match the market rate,” he said. In the registry office, prior appointment is a must for property registration to ensure social distancing. Tripathi said people need to book their appointments at www.igrsup.gov.in before they visit the office. “They will be given a time slot for registration. This is to ensure people follow social distancing and there is no crowd at the registration office,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-effect-no-change-in-circle-rates-this-year-in-gb-nagar/story-CjjLImNPGO5npw5a2yI0rM.html
05-08-2020||Noida||Noida: House burgled while family was away due to lockdown; valuables worth ₹2 lakh stolen||A house in Noida’s Sector 30 was broken into and cash and valuables worth nearly ₹2 lakh were stolen while the occupants were away, owing to the lockdown. A case has been registered at the Sector 20 police station. The occupant of the house, Urmil Hooda (67), is the wife of a retired brigadier, who lives in C block of Sector 30. According to her, she had left the house just before the lockdown to stay with her daughter in Gurugram. “I visited the house only once in between to get some clothes but it was locked the rest of the time. Today morning, the domestic helper who cleans outside the house called me and informed me that the door of the house had been broken into,” said Hooda. Following the information, the family came back to see the damage and it was discovered that the entire house had been ransacked and things were strewn around. The complainant said that the cupboards had been broken into and valuables like gold jewellery, silver coins, cash, etc. were missing. The family later informed the police and a case of burglary and trespassing was registered at the Sector 20 police station.Police officers said that the house had been empty for a very long time and there is a chance that someone may have been monitoring the situation for a while.“The family had been away during the lockdown. There aren’t any CCTV cameras in the area which we can use to find information about the burglars. However, a probe in the matter is underway and we are questioning all neighbours and staff in the area for more clues. No one claims to know anything about the break-in at the moment,” said RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-house-burgled-while-family-was-away-due-to-lockdown-valuables-worth-2-lakh-stolen/story-YqDc48jAKcEP9Ye4oP3CWI.html
05-08-2020||City||Lukewarm response to plasma donation in Haryana||ROHTAK: Haryana has witnessed a lukewarm response to the call for convalescent plasma donation as only 49 people have come forward. Twenty patients who recently recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have donated plasma at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak, 16 in Faridabad, 11 in Gurugram and two in Panchkula, reveal the data obtained from the four plasma banks.The convalescent plasma therapy has been given to 25 patients in Faridabad, 17 in Rohtak, five in Gurugram and two in Panchkula. Haryana’s first plasma bank was set up at ESIC hospital in Faridabad in the second week of July and since then, three more such banks have come up in Rohtak, Gurugram and Panchkula. Head of the medicine department at PGIMS, Dr VK Katyal, said they have been taking plasma from people aged between 18 and 60 on the basis of their health conditions.“This therapy is a boon for a Covid-19 patient, whose kidney and liver are damaged. We are treating a 39-year-old patient, who is suffering from a liver problem. He has shown significant improvement after two convalescent therapies,” he added.On being asked about tepid response to plasma donation in Haryana, state’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said 33% of the recovered patients have shown unwillingness to donate plasma.“Many recovered patients with kidney, heart, lung or liver diseases are not eligible for the donation. Moreover, women who have ever been pregnant and someone weighing less than 50kg are also barred from the donation,” he added.The nodal officer said nearly 17% of the recovered patients were found to be unfit for the donation as they suffered from various diseases. “About 10% recovered patients have given wrong details on helpline numbers introduced to enrol people for plasma donation. Many people are skipping donations so that they can offer it to their family members in the case they get infected. Few donors fear that they could witness side effects if they donate plasma,” Dr Chaudhary said. “A plasma donor should have normal weight, haemoglobin level above 12 and no history of diabetes or hypertension. Moreover, the donor should not have hepatitis B or C and HIV. The therapy will be administered to those with respiratory rate higher than 30 (normal is 20), oxygen saturation less than 90% (normal is 95 to 100%), or pus in their lungs,” the doctor added.‘Want to save it for my father’A 23-year-old recovered patient from Rohtak, who refused to donate plasma, said, “My father is suffering from diabetes and I want to save the plasma for him in case he contracts the infection.”“I am the sole breadwinner of my family and I didn’t donate plasma for the fear of side effects. I took this decision as a precautionary measure for my family,” said a 36-year-old man from Jhajjar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lukewarm-response-to-plasma-donation-in-haryana/story-sG2np12jsor0aQlH8IcUvI.html
05-08-2020||City||Gurugram: HSVP to promote use of Hindi to communicate with allottees||Gurugram: The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), Gurugram, has issued directions to its employees that communication with plot allottees, landowners and other stakeholders should be majorly conducted in Hindi so that people who are less conversant in the English language don’t face problems.The decision follows directions from HSVP headquarters in Chandigarh to all administrators in the state to promote the use of Hindi as the language of communication. This directive came in the light of incidents wherein large numbers of people in rural areas faced problems while submitting documents to the authority as well as interpreting written correspondence with regard to property and other matters.Jitender Yadav, administrator, Gurugram, said that officials in estate office I, estate office II and Rewari have been asked to promote the use of Hindi to facilitate easier exchange of information. “We had received directions from Chandigarh in this regard in which it was mentioned that people often faced trouble in interpreting letters written in English. So we have decided to push the use of Hindi and bring more of it in official usage,” he said, adding that they would gradually keep on increasing the usage of Hindi in official communication.Allottees of HSVP properties, meanwhile, welcomed the decision, saying this move would make it easier to understand technical matters dealt by the authority as these are related to acquisition and allotment of land. “A large number of farmers find it difficult to read directions issued by the authority but once these come in Hindi, it would be easier for them to understand the same,” said Dilip Yadav, an allottee of HSVP, who has been waiting for an alternative from the authority for the last two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-hsvp-to-promote-use-of-hindi-to-communicate-with-allottees/story-2jWLp4lXeZUoEq5NK3hEEO.html
05-08-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: PG courses begin at GIMS||To further improve patient care and academics, post-graduate courses in four faculties were started at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida’s Kasna on Wednesday.Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida industrial development authority (GNIDA), who inaugurated the new courses, congratulated all newly-joined directorate of national board (DNB) residents. “GIMS has provided excellent care for Covid-19 patients, training all hospital staff in the district. I believe that it was the training, innovations and protocol-based treatment of Covid-19 patients at GIMS that the Gautam Budh Nagar district has the lowest case fatality-ratio (CFR) among all districts in Uttar Pradesh. I hope all DNB residents will set a benchmark in the diagnosis and treatment of the patients in future,” Bhooshan said.Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, the GIMS director, said it is the hard work of all their faculty and staff members that has resulted in the growth of this institution. “After starting the MBBS course for 100 students, after due approval from the Medical Council of India (MCI), the PG courses will further improve patient care in our hospital. These trainees will boost patient care in the hospital and further growth of the institute and in return will gain from the immense and varied clinical workload. This will help not only in patient care, but also undergraduate training as they will help in training of the MBBS students,” he said. In January this year, the inspection team of the National Board of Examinations (NBE), had given permission of 20 DNB seats in five streams to GIMS for this academic session. Approximately 1,500 patients visit the hospital daily and over 200 patients are admitted as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-pg-courses-begin-at-gims/story-6F6HlGQNSxSnDGS3KREfuJ.html
05-08-2020||Noida||More number of patients opt for home isolation in GB Nagar||The number of asymptomatic patients opting home isolation has been increasing every day in Gautam Budh Nagar ever since the Uttar Pradesh government allowed it late last month. At present, the district has 254 patients in home isolation, out of 404 asymptomatic patients. The health department believes that the number of patients in home isolation will further go up in the coming days.“We also feel that home isolation is not a bad choice for asymptomatic patients, who is not having co-morbidities. The patients, who are in home isolation, are in regular contact with our doctors. They have to answer our queries regarding their health. If anything sounds alarming, we immediately admit them in different facilities,” said Dr Deepak Ohri , the district’s chief medical officer.Patients choosing home isolation need to give an undertaking promising compliance with all norms needs to be submitted by the patient; a consulting doctor will declare patient as asymptomatic; patient to ensure round-the-clock availability of a caregiver; minimum two toilets at home and separate isolation room at home. Patients will also have to purchase medical kits equipped with pulse oximeter, thermometer, mask, gloves, among others, for themselves.Dr. Dalip K Kakru, head of micro-biology department in Sharda institute of medical sciences opined that the government could go even further. “Being in home quarantine can be a better choice even for the patients with mild symptoms. But, the patients on home quarantine will have to remember not to give false information to those who check with them in an effort to stay at home,” he said. ‘Cases could be flattening’According to the official figures, on July 31, 133 new cases were detected in GB Nagar district, followed by 129 on August 1, 105 on August 2, 79 on August 3 and 36 on August 4. But on Wednesday (August 5), as many as 100 new cases were reported. In addition, the district recorded a 83% recovery rate.District magistrate Suhas LY said that early testing of the symptomatic patients and organizing health camps in different localities for identifying the patients with co-morbidities and influenza like symptoms are the main reasons of downward trend of active cases. “Also, our doctors of different Covid-19 facilities did exemplary job in treatment of the infected people. The graph is expected to go on receding trend soon,” he said. Dr. Ohri said that focus critical age groups and patients with co-morbidities has resulted in low fatality rate and more recoveries. Dr. Kakru, however, didn’t completely agree that daily active cases had started “dipping”. “No doubt, the district administration’s efforts to stem the epidemic, by containing localities and isolating people, have been successful and the disease is fading of its own accord. But, the graph is sort of flattening not dipping. In the recent past, the reduction number of active cases here are mainly due to the mixing of RT-PCR reports with rapid antigen kits’ test reports, which often do not show the exact picture of new positives. So, it is better to keep our fingers crossed till the pandeimc ends,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/more-number-of-patients-opt-for-home-isolation-in-gb-nagar/story-Cf328kJ4JIRBhWKhulxb3I.html
05-08-2020||City||Illegal registries: Revenue officials demand quashing of FIRs, departmental inquiry||Gurugram: The Haryana Revenue Officers Association on Wednesday demanded that FIRs registered on Saturday against naib tehsildars and a tehsildar in connection with illegal registries in the city should be quashed, saying the action was carried out in haste. The association, which submitted memorandums to DCs across the state, including in Gurugram, said the suspension of these officials should be revoked and a departmental inquiry be carried out first. Abhishek Bibian, district revenue officer, Yamunagar, who is president of the association, said their primary demand is that an internal inquiry should be conducted and action should be taken as per department rules only if any official is found guilty. “The FIRs have been lodged in haste and these should be quashed. There is a departmental procedure to handle these matters. We are not saying these officials are not guilty, but there is a need to hold a fair probe. If anyone is found involved in wrongdoing, then highest action may be taken in this regard as per rules,” he said. Basti Ram, district revenue officer, Gurugram, said he along with tehsildars and naib tehsildars of Gurugram district submitted their demands to deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, who heads the revenue department. “The suspension of these officials should be revoked and they may be posted at the headquarters during the probe. The decision to register FIRs is hasty as the inquiry against these officials is yet to be completed. There is a need for a transparent probe and criminal cases must be quashed,” he said. “A memorandum of demands has been received from revenue officials and it will sent to higher authorities in Chandigarh for consideration,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram The mobilisation of revenue officials happened following the state government’s decision to register FIRs against six serving revenue officials and a retired revenue official in connection with the illegal registration of property deeds in violation of Haryana Development of Urban Areas Act 1975. The police on Saturday registered cases against five serving naib tehsildars, one tehsildar and one retired naib tehsildar under section 420 of IPC and section 10 and 11 of Urban Areas Act, 1975. The complaint against these officials was lodged by the district town planner, enforcement, on the directions of the financial commissioner Haryana, who recommended the action based on an enquiry report of the divisional commissioner, Gurugram. Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had said last week that criminal action would taken against officials involved in these violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-registries-revenue-officials-demand-quashing-of-firs-departmental-inquiry/story-YcyTRvLEn2SaN9LmpStbpJ.html
05-08-2020||City||Paid treatment, home isolation are preferred choice of Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad||Treatment at private hospitals and isolation at home have emerged as two popular choices for the Covid-19 patients in Ghaziabad. According to officials of the health department, about 58% active patients in Ghaziabad opted to avail either of the twin facilities, while only 20% of active patients are admitted in government facilities. The UP government on May 1 had allowed the roping in of private hospitals on a paid basis for Covid-19 treatment. On July 20, the government allowed for home isolation facility for patients. According to official records, about 34% and 24% patients have opted for private hospitals and home isolation, respectively, out of total active cases till August 4 while only 20% were in government’s L1, L2 and L3 category hospitals. “Ever since the two facilities were allowed, patients have shown preference for paid Covid treatment and home isolation. These are the patients who can afford paid treatment and also have required facilities at home for moving into home isolation. As a result of drop in numbers, we have temporarily shutdown our L1 Divyajyoti Hospital in Niwari about 10 days go and presently have only two L1 facilities — besides one L2 and L3 hospitals each,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The L1, L2 and L3 Covid hospitals are part of UP government’s three-tier structure to deal with Covid cases. While L1 hospitals are meant for asymptomatic patients, L2 cater to patients with moderate complications while the L3 hospitals are meant for patients having co-morbid or severe health complications. According to the official figures of admission till August 4, the L1 hospital at SRM University, Modinagar, and ESIC Hospital at Sahibabad have a total of 72 patients admitted in them. The L2 hospital at Sanjay Nagar is treating 36 patients, while the L3 hospital in Meerut has 79 patients. About 203 other patients are either taking up treatment outside the district or have remained untraceable. In some cases, some patients are yet to be allocated facilitiy for treatment. “We have 10 private hospitals and a majority of patients admitted there are those that have moderate or severe symptoms. The home isolation option is also gaining popularity and 222 asymptomatic patients have been allowed to home isolate themselves till August 4. So, in a way the focus is now shifting more towards paid treatment and home isolation,” Dr Gupta added. The 10 private hospitals offering paid Covid treatment in Ghaziabad have a combined capacity of 598 beds. Home isolation was allowed by the UP government on July 20 with several preconditions for asymptomatic patients. A team of doctors stationed at dedicated control room in Ghaziabad are in direct contact with the patients in order to monitor their health status with respect to temperature, oxygen levels and any other symptoms. In furtherance of the home isolation, the UP government is also planning to introduce paid monitoring of home isolated patients by selected private hospitals. “The proposal is in the planning stage and a feasibility study is being conducted to find if paid monitoring of home isolated patients can be done through private hospitals, like it is being done in other cities of NCR. Under the proposed arrangement, patients in home isolation will be given an option to choose from several packages for their daily monitoring on a paid basis,” said an officer from the health department. A video conferencing of the district health department officials with UP officials about the proposed arrangement was also held on Tuesday evening. “The packages offered may include daily monitoring, tele-assistance and training on home isolation protocols, video consultation with doctors, facilities of dietician and even visit by nursing staff to patient’s house. The prices of the packages will vary as per the facilities chosen by the patient. Once the feasibility study is completed, final directions will be issued by the UP government,” the officer said. The officials said that private monitoring of home isolated patients is being planned as the numbers of cases are rising and over a period of time monitoring of such patients will become a tedious job by the teams of health department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paid-treatment-home-isolation-are-preferred-choice-of-covid-19-patients-in-ghaziabad/story-MWUEZhwCfMSoeDIz98QvpM.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||HC dismisses PIL challenging HPC’s categorisation of prisoners for temporary bail, parole||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the National Alliance for People’s Movements, challenging the decision of the high power committee (HPC) to refuse temporary bail, furlough or parole leave in view of Covid-19 pandemic, to prisoners booked or convicted under special Acts and for economic offences.The petitioner body, an alliance of progressive organisations and movements across India working for human rights and civil liberties, had moved the HC, challenging certain clauses in the May 11, 2020 order of the high power committee.This included the clause by which accused persons booked under special Acts and economic offences, we’re excluded for grant of interim bail or parole. The petitioner body also challenged the clarification issued by the HPC on May 18, that its categorisation of convicts for temporary release shall not be construed as a direction for their mandatory release, and that the case of every prisoner be considered on its own merits.Arguing on behalf of the petitioner body, advocate SB Talekar had mainly submitted that the HPC exceeded its jurisdiction and arbitrarily classifieds prisoners for availing the benefits of temporary bail, furlough, or parole leaves.HC however, rejected the argument. The bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Madhav Jamdar said a perusal of the order of the Supreme Court (SC) under which the HPC was constituted showed that complete discretion was given to the HPC to determine the category of prisoners who should be released to decongest prisons. It said the SC had directed that the prisoners can be categorised depending upon the nature of offence, the duration of the sentence, or the severity of the offence, and any such relevant factors which the HPC may consider appropriate.HC added that on April 13, the SC clarified that there was no direction for compulsory release of prisoners, and the purpose of the directions was that the states assess the situation in their prisons regarding the outbreak, and decongest the prisons to prevent the spread of the contagion in jails.HC also took into consideration that by July 24, 10,338 prisoners had already been released either on emergency bail or parole and presently 26,279 prisoners are housed in jails across the state, having total capacity to house 23,217 prisoners. Besides, the state government has opened temporary prisons at 36 locations and around 2,597 prisoners are lodged there.“Thus, it is clear that the respondents [state authorities] have already taken steps to reduce overcrowding in prisons,” said the bench while dismissing the PIL.As regards the petitioner body’s prayer for direction to release prisoners serving life terms without insisting that they should have been released in the past at least twice, either on furlough or parole, and reported back to the jail in time, the bench said another bench of HC has already found that literal interpretation of the condition imposed by HPC will deprive the prisoners of the benefit if they have not availed furlough or parole twice in the past, and issued necessary clarification to prevent the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-dismisses-pil-challenging-hpc-s-categorisation-of-prisoners-for-temporary-bail-parole/story-sS2QCyHBZfTRJkxKETk5VP.html
05-08-2020||City||Tenth suspect arrested in connection with Ghaziabad journalist’s murder||The Ghaziabad police on Wednesday finally arrested tenth and final suspect in connection with the murder of journalist Vikram Joshi, who was in Vijay Nagar’s Mata Colony area on the night of July 20. The police said on Wednesday that they have arrested suspect Akash Bihari who also has a criminal record against his name. As per records, Joshi’s family had had an altercation with a group of men from their locality on July 16, after which they had approached the local police. Joshi’s family alleged that the men harassed a girl in their family, but the cops did not register a complaint. On the night of July 20, when Joshi was returning home from his sister’s house where he had attended a birthday party, he was cornered by several men in Mata Colony, with one of them shooting at him from close range. Joshi succumbed to injuries a day later on July 21. “In connection to the murder, we have arrested Akash Bihari who was absconding. He is the tenth suspect in the case. He told us that he was not present at the scene of crime but had a role in planning the attack on Joshi. He also has a previous criminal record. Bihari is the last suspect to have been nabbed in the case,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city). Investigators said that Bihari was picked up from Jassipura area on late Tuesday night, during a checking operation and upon receiving information from an informer. According to the police, Bihari also has a previous criminal history with a case of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and another case involving IPC sections of rioting and 354b (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe her) lodged against him at Vijay Nagar police station earlier this year. The other suspects arrested in connection with the case are Ravi Kumar, Shahnoor alias Chotu (who goes by a single name and is the man who allegedly fired at Joshi), Mohit Kumar, Dalvir Singh, Akash Nath, Yogendra Singh, Abhishek Kant, Abhishek Mota and Mohammad Shakir. After Joshi succumbed on July 21, the cops finally swung into action and lodged an FIR against two suspects and two unidentified men for harassment of his niece. Earlier, the police top brass had suspended the local police post in-charge as well as the SHO of Vijay Nagar police station for alleged laxity.An inquiry has also been started by the circle officer to probe police laxity and the two cases, of harassment and that of Joshi’s murder, have since been transferred to the Kotwali police station. “The inquiry by the circle officer is pending,” Mishra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tenth-suspect-arrested-in-connection-with-ghaziabad-journalist-s-murder/story-wilwrytSpZhu06HFCO4X4I.html
05-08-2020||City||Body in a suitcase: Warisha’s family booked for wrongly identifying body||The Bulandshahr police on Tuesday night registered a case against Warisha’s mother and two brothers for wrongfully identifying a body, found on July 27 in a suitcase in Ghaziabad, as that of Warisha. She surfaced alive on August 3, making the police realise that there had been a goof-up. The FIR was filed at Bulandshahr Kotwali on the night of August 4 under IPC Section 195a (threatening any person to give false evidence) on a complaint given by Afsar Ali, the uncle of Warisha’s husband Amir Khan. Khan, his father and mother are already in jail in connection with a dowry death case lodged against them by Warisha’s family after she had gone missing on July 23 from her in-laws’ house in Bulandshahr and the unidentified body in the suitcase was identified as that of Warisha. After Warisha surfaced on August 3, the police dropped the charges of dowry death from the FIR but the others charges remain. “The latest FIR was filed on Khan’s uncle’s complaint. He has alleged that Warisha’s family pressured him to identify the body as that of Warisha, but he refused to do so,” said Diksha Singh, circle officer (city), Bulandshahr. The FIR names Warisha’s brothers, Ismail and Israil, and their mother Bundo. “Amir, his mother and my brother (Amir’s father) have been wrongfully implicated in the dowry case. After Warisha returned, the three are still in jail and we want them released. Amir and Warisha got married during the lockdown on June 1 and we took no dowry. An air cooler and an almirah were given by her family and there was no demand put forward by our family. She fled from our house on July 23 while everyone was away for work. Amir immediately called up her mother and she said that both the families should search for her,” Ali said. He said it was Khan who approached the police with a missing person complaint after Warisha disappeared. “My brother (Amir’s father) and I were in Jaipur at that time. Later, Warisha’s mother arrived with some influential people and threatened our family. We repeatedly told the police that the photos of Warisha and the dead woman did not match. But no one listened to us. On August 4, police told me that action is to be taken against Warisha’s family. So they prepared a written complaint and asked me to sign it. We also want the police to probe how Warisha fled Bulandshahr and where she was staying till August 3,” Ali said. According to the police, Warisha fled Bulandshahr and came to Noida where she stayed for a while before leaving for her home in Aligarh on August 3. Aquil Ahmad Afridi, Khan’s lawyer, said, “Now that the charges of dowry death have been dropped, we will apply for bail. We are also keeping tab on what Warisha says in her CrPC 164 statement before a magistrate.” The post mortem of the body was conducted in Ghaziabad on July 29 and later it was handed over to Warisha’s family who took it to their hometown in Aligarh and buried it. The teeth, nail scrapings, fingerprints and viscera have been preserved for further probe.“The woman was murdered approximately four or five days before the autopsy. Warisha’s brother Israil had signed the identification documents in Ismail’s presence,” a Ghaziabad officer said, requesting not to be named. Warisha’s family could not be contacted as their phones remained switched off since Tuesday. “As regards the allegations made by Khan’s uncle, we will look into it. The police will also submit to the court a detailed investigation report. The motive for identifying the body wrongly will also be found out,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range). The Ghaziabad police, meanwhile, had lodged a fresh case of murder and destruction of evidence in connection with the murder of the unidentified woman whose body is now buried in Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-in-a-suitcase-warisha-s-family-booked-for-wrongly-identifying-body/story-yJW9MdvRukWpbGPjPyMi6O.html
05-08-2020||City||Gurugram: HSVP seeks list of officials involved in violating e-auction norms||Gurugram: The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has asked its Gurugram zonal office to send over the names of officials involved in irregularities pertaining to e-auction of residential plots in 2017. The authority has been asked to expedite and send the list of officials as several letters have already been written in this regard without eliciting a response. The latest letter in this regard was sent by chief vigilance officer to HSVP Gurugram on July 15.The matter pertains to an e-auction held on June 18 2017, in which the authority had put up 21 residential plots. Under the ,rules it was imperative that information about these plots is put on the website 21 days prior to auction, but instead, the details were uploaded just two days before the auction was held, the complainant in the matter, Dhanraj Bansal, a city resident, allegedly. Similar violations were carried out in the next two auctions held on July 29 and 30, he alleged.A complaint in this regard was lodged on the CM Window in April 2018 by Bansal, leading to an inquiry by Yashpal Yadav, the then administrator of HSVP, Gurugram. The probe conducted by him found that alleged irregularities had been conducted in the auction of plots as details of the same were not uploaded as per the stipulated rules, which led to losses to the authority as information to more people would have enabled the authority to get more money in the auction. Yadav had recommended that in case of losses to the authority, action should be recommended against concerned officials, said HSVP officials on condition of anonymity.“When the auctions were carried out in 2017, inadequate time was given to the buyers to participate in the auction and this has been continuing. If action is taken, such practices will stop,” said Bansal.When asked about the matter, HSVP admInistrator Jitender Yadav said that the list of concerned officials would be soon sent to the chief vigilance officer (CVO). “A list will be sent at the earliest,” he said.Rajiv Mehta, CVO, HSVP said that they are actively pursuing cases in which response has been delayed. “I have recently joined and found that responses are delayed. Strict action will be taken in such cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-hsvp-seeks-list-of-officials-involved-in-violating-e-auction-norms/story-MQRoP9p3PUdn9GrP3bjTZM.html
05-08-2020||City||Covid-19 plasma bank gets no donation one week after its launch||Gurugram Despite having over 8,500 Covid-19 cured patients, Gurugram’s only plasma bank at the Rotary Blood Bank in sector-10 has received no donations since its inauguration on July 30, except for the five who did on that day.Health officials said that problem was lack of awareness.The convalescent plasma therapy involves injecting antibodies from a person who recovered from Covid-19 into one who required critical care. Although experimental, the therapy has shown promise in helping people fight off the infection. The bank was set up to provide easier access to plasma after many patients and their families reported that they could not find matching plasma. In private hospitals of the city designated for Covid-19 treatment, nearly 78 patients are admitted in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) including 16 on ventilator support. It includes patients from Gurugram, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and other states.According to doctors at the blood bank, three people who had recovered from Covid-19 had approached to donate plasma, but did not fulfill the criteria. “One was above the age limit of 60, while the other two had low prevalence of antibodies,” said Dr. Mahima Kilhor, medical officer at Rotary blood bank. On inauguration day, the plasma bank collected 10 units of plasma -- one unit contains 200 ml of plasma --- from the five patients. The per unit cost was fixed at ₹8,500, but free for BPL card holders and pregnant women.Of the 10, four were procured by patients admitted in private hospitals. “One unit of plasma collected from a single donor can be given to two patients. Since there has been no donation in the last one week, the bank is left with only six units,” said Kilhor, mentioning that it is seen that one unit of plasma is used for the treatment. In a few cases two units can be administered.According to Kilhor, the plasma unit is provided only after detailed verification and a signed request from the authorised nodal officer of the hospital where the patient is undergoing treatment, along with the medical superintendent of the district health department.Dr. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said they will work on increasing awareness. “Information, Education and Communication (IEC) material will be distributed by the Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) in areas falling under different primary heath care centres,” he said. “By next week, hoardings on plasma bank will be placed in 25 locations across the city. It will increase the footfall for the plasma donation.” In various hospitals of Gurugram, at least 259 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment. It includes 78 patients of Gurugram, 27 from other districts of Haryana, 33 from Delhi, 79 from Uttar Pradesh and 42 from other states of the country. On Wednesday, the total count of the infected person reached 9398, with 64 new cases. Out of the total cases, 8548 have recovered from the illness and 725 are active. The Covid-19 toll stands at 125 as one death was confirmed on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-plasma-bank-gets-no-donation-one-week-after-its-launch/story-cO0muqrhIapb7OyK9PyaGK.html
05-08-2020||Gurugram||Govt schools a lucrative option for financially-hit parents||Last month, Laxminarayan Shashtri got his 16-year-old son admitted to a government school in the city. A factory worker in Badshahpur, Shashtri decided to make the switch from a private to government school in view of the uncertainty around his financial situation that has persisted ever since the outbreak of Covid-19. He said that he spoke to the school authorities and others who had children in the school and decided to make the switch after much deliberation. “The school provides good education and the environment is also healthy. Keeping in mind the current circumstances and the financial uncertainty, I decided to take this decision. There is no immediate end to the pandemic in sight and with a diminishing income, it is important to spend resources wisely,” said Rathi. He said that while online classes were being conducted by his son’s previous school, they were unstructured and children were unable to follow the lessons taking place. “If children are going to study online and on their own only, then paying such high fees doesn’t make much sense. Schools have been demanding the complete fee and not giving any concessions. We researched about the government schools and decided to give it a try,” said Shashtri. With incomes drying up and financial distress affecting jobs and businesses all across, many working-class and middle-class families, whose children used to study in low-cost private schools in the neighbourhood, are making the choice of shifting to government schools. Apart from the rising financial constraints, for many parents, the shift is also influenced by the futility of paying high fees for online classes, which they considered as a relatively lesser effective mode of teaching. As per data shared by the Haryana education department, as many as 43,293 private school students have moved to government schools across the state ever since the 2020-21 academic session started on April 1. A total of 2,453 private school students have shifted to government schools in Gurugram alone.Satish Kumar, a resident of Bhondsi, recently moved his three kids from a private school in Ghamroj to the government senior secondary school in Bhondsi. Kumar, who runs a general store, said that while the private school had been conducting online classes, they were erratic and not up to the mark. Based on feedback from neighbours, whose children had been studying in the government school, he got his children admitted to the new school. “During the pandemic, I saw my children struggling with online classes. There was no schedule or timetable. Teachers shared assignments as per convenience and it was becoming difficult for children to grasp concepts. On the other hand, I saw that those who were going to government schools were learning quite well. I didn’t make sense to pay such high fees during a pandemic when the quality of teaching was either similar or better in government schools,” said Kumar. School principals across the district confirmed that they had seen an uptick in the number of students who were migrating from private schools to government schools. Shyam Raghav, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that the school had received at least 100 applications from students who were planning to shift from private schools to government schools in the past week. Asha Miglani, principal of Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, sector 43, said that 230 students from private schools had taken admission in the school during the pandemic. “Many students from private schools are coming for admission nowadays. While different parents have different motivations, the fact that government schools provide quality education without any cost is an important consideration, based on feedback that we have received,” said Miglani. Surinder Singh, principal of Government senior secondary school, Darbaripur, said that his school had been contacted by parents of at least 30 children in various grades who were keen on moving from private schools to government ones. “Many children have approached us but their admission is pending since private school are yet to release their documents and certificates that are needed for the formal completion of admission process,” said Singh. He said that the school was expecting enrolments from at least 30-40 students by the end of the month. Some of these children have already been added to the class WhatsApp group. Singh said that many of the prospective students were children of farmers whose source of earnings had dwindled due to the lockdown. “Children from villages in the vicinity are opting for government schools now. Due to the pandemic, income of various families has dried up. They are keen on continuing learning but are unable to afford private schools. Government schools provide a cheaper option,” said Singh. District education officer Indu Boken said that around 2500 students who earlier studied in private schools had taken admission in various government schools across the district until July end. “The strength of such students is increasing on a daily basis,” said Boken. She said that the effort of government schools towards conducting online classes during the pandemic and the improved performance over the years were among factors that were influencing parents’ decisions in making the switch. “The performance of government schools in the state has increased considerably over the years. People are also taking cognizance of the fact that government schools have been conducting classes without a break since the country went into lockdown. Not all private schools have been conducting classes regularly,” said Boken, adding that said that while online private schools that were heavily reliant on gadgets and technological devices, government schools have been conducting classes through television for students lacking online resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/govt-schools-a-lucrative-option-for-financially-hit-parents/story-i3vwnFmqTPR9xrcqMQQltI.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai rains: NDRF rescues 290 passengers from two stranded local trains||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Railway Protection Force (RPF) rescued 290 passengers from two local trains stranded on flooded tracks between the CSMT and Sandhurst Road station here on Wednesday, said a Central Railway spokesperson.The city was battered by incessant rains during the day.Two local trains -- one heading in the direction of Karjat in the north and another heading for Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in south Mumbai -- came to a standstill in chest-high water around 4 pm.The joint operation was over at 10 pm with all the passengers rescued, said Shivaji Sutar, chief spokesperson of the Central Railway.While the NDRF rescued 39 passengers using inflated boats, the RPF rescued 251 passengers, he said.At Masjid station, the water was above the platform level and it was impossible for the stranded passengers to get down and walk because of the drainage channels along the tracks, he said.Both Central and Western lines witnessed heavy water-logging on tracks due to heavy rains.Early in the morning, Western Railway services were badly hit due to waterlogging between Virar and Dahanu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-ndrf-rescues-290-passengers-from-two-stranded-local-trains/story-itC8XFi7ERjgDikHDgZIrM.html
05-08-2020||City||Sunny Enclave promoter arrested in cheating case in Mohali’s Kharar||A day after Kharar police arrested managing director of Bajwa Developers and promoter of Sunny Enclave, Jarnail Singh Bajwa, on the order of a consumer court in cheque bounce cases, he was on Wednesday arrested in a cheating case of 2019. Bajwa was produced in a consumer court on Wednesday which denied him bail. He was a proclaimed offender in a number of cheque bounce cases. Kharar DSP Pal Singh said, “Today, we arrested him in a cheating case registered against him at sadar police station in 2019. The accused is in our custody and will be produced in a Kharar court on Thursday and we will seek his police remand.”Bajwa’s advocate Dinesh Kumar Sharma said, “We have disposed of around 11 cases today after making the full payments before the consumer court. Also, the partial payment of over 30 cases has been done today. The payments of few cases are yet to be done and he will get bail only after that. Due to financial crunch during Covid-19, the payments of people couldn’t not made. Now, we are trying our best to sort out all the cases within next four to five days.”Sharma said there were a total of 58 cases registered against Bajwa in the consumer court and the total liability is around ₹5 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sunny-enclave-promoter-arrested-in-cheating-case-in-mohali-s-kharar/story-SRKFZEdJGbNVVyqkvssEqN.html
05-08-2020||City||Covid-19: HP records 25 suicides a week in July||The Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on the mental health of people of Himachal Pradesh. The weekly average of suicide cases increased to 25.25 in July 2020 as compared to January 2020, when the average was 10. So far, as many as 466 persons have committed suicide this year (January 1 to July 31). While addressing the media on Wednesday, Himachal Pradesh director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said that the increase in the number of suicide cases is a matter of concern and police has taken up this issue with state’s health and social justice and empowerment department to take up remedial measures to prevent suicide.According to the data revealed by the police, 411(271 male and 140 female) out of 466 cases have been registered under Section 174 of the CrPc Act at various police stations of the state; while as many as 55 cases(20 male and 35 female) have been registered under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.As many as 22 persons ( eight male, 14 female) below the age of 18 have committed suicide. Hamirpur, Shimla and Kangra districts have witnessed maximum numbers of suicides. The data further reveals that persons between 18-35 are most vulnerable to suicides as 111 males and 57 women of the age group have committed suicide.People have committed suicide due to various reasons including marital issues, financial crisis or bankruptcy, drug addiction, health issues or illness, unemployment, failure in examinations, love affairs, or family problems.Dr Sanjay Pathak, senior medical superintendent, Himachal Hospital of Mental Health and Rehabilitation, Boileauganj and CEO, HP State Mental Health Authority, said that one of the main reasons behind the increase in suicide cases has been the Covid -19 pandemic.It has led to an increase in anxiety and depression among people, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-hp-records-25-suicides-a-week-in-july/story-MC4fDHzNGWSsaGJrXGUqjK.html
05-08-2020||City||Students unable to complete DU’s online test can write physical exam later on: HC||New Delhi: The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said all final-year undergraduate students, including those in the general category, who have registered for Delhi University’s (DU) open book examination (OBE) but cannot complete it, will have the option to physically appear for the exams later -- even if they have downloaded the question paper but could not manage to upload or e-mail the answer sheet for any reason. A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad passed the order after DU counsel senior advocate Sachin Datta agreed to the court’s suggestion that considering the problems related to OBE, the general category should also be given an option to appear for the physical examination like the PWD category students. Around 240,000 students are set to take the test through OBE on August 10. The court, however, agreed with DU’s contention that if a student uploads or e-mails an answer sheet of any subject, then he or she will not be permitted to sit for the physical examination in that particular subject later on. The university’s counsel said any student unable to take the OBE exam for any other reason will get a chance again when the university holds the physical test at a later date. The court was hearing petitions filed by law student Prateek Sharma and the National Federation of Blind (NFB), seeking effective mechanisms for visually impaired and specially abled students for the exams. On Wednesday, DU filed an affidavit in the court, stating that in the second set of mock tests, 186,814 students had registered out of which 23,693 students were able to complete examination process. In the first phase, 183,376 students had registered of which 33,162 students completed the process. Seeing the outcome, the court noted that “data relating to the second phase of the mock test is more abysmal than the first phase”. It expressed displeasure at the dismal number of people appearing for the second mock tests. “Even for the PWD category students and VH students, the data of the second phase is no better than that of the first phase, if not worse. This is a clear indication that final-year students are not thoroughly prepared to participate in the OBE on-line mode of examination that the university of Delhi has proposed to conduct,” the court said. The bench directed the varsity to provide scribes, on request, to visually impaired students at common service centres (CSCs) for the online OBE for final-year undergraduate courses, if they have opted for one. The court directed DU to finalise the results date. It also asked the university to give specify dates to hold physical examinations for those who could not take the online test. The bench said the university should provide at least two reading material or text books of each paper to visually handicapped students and granted a week’s time to students to make the request to DU. It said DU will ensure no such student is deprived of a scribe if it has been informed in advance. Delhi University will also give provisional admission to students in its postgraduate courses, subject to them clearing the entrance exam, the court said. It asked the university to state the number of students who registered and logged in for the online examination and listed the matter for further hearing on August 17. A member of the university’s examination branch, who wished not to be named, said, “The university from the beginning is saying that another chance will be given to students who are not able to appear in OBE remotely. The exams in the normal pen and paper mode will be conducted only after the declaration of the results of OBE exams.”Meanwhile, another bench of the Delhi High Court reserved its order on a bunch of pleas challenging the conduct of OBE examinations. DU told the court that the idea behind holding the online exam was to prevent students from assembling in one hall, where it would be difficult to maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/students-unable-to-complete-du-s-online-test-can-write-physical-exam-later-on-hc/story-SBQmKGja8AOt2yH6UF83dL.html
05-08-2020||City||Delhi govt to conduct a study for finding ways to ramp up revenues||New Delhi: The Delhi government will conduct a study to find ways to improve revenues, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday.The move comes a day after the government sent notices to around 10,800 companies in the city for paying lesser or no tax between January and March this year. The Delhi government’s tax collection in January-March this year has gone down by over Rs 2,000 crore compared to the same period last year.On Wednesday, Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister, held a meeting, for the second consecutive day, to discuss ways to increase government’s revenue collection. Sisodia on Wednesday directed the Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi (DDC) to prepare a detailed study to improve the revenue base in Delhi and submit its report in two months. The DDC is a policy think tank of the Delhi government. Its chairperson is chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and vice-chairperson is Jasmine Shah, who is also the media advisor to the CM.Talking about the scope of the study, Sisodia said the DDC would have to suggest short and long-term measures to improve the revenue base of Delhi. He also directed DDC to consult with leading experts in the field and relevant organisations working in public finance while carrying out the study.“The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has put a huge strain on government revenues in the national Capital territory (NCT) of Delhi. Therefore, all out efforts need to be made towards revenue augmentation so that the government is able to undertake all necessary works and programmes for the welfare of people of Delhi,” Sisodia said after the meeting. According to Delhi’s economic survey for 2019-20, though the Capital is among the states with the highest per capita income, its position is 19th in terms of its own tax revenue as the percentage (4.73%) of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) during 2018-19. “For 2018-19, Uttar Pradesh’s tax revenue as percentage of GSDP is 9.1%, Kerala’s is 7.7%, Rajasthan 7.2%, Maharashtra 7.1% and Andhra Pradesh 7%. Looking at Delhi’s trend itself, its tax revenue to GSDP was 6.18% in 2009-10, which reduced to 5.38% in 2014-15 and further reduced to 4.73% in 2018-19. In comparison, the average tax revenue for all states as a % of their GSDP was 5.94% in 2009-10, which increased to 6.25% in 2014-15 and further increased to 6.69% in 2018-19,” the government said in a statement. DDC vice chairman Jasmine Shah said the Delhi government’s early call for opening the economy and a robust healthcare strategy has set the right conditions for an economic revival. “The DDC will perform a rigorous study on the improvement of the revenue base of Delhi. We will involve the field experts to perform this study. Today, the Delhi model of fighting against COVID-19 has become a model for across India and we are confident that with time and a proper strategy, we will be able to overcome the revenue deficit too,” he said. In a bid to improve Delhi’s revenue deficit, the trade and taxes department of the Delhi government has started analysing the returns by taxpayers registered under GST. On Tuesday, Sisodia held a meeting with the officials, in which it was said that of the 15,000 taxpayers analysed so far, nearly 970 taxpayers have not filed returns for 2020-21 from January to March. The Delhi government has also found that this year, nearly 10,800 companies paid lesser or zero tax from January to March. Taking cognizance of these findings, the Delhi government has prepared a list of defaulters. The deputy chief minister has appealed to all the companies to immediately deposit their taxes. He also said that the Delhi government will take stringent action against the defaulters. “The Delhi government has evaluated 15,000 companies so far but in the future up to 7 lakh companies registered under GST will be evaluated. The Delhi government will take strict action against all the defaulters after the evaluation,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-to-conduct-a-study-for-finding-ways-to-ramp-up-revenues/story-iL3JUj3imtEpXjQDH0fNfJ.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||HC quashes Panjab University’s decision to revoke ex-senator’s registration||The Punjab and Haryana high court has quashed the decision taken by Panjab University (PU) in 2019 to revoke the registration of a former senator, Munish Verma, as graduate constituency member, which allows ex students to elect and contest polls for the varsity’s apex governing body. Verma’s registration was cancelled and he was barred from participating in future senate elections after being indicted of wrongfully hiring three persons as centre and assistant superintendents in the 2014 annual examinations at MR Government College in Fazilka, Punjab. The high court, however, upheld PU’s decision to constitute a committee to probe the 2014 incident and its report observing that Verma has not been able to establish on what means he is entitled to seek quashing of these decisions. He had approached high court in February 2020 challenging all these decisions. He claimed he had been a whistle blower regarding certain major and important issues pertaining to the varsity, and that was ‘primary cause’ of this victimisation. The high court bench of justice Fatehdeep Singh said that as per PU Act, a person’s name can be struck off from the register of registered graduates with the concurrence of not less than two-third members of the senate. However, there were total 91 members, two-thirds of which comes to 61; but, when the decision on revoking registration was taken, only 38 members were present. Hence, quorum of the meeting was not complete. The court also observed that the varsity in its May 2019 proceedings acted in “undue haste to accomplish their designs” to ensure that Verma is thrown out of the senate “by all ways and means”. “What one can concur is that the respondent authorities, perturbed over the conduct of the petitioner, are trying to curb freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19 to the petitioner,” the bench observed, referring to proceedings of senate. As of Verma’s submissions that he was not properly associated with the probe into the 2014 incident, which led to revocation of his registration, the court observed that the petitioner was aware of proceedings being carried against him by the university and has intentionally sought to evade his presence for a motivated cause, and therefore, cannot hide behind the plea of non-adherence to the principles of natural justice. The ‘fraud’ had came to light on April 4, 2014, when a flying squad of the university visited the examination centre and recommended removal of all three who were appointed illegally. After that, a committee in 2015 constituted by the Panjab University vice-chancellor had indicted the ex-senator of cheating the varsity while deputing the three persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-quashes-panjab-university-s-decision-to-revoke-ex-senator-s-registration/story-qpMlNkpF4sDtNCCj1XR0BP.html
05-08-2020||City||25 test positive in Himachal, tally touches 2,904||Twenty-five people tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,904. Seventeen cases were reported in Chamba and four each in Kangra and Hamirpur. Chamba chief medical officer (CMO) Rajesh Guleri said 16 cases had been reported in Dharog Mohalla of Chamba town alone. All are primary contacts of a 60-year-old man of the same locality. Guleri said that the senior citizen tested positive two-days ago when he went to the hospital for a hernia operation. Samples of his primary contacts were sent for testing, of which 17 turned out positive. The patient had no travel history and the source of infection is yet to be traced. One person has tested positive in Dradda village of the district. This was the steepest single-day spike in Chamba district. In Kangra, a paramilitary personnel was among the four people to test positive. The 33-year-old jawan had returned from Leh on July 28. A man from Dadasiba with a travel history to Mumabai and a man from Shahpur, who had returned from West Bengal, also tested positive. They were institutionally quarantined. The fourth patient resides in the Jwalamukhi area. He was the primary contact of a Covid-19 patient.Hamirpur CMO Dr Archana Soni said an Indian Army jawan, who had returned from Siachen via Chandigarh, was among the four patients to test positive in the district. The solider was in home quarantine. A man and his son, aged 41 and 12, residents of Chamned village tested positive. They had travelled to Jalandhar. One person tested positive in Barsar area. The state now has 1,147 active cases, while 1,717 patients have recovered. The state has reported 12 deaths due to the infection. Till date, 1.56 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19, of which 2,904 tested positive. Solan is the worst-hit district in Himachal Pradesh with 734 cases followed by Kangra with 496 cases. Sirmaur has 355 cases, Hamirpur 322, Una 244, Mandi 220, Shimla 182, Chamba 136, Bilaspur 127, Kinnaur 45, Kullu 37 and Lahaul-Spiti has four cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/25-test-positive-in-himachal-tally-touches-2-904/story-4qtBGWodzaEl2jzcY73VeN.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Child trafficking racket: Newborn’s mother delivered twins, knew only about stillborn, reveals probe||The child traffickers’ gang busted by the Chandigarh Police on Tuesday targeted expectant mothers belonging to poor families in Punjab, especially those carrying twins. Investigations point out that the mother of the rescued two-day-old boy had delivered twins in Sangrur and one of them survived. However the family was told only about the stillborn. The accused brought the other boy to Chandigarh with the intention to sell him off for ₹4 lakh to a city-based businessman. SIT constitutedA special investigating team (SIT) headed by deputy superintendent of police (South) Neha Yadav was formed to investigate the case. Police on Tuesday had arrested five people, including two Asha workers and a police constable. Punjab police constable Amarjit Singh (29) was deployed as driver of the Balongi station house officer. The investigations so far pointed out that the accused would try to convince the poor families to sell off newborns. The accused Asha workers would keep the family in the dark about delivery of twins and steal one of the newborns, probe suggests. “We are probing the role of involvement of doctors as the mother was not informed that she is carrying twins,” said a source in the police not willing to be named. “So far we have only recovered two children – a two-day-old boy and a 11-day-old girl. The family of the male child has been traced and we will get their statements recorded,” said DSP Yadav. The accused used to send pictures of newborns to the prospective buyers. Police have recovered pictures of newborns from the mobile phones of the accused. Police are now trying to trace the biological families as well as the those who bought these children. Cop suspended, faces departmental inquiry Accused constable Amarjit Singh has been suspended and a departmental inquiry has been ordered.“We have suspended Amarjit and a departmental inquiry has been ordered against him,” said Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal. He was arrested along with four other accused he was ferrying in his personal. On July 3, Amarjit while driving the official vehicle had mowed down a 19-year-old youth of Chappar Chiri Khurd village. He had fled from the spot and was arrested before he was granted bail. Quote:We are probing the role of involvement of doctors as the mother was not informed that she is carrying twins.A police official||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/child-trafficking-racket-newborn-s-mother-delivered-twins-knew-only-about-stillborn-reveals-probe/story-q3ZwKeZDsUkwvmiJzK3peM.html
05-08-2020||City||Jai Ram Thakur on four-day visit to Kangra from today||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur will embark on a four-day visit to Kangra district on Thursday. It would be his first visit to the district since the Covid-19 outbreak. During the visit, he will convene meetings and will be touring five constituencies where he will inaugurate various developmental projects. A government spokesperson informed that the CM will arrive at Kangra airport by helicopter around 11am and will be heading straight to Dharamshala, where he will convene a meeting of ministers, MLAs, and MPs to review the progress of ongoing projects. On August 7, Thakur will tour the Jawalamukhi assembly segment and will dedicate various developmental projects to the public. He will also join a video conference with Union Minister Textiles Smriti Irani on the sixth National Handloom Day. Later, he will attend a meeting of newly appointed state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap at Dehra. Next day, he will visit the Baijanth assembly segment and on August 9 he will tour Palampur and Sulah assembly segments to lay foundation stones of various projects. Then he will fly to Una where he will again inaugurate various developmental projects.The CM inaugurated and laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth Rs 26.50 crore in the Seraj Vidhan Sabha area of Mandi district on Wednesday through video conference. Thakur was scheduled to visit his home constituency but could not due to inclement weather. Member of parliament Ram Swaroop Sharma; Banjar MLA Surender Shourie; Seraj BJP president Mandal Bhagirath Sharma among others were present on the occasion.Jai Ram Thakur also laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth over Rs 62.17 crore in Kinnaur district through video conferencing from Shimla. He said that the Congress leaders from the area make tall claims regarding development done in the area during their tenure, but actually, nothing was done on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jai-ram-thakur-on-four-day-visit-to-kangra-from-today/story-e7WyanXxQ520OMvxAnIT6M.html
05-08-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal registers highest single day-spike of 2,816 Covid-19 cases||West Bengal on Wednesday witnessed record 61 people succumbing to Covid-19, pushing the death toll to 1,846, the health department said.The coronavirus caseload also went up to 83,800 after the state reported the highest single-day spike of 2,816 new infections, the department said in a bulletin.Since Tuesday, 2,078 patients have recovered from the disease taking the total number of people who have been cured of coronavirus infection in the state to 58,962, it said adding that the discharge rate in West Bengal is 70.36 per cent.The number of active patients now stood at 22,992.Of the 61 deaths, 58 were due to comorbidities where Covid19 was incidental.Kolkata recorded the highest 25 fatalities, while 13 patients died in North 24 Parganas, nine in Howrah, four each in South 24 Parganas and Darjeeling, and one each in Hooghly, Purba Bardhaman, Malda, Dakshin Dinajpur, Alipurduar and Uttar Dinajpur districts, the bulletin said.North 24 Parganas registered 709 new infections on Wednesday, its highest one-day spike, followed by 665 in Kolkata, 293 in Howrah, 146 in Hooghly, 144 in Malda, 131 in South 24 Parganas, 112 in Purba Medinipur and 102 in Dakshin Dinajpur districts.The remaining 514 cases were reported from 15 other districts of the state.In the last 24 hours, 24,047 samples have been tested in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-registers-highest-single-day-spike-of-2-816-covid-19-cases/story-S31lhBKnj9FwInmmwQDjoO.html
05-08-2020||City||Virus spiral continues in Chandigarh, 64 new infections||Chandigarh For the second consecutive day, Chandigarh on Wednesday recorded biggest single day spike in coronavirus cases with 64 infections, taking the patient tally in the city to 1,270. On Tuesday 46 cases were reported. Wednesday’s spike has led to the breach of 500 mark for the active cases. Around 42% of the total cases detected to date in the city are currently active.Among the new contacts, four are Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research employees, while a 28-year-old man works at Haryana Civil Secretariat. As many as 16 patients contracted the infection from family members and nine from their workplace, officials said. Fresh cases were reported from Sectors 52, 40, 24, 42, 43, 47, 41, 46, 34, 39, 28, 45, 40, 30, 41, GMCH-32, Dhanas, Burail, Hallomajra, Khuda Lahora, PGI, Raipur Khurd, Kajheri, Bapu Dham Colony and Dadumajra.Fourteen personnel from the security of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also tested positive, however they haven’t been added to UT’s tally yet. The new cases also include 21 positive cases by rapid-antigen tests. A total of 715 patients have recovered from coronavirus in the city, while 20 have succumbed to the illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virus-spiral-continues-in-chandigarh-64-new-infections/story-YOrJe8VxOaNjU37G2UNn8H.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh education dept issues revised schedule for Class-11 admission||The Chandigarh education department on Wednesday issued a revised schedule for admissions to Class 11 in government senior secondary schools.The revised schedule was issued as the last date to apply for admission to Class 11 was extended from July 30 to August 3 after glitches were reported on the website on the first day of registration.According to the schedule, the list of students with objections will be displayed on the website on August 7 and the merit list on August 14. Candidates can submit their objections from August 14 to August 15. The final list on allotment of schools will be out on August 20.Apply to colleges by August 7Also, the last date to apply for admission to various undergraduate courses in government and aided colleges of the city has been extended to August 7 from August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-dept-issues-revised-schedule-for-class-11-admission/story-2j4YMXWEay8C3xjG8VkiXP.html
05-08-2020||City||Tibetan community-in-exile to elect new parliament in 2021||The election commission of the Central Tibetan Administration, popularly known as the government-in-exile, on Wednesday announced the start of the process for 2021 general elections.The polls will be held to elect the fifth Sikyong (President of the CTA) and the 17th Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile (TPiE), chief election commissioner Wangdu Tsering said addressing a told a press conference at Dharamshala.The date of polling will be declared later. “Despite the challenges precipitated by the Covid-19 crisis, the election commission is committed to conducting the 2021 general elections as per the stipulated time period,” said Wangdu.The election commission has issued a set of instructions on voter registration, code of conduct, social media practices and 12-point guidelines for the candidates. A series of workshops, online training, infographics and audio instructions for the benefit of local election commissions and the public has also been announced. The EC also directed all regional election commissions to ensure that all those eligible to vote are registered.As per the voter eligibility enshrined in the Charter of Tibetans in Exile, subject to laws depriving the right to vote, all Tibetans who have attained the age of 18 shall be entitled to the right to vote and the Tibetan Green Book is the accepted document to prove voter’s age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tibetan-community-in-exile-to-elect-new-parliament-in-2021/story-Esb5UJjaUM31Fp2vqpMpHL.html
05-08-2020||City||Ventilator purchase scam: Anonymous letter traced to Kharar resident||Police have arrested a Kharar resident for drafting the anonymous letter that accused the Himachal Pradesh State Electronics Development Corporation of irregularities in the purchase of ventilators during the Covid-19 outbreak. The accused has been identified as Shadi Lal Tickoo, a resident of Kharar in Punjab and a native of Bandipura in Jammu and Kashmir. He works with the Harmony Health Care (BPLK) in Phase-II Industrial area. As per the information, Tickoo worked at the Cardio Lab from February 2016 to November, 2019 and was terminated due to some salary and administrative issues. However, as he was a senior employee at the lab, he had access to the billing and accounts department. He retained some official records even after his termination though he claims to have destroyed all the records during the lockdown.Police are interrogating as to what led him to write the letter. He has so far confessed to writing the letter from a cyber cafe in Khanpur of Kharar, said superintendent of police (SP, law and order) Khushal Thakur. A chargesheet regarding the matter will soon be submitted in the court.THE ALLEGATIONSThe letter had stated that the Himachal Pradesh State Electronics Development Corporation (HPSEDC) had purchased substandard and low-cost ventilators at Rs 10,29,840 per unit whereas the actual price of the ventilators was Rs 3,50,000 in the private sector. A spokesperson of the state government said that no such purchase of ventilators was made by the HPSEDC and further, there was full transparency in the process.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had earlier said that stern action will be taken against those who made the “false allegations” towards the corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ventilator-purchase-scam-anonymous-letter-traced-to-kharar-resident/story-QooonBhDhbaX5JskFKLxKK.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University asks students to deposit semester fee by August 10||Students of current batches of Panjab University have to deposit semester fee by Monday, August 10, failing which they will not be allowed to attend online classes, a special panel of the university decided on Wednesday.The panel, headed by Navdeep Goyal, also decided that students will not be allowed to attend online classes if they don’t enroll for the semester. A member of the panel said, “It has been decided that students should enrol for the next semester and pay the fee by Monday, failing which, link for online classes will not be shared with them.”As per PU’s academic calendar, the varsity started the admission process for ongoing batches on July 27. Thereafter, the online classes were started on August 3.For the last few days, various student organisations of the university have demanded that concession be given in fee this year and many representations were given to the university.National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), PU president, Nikhil Narmeta, said, “We are demanding that only tuition fee will be charged from students during this semester as classes are being conducted online.”Nodal officers will be designated at department level to prepare list of students who do not deposit semester fee on time.TEACHERS ALLOWED TO TAKE CLASSES FROM HOME Teachers of the university have been allowed to conduct online classes from home. According to guidelines regarding online teaching issued by PU earlier, teachers were directed to conduct classes from their respective departments. Following this, the varsity’s teachers’ association sought that teachers be allowed to conduct classes from home as well.The committee also recommended that students in self-financed courses be provided with SIM cards for better connectivity. The matter has been referred to the online teaching committee of the university.It also approved that departments can avail Rs 5,000 from the improvement of education funds to buy necessary equipment to facilitate online education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-asks-students-to-deposit-semester-fee-by-august-10/story-WbiV3A7BxL5kDRUbftGHfN.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 sets up dedicated unit for Covid-19 patients needing dialysis||Covid-19 patients requiring dialysis can now visit the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, that has set up a dedicated facility for them.Dr BS Chavan, director-cum-principal, GMCH, said earlier, Covid-19 patients requiring dialysis were referred to the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (GMCH). But, to reduce their burden, the facility had been started at GMCH.“A separate unit has been earmarked for the purpose as a stringent safety protocol has to be ensured for Covid patients,” Dr Chavan said. According to official estimates, the city has around 250 patients who require regular dialysis.“Around 80% of these patients go to private hospitals for treatment. But if any of them contracts coronavirus, they face rejection there due to fear of infection,” said UT principal health secretary Arun Gupta.“As GMCH has 10 dialysis machines, one has been earmarked for Covid patients in an independent room,” he added.The UT administrator had recently directed the official to start a dedicated dialysis facility for Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-32-sets-up-dedicated-unit-for-covid-19-patients-needing-dialysis/story-QcO2eS4yR5rsvTlY3hSkaM.html
05-08-2020||City||62 cases, Mohali Covid count hits 1,000 mark||The district recorded its highest ever single-day spike on Wednesday with 62 Covid-19 cases, taking the patient tally to 1,051. Twenty cases were detected in Kharar, 21 in Dera Bassi sub-division, 19 in Mohali city and 2 in Nayagaon. The district has witnessed 700 Covid cases in just four weeks and the infections are not confined to a particular area. Of the 1,051 patient to date, 589 have recovered, 445 are undergoing treatment and 17 have died due to Covid-19. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said most of the patients detected positive on Wednesday are contacts of active cases and they also have travel history. “We will be taking the samples of all the family members. But the good part is that most of the patients are asymptomatic and are responding well to the treatment. We have admitted them to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur,” he said. The age of the new patients ranges between 20 and 64. Also, 10 persons have recovered from disease on Wednesday. “We are fully prepared to address the challenge posed by the increasing number of patients; requisite men and material is in place and saving lives is our primary focus,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/62-cases-mohali-covid-count-hits-1-000-mark/story-Ktm1BU1nshqFaBob9Q5zgO.html
05-08-2020||City||Attack on BJP panch: 3 BJP workers resign in south Kashmir||Three BJP activists dissociated themselves from the party on Wednesday, a day after Arif Ahmad Shah, a panch associated with the saffron party, was injured in a suspected militant attack in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district.The three BJP workers are Kund constituency president Nisar Ahmad Wani, Devsar constituency vice-president Sabzar Ahmad Paddar, and activist Ashiq Hussain Palla of Warpora-Kund .The resignation comes on the first anniversary of the revocation of Article 370, which is being celebrated by the BJP amid strict restrictions on movement and assembly of people. Shah was fired upon by suspected militants near his home at Akhran village of Devsar in Kulgam on Tuesday night. He sustained injuries on the neck. Wani, a baker, who had joined the BJP a few months ago, said, “I am an unlettered person and earn my living as a labourer. I think it is better to focus on feeding my family without any stress.” Though he said his resignation had nothing to do with the attack on Shah last night, he said Kund was a very dangerous area. “We live on a hill and fear is pervasive,” he said. Paddar said they had resigned of their own accord and had not been pressured. “I resigned owing to some personal reasons. We belong to poor families and want to focus on our families,” Paddar, who had joined the BJP six months ago, said. BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur said Shah was stable. However he denied that the workers who resigned were part of the BJP. “Atleast, I don’t know them,”he said. Last month BJP’s former Bandipora district president Waseem Bari, was killed, along with his father Basheer Ahmad and brother Suhail Basheer, inside his shop. Police had said two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) members were involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/attack-on-bjp-panch-3-bjp-workers-resign-in-south-kashmir/story-GxHw5DAV7BG3PQNmWhrk1L.html
05-08-2020||City||Pilot for paperless bus tickets launched||New Delhi: The state transport department in the Capital on Wednesday started on a pilot basis a provision for contactless ticketing, with all buses on route number 473 which connects Badarpur with Anand Vihar ISBT for three days, said Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot. Currently, buses in Delhi are operational but with restrictions – not more than 25 passengers at any given point of time. All the 25 passengers have to be seated. All the conductors were given online training to assist the commuters during the three-day pilot run by a team of Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology in Delhi, said Gahlot adding, “The aim of the initiative is to minimise physical exchange of cash and tickets between commuters and conductors, in the light of the covid pandemic.” A special task force set up by Gahlot is overseeing the pilot run. The first trial run of the project was organised on July 2, on which tickets of different values were issued on an ad-hoc basis in periodic intervals without any passengers in few buses on route number 763 (connecting Nizamuddin Railway Station with Uttam Nagar bus terminal) in which the trial run was conducted. “The trial run was successful. So, the department decided to go ahead with the pilot run which will be operational for three days. If it turns out to be successful, the initiative will be implemented in buses across several other routes within this month,” said a senior official in the transport department who did not wish to be identified. Under the system, the passengers have to get QR codes scanned in their mobile phones during the travel through a mobile application designed for the purpose. The required fare can be paid through Google Pay and other UPI-based payment systems supported by the mobile application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pilot-for-paperless-bus-tickets-launched/story-0w5hl6T9Unn7BN6dZOnqBN.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||Can’t interfere with govt order banning defence personnel from using social media, says Delhi HC||The Delhi High court Wednesday dismissed a plea by a senior army officer, challenging the ban on the use of social media by army personnel, and stated that earlier advisories and directives regarding the conduct and behaviour of army personnel on social networking sites have not been abided with by some. A bench of justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and justice Asha Menon said several personnel “unsuspectingly” answered all kinds of questions related to their postings and whereabouts on social media and such information, when collated from a number of sources, can easily convey a full picture to an expert spy. The court was hearing a plea by lieutenant colonel PK Choudhary who had sought the court’s direction to the director general of military intelligence to withdraw its June 6 policy, ordering all members of the Indian army to delete their accounts from Facebook and Instagram and 87 other such applications. In the petition, filed through advocates Shivank Pratap Singh and Sanandika Pratap Singh, the officer sought direction to the Centre through the ministry of defence to withdraw its June 6 order. In a 19-page judgment dismissing his plea, the court said “warfare and intercountry rivalries and animosities today are not confined to the accession of territory and destruction of installations and infrastructure of enemy countries but also extend to influencing and affecting the economies and the political stability of enemy country, including by inciting civil unrest and disturbance and influencing the political will of the citizens of the enemy country”. The bench refused to interfere with the order and said that no satisfactory answer was obtained from the petitioner when he was told to explore alternative means for connecting with family and friends. The court also said the officer was being “followed (online)” by a large number of people and he keeps commenting on their posts and tweets, which is a breach of earlier advisories and regulations. The plea by the army officer had also said he is an active user of Facebook and uses the platform to connect with his friends and family as most of them are settled abroad, including his elder daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/can-t-interfere-with-govt-order-banning-defence-personnel-from-using-social-media-says-delhi-hc/story-mTq5ai0YEjCsg0uX0D6SKK.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: SSA non-teaching employees call for regularisation of services||The Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) non-teaching employees prepared “get well soon” cards for Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh at Government In-service Training Centre on Wednesday to register their demand for regularisation of services and mark their silent protest.All members of the SSA office Karamchari union gathered in their respective districts and said that to wake the government from its deep slumber, they will send Kadha packets and “get well soon” cards to the CM’s office in Chandigarh.Gaurav Gupta, president of the union, said, “We were assured that we will be regularised three and half years ago. But till today, no orders have been passed by the government. There are many employees who have been working since 2005, but the government has failed to regularise services. We are sending “get well soon” cards and Kadha packets to register our demand.”The employees said they have no job security and if their services are regularised, then they will get benefits like gratuity, medical allowance and leaves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-ssa-non-teaching-employees-call-for-regularisation-of-services/story-e7yqpWSeLvcAJuNlrY74bJ.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||No business for past 5 months, shops at Metro stations seek rental waivers, deferments||Commercial establishments operating out of Metro stations have written to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to defer rental payments as no business has taken place since the last week of March, when the nationwide lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The DMRC has formed a committee to look into these demands. While public transport was allowed to resume in the national capital on May 20, under strict restrictions and rules, Metro services have been shut for almost five months now. The government is yet to announce the date for reopening Metro services. There are about 400 shops operating out of 285 Metro stations, not to mention the property development at stations such as Nehru Place and Huda City Centre that before the lockdown used to attract a high footfall owing to the numerous restaurants located in these places. The Delhi Metro earns around ₹600 crore in rental income. With a daily footfall of nearly 30 lakh on Metro network, it had been a lucrative proposition for commercial establishments to operate out of stations. But since the lockdown, these businesses has been suffering huge losses. Metro officials said the commercial establishments have been requesting a wavier on rents or a deferment on the rent payments as they have had no business in the past five months. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “The businesses of our tenants, including retail and commercial properties, have been badly affected. They have written to us asking that we defer rental payments. We are looking at the government guidelines on this. If we take coercive action against these tenants, some of them might be forced to shut down. We need to support them at this hour of crisis. The pandemic has still not settled down. So we are yet to take a call on the issue.” Dayal said, “In 2018-19, the earnings from non-passenger revenue was ₹594 crore, which include income from rentals and leases.” Rentals from commercial spaces is one of the important sources of the Metro’s revenue. Apart from that, the DMRC also earns revenue from parking at stations, and leasing of advertisement space on stations and trains, among others. However, the main source of DMRC revenue is from Metro operations which is around ₹3,000 crore annually.” HT was unable to get in touch with commercial establishment owners despite numerous attempts to reach them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-business-for-past-5-months-shops-at-metro-stations-seek-rental-waivers-deferments/story-ajRrsWyyWsk69wm4zbBC4M.html
05-08-2020||City||Delhi Police oppose SIT to probe Jamia violence||New Delhi: Delhi Police on Wednesday opposed in the Delhi High Court the setting up of a special investigation team to probe the violence at Jamia Millia Islamia during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests in December last year.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Aman Lekhi, appearing for police, told a bench of chief justice D N Patel and justice Prateek Jalan that the pleas alleging ruthless and excessive use of force and aggression by police and paramilitary forces on students at the university, were not maintainable.The batch of PILs sought setting up a special investigation team or a fact-finding committee as well as medical treatment, compensation and interim protection from arrest for students and registration of FIRs against erring police officers.Lekhi said the relief sought cannot be granted as charge sheets had been filed in connection with the violence and they should have sought whatever relief they wanted before the subordinate court.He said setting up of a fact-finding committee or an SIT would amount to ‘supplanting the law’ as it exists now. He contended that internationally, police are not denied access to educational institutions and universities.On compensation to students who were seriously injured in the violence, he said it can be awarded only if there was an admission of the breach and in the present case, the issue was still being examined.He said the case of the petitioners was based on an “assumption of wrongdoing” by the police and it involves disputed questions of fact for which the evidence on record has to be examined.Violence has broken out in the varsity after student protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).Police have been accused of entering the university campus and assaulting students after a protest against the Citizenship(Amendment) Act turned violent on December 15. At least 10 vehicles were allegedly torched by protesters. The Jamia students had said they were not involved in the violence and that their peaceful march was hijacked by outsiders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-oppose-sit-to-probe-jamia-violence/story-cQvFHIWXjg204fURI5wi3L.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Waste dumped at Ludhiana MC’s Jainpur site a hurdle for sports park project in city||Garbage dumped at the municipal corporation’s (MC) old Jainpur dump site has become a hurdle in the establishment of a sports park which has been proposed to be developed on the land under Smart City Mission.The sports park is to be established on 32-acre land at a cost of around Rs 52 crore. However, MC officials have prepared an estimate of Rs 20 crore for removing legacy waste dumped at the site.The dump was closed by the MC around a decade ago, but, authorities have failed to find a solution for tonnes of legacy waste dumped at the site. The project was also discussed during the review meeting of Smart City Projects conducted by Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu in the last week of July. As per information, Ashu had slammed the claims of authorities regarding an estimate of Rs 20 crore for removing the legacy waste.“The city needs this project and efforts are being made to expedite the process to develop the sports park. Ashu had also given suggestions that the waste, which has turned into manure, can be given to farmers. Also I have suggested that the waste can be used in landfilling,” mayor Balkar Sandhu said. “We are utilising the Smart City funds fruitfully and every possible effort is being made to find a solution for legacy waste and a final decision regarding the same will be taken in the coming days,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/waste-dumped-at-ludhiana-mc-s-jainpur-site-a-hurdle-for-sports-park-project-in-city/story-C7zB6EiBERY65mmH7QcShN.html
05-08-2020||City||New peak for Ludhiana with 306 new cases, nine deaths||The district recorded yet another spike with 306 fresh infections and nine deaths on Wednesday.The district’s death toll has now reached 129. The cumulative count of cases has reached 4,176, out of which 1,445 are active cases. Among the dead are two women, aged 57 and 45, from Jammu Colony and Surjit Nagar. Besides, a 55-year-old from Dholewal, 40-year-old from Jamalpur, 55-year-old from Dugri, 54-year-old from Friends Colony, 61-year-old from Kohara, 83-year-old from Kadwai Nagar and 41-year-old from Field Gunj also succumbed to the virus.Those tested positive include 19 healthcare workers, 11 pregnant women, five cops and two undertrials. 41 DEATHS IN 5 DAYS The contagion has claimed 41 lives in just five days. While nine patients died on August 1, eight lives were lost on Sunday, followed by nine more on Monday and six on Tuesday. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said till date, 67,594 samples have been taken, of which reports of 65,363 samples had been received. “While 60,762 reports came back negative, 2,131 are pending,” he added. He said 525 people from other districts and states are also undergoing treatment in Ludhiana, while 41 have died. On Friday, 218 people from other districts tested positive in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-peak-for-ludhiana-with-306-new-cases-nine-deaths/story-8Unqpe2FWzD9AfT0K6I4UK.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn fixes Covid treatment cost at private hospitals||The UT health department on Wednesday notified fixed charges at private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.These institutions will have to adhere to national and regional guidelines on admission of Covid-19 patients. The per day rates (see box) will be inclusive of care for comorbidities, but emergency intravention required for these conditions will be charged extra, states the order issued by UT principal health secretary Arun Gupta.The package also does not include the cost of Covid-19 test.Cost for delivery and care of newborns and their mothers will be charged by the hospitals as per the prevailing rates of relevant packages. Major surgical procedures undertaken during stay in the hospital will be charged extra.Drugs like Tocilizumab or Remdesvir are excluded from the package and will be charged on MRP basis. These will be administered to patients only after expert review.The charges of plasma therapy beyond ICMR study will be discussed later as per government guidelines, the order states.Also, patients with mild symptoms, who do not want to go for home isolation or government Covid Care Centres, may opt for paid health facilities, which may not be a hospital, but an improvised isolation facility created in a hospital or non-hospital premises.TEST WITHOUT PRESCRIPTIONThe health department has also allowed three private laboratories approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct RT-PCR tests for detection of Covid-19 without prescription, on payment basis. All three labs are in Sector 11 – SRL Labs, Atulaya Healthcare and Metropolis Healthcare. Results are made available online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-fixes-covid-treatment-cost-at-private-hospitals/story-eHwOqQJKR1aNK36h7PRydK.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Markets in Mohali to be developed at cost of ₹2 crore: Punjab health minister||: Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone for development works of two markets, and initiated works in one, in the presence of Rupnagar member of Parliament Manish Tewari on Wednesday. Speaking on the occasion, Sidhu said markets in Phases 1, 2, 3B2 and 5 will get a new look at a cost of Rs 2.10 crore. Paver blocks, development of parking area, new grills and repair work will be done in all markets, he added. Sidhu said that although the Covid-19 pandemic was causing economic hardship, no stone was left unturned in releasing grants for development works. The health minister added that officials have been directed to complete work quickly and ensure materials used are high quality. Speaking on the occasion, MP Tewari said the main objective of the Congress government in the state was equal and all-round development of cities and villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/markets-in-mohali-to-be-developed-at-cost-of-2-crore-punjab-health-minister/story-0QHg67thD1fL8yZhh4IDlI.html
05-08-2020||City||Capt government makes fresh push to enact PCOCA||Chandigarh The Punjab government is set to use the hooch tragedy to give an impetus to enacting the Punjab Control of Organised Crime Act (PCOCA). The issue of PCOCA, a strong law, figured at the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday, where the hooch tragedy was discussed. As per a government spokesperson, the fresh suggestion to have PCOCA to deal with organised crime was mooted by advocate general Atul Nanda, with several ministers supporting it. Framed on the basis of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), the law is considered to be the idea of former Punjab DGP Suresh Arora who had pushed for its introduction to crackdown on organised crime during the previous SAD-BJP government, especially to check gang culture. As per original provisions proposed in PCOCA, a statement before a superintendent rank (SP) official would be admissible before court. On Wednesday, the cabinet agreed that PCOCA was needed to combat organised crime like illicit liquor smuggling following which the CM asked the sub-committee under minister Brahm Mohindra to finalise and submit its report at the earliest. This sub-committee had been tasked with studying PCOCA, sometime after the Congress assumed power in 2017, but the matter was not pursued, after questions were raised over the misuse of the law. The CM, as per an official spokesperson, agreed with Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and other ministers that PCOCA could help control hardcore criminals and act as deterrent to gangsters. This is for the first time that such unanimity has been seen to enact PCOCA, the provisions of which are stronger. “If you look at the history of accused in this case, they were being booked repeatedly under the excise act but they were roaming freely because the present laws are not enough to curtail activities of such persons,” said a senior police functionary. When the Amarinder government wanted to push the PCOCA after taking over in 2017, the provision of a statement before SP being valid in court was amended. It was suggested, instead, that an SSP-rank officer would record a statement under this law and it would go to the IG for invoking the PCOCA. Thereafter, the IG would invoke the act in a particular case only after getting permission from an additional director general of police (ADGP) rank officer, who would specifically oversee the implementation of the PCOCA. All electronic evidence, including secret recordings of phone calls, gathered by the police will also be proof. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar, Delhi, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala are the states that already have this kind of law to check organised crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-government-makes-fresh-push-to-enact-pcoca/story-elVVHwQ2IBSkD0CIVFhU5J.html
05-08-2020||City||Seven held for abducting, robbing father-son near Geeta Colony flyover||New DelhiNearly a fortnight after a father-son duo were abducted from east Delhi’s Geeta Colony and robbed of 4.5 kilogrammes of gold and R14 lakh cash by two men posing as Delhi Police’s crime branch officers, the police on Wednesday said they had arrested seven people, including a dismissed Haryana Police constable, for the crime.The police recovered two kilogrammes and R35 lakh from the arrested persons. The suspects sold 2.5 kilograms of gold to jewellers in Delhi-NCR and earned nearly R1.25 crore. Two cars used in the crime have been seized, deputy commissioner of police (crime) Rajesh Deo aid.Those arrested were identified as Somveer, the sacked Haryana Police constable, Ajay Kumar, who works at a private security agency, Durga Prasad, who worked as a clerk at an advocate’s office in Dwarka, Chirag Juneja, a diploma holder in pharmacy, Daya Ram Lakra, Pankaj Sharma, and Sunil alias Sunny.DCP Deo said the father-son duo, who runs a jewellery shop in Chandni Chowk, said in their complaint that on July 22, around 1.30 pm, they were driving home and carrying 1.503 grams of gold and R4.5 lakh cash in a bag. As they reached the Geeta Colony flyover, a white Swift car intercepted their car, forcing them to stop. A Santro car also came and blocked their vehicle from behind.Two men with firearms said they were crime branch officers and asked the father-son duo to sit in their car. Thereafter, they kept driving around different roads of the city for nearly an hour and eventually stopped the vehicle on the Outer Ring Road near Burari, the DCP said.“The suspects forced the father and son out of the car and took their bag containing gold bars and cash. When the son resisted, the suspects hit him with their car, injuring him. A case was registered and during the probe, the complainant later told the police that the men robbed 4.5 kgs of gold and R14 lakh in cash,” added Deo.During the probe, the investigating team checked CCTV cameras of all the routes and activated their criminal intelligence network, which helped them identify the suspects. The seven suspects were arrested after multiple raids in different parts of the city in the last one week, an officer said.“The dismissed policeman had impersonated a crime branch officer. The Haryana Police dismissed him during his training period after they verified his antecedents and found he had a criminal case against him,” the DCP said.The police said they are trying to identify the receivers of the stolen jewellery and recover the remaining money.In another operation, the crime branch arrested two men and claimed to have solved a four-day-old robbery case. The duo had stabbed a man multiple times and robbed him of R40 lakh near the Geeta Colony flyover in east Delhi. The injured man, Vikas, is battling for his life in a hospital.The arrested men have been identified as Deepak Kumar and Sandeep Kumar. The police recovered the stolen money, a scooter and mobile phones used by them in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seven-held-for-abducting-robbing-father-son-near-geeta-colony-flyover/story-i9q0Z6VxML3JXKPtiMlyqL.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||1,076 fresh Covid-19 cases take Delhi tally to 1,40,232; death toll rises to 4,044||Delhi recorded 1,076 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.4 lakh, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 4,044, authorities said.Eleven deaths have been recorded in the last 24 hours, as per the latest bulletin, which is the lowest number of Covid-19 fatalities reported in a day, since July 1.The death figures were revised multiple times by authorities in June.On Tuesday, the daily cases count had dipped to 674 and 12 deaths were recorded.The active cases tally on Wednesday rose to 10,072, from 9,897, the previous day.  On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947, till date.The death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi stood at 4,033 on Tuesday.The Wednesday bulletin said the death toll from the coronavirus infection has risen to 4,044 and the total number of cases climbed to 1,40,232.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/1-076-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-delhi-tally-to-1-40-232-death-toll-rises-to-4-044/story-QAkm7fhNoT7GUVwg6s5nWP.html
05-08-2020||City||No state, Centre grant for cleaning Ludhiana’s Buddha Nullah in last two decades, reveals RTI||A reply to an RTI application has revealed that neither the Centre nor the successive state governments provided any grants for the cleaning of Buddha Nullah since 2000, debunking the claims made by politicos over the years.Moreover, not even MPs and MLAs concerned ever issued funds for the same in the past.However, the Ludhiana municipal corporation has in this period spent over 9.5 crore for cleaning/ desilting of the drain during monsoon every year. Yet, Buddha Nullah pollution remains a bane for the city.The information has been obtained by a city-based RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal.Buddha Nullah pollution has been a political concern for a long time and was one of the poll issues during the MP elections held last year.Sabharwal said, “It should be brought to the fore that whether the promises made by politicians in the past were fake or genuine. If a grant was released, where has the money been utilised?”“A large number of projects have been announced in the past, but nothing concrete has been done to reach the solution,” said Sabharwal.An MC employee requesting anonymity said with the amount transferred to different departments for cleaning the nullah in the last two decades, the MC could have bought its own poclain machines and been able to de-pollute it properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-state-centre-grant-for-cleaning-ludhiana-s-buddha-nullah-in-last-two-decades-reveals-rti/story-aLdnlDZgj0OKQ1fUaowuGK.html
05-08-2020||City||Punjab’s covid survivors reluctant to donate plasma, fear hospitalisation for second time||Despite plasma therapy for Covid-19 so far being one of the most successful treatments in Punjab, hospitals are struggling as most covid survivors are reluctant to come back to the hospitals for plasma donation fearing that it might make them weak.Under convalescent plasma therapy, antibody-rich blood plasma of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 is preserved for transfusion into critical patients.In June, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had allowed Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) in Amritsar, Faridkot and Patiala to treat covid patients with plasma therapy. Till date, four critically-ill patients of GMC Amritsar and two of GMC Faridkot have been treated through plasma therapy. All six had recovered successfully.“I was admitted at GMC Amritsar for nearly a month after I tested positive. Doctors helped me recover but my health was deteriorating and I suffered a lot. After I got discharged, the authorities asked me to donate plasma but I refused to do so. I still feel weak and don’t want to get hospitalised again as I fear contacting the disease for the second time,” said a 24-year-old covid survivor.Another recovered patient, who refused to donate plasma, said, “GMC Amritsar lacks facilities to treat covid patients. Food provided there was of poor quality and cleanliness was worse. I had to be shifted to a private hospital for treatment. I do not want to visit that hospital again. I am ready to donate plasma if private hospitals offer such facilities.”“Who will go to hospital again after recovering from the diseases? Going there means contacting the infection again,” said a recovered patient from Patiala.GMC Amritsar blood bank in-charge Dr Neeraj Sharma said, “So far, only six donors have come forward. There are many misconceptions among people. Plasma donation neither makes the donor weak nor is it a painful process.”GMC Patiala medical superintendent Dr Paras Pandove said, “Searching for a plasma donor is a tough process as we have to follow the ICMR guidelines. Also, blood bank is far from the covid ward and donors cannot get infected again. Just 15 plasma donors have come forward so far and only six of them were eligible for the donation. Hospital counsellors are also trying to persuade recovered patients to donate plasma and help other critical patients recover.”WHO CAN DONATE PLASMA?People who have tested positive for Covid-19, had been critically-ill and recovered at least three weeks before donating.People aged 18 years and above, but not more than 60 years.People who have developed antibodies in their blood to fight the virus.People who do not suffer from co-morbidities or fatal disease such as HIV.Women who have not given birth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-covid-survivors-reluctant-to-donate-plasma-fear-hospitalisation-for-second-time/story-0I7aRjtGJRlwsoT1A0TJyK.html
05-08-2020||City||A2Z firm’s garbage collectors to lift waste from those in home quarantine||A2Z company, which has been tasked with collecting household waste, will also be collecting garbage from the houses of those in quarantine. This was decided during a meeting conducted by municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal with health department officials and A2Z company on Wednesday.A2Z company’s garbage collectors had refused the task earlier, fearing infection. Following this, the municipal corporation had asked the company collecting bio-medical waste in the city, to do the needful. However, the company stated that it did not have the system to deal with household waste.A2Z company manager Vishant Chaudhary said, “Our garbage collectors will be lifting residential waste after receiving a call from residents while the other company will lift only the bio-medical waste. Separate vehicles will be deployed for the purpose.”Despite several attempts, MC medical officer Dr Vipal Malhotra was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a2z-firm-s-garbage-collectors-to-lift-waste-from-those-in-home-quarantine/story-AitUmudUSl8DdFWXUxigxJ.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Dadumajra family returns from hospital, finds house burgled||Miscreants broke into a house in Dadumajra and decamped with ₹46,000 cash and jewellery while its dwellers were away at a hospital, police said on Wednesday.Reporting the theft to the police, Angad Kumar Gupta of Dadumajra village stated that the thieves made off with ₹46,000 cash, two gold necklaces, two pairs of earrings, two pairs of silver anklets, two pairs of silver chutki, two gold rings, a mobile phone, Aadhaar card and a bank passbook.Gupta said he had gone to the hospital for his wife’s delivery, but when they returned after 4 days, they found the locks of the house broken. He said the entire house was ransacked. On his complaint, the police have registered a case under sections 380 and 457 of the IPC at the Maloya police station.DARIA MAN HELD FOR JEWELLERY THEFTThe police on Wednesday arrested a Daria resident for theft in his neighbour’s house. The accused, Inderjit alias Kaka, was caught after a woman in his neighbourhood accused him of stealing four earrings from her locked almirah on August 3. A case under sections 380 and 454 of the IPC has been registered at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dadumajra-family-returns-from-hospital-finds-house-burgled/story-af5C63gWsJtibkbPRAhrqO.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||Thieves make off with ATMs from two kiosks||Two incidents of theft of ATMs from two separate kiosks were reported within a few hours between Tuesday night and early Wednesday, the police said. The first incident was reported late Tuesday night from outer Delhi’s Narela, from where unidentified thieves made off with the currency dispensing machine from the kiosk of a nationalised bank. The exact amount that was in the machine at the time can only be ascertained after the bank officials submit the details, police said. The other incident was reported around 4am Wednesday from Rajokri village, south Delhi, from where unidentified thieves uprooted and made off with a cash dispensing machine. “We are waiting for a complaint from the bank concerned. We will then know the amount of cash stolen,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya. The police said they are scanning CCTV camera footage from the ATM booths and nearby areas for clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/thieves-make-off-with-atms-from-two-kiosks/story-U2uMezmbaOLYoAcb6JI9pO.html
05-08-2020||Pune||Fifteen tree falling incidents in 48 hrs as heavy rains, strong winds hit Pune||Fifteen tree falling incidents have been reported across the city over the past 48 hours due to incessant rains. Heavy rains coupled with strong winds led to such incidents in several parts of the city and suburbs, however, no one was injured and there has been no significant damage to property, central fire brigade officials said. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) fire department head and chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise said that the incidents were reported from Cantonment, Sahakarnagar, Karvenagar, Rasta peth, Salunke Vihar, Erandwane, Shivajinagar, Chatuhshrungi, Koregaon Park, Tathawade Udyan, Pashan, Sus road, Aundh, Baner, Balewadi, Kothrud, Kondhwa and Bhavani peth. Most of the trees were located inside residential societies, he added.“Due to heavy rains and strong winds, fully grown trees fell down in some societies and along the roadside. It led to traffic congestion at some places, but we cleared off those spaces in a short span of time. The wooden logs and other tree-related material have been handed over to the garden department,” he said.An old tree fell inside the premises of the Damodar Society in Erandwane on Tuesday. Nobody was injured as society residents were inside their homes, according to fire brigade officials.The fire department has also issued an advisory for citizens requesting them to avoid seeking protection under trees during the monsoon and instead search for safer options near residential societies or buildings. “Sometimes, the trees get uprooted and can injure the residents. There have been instances where branches falling from trees resulted in the death of residents and hence, we all must be careful during the monsoon,” Ranpise said.In the recent past , as many as six persons have been killed in different tree branches and tree falling incidents in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/fifteen-tree-falling-incidents-in-48-hrs-as-heavy-rains-strong-winds-hit-pune/story-SPL6nsGXPx9i8OYszGnw1H.html
05-08-2020||City||Crackdown on liquor smugglers: 150 FIRs registered by Jalandhar, Kapurthala cops in four days||Launching a crackdown on illegal liquor smuggling following the Tarn Taran hooch tragedy, the Jalandhar and Kapurthala police have seized around 3,000l liquor and registered about 150 FIRs in the last four days.A cop said that most of the recoveries of illegal liquor were made from rural areas in both districts.The rural police have registered 64 FIRs in the last four days and seized 1,590l illicit liquor. Out all cases registered, in 36 cases, the district police have recovered just 7l liquor in each case.The highest recoveries include 492l by the Lohia police, 451l by Phillaur police, 112l illicit liquor and 3,000l lahan by Bilga police, among others.“Senior authorities have ordered the district police to launch a drive to nab liquor smugglers and submit daily reports,” said a senior police officer posted in Jalandhar, on request of anonymity.The Kapurthala police have registered 50 cases and recovered 714l illicit liquor with arrest of 64 persons in the last four days.Police have registered 19 cases in which around 7l illicit liquor each was seized and one smuggler was held, state the records.The district police have arrested seven people and seized 119l illicit liquor from their possession on August 4.The commissionarate of police have registered 47 cases, arrested 53 persons, and seized around 650l liquor. Police said as compared to rural police, most liquor seized here is English-made.Jalandhar SP Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu said, “The drive is on. Besides illicit liquor, we have also seized huge quantities of lahan.” While Kapurthala SP Manpreet Singh said that police have made huge recoveries including one on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crackdown-on-liquor-smugglers-150-firs-registered-by-jalandhar-kapurthala-cops-in-four-days/story-IqnixhoVsFBoDPwzMp3oKK.html
05-08-2020||City||Car snatched at gunpoint outside liquor vend near Ludhiana’s Vardhman Chowk||Two men robbed a Hyundai i20car at gunpoint outside a liquor vend at the Chandigarh Road on Tuesday night. The victim, Ravinder Sigh, a resident 33 Foota Road in Balaji Colony, told the police that he was sitting in his car with a friend outside a liquor vend near Vardhman Chowk. Suddenly, two men got into the backseat of his car and brandished a pistol. The duo asked them to leave the car and hand over the keys. As they stepped out, the accused took the front seats and drove off. Ravinder alerted the police control room and a team soon reached the spot, but the accused managed to flee. A case under Section 379-B (snatching and use of force) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 56, 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the unidentified accused.“We are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed near the liquor vend to identify the accused. Efforts are on to arrest them,” said Harjeet Singh, SHO, Jamalpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/car-snatched-at-gunpoint-outside-liquor-vend-near-ludhiana-s-vardhman-chowk/story-gQ2XcX44f3SjLg4MqqwjZP.html
05-08-2020||Lucknow||Beginning of new era based on ideals of Lord Ram: Yogi Adityanath on bhoomi pujan||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath termed the bhoomi pujan for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya the beginning of a new era based on the ideals of Lord Ram. The chief minister earlier in the day took part in the ground breaking ceremony at Ayodhya. In a series of tweets in Hindi later, he said the laying of foundation stone for a Ram temple by Prime Minister Narendra Modi marks the beginning of a new era. “This new era is of dedicated service for public welfare. This era belongs to Ram Rajya. This era is to build a new India in accordance with the ideals of Lord Ram,” he said.In another tweet, he said, “The bhoomi pujan of Sri Ram Janmbhoomi temple is an occasion of pride, of joy, of satisfaction and of compassion. We are fortunate that Lord Ram blessed us to become a witness to this historic event.” He also thanked the prime minister for paving the way for the construction of the Ram temple. Every citizen is today elated and they are happy, he said. The chief minister also shared some pictures from the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/beginning-of-new-era-based-on-ideals-of-lord-ram-yogi-adityanath-on-bhoomi-pujan/story-iBGTOM3ymeQsmLbxlb4zWL.html
05-08-2020||City||Rape accused give police the slip, flees from Dera Bassi hospital||A man arrested for raping a minor girl fled during a medical test at the Dera Bassi civil hospital on Wednesday. Four cops had taken the accused, Ajay Kumar, to the hospital around 2pm. As the cops waited outside the room where they had left Kumar for a DNA test, the accused made good his escape amid the crowd. Kumar, a resident of Haripur in Dera Bassi, was arrested on Tuesday. He is facing a case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.Before being taken to the hospital, a local court had sent him to police custody for three days. “As the hospital room was small and crowded, the cops waited outside. Taking advantage of the situation, Kumar fled from the hospital. Police teams are working to nab him,” said Dera Bassi station house officer Satinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rape-accused-give-police-the-slip-flees-from-dera-bassi-hospital/story-WbEKcxCL8bcgLhtQnT4ArN.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||SAD to protest laxity in recovery of ‘Saroops’ stolen from Ardaspur Sahib gurdwara||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) core committee on Wednesday decided to sit on dharna in front of the office of the Patiala SSP from August 7 to protest the laxity in recovery of the ‘Saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib which was stolen from Ardaspur Sahib gurdwara at Klayan village two weeks back.The core committee decided that SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal will lead the dharna on August 7 after offering prayers at Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib in Patiala between 11am to 1pm. Subsequently, the dharna will be held on daily basis with party workers from each constituency in state participating in it.ON HOOCH TRAGEDYThe core committee will meet Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore on Thursday and demand dismissal of Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government, besides deciding to start an agitation to “expose the Congress leaders’ involvement in the illicit liquor nexus”.They also decided to hold protests outside the residence of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi, in the second phase.As per a press statement, in his address, Sukhbir said Captain and the Congress government are responsible for death of over 150 people in the recent hooch tragedy in state. “Since the CM has refused to own moral responsibility for the tragedy and resign, SAD will approach the governor and demand immediate dismissal of the Congress government in state.SAD will subsequently press for dismissal of the Congress government by holding dharna outside the governor’s residence from August 7 to 10.They decided that in the second phase, they will demand that the Congress high command come clean about Congress’ involvement in the illicit liquor business in Punjab.SAD will also protest on site of the illegal liquor distilleries-cum-bottling plants in Patiala and Khanna on August 13 and 14, respectively, and the distilleries of Congress associates including the family of CM’s religious advisor Paramjit Sarna and Congress legislator Rana Gurjit Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sad-to-protest-laxity-in-recovery-of-swarup-stolen-from-ardaspur-sahib-gurdwara/story-EgFj57HBDHYxv1zB7n4n8I.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Suspecting murder, 76-year-old man’s family seeks second post-mortem||Suspecting murder, the family of a 76-year-old man, who was found dead at his house in Sector 10, has sought a second post-mortem. The man, who owned an auto parts factory in Delhi, had come to the city about two weeks ago and was found dead at his son’s house on Sunday. The family had initially claimed that he had hanged himself in the washroom, using a turban, but later grew suspicious after his caretaker went missing from the house. The caretaker, who has now been detained, is said to have hinted towards murder but the initial post-mortem had stated that the death was due to hanging. Senior superintendent of police Nilambari Jagadale said, “So far, no case was registered as post-mortem report had mentioned cause of death as hanging. We have asked for some clarifications from doctor. Questioning of all family members is being done in the wake of new developments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/suspecting-murder-76-year-old-man-s-family-seeks-second-post-mortem/story-0AvqJE4bOWEKTYMFdr1TTJ.html
05-08-2020||City||KDMC chief orders to stop ongoing and proposed projects in 18 villages||After the separation of 18 villages from Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), the civic body chief on Wednesday issued an order asking to stop all the ongoing and proposed development projects at these villages. The order by the KDMC chief Vijay Suryavanshi states, “The state government has separated the villages from the civic body and has decided to form a new municipal body for these 18 villages. The civic body will now reform its wards. Hence, we are bound to stop all the works undertaken and proposed through the civic body funds in these villages.” After a decade long wait, on the backdrop of the civic polls, the Maharashtra state government in June declared that 18 villages out of the 27 villages will be separated from the civic body and will have a separate municipal body, while the remaining nine villages will remain under KDMC. The 18 villages comprise Ghesar, Hedutane, Umbroli, Bhal, Dwarli, Manere, Vasar, Ashele, Nandivl Ambernath, Adivli- Dhokli, Daudi, Chinchpada, Pisavli, Golivali, Mangaon. Nilje, Sonarpada and Kole. Earlier on June 30, the KDMC cancelled the corporator post of 13 corporators as they represent these 18 villages. Former corporator of Pisavli village Moreshwar Bhoir, who earlier had objected the decision of cancellation of corporator post will file a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in Bombay High Court on Thursday. “I have not yet received a letter on stopping the projects in these villages. However, this decision by the civic will affect the residents a lot. The civic body had undertaken water supply network works under Amrut yojana of which the first phase has already started in which kdmc is sharing the cost by 50%. The works of road repairs will also be stuck due to this decision,” said Moreshwar Bhoir, former corporator of Pisavli village. As per Bhoir the civic body has spent around Rs 200 crore in these villages since the 27 villages were included in KDMC in 2015. “Most of the works undertaken by the13 corporators in their wards in which the tenders are also finalised it will be cancelled now,” added Bhoir. He added, “Now one question we have is what the locals do when they don’t have a civic body to look up to. Right these villages do not come under any municipal body. I have decided to file public interest litigation in Bombay high court on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-chief-orders-to-stop-ongoing-and-proposed-projects-in-18-villages/story-WFLhuvX0DO2eSfAEF0M1wI.html
05-08-2020||City||Ludhiana cop, his family members assaulted by construction workers||A police officer, his councillor father and some other members of the family were assaulted by construction workers in Chhawani Mohalla here on Tuesday night.Bitan Kumar, who is currently posted at Police Lines and has remained SHO of various police stations of the city in the past, suffered serious head injury, said to be inflicted by swords, in the attack. He was rushed to Christian Medical College and Hospital where he got 14 stitches on the wound, said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Deepak Pareek.Bitan’s father Surinder Atwal, who is a councillor from ward number 84, said his son’s condition is currently stable.“The incident took place around 10pm on Tuesday when the accused were lifting the rubble of the recently demolished portion of a factory. Bitan objected to the activity and told the workers to carry out the work in the morning as the noise from the machine was not letting the residents sleep,” said Atwal, who had also suffered a wound and was discharged after first aid.The father added that the contactor got into a heated argument with Bitan and asked the workers to continue operating the earthmover. Bitan then warned of calling the police if they didn’t stop the work. On this, the contractor, Omkar Singh of Chander Nagar, called his accomplices there who attacked Bitan with swords, said Atwal.As per information, apart from the cop and his father, his other family members, including a woman who tried to intervene, were also attacked by the accused.The ADCP said a case under Section 307 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act has been filed against the contractor, one Guddu, Deepu and seven other unidentified assailants. A manhunt is on and the accused will be nabbed soon, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-cop-his-family-members-assaulted-by-construction-workers/story-cgfxo7j9tYW3KAcxc9PlpL.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||2017 graft case: CBI court turns down plea to declare suspended Chandigarh SHO accused||Taking note of UT DIG’s refusal to sanction the prosecution of suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur in a 2017 graft case, a special CBI court on Wednesday disposed of the application seeking her inclusion as accused.“This court cannot take cognisance of the offence against the proposed accused Jaswinder Kaur as the sanction for prosecution has been declined by the Chandigarh Police DIG who is the competent authority in the matter,” the order by Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI, stated.It added, “The CBI or complainant have the liberty to move the appropriate authority/Supreme Court against the DIG’s order dated August 3, 2020.”Earlier CBI’s public prosecutor KP Singh argued, “It is not the duty of the competent authority to see as to whether there is sufficient material for conviction or acquittal of the said accused at the stage of granting or declining sanction for prosecution.”He argued that the DIG has stated in the order that “no new facts have been brought to the light by complainant”. However, the question of new facts did not arise because previously no sanction order had been passed by the competent authority and it was the first time when the authority had to consider the facts of the case.The complainant, Prem Singh Bisht, who appeared in the witness box in court and corroborated the contents of his complaint verbatim, stated that the DIG had not considered his evidence.The prosecutor argued that the complainant in his examination-in-chief had reiterated that face-to-face conversation had taken placed between him and SHO Kaur and another accused, sub-inspector (SI) Mohan Singh, where Kaur had told him to fulfil the demand for Rs 9 lakh bribe.Bisht told the cold that the DIG did not consider the call details between him, the SHO and the SI, which strengthened his allegations and deposition in court.He added that there was also CCTV footage of him meeting the accused SI and then the SI’s meeting with Kaur, but this scientific evidence was not considered by the DIG.The graft case in question dates back to October 2017, when SI Mohan Singh was arrested for accepting Rs 2 lakh in bribe, allegedly on the directions of the then Sector 31 SHO, Jaswinder Kaur.Bisht had alleged that the SI, who was the investigating officer in an attempt to murder case, demanded Rs 9 lakh to drop the names of three of his employees from the FIR.The CBI had arrested the SI while accepting Rs 2 lakh bribe, but the case was closed against Kaur as the agency could not find any evidence to implicate her, prompting Bisht to file an application first in 2019 and again in February this year.The graft-tainted SHO had surrendered before a Chandigarh court on July 25 in another Rs 5 lakh graft case from May this year. She is currently in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2017-graft-case-cbi-court-turns-down-plea-to-declare-suspended-chandigarh-sho-accused/story-yH7MRc2vKap2d6cDFOgFpM.html
05-08-2020||City||Hooch tragedy: SAD protests against Cong MLAs from Khadoor Sahib, Jandiala||AMRITSAR/JALANDHAR Hundreds of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) workers protested outside residences of Congress MLAs from Khadoor Sahib and Jandiala, demanding their arrest in connection with the hooch tragedy, which has claimed over 110 lives to date. SAD’s Amritsar city president Gurpartap Singh Tikka led the protest outside Jandiala MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny’s residence at Anand Avenue in Amritsar. The Akalis’ Tarn Taran district president Virsa Singh Valtoha led the protest outside Khadoor Sahib MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki’s residence in Raishiana village. In Jalandhar, SAD workers held a protest march to gherao the residence of Sikki. Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Romana said, “Ministers of the government, MLAs and other leaders of the Congress party are involved in the illegal sale of the spurious liquor.”In Amritsar, police stopped SAD leaders and workers a little distance away from the house by barricading. Tikka said, “Danny sheltered those who were selling illicit liquor. The MLA should be booked for murder. We also demand a high level probe to unearth the political-police-mafia nexus.” In Rashiana village, Valtoha said, “More than 80 people have been killed by consuming illicit liquor in Tarn Taran. Most victims belong to Khadoor Sahib constituency and some of the victims’ kin have given written complaints to police against MLA Sikki and his personal assistant (PA) Jarmanjit Singh.”“The MLA and his PA are solely responsible for deaths of innocent people. We will continue our protest until the MLA and his PA are booked,” Valtoha added. Sikki said, “SAD is playing dirty politics. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has already taken strict action against those involved in illicit liquor trade. Those killed in the tragedy were close to me and they were like my family members. I am pained by the deaths. We have also ensured free treatment for those admitted at various hospitals. Some politicians are defaming me and my PA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooch-tragedy-sad-protests-against-cong-mlas-from-khadoor-sahib-jandiala/story-c2kWycQN29MZvaJQr4dzhJ.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||WAR ROOM REVIEW:Chandigarh to expand its govt hospital infrastructure to treat Covid-19 patients||In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city, the UT administration will be expanding the existing facilities in its government hospitals.Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore, during a war room review meeting held here on Wednesday, directed that a committee of medical experts should be constituted to study the existing facilities in the three major medical institutions and also recommend methods to enhance Covid-19 treatment beds, in view of rising infections.Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) director Dr Jagat Ram informed during the meeting that there are 114 patients in the Covid block, out of which 46 belong to Chandigarh, 40 to Punjab, 13 to Haryana, six each from Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, two to Rajasthan and two to Jharkhand.TESTINGUT adviser Manoj Parida stated that testing has been substantially increased with the introduction of rapid antigen testing. “All arrangements are in place to accommodate mild, moderate and critical cases at various centres,” he added.Director, health services, Dr G Dewan stated that out of 220 samples collected for rapid antigen testing from various dispensaries, 21 have been found positive. He also mentioned that from July 31 to August 4, the medical survey team had screened 7,989 persons and all symptomatic cases had been sent for testing. Dr Dewan added that they had also tested 1,392 persons who reached Chandigarh by trains and buses.SOCIAL DISTANCINGThe administrator directed UT finance secretary AK Sinha to urgently hold a meeting of all concerned officials to finalise the congested markets which should follow odd-even formula and such shopping areas, which need to be totally closed for social distancing.Badnore also directed MC commissioner KK Yadav, and deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar to keep a watch on open air eating places and dhabas, which could lead to Covid infection, if due care is not taken by the diners.The DC stated that they have already issued 10,000 challans for violation of social distancing norms and not wearing mask.Badnore warned that the guidelines notified for gymnasiums and yoga institutions should be strictly followed, and “Any violation will invite closure of the unit.”Badnore asked the food secretary to ensure that distribution of wheat and pulses to eligible families should be completed on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/war-room-review-chandigarh-to-expand-its-govt-hospital-infrastructure-to-treat-covid-19-patients/story-MsnkaTVTXYDwZxiXVcoPBI.html
05-08-2020||City||Teachers’ body protests phone allowance cut with bike rally in Ludhiana||The members of Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF) on Wednesday took out a motorcycle rally from Mullapur to Bharat Nagar Chowk here in protest of the state government’s cut in mobile allowance and others.The bike rally was also joined by other groups, including computer teachers’ union and SSA/RMSA teachers’ union.The members gathered in Mullapur and raised slogans against the state government for an hour before marching on their bikes towards Bharat Nagar Chowk through Verka point and Sarabha Nagar.They alleged that the government first imposed the education cess and now reduced the monthly mobile phone allowance of teachers by up to 50% during the Covid-19 pandemic.DTF president Hardev Singh Mullapur said, “The newly hired teachers will be provided salary as per the central government pattern, which has forced the teachers to protest on the roads. The state government already has its own policy, then why is the Centre’s pattern being followed for the new recruits?”He added that for Group A employees of the department, the monthly allowance has been reduced to ₹250, for Group B it is ₹175, while groups C and D are now entitled to ₹150.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teachers-body-protests-phone-allowance-cut-with-bike-rally-in-ludhiana/story-ufKFc6uB3k4SaAGHZyxp0L.html
05-08-2020||City||AC fire: 70-year-old die of suffocation, husband sustain fire injuries||A 70-year-old woman died of suffocation, while her husband sustained burn injuries in a fire that broke out from the air conditioning unit, due to a short circuit in their flat in Shrusti Complex area, Mira Road, on Wednesday.Senior inspector, Sanjay Hazare of Kashimira police station, said, “The victim Geeta Anand died on the spot. We rushed her husband Anil, 75, to a private hospital, where he is undergoing treatment for burn injuries.” The couple stayed alone as their son works in Singapore and their daughter is married and stays in another part of Mira Road, said Hazare. Both have been informed about the accident.The fire brigade officers were informed by neighbours. “We are awaiting the post-mortem report and have registered a case of accidental death,” said Hazare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ac-fire-70-year-old-die-of-suffocation-husband-sustain-fire-injuries/story-uh1Gkdj8poqPvdnGPOTQhJ.html
05-08-2020||City||Mohali deputy commissioner reviews revenue offices||Trying to restore the momentum of work in district offices that was disrupted by the Covid crisis, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Tuesday reviewed the revenue offices.“We are moving back to basics; day to day work in offices is being streamlined. It is difficult, but moving step-by-step we will head towards restoration of normal functioning,” said Dayalan. “We will review challenges faced by each department in small meetings held in a staggered manner and work out a methodology to deliver the best services amid the pandemic.”Tuesday’s meeting was the first in the series. Revenue officials informed the DC that there was a 7-8 day waiting in property registration matters. “We are writing to the state government to seek permission to increase the registration slots for each sub-registrar. Besides, to regulate the influx of people in offices, the option of extending working hours from 8am to 6pm is being explored instead of the regular 9am to 5pm. We are also exploring the feasibility of holding Revenue Lok Adalat at patwar circle/village level,” the revenue officials said.Surprise inspections by SDMs will be conducted to ensure there is no laxity in the routine work of field offices/officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-deputy-commissioner-reviews-revenue-offices/story-Wd7vYBlSfukVfrLO7oEMYK.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Four months on, tricity gyms reopen to bleak response||Having eagerly awaited this day, gym owners finally reopened their units after more than four months on Wednesday albeit to a slow start.Several precautions were put into place to contain the spread of coronavirus, but on the first day the response from the customers was not overwhelming and most of them preferred to stay away.Abhishek Gagneja, owner of Ultimate Fitness Gyms, which has branches in Chandigarh, Mohali and Zirakpur, said, “We are happy that gyms have been allowed to reopen but the response from customers was not good. It will take a few months to get back on track.”Only 25% of the original number of customers visited the gym on Wednesday, added Gagneja.The guidelines released by the government for the reopening of gyms made face cover or mask mandatory at all times on the premises and recommended the use of the Covid-19 tracker app Aarogya Setu. Other instructions include keeping the machines six feet apart.“Only 10 customers showed in the morning. People are apprehensive. The response to booking is not good enough and it will take time to catch the rhythm,” said Manu Sharma, manager of Bodyscapes Fitness Temple, Sector 34A.SOME GYMS YET TO REOPENSanjeev Kumar, president of the Tricity Gym Owners’ Association, said, “80% of the gyms in the tricity reopened on Wednesday and others will open in a few days. It is obvious that the response will remain poor initially, but we expect that in the coming weeks gyms will pick up pace.”As Covid-19 cases are increasing, people prefer to do yoga in open spaces rather than in centres, said Vinod Bajaj, a yoga instructor at Sector 12, Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/four-months-on-tricity-gyms-reopen-to-bleak-response/story-8OedoEo6iqWJ17dt5MB5HO.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray puts BMC on high alert citing more rains in Mumbai on Thursday||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the Mumbai municipal corporation to stay on high alert in the view of weather forecast for the current spell of rains to continue on Thursday leading to further water logging and other disruptions to routine life in the city.Mumbai has been battered by heavy rains disrupting rail and road traffic and power supply apart from uprooting of trees and water-logging in the city for the past two days. South Mumbai was badly hit due to water-logging on roads and in low-lying areas. Several trees had also fallen due to gusty winds, damaging vehicles.Maharashtra chief minister has also asked people to stay home and venture out only in unavoidable circumstances, according to an official statement from his office.Also Read: South Mumbai gets season’s heaviest rain in 9 hoursA statement issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO) also said that Thackeray directed the authorities to monitor the situation arising out of disruption of power supply, uprooting of trees and water-logging as a result of heavy rains.Earlier today, Thackeray took stock of the situation and asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to ensure coordination with the police and railway authorities, health apparatus and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to ensure that any situation arising out of the rain onslaught is resolved without causing inconvenience to residents.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has also been put on alert and asked to ensure there is no accident at the ongoing work at Metro Rail sites in the city.Parts of Mumbai and neighbouring districts of Thane and Palghar were lashed by rains on Wednesday, also affecting local train and bus services due to water-logging on rail tracks and roads.Also Read: Local train services, BEST buses hit hard as heavy rain lashes Mumbai, ThaneWater-logging was reported in low-lying areas of Chembur, Parel, Hindmata, Wadala and other areas of Mumbai.Suburban train operations between CSMT-Vashi stations on the Harbour line, CSMT-Kurla and between Churchgate and Kurla on the main line have been suspended due to water-logged tracks.All local train services between Churchgate and Mumbai Central stations have also been temporarily suspended, according to an official announcement by the Western Railways.However, the Western Railways suburban services were running normally between Churchgate and Dahanu Road.Both the Central Railway and Western Railway have been operating nearly 350 special train services each daily for those working in essential and emergency services.Bus services of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST), the city civic body’s transport wing, were also affected due to water-logging on some roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-puts-bmc-on-high-alert-citing-more-rains-in-mumbai-on-thursday/story-cENVPpVdEy0Fb9Re1E5caN.html
05-08-2020||City||Woman’s gold chain snatched in Phase 3B1 during morning walk||A morning walker fell prey to snatchers who took away her gold chain in the residential area of Phase 3B1 on Wednesday.Japjeet Kaur told the police she and her neighbour, Aashna, were taking a walk in their neighbourhood when two men on a black Bajaj Pulsar snatched her gold chain. A bystander, Aditya Mahajan, tried to nab the miscreant, but he managed to escape with his accomplice on the motorcycle.On getting information, a team from Mataur police station, including DSP Gursher Singh and sub-inspector Amandeep Singh, reached the spot.SI Amandeep Singh said, “The incident took place around 7.30am in front of House Number 199. We are scrutinising footages from CCTV cameras installed near the crime spot.”DSP (City 1) Gursher Singh said, “A case under Section 379-B of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. Various teams have been formed to nab the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-s-gold-chain-snatched-in-phase-3b1-during-morning-walk/story-sWQICtyTIpnWrAgipX6taI.html
05-08-2020||City||Hooch tragedy: Cops probing paint store owner’s hand in spurious sanitiser case||A day after a Ludhiana-based paint store owner, Rajeev Joshi, was arrested for supplying methanol (methyl alcohol), which triggered the hooch tragedy that killed over 100 people, police are probing whether he had connections with the manufacturers of spurious sanitisers too. As per information, on June 17, the drug licensing authorities had seized 1,048 bottles of spurious sanitisers, in which the presence of methanol was found. Lavish Kumar Grover, the accused in the case, had managed to escape but later joined investigations after getting anticipatory bail. Police are trying to find out if Joshi is the methanol supplier in this case too. Sub-inspector Malkit Singh said, “Grover has joined probe but he is not telling us where the methanol was procured from. We will urge the court to cancel his anticipatory bail.” Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “A joint team has been formed to probe the case and the information is being shared with the Tarn Taran police.” As per law, a trader cannot sell over four litres of methyl alcohol (CH3OH), but Joshi sold over 600 litres of methyl alcohol to the hooch makers. Cops are now interrogating four employees, including Joshi’s driver and manager, to find out for how long the business has been going on. A team from Amritsar Rural also raided three godowns belonging to Joshi and collected samples of the chemicals kept in the godown. Local police also accompanied the police party from Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hooch-tragedy-cops-probing-paint-store-owner-s-hand-in-spurious-sanitiser-case/story-wu3eTgrmqi0n0LKV6QnKFI.html
05-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: PAU smart school shut for week as teacher tests positive for Covid-19||Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) here was shut down on Wednesday after a computer teacher tested positive for Covid-19. Those who came in contact with the employee have been told to self-quarantine.School principal Sanjeev Thapar confirmed that they have informed the health department and the school will remain closed for the week.All the teachers have been coming to the school on rotational basis to distribute textbooks, conduct online classes, and in the last 15 days, many of them visited the premises to handover character certificates to the students who cleared the Class 12 board exams.Thapar said, “For the last five days, the computer teacher was not coming to school and informed that he is having fever. On getting tested, he was found suffering from mild symptoms of Covid-19.”“The teacher has been home quarantined for 14 days by the health department and his family members have also been tested and their reports have turned out negative. We are taking all precautionary measures and other teachers have been asked to work from home. A message has been sent to all the staff including teachers, Class IV employees today to stay at home and there is no need to visit the school this week. The teachers have been asked to conduct the online classes from home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-pau-smart-school-shut-for-week-as-teacher-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-qBqOHJfZ2MBC8luQLwWfKJ.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM directs DGP to book those directly involved in hooch tragedy for murder||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he will not tolerate any political interference in the hooch tragedy case, and directed the director general of police (DGP) to book those directly involved for murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. Promising justice for victims of the case, which he termed as the biggest tragedy of recent times, the chief minister also mooted enhancement of punishment for spurious/illicit liquor manufacturing and smuggling under the Excise Act, to ensure that repeat offenders remain behind bars. As several ministers agreed, during a cabinet meet, to the suggestion of advocate general Atul Nanda that a strict law such as the Punjab Control of Organised Crime Act (PCOCA) was needed to fight illicit liquor smuggling, the chief minister asked the sub-committee, set up under Brahm Mohindra to examine the provisions of the proposed law, to finalise and submit its report at the earliest. He agreed with Sukhjinder Randhawa and other ministers that PCOCA could help control hardcore criminals and act as deterrent to gangsters, who continue to deal in organised crime even from prison, and had close connections with terrorists too. The chief minister’s directives on the hooch tragedy came during two video conferences – one of the cabinet meeting and the other a review meeting of the case with top police and administrative officials. ‘FINISH OFF THIS BUSINESS, CLEAN UP THE BORDERS’ Captain Amarinder also led his council of ministers in observing a two-minute silence as a mark of homage to the victims of the tragedy. “Finish off this business, clean up the border areas,” was his directive to police and district officials during the review earlier, attended by DGP Dinkar Gupta and chief secretary Vini Mahajan, along with SSPs and DCs of the affected districts of Tarn Taran, Amritsar Rural and Gurdaspur, along with officials of the excise and taxation department. “This has to stop,” he said, adding that the illicit liquor business had been going on in border areas for a long time, with use of lahan, but now it had assumed an even more dangerous proportion with the new trend of smuggling from neighbouring states. Asserting that he wanted “to see an end to this whole business of spurious and illicit/smuggled liquor,” the chief minister directed the officials to be strict in dealing with criminals, whether men or women. Reiterating his government’s zero tolerance policy to illicit liquor and drugs, he asked the police to coordinate closely with the excise and other departments concerned. 10-DAY DEADLINE FOR EX GRATIA Pointing out that the victims were the poorest of the poor, Captain Amarinder set a 10-day deadline for the DCs and police officers to identify and process cases to provide targeted additional relief for their families. The chief minister has announced Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia compensation to the families of each of the victims of the tragedy, in which the toll stands at 113 at present, with several more under treatment, which is being provided free in hospitals. Tarn Taran deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh said his district had reported 84 deaths, with 13 people under treatment. Of these 13, six had been referred to Amritsar for eye treatment, while one was critical, he said. He said the Rs 2 lakh compensation would be disbursed on Thursday as verification had been completed. NGOs ROPED IN TO COUNSEL CHILDREN The Child Welfare Committee, along with NGOs, had been roped in to counsel the children of the affected families, including two siblings who had lost both parents, the DC said. Children of employable age will be assisted for self-employment, while widows will be given sewing machines and assistance to earn a livelihood. Amritsar DC Gurpreet Khaira said 15 deaths had been reported in his district, where all efforts were being made to provide immediate relief to the families.Gurdaspur DC Mohd Ishfaq said ration kits had been provided to the affected people and a drive had been launched to create awareness about consumption of liquor, with instructions to destroy any illicit liquor lying with them. Inspector general, border range, SPS Parmar, said cases had been registered under Section 304 of the IPC and the Excise Act, and a coordinated crackdown had been launched in all border areas. He suggested introduction of colour coding for ethanol and other spirits to check illegal sale/distribution of such products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-directs-dgp-to-book-those-directly-involved-in-hooch-tragedy-for-murder/story-2ZDAm6dPCeWn2tCx1lS3qM.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||66-year-old kidney patient is Faridkot’s first Covid-19 casualty||Faridkot: With the death of a 66-year-old woman, who tested positive last week, Faridkot district reported its first Covid-19 death on Wednesday. The district has reported 319 positive cases so far, while there are 67 active cases in the district. Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said that the woman was suffering from chronic kidney disease and undergoing dialysis. “She contracted the virus from one of her family members who tested positive earlier. She was admitted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot and was put on ventilator three days ago after her condition deteriorated. She died on Wednesday morning,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/66-year-old-kidney-patient-is-faridkot-s-first-covid-19-casualty/story-6P1AwixRwddtkuCckfVLYO.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Running out of space, Government Rajinder Hospital dedicates mortuary to Covid victims||Progressively running out of space, Government Rajinder Hospital has dedicated its mortuary to Covid-19 victims and suspected Covid-related deaths. Autopsies pertaining to non-Covid deaths will be carried out in the anatomy department. Officials say the decision was taken because the mortuary was running out of space and the administration was having a tough time disposing of dead bodies.Earlier, the mortuary could accommodate eight bodies. However, of late, the hospital has reported six to 10 Covid-related deaths with critical patients being referred to the hospital from other parts of the state. The mortuary will now be able to accommodate 25 to 30 bodies. Government Medical College principal Harjinder Singh said the decision was taken at a meeting convened under the supervision of Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/running-out-of-space-government-rajinder-hospital-dedicates-mortuary-to-covid-victims/story-sw1W61BY7GD6CJyob0jK7O.html
05-08-2020||Pune||No water cut in Pune until after the Ganesh festival||Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol announced that there will be no water cut in the city until after the Ganesh festival.As the water storage in dams came down in comparison to the previous year, the irrigation department requested the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to introduce a water cut. Last year, in the first week of August the water level in four dams that provide drinking water to the city was 98 per cent. Almost all the four dams including Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar were full but this year hardly there is 37 per cent storage. Mohol said, “I took a review of the water storage. It is raining now in the catchment areas of the dams. It is expected that the dams would get enough water in the coming days. The festival season is ahead. Ganesh festival is important so it has been decided to not introduce any cut as yet.” Mohol said, “After the Ganesh festival, the PMC would take a review meeting and take a call whether there is a need to introduce water cuts. We are hoping for better rains in the coming days and there might not be a need to introduce the cut in the future. But one thing is clear that we need to use water carefully.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-water-cut-in-pune-until-after-the-ganesh-festival/story-kExgRS4FqUEoec3hiAl21M.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Faridkot woman flies abroad using old Covid-19 test report||Faridkot: Despite testing positive for Covid-19, a 30-year-old woman from Laleana village in Kotkapura sub division of Faridkot district managed to fly abroad showing an old Covid-19 report, health officials said here on Wednesday. Police registered a case against two missing Covid-19 patients for negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life on the complaint of the district health department after they went untraced. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said that two persons who tested positive on August 1 were not found at their addresses when health teams visited to quarantine them. “One of the patients has boarded an international flight using an old Covid-19 test report. We have lodged a formal complaint with the police against them. We fear many people could have been exposed to the virus,” he said. District epidemiologist Dr Vikramjeet Singh said in the first information report that Charanjit Kaur of Laleana village in Faridkot was not found at her residence when health officials visited to quarantine her on August 1. “Her family members told the team that she has gone to Mansa for Rakhi celebrations, but she was not traced over there as well. According to our information, she had booked a ticket to travel outside India and she has left the village. She tested negative on July 24, but her latest sample tested positive on August 1. Despite testing positive, the patient cleverly used the old Covid-19 report to get clearance for her travel and boarded the flight,” he said. The police are yet to find out the country she has gone, however, sources claim she went to Hong Kong. In another FIR, the health officials claimed that Bimlesh Kumar, 22, of Kotkapura town is missing from his residence since he tested positive. Both have been booked under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life); 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life); 271(disobedience to quarantine rule); and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act at Kotkapura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridkot-woman-flies-abroad-using-old-covid-19-test-report/story-IAElG3z8iGodE4XmUu4i0L.html
05-08-2020||Pune||Pune gets first incessant rainfall of season on Tuesday||Heavy rains lashed the city since Monday midnight with rainfall continuing throughout the day on Tuesday. While most city roads witnessed waterlogging, the catchment areas of four dams that supply water to the city also received a good amount of rainfall. Until 5:30 pm on Tuesday, Shivajinagar registered 27.5mm rain while Lohegaon registered 22.2mm rain and Pashan received 16.8mm rain, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Pune district and city today witnessed moderate rain with an intermediate spell of intense rain. The rain will continue tomorrow (Wednesday) as well,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head, India Meteorological Department, Pune. According to the water resource department officials, the catchment area of Panshet received 41mm, Warasgaon - 45mm, Khadakwasla - 23mm and Temghar - 60mm rainfall. “The areas adjacent to Pune, the ghat regions have been receiving heavy to very heavy rains. Lonavala, Tamini ghat, is receiving a good amount of rain. Especially today (August 4) with the rain going into a vigorous form, ghat areas will receive heavy rains,” added Kashyapi. The Tamini ghat area received 205 mm rain in the last 24 hours while Shirgaon received 130 mm rain. “In the Bay of Bengal, a system of short spell will be occurring due to which monsoon is expected to become active again in Maharashtra on August 9, 10 and 11,” added Kashyapi. From August 6 there will be moderate rainfall in the plain areas while heavy to very heavy rain forecast will remain for the ghat region. For Wednesday, impact-based forecast of climate research centre predicted a partial reduction in visibility, slippery road during the period of an intense spell. A major disruption of traffic flow, moderate water logging in the part of low lying areas adjacent to river banks is also possible. There is also a possibility of falling/uprooting of roadside trees and also a possibility of minor landslides in elevated hilly areas. In the next 72 hours, Konkan, Goa, Mumbai, Thane Palghar will receive very heavy rains and it will have a great impact as it is intense. In central Maharashtra, widespread rains are expected in the next 72 hours after which the rainfall will get lighter, but oderate rain will continue in Marathawada as this region is receiving very good rains this time. Most parts of Vidarbha will be receiving heavy rain in the next 48 hours. Good rains in catchment areas On Tuesday, the dams area received good rain as Panshet dam received 41mm, Warasgaon dam received 45mm, Khadakwasla dam received 23mm and Temghar dam received 60mm rainfall respectively. “In the Krishna and Bhima basin area, not much rain has occurred till now, but rain activity is growing in these areas and it will help for the recovery of dams which have less water level compared to last year. Two days of rain will be also very conducive for farming activities,” added Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-gets-first-incessant-rainfall-of-season-on-tuesday/story-Ecbj9wH95p6QE691p5wI6K.html
05-08-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports one more Covid death; toll rises to 129||One more person died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the total number of fatalities in the state to 129, a government bulletin said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOut of 14,070 samples tested during the day, 399 fresh infections were detected, raising the state’s coronavirus caseload to 14,070, it said.Jharkhand now has 8,742 active cases, while a total of 5,199 people recovered from the disease.Till date, 3,45,907 samples have been tested, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-one-more-covid-death-toll-rises-to-129/story-MGEeHJZSAhxltuQSeG4eQM.html
05-08-2020||Pune||Real on-the-field experience will help me with the bigger canvas of PMO’s office, says Naval Kishore Ram||Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram will soon take charge as deputy secretary at the prime minister’s office (PMO). Ram spoke to Hindustan Times following the transfer order. You have got a posting in the PMO. When do you plan to take charge of the new assignment? I will possibly join within a week once the government relieves me here. I will follow all the instructions from the higher-ups . From district collector to PMO… is it not a big opportunity? It will be a good learning experience given that I will get to understand the bigger canvas in the prime minister’s office, which has the responsibility of the entire nation. Your current and previous experience will be useful there. Working on the field all these years was a great experience. It taught me many things and offered real experience. What was your experience of being district collector in Pune? There were multiple challenges here; right from handling the assembly and Lok Sabha polls, which happened during my tenure. The smooth and peaceful handling of the polls was extremely important. The Covid pandemic has you at the forefront here, and earlier there was the Bhima Koregaon anniversary also. Your experience? The Bhima Koregaon anniverary was an important challenge because of its sensitivity. Coordination among all officials helped us ensure a peaceful gathering there. About Covid, there are many efficient officials working in Pune to ensure smooth handling of this crisis. Without these officials, no single officer would have been able to tackle the situation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/real-on-the-field-experience-will-help-me-with-the-bigger-canvas-of-pmo-s-office-says-naval-kishore-ram/story-iRAg7U7SSmHn3MV89EJ0EL.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Woman arrested for murdering father in Himachal’s Kinnaur district||Shimla: A Nepalese woman was arrested for murdering her father in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district, police said on Wednesday. Aarti Singh, 24, stabbed her father Sagar Singh, 52, with a knife at their rented house at Det Aungra village on the night of August 3 after which he was rushed to the community health centre at Bhabhanagar, where he was declared brought dead. The father had been staying in the village for eight months. On August 2, his wife and daughter came to live with him from Shimla but on Monday night he had an argument with his daughter which turned into a fight. During the fight, the woman stabbed her father in the stomach, injuring him fatally. She fled the spot but was later arrested. Kinnaur superintendent of police SR Rana said that a special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to investigate the case after the woman was booked under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-arrested-for-murdering-father-in-himachal-s-kinnaur-district/story-aBwBP6jhZb0PJDSB7kw7QK.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||After field visits, HP DGP issues guidelines to strengthen policing||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh Police chief Sanjay Kundu has made it mandatory for additional superintendents of police (ASPs) and deputy superintendents (DSPs) in the state to supervise patrolling and working of police stations at night at least thrice in a month. The directions were part of guidelines that Kundu issued after field visits to police stations in Kangra and Sirmour districts recently. Police sources said he found value addition from DSPs and ASPs was needed in supervising and guiding personnel at police stations. “Most supervisory officers are overseeing only one or two police stations and a few have a maximum of three police stations in their jurisdiction,” the circular said. To ensure professionalism, the DGP issued six-point guidelines to the DSPs and ASPs. The supervisory officer of districts other than the superintendents of police (SPs) shall detect and personally investigate six cases of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) of commercial quantity in a year. “They shall develop intelligence and personally perform all tasks such as organising raids, search, seizure, investigation, preparing of challan and monitoring of trials,” the statement says. These officers shall camp for three days at police stations/posts in a fortnight and at least two nights. For all special reported (SR) cases, especially those against women and children, murder, theft, burglary and other sensitive cases, senior officers shall camp at the scene of crime till the case is solved. They shall guide the inspector and sub-inspectors. Senior officers will also check police personnel on night patrol and stand guard at least thrice in a month. The investigation of all NDPS and special reported cases shall be meticulously perused and coordinated by offices with the district attorney/assistant district attorney for proper trial management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-field-visits-hp-dgp-issues-guidelines-to-strengthen-policing/story-kyQUg7KAaznoI6Y3ZjbYvK.html
05-08-2020||Lucknow||For family of kar sevaks who died in firing, sacrifice bears fruit||For family members of the kar sevaks who died in police firing in Ayodhya on October 30 and November 2, 1990, the Ram temple bhumi pujan is of special significance.They feel the sacrifice made by their loved ones has now borne fruit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi set to lay the foundation stone of the temple on Wednesday. Four Ayodhya, kars sevaks -- Vasudev Gupta, Ramesh Pandey, Rajendra Dharkar and Vishnu Gupta -- died in the police firing. Gupta and Pandey were married when they died and had children while Dharkar was newly married and had no children. Vishnu was unmarried and his parents left Ayodhya few years after the incident.Gayatri Pandey, wife of Ramesh Pandey, is a satisfied person now. “When my husband died, my four children were kids. Life became an ordeal. We lived in a rented house. As time passed, we learnt to face hardships,” said Gayatri. “But I used to wonder when my husband’s sacrifice will be justified with construction of Ram temple,” added Gayatri.“Now, when the PM is coming for temple bhumi pujan, I feel satisfied that my husband’s sacrifice has not been wasted,” pointed out Gayatri. Vasudev Gupta’s family also had to face a lot of hardships due to his untimely demise. His wife Annapurna and youngest son died long back after prolonged illness. Vasudev’s elder son Sandeep and two daughters are alive. All of them are married.“My father will rejoice in heaven after the bhumi pujan. Now, when Prime Minister is coming for the bhumi pujan there is no doubt whether Ram temple will be constructed or not,” said Sandeep. “My sisters and I are very happy that after 30 years, the sacrifice of our father has not gone in vain,” added Sandeep.Rajendra Dharkar’s elder brother Rajesh is a satisfied man now. “With the consent of all family members, Rajendra’s wife was remarried after his death as she was young when my brother passed away,” he said. “My parents passed away long back after Rajendra’s death. Now, I am satisfied that my brother’s sacrifice has not gone waste,” added Rajesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/for-family-of-kar-sevaks-who-died-in-firing-sacrifice-bears-fruit/story-uN3AgKPNXb2MhE5GNMfr2M.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Heavy rain in parts of Mumbai, Thane, Palghar||Heavy rains lashed parts of Mumbai and neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts of Maharashtra on Wednesday morning, and the weather department has predicted more intense showers during the day in view of the thick cloud over the region.The weather station at Dahanu in Palghar recorded 364 mm rainfall in the 12-hour period ending at 5.30 am on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbai centre’s deputy director general K S Hosalikar said.Besides, the weather station at Bhayander in Thane recorded 169 mm rainfall while the one at Mira Road reported 159 mm during the same period, he said.As per IMD’s website, Thane city, Dombivli and Kalyan areas, which are part of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), received more than 120 mm rainfall during the same period.Mumbai city and suburbs like Bandra and Kurla received rainfall in the range of 30 mm to 70 mm in the last 12 hours.“The cloud activity indicates that there would be one more intense rainfall day on Wednesday, Hosalikar tweeted.On Tuesday also, Mumbai and its neighbouring areas witnessed heavy rains, causing water-logging in several low lying areas and disrupting rail and road traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-in-parts-of-mumbai-thane-palghar/story-ka2NVsEdgV4JUDuSMAIbJM.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||DU gung ho about final year open book exams; students rue||Delhi University, which conducted the first phase of online mock tests in July, has started with the second phase. The open book online mock examinations will be held till August 4. While some universities have exempted final year students owing to Covid 19 precautions, no such respite seems likely for DU students. Final year students who wrote the exams talk about the hurdles they faced and what they expect of the university. “Mock tests are a mockery. Political science students were given the question paper for Geography. Later, they covered it up saying that this was just for sample. The site on which you can’t upload simple documents weighing in KBs and that crashes on results day, how do you expect to upload megabytes of answer sheets,” questions Dishant Grewal, final year Political Science student at Kirori Mal College. Internet connectivity has been a matter of grave concern for outstation students who left for their hometowns. Benna Fathima, a final year Sociology student at Hindu College who went back to Kerala in March, says that during monsoon, there are frequent power cuts. “The electricity just goes off and there is no internet. The university has made provisions for students to go to a centre in case they can’t write from home, but I live in a containment zone. Where do I go? I have my exam on August 13, but I am hoping it gets cancelled or postponed, otherwise I am doomed,” she says.Read: Students should prepare for final year university exams: UGC to SCThe problem with online exams is not just technical; the build up to prepare has lead to anxiety for many. Priyanshi Singh, a final year History student at Miranda House, who gave her mock test on August 1 from her hometown Ayodhya, says that the question paper was different from the ones they were used to. “This question paper missed certain themes. We usually get eight themes, with an option to answer any four. This paper had six themes with an option to answer any three. Many of my friends don’t have a laptop and had to upload from their mobile phone. At first, it showed uploaded, but within 10 minutes, it showed error,” she says. Adding to their worries is the time limit in which they have to scan, upload, fill in details and answer the questions. “All this in three hours…do we write the answers or spend time filling in roll numbers on each side? It was very haphazard. I would like to dissociate myself from the OBEs. I spent my days in anxiety and it has taken a mental toll on many of us. Despite repeated petitions, there is no solution. We are helpless,” says Singh.Read: HC pulls up DU for lack of preparation regarding exams for differently abled studentsStudents from various colleges and courses have filed petitions requesting that exams be cancelled. With no assurance on a concrete course of action, they are unable to apply for further studies. “In the first phase, only around 26% of the students sat for the mocks. Many students went home, where they don’t even have proper internet connection. There is a time limit during which the link remains active. What do we do in these scenarios? We have written to the VC and the chancellor but to no avail,” says Ashish Lamba, final year student at Campus Law Centre.Till the time final year students are graded, they can’t apply for higher studies or jobs, creating a state of limbo. “I appeal that the exams be cancelled, and instead we are graded on our past performance, or given assignments. In any case, these are open book exams, so what difference does it make if we submit assignments,” says Mayank Madaan, final year B.Com student at Satyawati College.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/du-gung-ho-about-final-year-open-book-exams-students-rue/story-0L4iX0FEkSJP1hKG8nzD6J.html
05-08-2020||Lucknow||Credit for ending Ayodhya land dispute goes to Supreme Court, everyone should accept it: Mayawati||It is the Supreme Court which ended the Ram temple-Babri Masjid land dispute, paving wthe foundation stone-laying ceremony for the temple in Ayodhya to take place, and everyone should accept its decision, said Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Wednesday.The BSP chief said that while it was “unfortunate” that the dispute over the site had been ongoing for years but appealed to all to accept the apex court’s verdict on the issue.Click here to follow live updates of Ayodhya bhoomi poojan ceremony“Supreme Court ended the dispute. Along with it, it also put a stop on the parties which were doing politics on this issue. It is due to the honourable court’s verdict that the foundation of the Ram temple is being laid down today, a lot of credit for this goes to the court,” Mayawati’s tweet, roughly translated to English from Hindi, read.“BSP had always maintained that it will accept whatever decision the Supreme Court gives. Everyone should accept it now. This is BSP’s advice,” she added, in a subsequent tweet.The much-awaited foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya will take place amid much fanfare on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to perform a ‘pooja’ at the Hanuman Garhi temple and Shree Ramlala Virajman before performing the ‘bhoomi pujan’.He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’.Sanitisation work was carried out at the Hanuman Garhi temple on Wednesday morning ahead of the PM’s visit. The Saryu Ghat was also decorated.Over 11,000 diyas are set to be lit across the city of Ayodhya, illuminating every street and all houses will be celebrating with a ‘deepotsava’, a festival of lights.Apart from PM Modi, the ceremony will be attended by Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) Chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttarakhand Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj, Senior BJP leaders LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, Iqbal Ansari (former litigant in Ayodhya land dispute case), Uttar Pradesh Governor and Chief Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/credit-for-ending-ayodhya-land-dispute-goes-to-supreme-court-everyone-should-accept-it-mayawati/story-02GiGwYzl2IqvAA7otDhWK.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||PM leaves for Ayodhya to lay foundation stone of Ram temple||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday morning left for Ayodhya where he will lay the foundation stone of Ram temple.The Prime Minister’s Office shared a picture of Modi boarding an Air Force plane. He was dressed in traditional dhoti-kurta.“PM Narendra Modi leaves for Ayodhya,” the PMO tweeted.A helicopter would fly him to Ayodhya from Lucknow.   Prior to the function, the prime minister will take part in ‘pooja’ and ‘darshan’ at Hanumangarhi, a statement by the PMO said on Tuesday. From Hanumangarhi, the prime minister will travel to ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi’ where he will take part in pooja and darshan of ‘Bhagwan Shree Ramlala Virajman’. He will also plant a Parijat (Indian night jasmine) sapling. Modi will subsequently perform ‘bhoomi poojan’, the statement said.He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on the ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pm-leaves-for-ayodhya-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-ram-temple/story-QQ8MV7Ff2DsenICsJE1nhI.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||Independence Day 2020: Wear your love for the nation on your face mask||Face masks have become an indispensible part of our lives, and an essential item that we just can’t afford to miss wearing. But this shouldn’t hamper the enthusiasm of any celebration, right? So as Independence Day (August 15) approaches, masks in patriotic themes and taglines have started ruling over social media. Manufacturers and sellers across platforms say that these cost between ₹10 and ₹550, and have gained instant popularity. Shohrab Siddiqui who’s marketing such masks on social media, says, “I’m getting a lot of queries for these. And as the day approaches, we are expecting the sales to be good. People love to flaunt such quirky things in pictures on I-Day.”Sales are good, says Delhi-based Ankit Takkar who has a store in east Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar. He has been delivering these masks in the vicinity. “Masks ab compulsory ho gaye hain aur har kisi ko pehnne zaruti hai. Independence Day aa raha hain toh celebration toh hota hi hai. So we thought this was a good idea that’ll help one to be safe, yet look good. It’s a single layer fabric mask. Mostly youngsters are buying and even kids, too. We have N95 Tiranga mask, too,” adds Takkar.Priya Sardana, from Winkadeal, is based out of Haryana and is delivering tricolour T-shirts with matching masks, across India. These have taglines such as ‘Mera Bharat Mahan’, ‘Happy Independence Day’, and ‘15 August’. Sardana explains, “These are priced at ₹550, and people are showing keen interest in them. Normally there is a good sale as many offices and societies organise events for Independence Day. However, due to the current situation of Covid-19, all those events are not expected, and this could result in less sales this year. Nonetheless, these things cannot affect patriotism of people. Thus, we are still receiving enquiries and many of our customers say that it’s the pride of this day which matters. So even if there is no event, they would love to wear these T-shirts and masks.” Ravi Raghav, from Faridabad, who is delivering tricolour masks across Delhi-NCR, says, “Through these masks, there will be an enthusiasm in people and at this time, people in the country need it. Corona has put everyone in a difficult scenario. On Independence Day, I want everyone to remember that day when our country became independent. The same enthusiasm we had then is needed now to defeat this virus. On this Independence Day, we can all prove that we are one and we can beat any virus together!”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/independence-day-2020-wear-your-love-for-the-nation-on-your-face-mask/story-YmTHMn3uhZYR5ROiT9Lw5I.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||What is causing heavy rainfall in Mumbai? Weather department explains||Mumbai has been battered by heavy rainfall which has thrown normal life out of gear and resulted in waterlogging at several places.The roads have turned into rivers where people have to wade through waise-deep water. The transport service has also been severely affected due to heavy rainfall.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the reason for heavy rainfall in Mumbai and nearby areas is the strengthening of the Southwest monsoon.According to IMD bulletin on Wednesday morning, a cyclonic circulation lies over south Gujarat and neighbourhood at middle and upper troposphere levels.“As a consequence, southwesterly monsoon flow has strengthened over the Arabian sea with southwesterly/westerly winds speed reaching 50-60 kmph along and off Konkan Coast at surface and lower tropospheric levels,” the bulletin said.It further said that extremely heavy rain is likely to continue over Konkan and Goa (including Mumbai) till August 6. The IMD has already issued a red alert for Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) for Wednesday.The IMD bulletin also said that parts of Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and East Madhya Pradesh will also experience heavy rainfall on Wednesday and Thursday.Mumbai surpassed its seasonal rainfall target on Wednesday while Dahanu, 130 km north of Mumbai, recorded its highest all-time 24 hour rainfall beating a 75-year-old record.With 53.2 mm rain recorded over 24 hours (8.30 am Tuesday to 8.30 am Wednesday), the Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, saw its seasonal rain tally at 2,072.2 mm during the same time, surpassing its average for the season (2066 mm).Over the last 48 hours, Mumbai has received 353 mm rain. The city has also recorded 64% of its August average rainfall in the first five days of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/what-is-causing-heavy-rainfall-in-mumbai-weather-department-explains/story-8wvHBCuZg6JDS1XhP0s3vM.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Red alert issued for Mumbai, nearby areas battered by heavy rain||Heavy rain continued to cripple Mumbai and its suburbs on Wednesday amid a red alert issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Normal life was disrupted as heavy rainfall triggered waterlogging at various places in Mumbai. “Intense rain is likely in Mumbai today. The city received heavy rainfall at isolated places in the last 12 hours. More impact was on western suburbs with rainfall more than 150 mm,” the IMD said on Wednesday.The red alert was issued for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts of Maharashtra. While the warning for Mumbai is just for Wednesday, that for Thane, Palghar and Nashik is for both Wednesday and Thursday.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) saw its deadliest spell of rain from Monday night to Tuesday morning, which claimed at least three lives in separate incidents. The downpour also caused an unprecedented landslide on the western express highway (WEH) in Malad.Mumbai recorded its second-highest 24-hour rain (268.6mm) in August in 10 years, while also surpassing the 2,000-mm rainfall mark for the season.Local train services were suspended on some routes in Mumbai and suburbs on Tuesday morning due to waterlogging.Mumbai has already received 53.2% of its average August rainfall. Between 8.30 pm on Monday and 8.30 pm on Tuesday, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 268.6 mm rain, of which 251 mm was recorded over a 12-hour period between 8.30 pm on Monday and 8.30 am on Tuesday.The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has appealed to residents to stay at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/red-alert-issued-for-mumbai-nearby-areas-battered-by-heavy-rain/story-cwBiUmQGeLv07f1XDfEGNP.html
05-08-2020||City||Ludhiana: ASI held for accepting bribe from assault accused in lieu of giving him clean chit||The Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Tuesday arrested an assistant sub-inspector of the Ludhiana police for accepting a bribe of ₹10,000 in lieu of favouring an accused in an assault case and giving a clean chit in the case on Tuesday.The VB arrested ASI Jaswinder Singh red-handed immediately after he accepted the bribe and pocketed the amount. The cash was recovered from his pocket.Senior superintendent of police (SSP, VB) Rupinder Singh said that Ajay Tiwari of Bachittar Nagar in Jamalpur contacted the VB and lodged a complaint that the ASI was demanding a bribe from him for favouring him in the case.Tiwari told the VB that an unidentified person had assaulted his neighbour Uday Kant Rao on May 3 and he had been falsely implicated based on suspicion. Rao had even lodged an FIR against him, and he was arrested on May 5 and sent to judicial remand.Tiwari added that he was bailed out on July 27. His wife had filed an application with the commissioner of police, Rakesh Agrawal, for re-investigation. The police chief had marked an inquiry on the application.On August 1, Tiwari was called to the police station where the ASI demanded ₹25,000 in cash as a bribe for giving him a clean chit in the case. The deal was cracked for ₹20,000, to be paid in two installments.On Tuesday the VB laid a trap and arrested the errant cop. A case under Section 7 of the Prohibition of Corruption Act was registered.TAINT ON KHAKIJuly 19: A head constable deputed at Ludhiana Central Jail was arrested for supplying narcotics among the inmates. The jail staff had arrested the accused during special checking and recovered eight packets of tobacco tucked in his shoes.July 18: The division number 2 police arrested a constable for duping a delivery man employed with a gas agency of an LPG gas cylinder.July 17: Head constable Surinder Kumar deputed at Kanganwal police post was arrested on graft charges. The accused had changed the entire FIR for a bribe of ₹50,000 to benefit a drug peddler.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-asi-held-for-accepting-bribe-from-assault-accused-in-lieu-of-giving-him-clean-chit/story-KfjhBBs0VmfXWc4YtVJdaK.html
05-08-2020||City||No headway in Panipat’s ‘triple murder’ case; SP seeks more time||Solving the alleged murder case of three Panipat boys seems a hard nut to crack for police as the officials associated with the investigation are still groping in the dark. Following pressure mounted by the members of Kashyap community after lathicharge on the kin of the deceased, Haryana home minister Anil Vij had handed over the investigation to Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Surender Singh Bhoria. The minister had sought a report within two days in connection with the recovery of bodies of three children from a canal in Panipat. The cop was also told to submit an interim report about the use of force on the family members and villagers in Panipat, who were protesting against the police ‘failure’ in arresting the ‘murder accused’.SP Bhoria, though, has submitted an interim report to the home minister’s office, he has sought more time to complete the investigation.“I have submitted the interim report and sought time for the investigation,” he said. “But, we are waiting for the viscera report, which is very crucial for the investigation,” he added. “We have also sought permission for a lie-detection test of people who have been accused by the victims’ family members,” he said. The SP has constituted a special investigation team (SIT) under DSP Jagdeep Duhan, which has started the probe. The family members of the victims alleged that six boys had gone to a ‘bleach house’ near their village to bring thread for flying kites. While three returned home, the other three went missing, only to be found dead later. The kin had alleged that someone caught the boys in the bleach house and thrashed them.On their complaint, an FIR under the section of murder was also registered, which was followed by the constitution of an SIT to be headed by DSP Sandeep Kumar. The special probing team, however, failed to crack the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-headway-in-panipat-s-triple-murder-case-sp-seeks-three-week-s-time/story-mNzJI3V9owtxrgXaAocuZL.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meanwhile, in his little Kerala...||How lovely it would be to meet someone whose life hasn’t been altered by the coronavirus! A life that is still going on unhindered, as always, more or less.Well, then meet Suresh S Nair of Ambadi grocery store, in Gurugram’s Old Railway Road.“Yes, the business is the same as before,” he confirms, speaking on phone from his grocery shop. “No, I haven’t got the infection, nor any member of my family, nor anyone among my relatives.... coronavirus hasn’t touched me.”In spite of this happy fact, Mr Nair is being as careful as a grocer can be. “I’m nearing 60... I fear it would be dangerous for me to catch the corona.” His voice betrays no fear, as when one talks of calamities that only seem to happen in the news media, not in real life. The soft-spoken man reveals that he has abandoned his habit of taking a break in the afternoon and heading home in nearby Lakshmi Vihar for lunch. “Now, I tend to stay in one place for a long time rather than exposing myself to too many places and situations.” He gets the food from home.Unlike most other businesses, neighbourhood groceries have been spared of the collateral toll of the pandemic, Mr Nair observes. The kinds of things such modest establishments sell are used for daily consumption, which are needed in good times and bad. So, “shops like ours” were allowed to function during those many weeks when the city, as well as the country, were in a shutdown mode. Mr Nair played cautious even then. “I would open the shop for limited hours only.”But initially the little store did suffer from a hiccup, because of the nature of the business. The shop isn’t just any random grocery giving you yellow dal and brown dal. Mr Nair’s is a South Indian store specialising in food from Kerala as well as other southern states—he is himself from Pathanamthitta, the district in southern Kerala famous for the Sabarimala temple. Indeed, entering his shop is like stepping inside one of the most intimate aspects of a Kerala home, its kitchen pantry. There’s guruvayur pappadam, sacks of red rice, putt kadala lentils, garlic pickles and sachets of ginger coffee—he shows all of these on WhatsApp video. While the counter has at least one cluster of bananas hanging from the rope, just the way they are put up in roadside shacks throughout Kerala.The supply of these ingredients was briefly affected in the early days of the lockdown “and I couldn’t keep all stuff available at all time for my long-time customers.” Eventually, the goods trains started moving, Mr Nair says, and his shop was back to running smoothly on the tracks. As soon as he would get the stock replenished from Kerala, the gentleman would inform his customers, many of them fellow Malayalis, on WhatsApp. They would message him back with their shopping list and he would get the packages ready before summoning them to the grocery. “That way, nobody had to wait and gather in my shop and increase the risk of spreading the infection.”Now Mr Nair excuses himself—a customer has just turned up. He sells to him a good quantity of kappa, or tapioca, which he describes as “Kerala ki arbi.”Mr Nair speaks fluent Hindi. He has been living in the Delhi region since 1985 and initially resided in west Delhi’s Janakpuri “which is home to a lot many people from our Kerala.” A retired X-ray technician in a hospital, he opened the shop in 2011 and operates it all by himself. His wife is a technician in a veterinary lab and his daughter, a school teacher, is currently working from home.These days, Mr Nair feels that life is again becoming “normal for everyone.” He shuts down his store by 7pm (it was 9pm in the pre-corona era) and heads home on his scooty. Today, though, he will reach a bit later because “I’m delivering a stock of ponni chawal to a friend whose house falls on the way.” He, however, insists he doesn’t do home-delivery, fearing that on reading this dispatch, his customers might start badgering him into delivering stuff to their home, too.Later, on reaching his house, Mr Nair is photographed through the phone screen that connects him to this reporter. His wife and daughter are too shy to appear in front of the camera. Anyhow, soon enough the family sits down to dinner. Tonight’s menu: red rice, aviyal, mambazha pulissery (mango curry!), neembu achar and uzhunnu pappad. All these dishes are cooked with Kerala spices—sourced from Mr Nair’s shop, naturally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-meanwhile-in-his-little-kerala/story-Ey6BFhwANpVeWHBMYrhRAJ.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to soon screen patients for Covid-19 using voice samples, AI||After conducting antigen and antibody testing, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to diagnose citizens for Covid-19 on the basis of their sound waves. By the next week, the civic body will commence the non-invasive voice analysis of suspected and confirmed Covid-19 patients at the NESCO jumbo Covid-19 centre in Goregaon. The results of the analysis can indicate the presence of the virus in 30 seconds, and those testing positive, will undergo a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) swab test to confirm if they are infected. Using artificial intelligence, Dr RN Cooper Municipal General Hospital, which is run by the civic body, will conduct the study on 2,000 patients at the centre. RT-PCR is considered the gold standard test for diagnosing Sars-Cov-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19 – but the result through this testing method takes more than eight hours. In contrast, a rapid antigen test can give results within 30 minutes, but this method can give a higher rate of false negatives according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). As lockdown restrictions have eased, civic officials said economic alternatives are required to rapidly and accurately diagnose the cases of Covid-19. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nair Dental Hospital, who is in-charge of the NESCO facility, said that though the concept of diagnosing patients through their sound waves is new, several countries such as the United States of America and Israel are using it. When the symptoms of Covid-19 manifest, a patient starts developing breathing problems, which affects the amount of air exhaled, thereby interacting with inflamed muscles on its journey to generate voices or speeches. These interactions impact voice modulations—measurable qualities that form the basis of their biomarkers. Depending on its variations, an individual can be detected with Covid-19, said Dr Andrade. “There is a voice application which can be installed on phones or laptops. The suspected patient will be asked to count a few numbers before the device, similar to conducting a breath analyser test. The voice sample will automatically get synced with the main server of the provider. Then, through artificial intelligence, the result will be procured within 30 seconds,” said Dr Andrade. The app will analyse voices of three types of individuals — suspected, positive and negative patients. Depending on their vocal biomarkers (VB), they will be diagnosed. For example, if a person’s VB is below the standard point (0.5), the person will be considered as negative. But if anyone records VB above it, the person will be considered a suspected patient and undergo RT-PCR test for a confirmed result. “As the technology is in the initial stage, we need to cross-check its results. So even if a person tests negative, he/she will have to undergo voice analysis to check the authenticity of the technology. It will take two-three months to conclude the study,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Cooper hospital, which has been given the responsibility of conducting the study, is yet to get the final nod from its ethical committee. “We are hoping to get it in a day or two,” added Kakani. Dr KK Agarwal, a cardiologist and former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said, “For centuries, doctors have relied on sound beats of the heart to detect a person through a stethoscope. Now, the same technique can be used to screen suspected Covid-19 patients. This technology may be new but is being widely used across the globe.” Medical experts believe that this technique can help detect people faster and earlier, especially when the BMC is planning to open up theatres, malls and restaurants. “We have seen that people often pop in fever suppressants to avoid getting detected. Later, they spread the virus to more people. But this technique, which is completely non-invasive, can detect infected people easily especially at railway stations and airports,” added Dr Andrade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-soon-screen-patients-for-covid-19-using-voice-samples-ai/story-O9f8bhGJaXvUU10XlTtQZI.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Quarantine, Covid test for those going to Konkan for Ganeshotsav: Maharashtra government||Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced guidelines for people travelling to the Konkan region for Ganeshotsav later this month. Covid-19 testing has been made mandatory for those travelling after August 12, and people who reach their villages before August 12 will have to undergo a 10-day compulsory quarantine.Lakhs of people annually travel from Mumbai, Thane, and Pune, to their home towns in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts, for the 10-day festival which falls on August 22 this year.“Those who plan to travel to Konkan before August 12 will have to remain home-quarantined for 10 days. The quarantine period has been reduced from 14 days to 10 as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the state health department,” said state transport minister Anil Parab.The minister said that people who travel to Konkan after August 12, will have to get reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests 48 hours prior to entering the districts. “Only those who are found negative in the swab test 48 hours before arrival will be allowed to enter the districts,” the minister said.Parab added that people who plan to travel to Konkan via private vehicles will require e-passes from the local police authorities. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has also started accepting group and individual bookings. “Only 22 passengers will be allowed on a bus, keeping social distancing in mind. Those who wish to make group bookings can get it through our portal. This year, we have also increased the number of buses from 2,200 to 3,000,” the minister said.Meanwhile, local administrations in the three districts are gearing up to tackle the influx of visitors. District authorities will set up checkpoints to check travellers’ test reports and screen them for any Covid-19 symptoms.Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has already directed district authorities to form vigilance squads in each village, to keep an eye on people and see that social distancing and other safety measures are followed. The CM has also asked locals to keep the festivities low-key this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/quarantine-covid-test-for-those-going-to-konkan-for-ganeshotsav-maharashtra-government/story-YazyF4RsThQe4onCmDjkgK.html
05-08-2020||City||Mumbai sees 709 cases on Tuesday, lowest daily surge in a week||On Tuesday, the city recorded the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in a span of one week. According to the civic body, 709 new cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the city to 118,115, of which 20,309 are active cases. Fifty-six deaths on Tuesday took the city’s toll to 6,549.On July 28, the city recorded only 700 cases in a single day, which was the lowest daily surge after May 12, when only 426 cases were recorded in Mumbai.“This is the lowest figure since May 12. But team BMC [Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation] shall not lower its guard. We have to be vigilant,” said civic commissioner IS Chahal. The recovery rate in the city now stands at 77%, according to the BMC, while the growth rate is 0.87%. The doubling rate in Mumbai surged to 80 days. Around 8,000 tests were conducted in Mumbai on Tuesday, Chahal said. So far, Mumbai has conducted 559,787 tests.Of the 56 deaths recorded on Tuesday, 46 patients had comorbidities. While 42 of those who died were above 60 years of age, one death was of a patient who was less than 40 years old, and 13 deaths were of patients in the 40-60 age group.Currently, there are 634 containment zones in slums across the city, while 5,616 buildings have been sealed. There are 4,674 people at institutional quarantine facilities, who are high-risk contacts of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-sees-709-cases-on-tuesday-lowest-daily-surge-in-a-week/story-mvALN40SvS14c6V4rLhf0J.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Despite heavy rain alert, malls in Mumbai to reopen today||Though the heavy rainfall warning issued for the city for Wednesday is likely to play spoilsport, owners of malls and shopping complexes have decided to reopen the establishments after more than four months, as per the civic body’s directives. On Monday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) released a circular, allowing malls and shopping complexes to remain open from Wednesday, between 9am and 7pm. However, theatres, restaurants and food courts are yet to get the nod from the civic body to remain open. The kitchen of restaurants in food courts can, however, operate for home delivery through aggregators. A spokesperson for Phoenix Marketcity, Kurla, and Palladium and High Street Phoenix, Lower Parel, said, “We plan to open tomorrow [Wednesday] as per schedule, provided rain does not play a spoilsport. Phoenix has planned a number of precautionary measures for customers as well as for the staff amid the Covid-19 outbreak. However, we are unsure how many customers will visit the mall because of the rain.” Malls are gearing up to reopen and will implement safety measures such as checking temperatures of customers with thermal cameras or scanners, using ultraviolet scanners to disinfect bags at the entrance, placing hand and shoe sanitisers at various points in the mall, conducting periodic disinfection of the mall premises, sanitasation of washrooms and marking floors outside retail shops that witness overcrowding to ensure social distancing, asking all customers to mandatorily download Aarogya Setu mobile application on entering. Some malls also made rooms for staffers and customers showing Covid-19 symptoms to isolate them until medical workers reach the spot. There are also provisions for first aid kits and digital payment options. Ambulances will be on standby, along with doctors on call. Kunal Varshan, owner, Atria Mall, said, “We are opening on Wednesday as per schedule. Retail stores in the mall will remain open. Despite the heavy rainfall alert, we have decided to open as the alert was published last week. To ensure safety of customers, we will take steps such as thermal scanning at entrance, disinfection of the premises and washrooms every two hours, and have placed hand sanitisers at various points. Social distancing norms will be followed even in elevators and on escalators.” Many malls have also installed sensor-based taps, soap dispensers and drinking water spouts in washrooms and automated parking ticket dispensers, even as provisions are made for sensor-based lift operations. Sachin Dhanawade, chief operating officer (COO), retail and real estate, Grauer & Weil (India) Limited, which operates Growel’s 101 mall at Kandivli, said, “We have installed UV lights in the baggage scanners and thermal cameras to track the movement of customers throughout the mall premises ensuring that the rule of one person per 75 square foot, is mandated. From entry to exit, all touch points in the mall have been made contactless such as automation of the parking entry ticket dispenser and contactless digital payments for parking, QR-code-based food ordering for take-away, sensor-based contactless lift operations, contactless soap dispensers, sensor-based taps and contactless water spouts.” This is the second time that plans to reopen the city as a part of the state’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ initiative is seeing roadblocks. On June 5, owners of shops and markets were hesitant to reopen their establishments despite permissions owing to Cyclone Nisarga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-heavy-rain-alert-malls-in-mumbai-to-reopen-today/story-KHF6Q6TJsJtdyvm3CvuDhN.html
05-08-2020||City||Navi Mumbai civic body gets its own Covid testing lab, set to acquire 200 ICU beds and 80 ventilators||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Dr DY Patil Hospital, Nerul, for 200 fully-equipped intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 80 ventilators. The beds will be made available for free of cost for patients. Currently, NMMC has 202 ICU beds and 93 ventilators.  The MoU was signed between municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar and Dr Rahul Peddawad, chief executive officer of DY Patil Hospital. Bangar said, “This agreement will give us additional beds. Patients occupying these beds will not be charged as the treatment charges will be borne by NMMC. The beds will be made available in four phases, with 50 beds in each phase, starting from August 10 to September 10. This arrangement will go a long way in our mission to reduce the death rate in Navi Mumbai.” Until Tuesday, the city saw 18,141 cases of Covid-19, including 468 deaths. Meanwhile, the corporation also started its own testing lab, which can conduct 1,000 tests each day. The state-of-the-art lab will give provide results of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCMR) tests in 24 hours. The civic body plans to use the lab to conduct tests for other diseases, after the Covid-19 outbreak ends. “The infrastructure for the lab was set-up, and we were only waiting for approval from ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research]. We got the required approval and conducted 1,000 tests on the very first day. We expect the testing in the city to increase manifold. While the lab will at present be used for Covid 19 tests, in the future, it will also be used for hepatitis, swine flu, leptospirosis, HIV and other molecular tests,” said Bangar. As the civic body did not have its own lab until Tuesday, it had to depend on other government and private labs for tests, leading to great delay in getting the results. “Within two days after I took charge, we started conducting rapid antigen tests that give results in 30 minutes. We now have 22 rapid antigen testing centres, which conduct around 2,500 tests,” Bangar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-civic-body-gets-its-own-covid-testing-lab-set-to-acquire-200-icu-beds-and-80-ventilators/story-StIfWS5lzuusYdaTQNQZRI.html
05-08-2020||City||Sixth accused held in fake e-pass racket in Mumbai||The crime branch on Tuesday arrested 31-year-old Abhijit Pawar, a contractual worker at the Thane collector’s office in connection with the fake e-pass racket. Earlier, the crime branch had arrested five people for providing citizens with fake e-passes and medical certificates for ₹3,000 to travel outside the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) during the lockdown . Pawar, along with Samir Chaudhary, his colleague from the collector’s office, Abdul Karim Mohammad Shaikh; Samir Shamsuddin Shaikh, Noor Mohammad Abdul Gani Shaikh and Vinay Mohan Pate have sold 400-500 fake police e-passes to citizens. Pawar’s arrest comes days after the officers from crime branch’s unit 3 busted the racket on July 25 and arrested Shaikh, Samir, Noor and Pate. The police received a tip-off about a gang which had been duping citizens who wanted to travel to other districts in the state from MMR. During inquiry, the police discovered that the accused were operating from Malvan and would send the e-passes from there to citizens on WhatsApp or email. The numbers of their mobile phones were registered on locations in Delhi. An officer then approached Shaikh posing as a customer and asked for an e-pass to travel to Satara from Mumbai. After receiving the pass, a police team went to Malvan and arrested Shaikh, Samir and Noor, while Pate was arrested from his home in Vasai. The police also seized a laptop, mobile phones and several fake passes from the accused. During the inquiry, the police discovered that Chaudhary was the head of the information technology department of the collector’s office (rural wing), from where the e-passes are issued to citizens by authorities. “He knew the login details of the system and shared it with Pawar, who issued the passes to citizens with the help of other four accused,” said police inspector Nitin Patil of crime branch unit 3. On July 29, the police arrested Chaudhary and based on his statement, they arrested Pawar .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sixth-accused-held-in-fake-e-pass-racket-in-mumbai/story-06oK7qMeui8gqUkMpvgMrJ.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula youth held with 10kg ganja||The police have arrested one Imran Khan, 28, of Jalouli village in Panchkula and recovered 10kg ganja from his possession. Khan was held near a park behind the Manimajra cremation ground on August 3. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered.YOUTH HELD WITH 10G HEROIN IN KALKAA man was arrested with 10gram heroin in Kalka, the police said on Tuesday. Police were patrolling on Rambagh road when information was received that one Baashu was going to supply drugs in Dharampur Colony. Barricading was done on the road near Shri Radhe Shyam cow-shed, Kalka, and a youth on a motorcycle identified as Baashu was held with drugs. A case under the NDPS Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panchkula-youth-held-with-10kg-ganja/story-s6g93ctaBDllrYkrneIMML.html
05-08-2020||City||More relaxations for industries in Maharashtra soon: Minister||Industries minister Subhash Desai on Tuesday hinted at more relaxations to industrial units in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MM) and other major cities in the state soon. Desai said that he has spoken to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over it and the government was “positive about lifting the curbs” in the cities. “It is true that the pandemic has not receded as yet, but we cannot wait any longer to resume industrial activities. If the industrial bodies assure the state government that the lockdown norms will be followed strictly, there would be no problem in allowing more industrial activities in the cities. The permission for the resumption of industries and more transport facilities can be given in areas which witness fewer cases,” Desai said in a meeting with the representatives of industrial bodies from cities including Thane, Dombivli, Navi Mumbai and Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-relaxations-for-industries-in-maharashtra-soon-minister/story-eHeF4N2tJ21eIAZFBew6bO.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman loses ₹15,000, iPhone to snatcher||A woman on her way back home after tying rakhi lost her purse to a motorcycle-borne snatcher in Sector 32, the police said Tuesday. Victim Nisha Gupta told the police that her purse had ₹15,000 cash, an iPhone and documents. She said that her husband had parked their car near Government High School, Sector 32, on August 3 and she was walking home when the snatcher struck. A case was registered.AUTORICKSHAW DRIVER ROBBEDTwo persons posing as passengers robbed an autorickshaw driver in Sector 38 West here on Tuesday. Sanjay Kumar of Milk Colony, Dhanas, complained that two persons boarded his three-wheeler from Sector 25/38 light point for Dhanas on Sunday night. When they reached near Gaushala, the duo hit him with a brick and took his mobile, ₹500 cash and important documents. A case was registered. TWO THEFTS REPORTED IN UT Two thefts were reported from different parts of the city on Tuesday. One Ashwani Kumar of Sector 38 reported his mobile, ₹3,500 and other important documents stolen from the boot of his TVS Jupiter scooter parked at Leisure Valley, Sector 10 on Monday. The other theft was reported by one SPS Grewal of Sector 37 who alleged that two unknown persons stole away the battery from his car on July 23. Two cases were registered.18-YEAR-OLD HELD FOR VEHICLE THEFT An 18-year-old resident of Panchkula was held on Tuesday for stealing a four-wheeler. Ankush Chawaria of Rajiv Colony was arrested on the complaint of Gurvinder Singh of Sector 42, Chandigarh, who had reported theft of his Maruti Zen car on the intervening night of July 30/31. The vehicle was recovered and a case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-woman-loses-15-000-iphone-to-snatcher/story-WpjCskhYx6TGxI0N10tkWO.html
05-08-2020||City||Man gets Covid-19 drug from Delhi, tries to sell it in Mumbai for ₹1 lakh, arrested||A 30-year-old man from Uttarakhand, who came to Mumbai to sell 400mg of tocilizumab injection, at more than double its market price in black market, was arrested by unit 9 of the city crime branch on Tuesday. The injection is used to treat Covid-19 patients suffering from low oxygen levels. The drug costs ₹40,000 but the man, identified as Azam Nasir Khan, was trying to sell it for ₹1 lakh, the police said. According to crime branch officers, Khan had brought the drug from Delhi . Based on a tip-off, a team lead by assistant police inspector Sudhir Jadhav, along with officials from the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) department, sent a man posing as a medical store owner, to buy the drug from Khan. “After negotiating the price for the drug, Khan sold 15 injections for Rs1 lakh each. When Khan came to deliver the medicine at Bandra he was arrested,” said senior police inspector Mahesh Desai of unit 9. During inquiry, Khan confessed that he brought the medicine from Delhi to sell in Mumbai. “It appears that there are many people involved in the racket. We are probing further to find out if more people are involved in the racket, added Desai.A local court remanded Khan in police custody till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-gets-covid-19-drug-from-delhi-tries-to-sell-it-in-mumbai-for-1-lakh-arrested/story-Wb44CjUZd1wnkuLD1LIPVO.html
05-08-2020||City||5 out on parole due to Covid-19 held for 9 burglaries in Mumbai||Five history sheeters, who were released from Arthur Road and Thane prisons on parole owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, were arrested by Kurar police in Malad for breaking into nine empty houses. The police recovered valuables worth ₹5.54 lakh from the five men, identified as Mohsin Mohammad Hanif Shaikh, 22; Pradeep Yadav, 21; Krishna Rana, 18; Shubham Bamne, 19, and Ganya alias Ganesh Mani Kaundar, 19. Dr DS Swami, deputy commissioner of police (Zone 12), said, “On July 27, our patrolling team found Shaikh and Yadav roaming around residential areas in Kurar suspiciously and questioned them. As the suspects were unable to answer properly, the patrol team searched them and found a hammer and an iron rod in their possession.” The patrolling personnel then took the duo to the police station for detailed questioning. Initially, they did not reveal anything, but later claimed that they, along with three more accomplices, have been committing burglaries since May, after being out on parole, said Swami. “The accused further revealed that after releasing from jail, they decided to take advantage of the fact that many people left for their native homes owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and conducted the break-ins,” an officer said. A team then visited the homes and hideouts of the accused and recovered ₹16,950 in cash, 11 mobile phones, five gold ornaments, a laptop and two bikes, collectively valued at ₹5.54 lakh. According to Kurar police officers, Shaikh is an accused in six cases of robbery, theft and burglaries as well as in a case filed under the (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act at Amboli police station. Bamne is an accused in four cases of theft and break-ins, while Kaundar is booked for three cases of theft, robbery and narcotics at Amboli police station and a case of robbery at Versova police station. Rana was previously booked in a robbery case at Amboli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-out-on-parole-due-to-covid-19-held-for-9-burglaries-in-mumbai/story-Q0WypAosXIwACGJ1qrNmPN.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Maharastra Police fight tough battle against Covid: 231 cases, 3 deaths in 24 hours||Three from the state police force died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 107, while 231 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the same period from Maharashtra Police. The three deceased police personnel were from Marol Police Training School (PTS), Thane city police and Ahmednagar police. Rangnath Achyut Manerkar, 51, had been a reserve police sub-inspector in Marol PTS. He had been admitted to the isolation ward at Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray (HBT) Trauma Care Hospital in Jogeshwari on July 25. He is survived by his wife and daughter. Constable Deepak Kishan More, 46, from Thane city police had been admitted to Vedant Hospital on July 28. He is survived by his wife and two children, a son and a daughter. Constable Sanjay Laxman Pote, 32, had been attached to Sonai police station in Ahmednagar and had been admitted to Saideep Hospital in Ahmednagar on July 29. He is survived by his mother, wife and son. All the three police personnel were undergoing treatment and succumbed to the infection on Tuesday. Across Maharashtra, 231 new cases of Covid-19 were reported among police personnel on Tuesday. So far, 9,934 from the state police have contracted the infection and 107 have died, including 10 officers. Of the current coronavirus cases among the Maharashtra Police, 1,877 are active and receiving treatment at various hospitals and Covid care facilities. Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order), said altogether, 7,950 police personnel in Maharashtra have recovered from Covid-19 and most have resumed duty. In Mumbai, around 4,082 police personnel have contracted Covid-19 and 55 have succumbed to the infection so far. The death rate in the city police is 1.34% as compared to the city’s 5.83%. “Introducing a system to ensure quicker response to infected personnel in terms of getting information on availability of beds and ambulance, setting up four dedicated Covid care centres, creating awareness about sanitisation, providing immunity and strength booster medicines, setting up a central monitoring system of critically ill patients by a team of experts, making important drugs available and providing financial and emotional support to the personnel are some of the key measures that helped in preventing the spread of coronavirus in the police force and achieving an impressive recovery rate,” Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police (administration), Mumbai Police, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharastra-police-fight-tough-battle-against-covid-231-cases-3-deaths-in-24-hours/story-0SmZQtLn3FZ3zlh0TnlrQN.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Give financial aid to school bus drivers: Association||Citing difficulty in sustaining financially due to lockdown owing to the spread of the novel coronavirus in the city, school bus and bus operators associations have urged the Maharashtra government to provide financial relief to the drivers.The association has stated that over 50,000 school buses and around 1.5 lakh bus staffers are currently under financial distress as they have lost their jobs.They have asked the Maharashtra government to provide salaries to the bus staffers during the lockdown period, along with a waiver of taxes. The association has given a list of demands including deferment of motor insurance, subsidised fuel rates, vehicle sanitisation, increasing the age limit of school buses from eight to 20 years, increasing the capacity of school buses, the experience of five years for bus drivers to be abolished if the driver has a heavy vehicle licence and parking facilities for school buses. “We are staring at a bleak situation, as the schools are closed for many months. Simultaneously, bus owners have not received the transportation fees for the academic year ending May 2020,” said Anil Garg, president, School Bus Owner Association.“Majority of the bus crew members especially bus drivers are from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Karnataka. Most of them have gone back to their home towns, amid the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. We are not sure whether they will be back to serve after the school reopens. If this continues, there will be a massive shortage of drivers and cleaners and it will be very difficult to operate school buses. We would seek government intervention to provide some support to the bus owners and staff members to bring them out of this crisis.” Garg said.Similar demands on providing financial aid to drivers and waving of vehicle interest for autorickshaws and black and yellow taxis have been raised by Autorickshaw and black and yellow taxi unions in the city.“We have also sought financial aid of ₹10,000 per month to the drivers during the lockdown,” said AL Quadros, leader, Mumbai Taximen’s Union. Meanwhile, both autorickshaw and taxi unions have asked for an increase in minimum fares. Taxi unions have asked to increase minimum fare from ₹22 to ₹25 and the same for autorickshaws from ₹18 to ₹22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/give-financial-aid-to-school-bus-drivers-association/story-KfrVW87K5wtkErFQP7f7hI.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||BWSL toll: MSRDC looks for a 3-month toll operator||The Covid-19 pandemic has made it difficult for the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) to find a toll operator for the Rajiv Gandhi Sea Link, also known as the Bandra-Worli Sea Link (BWSL).After extending the bids to find a new operator, MSRDC is now looking for operators to manage the system for a three-month period, thereby opening it for the “smaller players” too, MSRDC said.Vijay Waghmare, joint managing director, MSRDC said, “It has become difficult for bidders to estimate traffic owing to the pandemic, based on which they quote their bids. The three-month period will make it easier for smaller companies to also participate in the bids.” MSRDC is looking for a contractor for the three-month period even on the Katai and Gove toll plaza on the Bhiwandi-Kalyan-Shilphata Highway.MSRDC had invited bids for toll-management of BWSL after MSRDC’s contract with the previous concessionaire, MEP Infrastructure Developers, expired in January 2020. MSRDC is expected to collect toll for the sea-link that was opened in 2009 till 2052 with revision in rates every three years. It was last revised in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bwsl-toll-msrdc-looks-for-a-3-month-toll-operator/story-qFOT3sN8toYTNGdayXywHO.html
05-08-2020||City||Mohali: Sunny Enclave promoter arrested in ₹2-crore cheque bounce fraud||Eight months after a consumer court declared Jarnail Singh Bajwa, managing director of the Sunny Enclave project in Mohali, a proclaimed offender (PO) in six cases of cheque bounce amounting to over ₹2 crore, the police on Tuesday arrested him from his office in Sunny Enclave.Bajwa’s company, Bajwa Developers Group, is the promoter of the Sunny Enclave project in Kharar. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Kharar, Pal Singh said, “Bajwa will be produced in the consumer court on Wednesday. A non-bailable warrant was issued against him.”In its judgment in December last year, the consumer court had directed the complainant, Naseeb Kaur of Kharar, to place on record the list of properties of the accused along with an affidavit to initiate further proceedings. Kaur had mentioned in the complaint that Bajwa was dealing in sale, purchase and development of residential as well as commercial properties. She had alleged that she sold around 12 kanal of land to Bajwa’s firm on March 17, 2018. In return, he gave her 15 post-dated cheques of ₹4.95 lakh each. When Kaur presented these cheques, they were returned unpaid, with the reason, “exceeds arrangement”.Bajwa was even declared a proclaimed offender in August last year and again in February this year. Overall, there are around 45 cheque bounce cases registered against Bajwa amounting to ₹20 crore.Bajwa’s advocate Dinesh Kumar Sharma said, “We were refunding the money to the parties, but due to the lockdown, we could not sell our properties and thus, were faced with financial issues. We will be sorting the issue out by tomorrow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-sunny-enclave-promoter-arrested-in-2-crore-cheque-bounce-fraud/story-iR4Gdgv9ZftmopERcY07fK.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Ram temple bhoomipujan: Shiv Sena to keep it low-key||Left out of the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday, the Shiv Sena will hold muted celebrations to mark the event, considering it has partnered with secular parties in Maharashtra to form the government and also because of the restriction on public gathering due to the Covid-19 outbreak. In the run-up to the bhoomipujan, party leaders have been recounting and enlisting party and its workers’ contribution and sacrifice in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement.With the BJP not yielding an inch of the credit for the temple in Ayodhya, the Sena is working at keeping its core identity, Hindutva, intact.  The party has put up hoardings across the city welcoming the construction of the Ram temple with slogans of ‘Jai Shri Ram’. A giant hoarding with a picture of Lord Ram, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Sena founder Bal Thackeray, in the city has been put up with a phrase, ‘Saheb’s roar, dream fulfilment of Hindus’, followed by ‘Jai Shri Ram’. Another such hoarding had the slogan: ‘Advent of Ram Rajya, fulfilment of dreams’, followed by a slogan hailing Lord Ram.The party had planned low-key celebrations in city’s wards, but they were later put off on account of the Covid-19 situation. Party leaders said no invitation for Thackeray is viewed as a positive step as it would have been complicated matters for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government. “There is no official celebration or an event planned by the party. On a local level, people may do something in their homes to mark the bhoomipujan. After all, Lord Ram is for everyone and not one political party. Given the Covid-19 scenario, it was not possible to plan anything officially,” said a Shiv Sena MP, requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, Sena legislator Dilip Lande has planned sweet distribution, Mahaaarti in Ram temple, and puja in the 10 Shiv Sena Shakhas that fall under Chandivli Assembly constituency on Wednesday. “There will be a mahaaarti in a Ram Temple, followed by firing crackers and sweet distribution. We are also going to felicitate a few kar sevaks, who Balasaheb said he took immense pride in,” Lande said.Even though the Sena chief will not remain present in Ayodhya, Sena corporator from Mira-Bhayander, Vikram Pratap Singh, took the soil from the place where Sena founder Bal Thackeray was cremated to the temple town in Uttar Pradesh. “We are sainiks [soldiers] of Shiv Sena chief Uddhav ji Thackeray and have come here with the pious soil from the Smriti Sthal of Balasaheb Thackeray. It was Balasaheb’s dream that a grand temple of Lord Ram be constructed in Ayodhya and it is getting recognised,” Singh said. Singh along with the Shiv Sainiks who have accompanied him plan to light 492 diyas (lamps) on the banks of river Saryu and also hand over the soil to the head of the temple trust. On the eve of the bhoomipujan for the Ram temple at Ayodhya, Shiv Sainiks recounted the call of Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray around three decades ago to perform kar seva, at the height of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, as a “once-in-a-lifetime experience”. Twenty-eight years later, the Shiv Sena, which started with Hindutva as its core agenda, has snapped ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party and joined hands with secular parties to head the government in Maharashtra. The party leadership, however, maintains they have not abandoned Hindutva. After the entry of Thackeray scion Aaditya in the functioning of the party and the subsequent alliance with the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party, the Sena was said to have gone soft on its Hindutva agenda by their political opponents and political observers. Shiv Sena leader and former Lok Sabha MP Chandrakant Khaire, however, said, “Hindutva is our identity.” Sena party union chief Suryakant Mahadik added, “If you ask people which of the two parties-- BJP or Sena --is a staunch Hindutvawadi party, they will say Shiv Sena. We are still Hindutavawadi.” Sena deputy leader Vishwanath Nerurkar attacked the BJP and PM Narendra Modi for ignoring the contribution of BJP stalwarts, including LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi. “Advani did the Rath Yatra that stirred people’s emotions, but he is not there. Only PM Modi will be seen. What right do they have to claim credit for it? What has the temple got to do with politicians? Instead, the bhoomipujan should have been done at the hands of Shankaracharya. This is politics,” Nerurkar, who was then a Sena corporator, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ram-temple-bhoomipujan-shiv-sena-to-keep-it-low-key/story-wMc1kvpRczhpAJNfH62M9H.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hospitals restrict normal delivery service for women from outside||The hospitals under the UT administration have restricted normal delivery services for women living outside the city jurisdictions as a measure to check the spread of Covid-19.Chandigarh has five hospitals that cater to the needs of pregnant women, right from antenatal check-ups to childbirth procedures, from across the tricity. The occupancy rate of such wards is almost always 100% at any given time.Hospitals in the city, especially the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, have time and again called for a proper referral protocol for any type of admission or emergency case from the neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab.The authorities from the UT and the neighbouring states had also recently met to discuss the issue of “improper referrals” from the states which in turn increased the rush in hospitals here. The authorities had decided that nodal officers will be appointed for the seamless transfer of patients.Dr BS Chavan, director-cum-principal, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, said the steps taken to restrict normal deliveries had been taken to stop the infection spread. “It is a temporary arrangement. If the same facilities are available in the neighbouring cities, people should prefer those. We will deal with serious and complicated cases, which come from any area. But for normal procedures, districts should take responsibility. Also, there is more chance of exposure to infection to patients here,” he said.A senior health officer from Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, said there had been a few cases in the past where the women tested positive after childbirth and the staff had to be quarantined.UT health secretary, Arun Gupta, said though no such decision [in this regard] had been taken at the highest level, it would not be wrong for the hospitals to restrict normal services. “If the same procedure can be conducted in district hospitals of Panchkula and Mohali, they should be used.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-hospitals-restrict-normal-delivery-service-for-women-from-outside/story-CXHeMYaySIzOTAmYyLYDWM.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court asks Centre to examine possibility of using refurbished ventilators from abroad||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Centre to examine whether refurbished used ventilators procured by a Punjab firm can be put to use. “We prime facie feel that in case, the aforesaid ventilators are put to use, it may be of help to some serious patients. A copy of the report be supplied to Mr Jain (additional solicitor general, Satya Pal Jain) to enable him to seek instructions, particularly, since it is a matter of saving lives of critical patients,” the bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh said while acting on an expert panel report on use of these ventilators. The court has acted on a plea of SB Medical Systems, a Punjab firm, which had approached high court in June, after its consignment of 32 used ventilators imported from United States of America, was not released by customs authorities. The firm had argued that soon after Covid-19 outbreak, the Centre had allowed the import of used ventilators following which the firm placed an order. They said they had also sought necessary approval from the state and the central governments. However, by the time the consignment came, the Centre withdrew the notification, the court was told. It was further stated that the Kerala and Karnataka governments had already allowed use of these ventilators and it was only in this case that the consignment was not being released. The government, during the hearing had expressed its reservation on the efficacy of the ventilators. Acting on the plea, the high court on July 15 had sought an expert opinion of doctors’, which, in its report on Tuesday, opined that the “32 used ventilators are of reputed brands and were found to be in working condition. However, they may be put to use subject to certification of disinfection, effectiveness and assured maintenance by the refurbished company.” The panel was headed by director, department of medical education and research, Punjab, Dr Avnish Kumar.Besides directions to Centre, the court has also asked Punjab government’s counsel as to which authority can certify regarding disinfection and effectiveness. Meanwhile, the firm too has been asked to submit a certificate of disinfecting the ventilators and assuring the effectiveness and maintenance. The matter will come up for further hearing on August 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-asks-centre-to-examine-possibility-of-using-refurbished-ventilators-from-abroad/story-6HtwgR6PqUuhf9zKIeQ5AL.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two Asha workers, cop among 5 held for child trafficking in Chandigarh; 2 newborns rescued||With the arrest of two Asha workers from Punjab on Tuesday, Chandigarh Police unearthed a child trafficking racket going on in the city.The duo arrested with three others, including a police constable, had been selling newborns picked up from different districts of Punjab to families in Chandigarh. Police even rescued a two-day-old boy who was about to be sold to a decoy customer. Another newborn, an 11-day-old girl, who was sold for ₹1 lakh to a city-based couple on July 28 was also rescued. Both children were handed over to the Childline NGO. The accused were identified as Bhawna, 32, of Sector 45; Asha workers Kuldeep Kaur, 32, of Jahlan village in Patiala and Sarabjit Kaur, 40, of Mimsa village in Dhuri; health worker Mandeep Singh, 35, of Zalal Diwal village in Ludhiana; and Punjab Police constable Amarjit Singh, 29, of Shivjot Enclave, Mohali, who was deployed as driver to the station house officer, Balongi.For the last three days, the accused were in touch with the complainant, a businessman in Sector 37, Ravinder Kumar, who posed as a customer for purchase of two babies — a male and a female.He was asked to meet them in Sangrur or Jalandhar.On Monday night, when the accused arrived at the airport light point in Amarjit’s car, they were held. Amarjit, who was behind the wheel, claimed he was helping his neighbour Bhawna.The accused were produced before the court and remanded to seven-day police custody. A case under Sections 370 (trafficking of persons), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.Kuldeep and Sarabjit were responsible for arranging newborn babies. “The Asha workers were involved in tracing pregnant women in Punjab and helping them through pregnancy. Taking advantage of their situation, the two would either steal the child or convince parents to sell it,” said Paramjit Kaur, station house officer, Sector 31.A male child was sold for ₹4 lakh while a female would sell for ₹1 lakh. The accused sold three children in Punjab, Rajasthan and Delhi, and had sold the fourth one only last week. “We are looking into the role of other Asha workers involved in the racket,” said the SHO.Bhawna, who had earlier worked as a matchmaker, had also gotten involved in trafficking. Her role was to strike deals with the clients in Chandigarh. Accused Mandeep would find prospective buyers in different districts of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-asha-workers-cop-among-5-held-for-child-trafficking-in-chandigarh-2-newborns-rescued/story-cYjhp0yEjfgXT5xB8oC9vK.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Barring emergency, no surgery for 15 days in Punjab govt hospitals||Amid a spate of Covid-19 cases in the state in the past few days, the Punjab health department has ordered all civil surgeons to postpone all surgeries, except medical emergency cases, for the next 15 days. The decision was taken amid reports that specialist doctors were performing all sorts of surgeries that can be avoided for a few days and were citing it as a reason not to join Covid-19 related duties. “The increase in the number of cases will require services of more healthcare staff. Keeping this in view, you are hereby requested to postpone the elective surgeries in all government healthcare facilities so that the staff is available for Covid-19 duties,” read a letter sent to all civil surgeons by the director, health and family welfare. Elective surgery is a procedure scheduled in advance because it does not involve a medical emergency. The order says it must be ensured that emergency and trauma services are provided without interruption. “All the staff that would assist these doctors in elective surgeries have also been asked to be put on Covid-related duties immediately,” an official said. Also, the health department has issued orders to rural pharmacy officers to perform Covid-19 duties or face action. “All rural pharmacy officers have been asked to work under the civil surgeons to perform Covid-19 duties. But civil surgeons have brought to my notice that some officers are still not reporting to them. They should immediately report to the civil surgeons concerned and explanation would be sought from those not following the orders,” read a letter by additional chief secretary (health and family welfare).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/barring-emergency-no-surgery-for-15-days-in-punjab-govt-hospitals/story-GPwfYWIUPV6y7RWtJvKV5J.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s GST inflow in April-July 38% short of last year’s mop-up||The Punjab government has suffered a dent of 38% in its gross goods and services tax (GST) collection in the first four months of the current fiscal due to the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown. The state’s GST mop-up, including state GST (SGST) and integrated GST (IGST), for the April-July period was Rs 2,644 crore as against Rs 4,252 crore during the corresponding months of the previous year, according to the latest data shared by the taxation department. The dip of Rs 1,608 crore in GST collections as compared to financial year 2019 is primarily of account of revenue loss during April and May this year when the state was under total lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus with curfew in place. Against a collection of Rs 2,084 crore in the first two months of financial year 2019, the state government got merely Rs 717 crore, or say 63% less, between April 1 and May 31 this year. The revenue had taken a nosedive of 86% at the start of the year as curfew was imposed in Punjab on March 23, falling from Rs 1,086 crore in April 2019 to merely Rs 156 crore this time. May’s collections were better but marginally at Rs 515 crore against last year’s Rs 998 crore before picking up further in the subsequent two months.27% JUMP IN REVENUE FROM JUNE Unlike the all-India GST revenue which saw a 3.8% drop in July as compared to the previous month, the state posted an increase of 27%. The inflow rose to Rs 1,103 crore from Rs 870 crore in June, indicating stability in collections as economic activity is picking up in more and more sectors during the unlocking process, even though it is still 9.26% lower than the GST mop-up of Rs 1,216 crore in the same month of the previous year. A taxation official said the collections for these months could include some tax returns for previous months also as relief was provided to taxpayers in furnishing of returns for the months of February, March and April 2020 in view of the pandemic. Commissioner, taxation, Nilkanth S Avhad said there is some recovery due to revival of economy but there is still a long way to go. DIP IN REVENUE WORRIES GOVT The shortfall has got the state government worried even though its monthly GST revenue is protected at Rs 2,503 crore for this year. Under the new indirect tax regime, the states have been guaranteed a 14% year-on-year growth in their GST revenue over the financial year 2015-16 base and they are to be compensated by the central government for any shortfall. “The centre is to give compensation to the state government for the GST revenue gap of Rs 4,335 crore in first two months (April and May 2020) which became due in June,” a state official said requesting anonymity. The compensation, which is given bimonthly, for June and July is estimated to be approximately Rs 3,000 crore as per advance tax collection figures and will become due this month. However, there is anxiety in the state government after the finance ministry indicated to a parliamentary panel that it may not be in a position to pay the promised compensation this year. The state government, in a letter last week, raised its objections, reminding the centre of its innumerable assurances for assured compensation. Punjab has been among the states reporting the highest shortfall in the GST revenue collection in the past three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-gst-inflow-in-april-july-38-short-of-last-year-s-mop-up/story-Qy5olf5xg9UzBcGYfjiRfM.html
05-08-2020||Chandigarh||‘Ultra heat treated milk plant to come up at Rohtak’||The Haryana government plans to set up an ultra heat treated (UHT) milk tetra pack plant at Rohtak at a cost of ₹19.55 crore. The national dairy development board has been requested to prepare a detailed project report. UHT milk has a longer shelf life, particularly during summers. ACS, cooperation, Sanjeev Kaushal, said bulk milk coolers would also be provided to the co-op societies throughout Haryana. This would help ensure improvement in milk quality. These projects were announced by CM Manohar Lal Khattar during his 2020-21 budget speech, he said. Kaushal said a new milk plant with latest technology and capacity of three to five lakh litres per day (LPD) was also proposed to be established in southern Haryana. This would cover the national capital region, he said. The NDDB would submit a detailed project report and the search for land for the plant is going on. He said the Dairy Development Federation was also supplying sweetened flavoured skimmed milk powder to the elementary education department as part of their midday meal scheme, three days a week, which had recently been increased to six days a week. With the schools not functioning during the lockdown, the state government had decided to provide dry rations to students. About 600 metric tonnes of skimmed milk powder in 500 gram packs has been supplied for May and June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ultra-heat-treated-milk-plant-to-come-up-at-rohtak/story-0mMXlsuSRBDro9eG0kjjHO.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad: NIA custody of Hany Babu extended till August 7||A special court on Tuesday extended the National Investigating Agency’s (NIA) custody of Hany Babu MT, 54, an associate professor in the department of English at Delhi University, till August 7. The NIA claimed Babu, arrested by the agency on July 28 in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, was in touch with people connected to Manipur-based insurgent group Kangleipak Communist Party – Military Council (KCP-MC). Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty made several statements, claiming Babu’s links with the outlawed Communist Party of India (CPI)-Maoist). On Tuesday, as Babu’s custody ended, the agency produced him before the court and sought his further custody. The agency said, “During investigation, it is revealed that the accused was in contact with one Paikhomba Meitei, secretary information and publicity, military affairs, KCP-MC, an organisation banned under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.” The agency told the court that the data recovered from Babu showed that Meithei had shared an interview of former general secretary of CPI (Maoist), Muppala Lakshman Rao, alias Ganapathi. The agency also claimed that Babu was actively involved in raising funds to help Maoists, for their release from prison. “Accused, along with arrested accused, were involved in highlighting the issue of arrest and subsequent conviction of GN Saibaba, who was sentenced to life imprisonment for his links with CPI (Maoist),” the agency told the court. The agency claimed that the accused was using various social media accounts for communication with other co-accused, suspects as well as other members and sympathisers of CPI (Maoist). “During the investigation of the present case, near about 1.26 lakh emails were recovered from the accused’s email, which is under process of scrutiny,” the agency claimed. The plea was opposed by Babu’s lawyer Susan Abraham, along with advocate Nilesh Ukey, on the grounds that the accused has cooperated with the investigating agency. The court did not accept the objection and extended Babu’s custody with NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-nia-custody-of-hany-babu-extended-till-august-7/story-8aKOUwA9W0wytRn5nOddiK.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Highest one-day spike: State records 12,326 Covid-19 recoveries||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 recoveries at 12,326, taking the count to 299,356 (65.37% recovery rate).The state on Tuesday reported 300 Covid-19 deaths, second-highest jump in fatalities, to take the toll to 16,142, while it recorded 7,760 new infections, including Mumbai’s second-lowest spike (709) since May 12, when it recorded just 426 cases. The state’s case tally touched 457,956, including 142,151 active cases. Pune district retained its top position in daily infections with 2,207 cases, including 1,296 in Pune city, 326 in rural parts of the district and 585 in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Pune district saw 56 more deaths (29 in city, 10 in rural parts and 17 in Pimpri-Chinchwad), while Mumbai reported the same number of fatalities in the past 24 hours. Kolhapur reported 40 deaths (including 11 in the city), Bhiwandi-Nizampur registered 16 and Nagpur saw 17 deaths. State’s case fatality rate (CFR) reached 3.52%, which is much above the national rate of 2.11% The state conducted 53,324 tests in a day, taking the total tests conducted so far to 23,52,047 and the cumulative positivity rate to 19.47%. The state’s recovery rate has improved over the past two weeks. A total of 69,869 patients recovered in the last seven days, at the rate of 9,981 patients a day, against the 63,913 infections during this period. The recovery rate has improved to 65.37% from 59.34 % a week ago on July 28 and 55.72% on July 21. The national rate was 65.77%, as of Monday. According to an official from the health department, apart from keeping the infection in check, they have been focusing on reducing the fatality rate. “We have been aggressively tracking and testing the contacts. At same time, we want to improve the recovery rate as we have now ramped up our health infrastructure and have been tracking patients fast to ensure early referral to the hospital. Although Maharashtra has the highest number of cases in the country, our aim is to reduce the number of active cases,” the official said. Dr Avinash Bhondve, Maharashtra president of Indian Medical Institute, said that the figures of the recovery of patients are deceptive. “All discharged patients cannot be termed as recovered. The full recovery from the infection is done after 14 days or in some cases they need 21 days. Patients recovering at home also are counted as fully recovered. In Thane city, private hospitals were given a target of daily discharge, which we opposed. Having said this, it is also true that the recovery rate in the state is improving.”An area of concern for the state government is the rising spread in the rural parts of the districts, like Pune, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Latur, Solapur. When the urban parts of these districts were reporting reduction in cases, its rural parts showed a surge in cases over the past few days. Dr Bhondve said the number of cases in rural areas was increasing because of migration of people after unlocking, weak infrastructure, failure of local administration to ramp up the facilities and shortage of the health workers and doctors.Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said, “There will be a drastic drop in cases in rural areas, too, soon. Our strategy has been aggressive tracing, testing and ramping up of health infrastructure. It has worked well across the state and will help us in containing the spread.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/highest-one-day-spike-state-records-12-326-covid-19-recoveries/story-0YV7KBos4MgjRBH7sop29O.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||State department to investigate illegal fishing practices||The state fisheries department on Tuesday initiated an investigation and called for action regarding unauthorised fishing practices affecting rare and endangered marine species along the Maharashtra coastline.The fisheries commissioner ordered the inquiry based on a report by marine biologists from the Mangrove Foundation (under the state mangrove cell), which documented how unsustainable fishing practices, excessive juvenile by-catch, and illegal shark fin trade were leading to a rapid decline of threatened, vulnerable, and critically-endangered sharks and allied species.HT had reported the details on Monday, elucidating how such practices along seven commercially important landing sites, including three in Mumbai, with high-density of elasmobranch (sharks, skates, rays, and sawfish) population, were leading to overall habitat degradation at fishing grounds. “In view of the seriousness of the matter highlighted by national and regional media, I have called for a detailed investigation across all 173 marine fish landing centres across seven Konkan districts as well as inspections to be undertaken at markets,” said Atul Patne, state fisheries commissioner, adding, “Strict action needs to be taken against fishing boats, sellers, buyers, and boat owners under the Maharashtra Marine Fisheries Regulation Act, 1981, and the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, for unauthorised capture and sale of rare and endangered elasmobranch species. Reports on action taken have been called for at the earliest.”The fisheries department plans to set up an enforcement cell and increase manpower to address the issue. Under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, the assistant commissioner of fisheries (ACF) is empowered to take action for the protection of rare and endangered marine species. “We have reiterated this in an order issued on Tuesday,” said Patne. “Presently, the department is facing a staff crunch with more than 60% vacancy, with 23 licensing officers managing 173 landing centres. Even if the ACF manages to track down cases, he is unable to prepare the required documents, present submissions in court, and track investigations.”Patne said that along with additional manpower, he plans to rope in non-government bodies or marine respondent groups involved in curbing such violations (sagar rakshaks) to assist his staff. “If shark fin trade is operational in the domestic circuit, it will be tracked to the source, and we will identify how it is operating,” he said.The Mangrove Foundation report also identified a fish landing centre at Satpati in Palghar, where the capture of eight shark species, including some part of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List, saw their fins removed and kept out to dry.Shark fishing is not illegal in India. However, catching 10 species protected under the Wildlife Act is prohibited and considered illegal. Shark fin import and export was banned by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in 2015.The mangrove cell study identified 34 elasmobranch species – 14 sharks, 15 rays, and five species of wedges, sawfish and guitarfish – being caught across Satpati, Sassoon Dock, New Ferry Wharf, and Versova in Mumbai; Alibag in Raigad, Harnai in Ratnagiri, and Malvan in Sindhudurg. Of these, 24 species each fell under the vulnerable, endangered, and near-threatened categories of the IUCN Regional Red List, while one species of guitarfish (schedule I under WPA) was critically endangered. Eighteen of the 34 species caught were juvenile elasmobranchs.“We appreciate that the fisheries department has taken cognisance of the report. If such a study has made any contribution towards marine conservation, it has achieved its purpose,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove cell).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-department-to-investigate-illegal-fishing-practices/story-67lpuss4jHhUHqxvhobClK.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||No link to Sushant Singh Rajput death, stop dirty politics, says Aaditya Thackeray||Shiv Sena leader and state minister of tourism and environment Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday described the rumours linking him to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput as “dirty politics” by the Opposition. The 30-year-old minister said in a statement released on social media that he is not connected to Rajput’s death, which was declared a suicide in the post mortem report and is the subject of an ongoing investigation by Mumbai Police. Meanwhile, the state government has reiterated that it is opposed to transferring the probe into the circumstances surrounding Rajput’s death to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). On Tuesday, Thackeray issued a strongly-worded statement in Marathi, in which he said the rumours linking him to Rajput, who died by suicide on June 14, are “mudslinging” by the Opposition. “Those who are pricked by the success and popularity of the Maharashtra government have started dirty politics over the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Unnecessary mudslinging is going on at me and the Thackeray family. This is nothing but dirty politics arisen out of frustration,” said Thackeray in his statement. Referring to recent speculations about his close friendships with people in the commercial film industry, he said, “The film industry is an integral part of Mumbai. Several thousand livelihoods depend on this industry. I have personal relationships with some from the industry and it is not a crime.” In his statement, Thackeray described the rumours and speculations surrounding Rajput as “politics over the dead” and an assault on humanity. Denying any involvement in Rajput’s death, Thackaeray said he would never do anything that would hurt the prestige of Maharashtra, Shiv Sena and the Thackeray family. “I am not even remotely connected to the case. I wish to say as the grandson of Hinduruday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray that I will never do anything that would hurt the prestige of Maharashtra, Shiv Sena and Thackeray family. The people who are levelling baseless allegations should understand this,” Thackeray said in the statement which he tweeted on Tuesday evening. This is the first time Thackeray has responded to the rumours implicating him in Rajput’s death. Over the past month, speculations have circulated on social media and some news media, which link Thackeray to actor Rhea Chakraborty, who is believed to have been in a relationship with Rajput. There are also allegations of misappropriation of funds levelled against Chakraborty by Rajput’s family. Among the allegations to go viral was one that claimed the Maharashtra government did not want to transfer Rajput’s case to CBI because it wants to protect a “young politician” who is implicated in the case. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders like Atul Bhatkhalkar and Narayan Rane have openly alleged Mumbai Police are under pressure to protect vested political interests. On Tuesday, Rane said Mumbai Police was trying to shield someone by terming Rajput’s death a suicide and not calling it a “murder”. Sena minister Anil Parab on Tuesday challenged the Opposition to show proof of Thackeray’s involvement in the case. “Whoever has evidence that Aaditya Thackeray is connected to the case or he went to some party, should come forward. This is nothing but an attempt to malign the image of the young leader. The Opposition is playing politics keeping the upcoming Bihar elections in mind,” Parab said while speaking to the media in Mumbai. He also responded to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s wife Amruta, who had tweeted that she felt Mumbai was no longer a “safe” place. “When the government changes, the police force does not. The same police provided them security for five years, and they are protected by the same police even today. If they do not have faith in the police any longer, then she should gladly leave the state,” Parab said. Meanwhile, after chief minister of Bihar Nitish Kumar said on Tuesday that his government has recommended Rajput’s case be transferred to CBI, the Maharashtra government reiterated its support of Mumbai Police’s investigation. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said, “Our stand is clear that we do not want to hand over the case to CBI as Mumbai Police is competent to handle the case. We have filed a caveat in the Supreme Court [SC] where it will be argued. It is now up to the Apex Court to decide upon the jurisdiction of the court.” Officials from the home department said that since Rajput’s death took place in Mumbai, there is neither reason nor legal provision for transferring the case to CBI without the Maharashtra government’s permission. “The main allegation against actor Rhea Chakraborty is illegal transfer of the money and for it, the Enforcement Directorate has already started investigation. Mumbai Police’s investigation is on the right track and has not found any substantial to book anybody by filing a first information report [FIR]. In such a case, the consent of the government that has jurisdiction over the place where the case occurred, is necessary,” said a state government official. A home department official said the state government would oppose the FIR that has been filed in Patna regarding Rajput’s death, on the basis of jurisdiction. “Rhea Chakraborty has made the petition in the Supreme Court for the transfer of the case to Mumbai. We will bring to the notice of the Supreme Court that it should be investigated where the case has taken place,” said the official. However, Nishant Katneshwarkar, former state government counsel in SC, questioned why Mumbai Police had neither filed an FIR nor closed the case. “It is beyond imagination why Mumbai Police has neither filed an FIR nor closed the case if it has not found anything substantial. But there is no precedent of any state having demanded transfer of any case from one state to another.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-link-to-sushant-singh-rajput-death-stop-dirty-politics-says-aaditya-thackeray/story-Cl6iui3abtLOtu8on5JvFN.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police unable to investigate Sushant Singh Rajput death case well, transfer it to CBI or SIT: PIL||A petition by a Nagpur resident has been moved in Bombay high court, asking for a special investigation team (SIT) to look into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who died by suicide on June 14. According to the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Sameet Thakkar, Mumbai Police is not able to probe the case effectively due to the interference of film industry professionals as well as police personnel being occupied with Covid duty. The PIL will be heard before the bench of chief justice Dipankar Dutta on Wednesday. The PIL alleges that one of the reasons that the ongoing investigation by Mumbai Police has been slow is that the police is trying to shield influential people from the film industry. It also points out alleged failures on part of Mumbai Police to follow up on certain anomalies and alleges that persons with vital information regarding the case have not been given a hearing by the police. For these reasons, the PIL asks that the investigation be handed over to an SIT or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Last week, the Supreme Court had dismissed a similar PIL, which sought to transfer the probe into Rajput’s death to CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-unable-to-investigate-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-well-transfer-it-to-cbi-or-sit-pil/story-irlkzYYu8q9NcvmM7Sj9gI.html
05-08-2020||City||Amid spike in cases, J&K ramps up testing capacity||Amid spike in Covid-19 infections in Jammu and Kashmir, the administration has enhanced the testing capacity and is conducting 900 tests per million per day.Union home secretary, Ajay Kumar Bhalla, who chaired a high-level meeting to review the management of the pandemic in the Union territory was informed by officials about the enhancement of testing capacity.During the meeting, health and medical education department gave a presentation on prevailing situation in the UT. “The officials were informed that J&K is performing reasonably well in mitigating Covid-19 with 53,323 tests per million population, 1,746 cases per million population, doubling rate of 27.2 days, 3.3% positivity rate, 61.3% recovery rate, and 1.8% mortality rate. It was mentioned that the UT has so far conducted 6.5 lakh tests and currently has 21,416 confirmed cases, 7,893 active cases, 13,127 recovered cases and 396 deaths,” a spokesman said.He said the Union home secretary while reviewing the Covid-19 death audit report observed that most critical patients die within 72 hours of hospitalisation and emphasized on the need to tackle the issue.Regarding testing capacities, the chief secretary said the related infrastructure has been ramped up and against the WHO recommendation of 140 tests per million population per day, J&K is now conducting 900 tests per million per day. “For this, five additional testing laboratories, four CBNAAT facilities and 15 TRUENAT laboratories were established in government medical institutions, besides, augmenting the RTPCR tests with Rapid Antigen Tests. Further, the administration is also in the process of procuring 3 COBAS 6800 fully automated systems to enhance per day testing capacity, which is currently at 12,000 tests per day,” the chief secretary said.The chief secretary informed that the administration has recently revised home quarantine guidelines to permit such isolation in favour of asymptomatic patients with no co-morbidity and have Arogya Setu App downloaded for better monitoring, adding that they are being provided with government-sponsored oxymeters with the instruction of reporting to hospitals if their oxygen saturation level dips below 90%. “This will reduce the burden on healthcare institutions and will pave way to better monitoring of critical cases,” he said. While sharing the data on surge of bilateral pneumonia cases in the Valley, chief secretary sought help of the Union government through a technical team of experts for analysing such cases and advising on probable containment of its spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-spike-in-cases-j-k-ramps-up-testing-capacity/story-QePQTq2REWYgFt2fJnAdPM.html
05-08-2020||City||NC, Congress unit in Kargil to mark August 5 as black day||The National Conference and the Congress unit in Kargil will mark August 5 as a black day and leaders of both the parties have decided to fight jointly for social, cultural and political rights of the people of Ladakh. They have also demanded restoration of statehood to J&K.The decision to mark August 5 as black day was taken after the NC and Congress leaders of Kargil held a meeting in this regard. An invite was extended to BJP leaders in Kargil, however, they did not attend the meeting.Later, a joint resolution was moved which was signed by Qamar Ali Akhoon, the member of central committee National Conference and Haji Asghar Ali, working president Congress Committee, Ladakh. In a joint statement, the leaders said that the NC and Congress will declare August 5 as the darkest day in the history of J&K and Ladakh. “The two parties have strongly condemned the division of erstwhile state of J&K and appealed for reintegration of J&K and Ladakh and complete restoration of statehood,” reads the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nc-congress-unit-in-kargil-to-mark-august-5-as-black-day/story-S3zUzGkiYw2i8e3pMWdNPO.html
05-08-2020||City||Congress launches ‘speak-up J&K’ online campaign||Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) on Tuesday launched an online five- day campaign ‘Speak-up Jammu and Kashmir’ urging the people to join and speak over “effects of abrogation of Article 370 and downgrading of the historical Dogra state into two UTs”. Talking to media persons here, JKPCC chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said the online campaign will continue till August 9, when formal notification was issued by the President in this regard. He said the party has posed four main questions to the BJP government, which were dubbed as main things to be achieved while abrogating the special status and disbanding the state. “The things listed by government had included— an end to terrorism and restoration of normalcy, creation of jobs in government and private sector, including 50,000 jobs in three months, wiping out corruption, and opening floodgates of development and industrialisation,” he said. “What has happened to the promise of providing large scale jobs, result oriented achievements to check corruption and massive action against corrupt and where are the floodgates for the development and progress of Jammu and Kashmir,” he added. He said the people will share their views if the government has achieved these targets post-abrogation of Article 370 and downgrading of the historical Dogra state into two UTs and when the statehood which was disbanded and downgraded against the wish of the people, would be restored with safeguards for the protection of jobs and land to local youth of J&K, as promised by the BJP. Countering claims in this regard, he said, as far as the issue of normalcy in the Valley is concerned, imposition of curfew and extraordinary security measures in the entire UT, continued restrictions and lack of any routine political activities are the indicators of utter failures. Panthers Party to hold protests across UT The National Panthers Party has decided to hold peaceful protest on Wednesday, “when the draconian government deprived one of the oldest states in the union of its statehood”. “The Panthers Party district, provincial and state leadership has been advised to demand restoration of statehood for J&K which was deprived a year ago by the government in defiance of the history, cultural, social violation and which has been rejected by the people of all districts in J&K,” said professor Bhim Singh, chief patron of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-congress-launches-speak-up-j-k-online-campaign/story-OFFpvaHPpylHVzzWpB1vHN.html
05-08-2020||Gurugram||Man chases armed bike-borne snatchers, manages to nab one despite being shot at||A man chased two motorcycle borne men, who were escaping after snatching his sister’s gold chain, and got hold of one of the suspects. After a tussle, the suspect fired a gunshot at the man, but the bullet missed. The man managed to overpower the snatcher and informed the police, leading to the suspect’s arrest. Gurugram police commissioner KK Rao has taken took note of the bravery of the man and a Rs 5000 cash reward for the man’s heroism and grit. According to the police, the incident took place on Tuesday around 5 pm when Deepak Singh and his sister, residents of Maharajpur village in Sohna, were returning to their house on a scooter after purchasing groceries. Singh was driving while his sister was riding pillion. Police said they had reached near the sub-divisional magistrate’s office in Sohna when two motorcycle borne men, who were tailing them, intercepted them. One of the bike-borne men snatched a gold chain from Singh’s sister. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “His sister got off the scooter after the snatching, even as Singh launched a chase. During the chase, the suspects tried to scare him off by waving a gun at him. As the snatchers reached near a sweet shop, Singh caught up with them and pulled the pillion rider’s shirt collar, making him fall from the motorcycle. The other suspect escaped in the meanwhile.” Police said a tussle ensued between Singh and the snatcher and the latter pulled out a gun and shot at him. The bullet missed him and with the help of a crowd that had gathered, the suspect was overpowered. Singh informed the police who reached the spot and arrested the suspect, identified as Sunil, 25, from Alwar. The gold chain was recovered from his pocket and the gun was also seized. Police said that upon hearing about the incident, commissioner K K Rao praised the bravery of the complainant, Deepak Singh, and announced a cash reward of Rs 5000 along with a certificate, which would be given to him on Wednesday by the commissioner. K K Rao, police commissioner, Gurugram, said, “Such acts of courage are inspiring for others and we should applaud the bravery shown by this person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-chases-armed-bike-borne-snatchers-manages-to-nab-one-despite-being-shot-at/story-ChwcxcNRt7ZEygcxQfrKqN.html
05-08-2020||City||Body in suitcase: Family of Aligarh ‘victim’ under scanner||Police on Tuesday said that the family members of Warisha were under their scanner for wrongly identifying a body that was found stuffed in a suitcase in Ghaziabad on July 27.On July 27, the police in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad found a woman’s body stuffed in a suitcase. They shared photographs on social media as part of an identification drive.A man and his mother from Aligarh came forward. The elderly woman identified the victim as her 24-year-old daughter, Warisha, who goes by one name. They took the body to Aligarh, where the burial took place on July 29.Warisha’s husband and in-laws were booked for dowry death and sent to jail for 14 days. However, even before the police could gloat at having cracked the case, there came a twist. On Monday, Warisha bumped into a police constable in Aligarh and narrated her story. Only then, the realisation dawned on the police. The woman in the suitcase was someone else; she is yet to be identified. Officials from UP police said that the Ghaziabad police have now started investigations afresh in the case, even as the role of Warisha’s family is being investigated. “Ghaziabad police are now trying to establish the identity of the woman whose body was found in the suitcase. The teams are searching Delhi-NCR and other police stations have also been informed to send information about women who have gone missing in the past few days. In the meantime, the statements of Warisha will be recorded before a magistrate. Her mother and brother, who identified the wrong dead body, are still under scanner and we are questioning them,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general (Meerut range). Officers from Ghaziabad police said that they have already registered a fresh case of murder and destruction of evidence to probe the killing and identity of the woman whose body was found in suitcase. “Initially when we saw pictures of Warisha and the dead body of the woman, we found that there were a lot of similarities. About 70 to 80% of facial features matched,” Kumar added. HT accessed a video in which Warisha’s family is seen identifying the dead body, even though a woman officer standing nearby seemed not so convinced about the identity. The hands of the dead woman were covered with Mehandi which seemed to have been applied afresh. “There are no marks of bangles on her hand... Even there is no name of her husband (Amir) written on her hands. But you (pointing to Warisha’s mother) were saying that her husband’s name was written on her hand. There is no name written,” the woman officer is seen telling Warisha’s mother during the identification process in the video. However, Warisha’s mother is seen repeatedly telling cops and others standing nearby that it was her daughter’s body. “During the physical identification of the body, the family insisted that it was their daughter’s body although our officials were not so convinced. But we finally relented and went by what the family claimed. The entire sequence of events is being probed and if her family’s intention is found to be malafide, they will face legal action,” Kumar added. The Bulandshahr police said that they dropped the charges of dowry death against her in-laws but other sections against them will remain as they allegedly harassed the woman for dowry and even beat her up. Warisha’s family could not be contacted for a comment despite repeated attempts . A Delhi resident who wrote the dowry death complaint given to Bulandshahr police on behalf of her family also declined to speak about the incident. “The woman will betaken for her CrPC 164 statements (statements before a magistrate) on Wednesday. Once she gives her statements, we will take up investigationz accordingly,” said Diksha Singh, circle officer (city), and the case investigating officer from Bulandshahr police. The body of the unidentified woman is still buried in Aligarh and the Ghaziabad police said that it will be exhumed during the course of investigations. SSP Kalanidhi Naithani did not respond to repeated calls for a comment.“Our teams are trying to trace her identity (of the dead woman). We will soon take a call for exhuming the body. Meanwhile the DNA and viscera of the woman is preserved and will aid in investigations,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/body-in-suitcase-family-of-aligarh-victim-under-scanner/story-qBKuKW4eJU5pgf0J3DNt6I.html
05-08-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 drugs racket: Role of Delhi hospitals under scanner||A special investigations team (SIT) probing the alleged racket wherein pharmaceutical drugs and medicines, including those used in the treatment of Covid-19 and cancer, were being smuggled to Iraq, has decided to widen its probe after three Delhi-based pharmacists were nabbed last week.The SIT now is looking at the roles of hospitals and distributors of pharmaceutical products in the national capitalIn the past three days, police have conducted raids in Delhi and the five-member SIT, headed by an ACP rank officer, has received inputs to suggest involvement of hospitals, from where the pharmacists were able to source remdesivir .Remdesivir —an experimental drug administered to Covid-19 patients in emergency situations — is directly supplied from manufacturing companies to the hospitals and there are no stockists of the drug. Chander Mohan, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), east, said, “So far, the chain has led to pharmacists in Delhi and we have obtained leads to suggest involvement of some hospitals. The investigation is focused on who was supplying these medicines, which are in short supply, to these pharmacists.” So far, four Iraqi interpreters, three pharmacists — two from Delhi and one from Jharsa in Gurugram — and a medical store attendant have been arrested for their alleged involvement in the chain. The nexus came to the fore after the police and drug control department had conducted two raids on July 28, following which four Iraqi nationals were arrested. Forty eight vials of remdesivir, 55 strips of Fabiflu (Favipiravir) and 18 packs of Lopikast — the three drugs used in the treatment of patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus — among a large cache of antibiotics, antacids, anti-allergic and other cancer treatment medicines, were recovered in the raid. One SUV and Rs 74.55 lakh cash was also seized. In subsequent investigations, police had arrested one Pardeep from Jharsa, who had allegedly supplied remdesivir to one of the arrested Iraqi nationals. Eighty four injections of remdesivir, which Pardeep had allegedly hidden in a room near a tubewell in his village in Pataudi, were recovered by the police. He had revealed during questioning that he had purchased the injections for Rs 15,000 per vial from a supplier in Delhi and sold them for Rs 18,000 per vial. Based on inputs from his questioning, police went to arrest three people from Delhi, identified as Shahid, Faizan and Tarun. Police probe has found that the Iraqi interpreters, who worked with city-based hospitals, had been smuggling medicines to Iraq for at least two years and since the pandemic, they had started dealing primarily in drugs used to treat Covid-19 which were in short supply. These drugs were sold at exorbitant prices in Iraq. The suspects worked as translators for medical tourism patients at private hospitals and enlisted the patients or their attendants as conduits and asked them to carry medicines along with their personal medicines in the flights to Iraq, where an aide would collect it from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-drugs-racket-role-of-delhi-hospitals-under-scanner/story-465VdDpAXhmf8Kc8dJBufP.html
05-08-2020||City||J&K BJP to mark one year of Article 370 abrogation by hoisting Tricolour||The Jammu and Kashmir Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ravinder Raina on Tuesday chaired a party meeting to review preparations for the grand celebrations of one year of abrogation of Article 370, which will be held on Wednesday. He attended the meeting first time after getting cured of Covid-19 infection.Raina has instructed all party leaders to strictly adhere to SOPs/guidelines issued by the Union government and other health agencies during the celebrations.He requested the party leaders to avoid gatherings and at the same time prompted them to ensure that all party activists hoist the Tricolour on the rooftops of their houses. He also appealed to the common people to express their joy by celebrating the event at their homes by lightening “Swadeshi Lights and Diyas”. Raina said the Tricolour will also be hoisted in Kathua, Samba and other places of historical importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-bjp-to-mark-one-year-of-article-370-abrogation-by-hoisting-tricolour/story-uJzN2Pny44xY3ki1zxOIaI.html
05-08-2020||Gurugram||District administration distributes family ID cards to 20 families in Gurugram||The district administration on Tuesday distributed Parivar Pehchan Patra or family ID cards to 20 families in the city. The family ID card is a unique 14-digit identity document that would provide domiciled residents of Haryana with easy access to all the social welfare schemes of the Central and the Haryana governments. Tshe scheme would also help in creating a database of residents having a domicile status of the state and rectifying the mismatch that occurs in the list of beneficiaries available with different government departments. Officials said that two lakh families in the district have been surveyed under the scheme in the last one year. The family ID card scheme was announced on January 2, 2019, by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The scheme is meant to cover 54 lakh households across a population of 2.5 crore in the state. For this, a portal, www.meraparivar.haryana.gov.in, was launched by the government last year. To create the database, the state government has utilised the existing data of the Public Distribution System (PDS) in the state, records of government employees, and the data available with the urban local bodies (ULBs). The existing data is in the verification stage as families are required to provide details, such as Aadhaar card numbers of all members, along with their contact numbers. The district administration officials said the verification process was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As per officials, from August 27 till 29, camps will be held in rural and urban parts of the city for residents to submit their details. On Tuesday, Khattar, distributed token family Id cards in Panchkula to families already verified under the scheme. Government officials from all the districts were also connected to the CM’s programme through videoconferencing. As a part of the programme, the distribution of IDs took place in all the districts including Gurugram. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner; Sanjay Singh MLA Sohna, and Satya Prakash Jaravata MLA Pataudi distributed the cards to 20 families in the district.In a press statement issued by the administration, Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner, said that nearly two lakh people in the district have been surveyed under the scheme. “The verification will continue based on which ID cards would be distributed by the local-level communities,” said Panwar. As per the statement, residents will not have to register each time for a particular scheme. The details in Family ID will be used in identifying all the people who fall under a particular scheme. Khattar said that in the next one month the entire process of data collection and verification will be completed and by September, the ID cards will be distributed. The beneficiaries can start availing the benefits under the scheme within the next three months, read the press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-administration-distributes-family-id-cards-to-20-families-in-gurugram/story-SNU9LDlaAIh80mZC6FOZ0K.html
05-08-2020||Gurugram||‘Beef’ in truck row: Delegation meets police chief to demand action, victim recalls horror||Four days after a 25-year-old man was beaten up by a group of men on the suspicion that he was carrying beef in his pick-up truck, residents from the victim’s village in Ghasera, Nuh, along with some members of the Muslim community met police commissioner KK Rao on Tuesday and urged him to take appropriate action in the matter. The delegation also handed over a memorandum in this regard, which demanded that all perpetrators be arrested and charged with attempt to murder. The delegation also wanted the best medical assistance from the state government for the victim, Lukman. A statement issued by the members of the delegation read, “The perpetrators of this crime seem to have no fear of even the police as they can be seen misbehaving with our state police force as well. This is obviously an attempt to disturb communal amity in the city and create an atmosphere of fear among the Muslim community. ” Mufti Mohd Saleem Qasmi from Jamiat Ulama I Hind (Gurugram), who led Muslim community members on Tuesday, said, “To protect the pluralistic example of this city, the Gurugram administration needs to urgently instil a sense of security among those who reside here.” Calling the incident a ‘deplorable’ act, police commissioner Rao reiterated that the suspects will not be spared. “Strict action has already been taken. Some media reports said that the victim was beaten up in the presence of policemen. This is not the case. A homeguard official from the traffic police, who was present at the trunk market near Sadar bazaar when the incident was first reported, tried to stop the suspects but he could not handle the situation initially.Also a rumour was spread that the victim is already on the way to the hospital. After checking, the SHO concerned reached the spot and took him to the hospital in his car,” said KK Rao, commissioner of police, Gurugram while speaking to the media. The SHO was later suspended for allegedly failing to take action on the spot.He added that the four main suspects, who had assaulted the victim with a hammer and rods, have been arrested and booked under section 307 (attempt-to-murder) of Indian Penal Code. “At the time of registering the FIR, some facts were not clear. After investigations and talking to the victim, the police themselves added the additional charges in the FIR. At least seven more suspects have been identified and they shall be arrested soon. Three police officials have been suspended for negligence as they failed to take action on the spot. There will be no laxity in probe,” he added. Victim recounts incident (can be inset)Lukman, 25, who is recovering at a hospital in Nuh, on Monday night recounted the incident and stated that he was battered with a hammer and sticks for close to 20 minutes near the meat market before being rescued. “When I noticed that some men were chasing me on motorcycles near a traffic signal, I called Tahir, to whom I was delivering the buffalo meat. He told me to come to Sadar Bazar. I was scared since the accused were asking me to stop the pick-up truck. They cornered me near the main road and started kicking me. Someone picked up a hammer from a shop and they took turns hitting me with the hammer. A man intervened and tried to stop them, but he was slapped. I told them repeatedly that I was ferrying buffalo meat not cow meat,” said Lukman. He added that he was then bundled into his truck and taken to another location. “I was praying but the suspects asked me to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’. I told them that you can shoot me if there is beef in my truck. They took Rs 20,000 cash from my pocket and another Rs 50,000 that was kept in the truck. The suspects were talking about taking me to a cremation ground and threatened to burn me alive. Policemen were trying to rescue me, but the suspects confronted the policemen. You can see in the videos. I was barely conscious and could not mention several things to the police and can only faintly recall whatever has been mentioned in the FIR,” he said. Subash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “The FIR does not mention that the victim was forced to chant slogans or cash was stolen from him. The investigation is going on and no such link has come out in the probe so far.” Police have arrested four suspects, including the prime suspect, who was seen raining hammer blows on the victim in a video that had surfaced online. The case is being investigated by the crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/beef-in-truck-row-delegation-meets-police-chief-to-demand-action-victim-recalls-horror/story-eLwB15CgWOCTrGOt9w9G0J.html
05-08-2020||Gurugram||Antigen detection tests to be conducted in all urban primary health centres in Gurugram||In order to ramp up the testing capacity, the district health department has decided to allow rapid antigen detection tests for Covid-19 in all the 19 urban primary health centres (UPHCs) in the city, starting Wednesday. Earlier this month, the primary health centres were also allowed to collect samples for the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction(RT-PCR) tests at the local level and transport these samples to the government lab at the Civil Hospital, Sector 10. The decision to allow UPHCs to conduct both antigen and RT-PCR tests is a part of the ongoing efforts to improve the health infrastructure in the city by strengthening the primary health centres, said officials. Experts say that strengthening UPHCs for Covid-19 sample collection and testing would help in the early detection of suspected cases that would prevent mortality and help in spreading public awareness regarding the disease. The district health department has conducted 48,774 antigen detection tests so far, out of which 1,345 have tested positive. Among those tested negative, 4,891 samples were taken for the confirmatory RT-PCR test, of which 550 were confirmed to be Covid-19 positive. The rapid antigen detection tests that began in the city on June 24, is mainly being conducted in the containment zones and the large outbreak regions (LORs) of the city. The antigen detection test looks for the toxin or the foreign substance in the body that triggers an immune response. It is helpful in quickly detecting and isolating infected patients. “Apart from conducting tests in camps, the UPHCs will now have the facility to conduct the rapid antigen tests. Earlier, UPHCs were only permitted to collect samples for RT-PCR from 9am to 2pm daily for residents who are suspicious of the SARS-CoV-2 virus symptoms and want to get tested without any hassle. Antigen tests will now be allowed in all the 19 UPHCs during the same time slot,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram.For this, the health department has distributed 100 kits to each UPHC. “ These kits will be used only for symptomatic patients and high-risk contacts of an already confirmed case. Those getting tested for antigen detection will have to show proper identification,” said Yadav. To test high-risk contacts of confirmed Covid-19 patients, teams at the UPHCs will use their respective data bases of all confirmed cases. “The Rapid Response Team (RRT) at the local level are aware of the people in the community. They are working with a population size of 1,000 to 2,000, which helps them in tracing the high-risk contacts. Based on their know- how about the community, these kits will be utilised,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer. Over the last one month, efforts have been made to strengthen the UPHCs to deliver better outcomes in tackling the pandemic. All the UPHCs are required to update on a daily basis the list of people in their areas whose samples are being collected for the RT-PCR test, their contacts, and those who are being tested positive. Importance of primary health centresExperts are of the opinion that primary health centres are critical in handling infectious diseases as they are the first point of care for people. The functioning of such primary health centres was earlier restricted to only a few areas of healthcare, namely antenatal care, child birth, neonatal and infant healthcare, childhood and adolescent healthcare, family planning, usage of contraceptives and other areas of reproductive health.. The 2017 National Health Policy recommended establishment of PHCs as health and wellness centres. The range of services were expanded to include management of infectious, communicable and non-communicable diseases along with care for the elderly, palliative health care, and mental health issues. Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India ( PHFI) said, “In an epidemic, PHCs have a critical role to play. Nearly 80% of the infections can be addressed at the PHC-level, where based on the screening alone, early diagnosis of the patient can be done. Early detection, testing and surveillance are possible at the local level. Although RT-PCR is the gold standard for frontline testing for Covid-19, arrangements for antigen testing at primary would help in identifying a higher number of high-risk cases.” Calling it a positive move, K Sujatha Rao, former secretary, union ministry of health and family welfare, who is also the former director general, National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) said, “During the time, when HIV was widely prevalent in the country, HIV-ELISA (Enzyme - Linked Immunosorbent Assay) test was being conducted at the PHC level to identify patients. Diagnosis at the primary level helps in preventing morbidity and mortality.”According to Rao, for Covid-19 antigen testing, the team at the local level should to be careful of false negatives as antigen tests have a higher percentage of false negatives. “If 100 people are tested for antigen and 70 are negative, then it is important to figure out how many should be tested for RT-PCR. This is because, there are chances of missing out an infected person,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/antigen-detection-tests-to-be-conducted-in-all-urban-primary-health-centres-in-gurugram/story-kGMlPFvDVRl59FpjhQBgdI.html
05-08-2020||City||Greater Noida passes ₹4367 crore budget;₹2000 crore set aside for buying agricultural land||The Greater Noida authority on Tuesday approved an annual budget of ₹4367.8 crore in its 118th board meeting conducted over a webinar for the first time. Officials said the budget allocation remain unaffected amid the pandemic and allocated ₹2000 crore for procuring agricultural land for various projects.Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the board meeting took place first time via the as most of the top officials including infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon who is also chairman of the Greater Noida authority and principal secretary for industrial development, Alok Kumar, could not travel from Lucknow. The Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO)Ritu Maheshwari and the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority’s additional CEO Ravinder Singh also took part in the board meeting via video conferencing, said officials.“Our budget for the financial year remains unaffected despite the pandemic. We have decided to spend ₹888 crore on new infrastructure projects to make the city a better place. We have tried to accelerate growth in the financial year 2020-21 with the budget allocations in different heads,” said Narendra Bhooshan chief executive office, Greater Noida authority.The authority has decided to spend ₹2,000 crore on buying agricultural land from the farmers with an aim to provide land for setting up industrial units in the city. The authority aims to buy at least 2,500 acres of land which can be allotted to interested corporates and international and domestic investors who want to set up manufacturing units in the city. Officials said thy have allocated ₹2000 crore for buying land to fuel the local economy which will lead to creation of jobs in this region for youngsters.The authority has sanctioned ₹193 crore for investment expenditure. This fund is set aside as the authority’s contribution in the development of airport and other projects such as construction of new buildings owned by the authority.The authority aims to collect ₹573 from selling properties that include plots and flats. It will spend ₹ 67 crore on ongoing construction and development projects in 2020-21. The estimates for projects for roads, drainage and sewage network worth ₹31 crore are being prepared. And tenders worth ₹ 67crore are already in the pipeline.The authority has also given legal sanction to residents’ welfare associations to monitor and spend financial . The authority has extended the one-time settlement scheme (OTS) for three months which means that the allottees (owners of authority’s flat and plot schemes) can settle their outstanding bills by September 30, 2020. The authority has also extended the outstanding payment scheme till December 30, 2020 for construction of a building for residential, industrial and other purposes. Once the building is ready the owner has to obtain the completion certificate and make payments. “But due to the Covid 19 crisis, the construction work was disrupted and property builders can take benefit of extension of the date till December 30, 2020,” said Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-passes-4367-crore-budget-2000-crore-set-aside-for-buying-agricultural-land/story-4OpwkaJWtCcCnQtbtK09VO.html
05-08-2020||City||Woman alleges rape, 32-year-old man arrested in Greater Noida||The Greater Noida police on Tuesday arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly raping a 32-year-old woman on the pretext of marriage.The police said that suspect took the woman to Mathura and allegedly raped her multiple times in the past six months. He also allegedly threatened the woman, who is already married, of dire consequences if she disclosed the matter to anybody. Around two weeks ago, the woman returned to Greater Noida and filed a police complaint based on which the suspect was arrested on Tuesday.Vineet Kumar, station house officer, Rabupura police station, said the woman and the suspect, who is also married, used to live in Rabupura area. “The woman lives with her husband and four children. Six months ago, the suspect somehow lured the woman and took her to Mathura, while their family members were back here in Greater Noida,” he said.The police said the woman told them that the suspect, identified as Subhash, had promised to marry her and the two lived on together in a rented accommodation in Mathura where he repeatedly raped her. “I became pregnant, but the suspect got the child aborted. When I asked him to get married, he abused me and fled,” the woman said in her complaint.The woman returned to Greater Noida and informed the police about the matter. A case was registered against the suspect under sections 313 (causing miscarriage without consent), 376 (rape), 452 (house-trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code on July 22.“On Tuesday, the police team found the suspect roaming near the Rabupura roundabout from where he was arrested,” the SHO said. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-alleges-rape-32-year-old-man-arrested-in-greater-noida/story-idaWEjZmBDPQ8Wkz9GJ7aO.html
05-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Number of containment zones rise due to revision in their area||The district has added as many as 34 containment zones in less than 10 days even as the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the period have not been significant.The number of containment zones in Ghaziabad has seen a rise since July 24 after the Uttar Pradesh government decided to revise the area of the category-1 (having one positive case) and category-2 (having multiple cases) zones. Officials of the district administration attribute the new scenario to lesser area assigned to each of the new containment zones. According to official records, the district on July 24 had the presence of 315 containment zones while the number of active cases stood at 909. On August 3, when a fresh list of containment zones was prepared, the list had a total of 349 zones with 929 active cases. On July 24, the state government had reduced the area of containment zones under both the categories. “The issue of rise in number of containment zones is due to the fact that the areas of containment zones got lessened as per the government order. Now, with the revised area, we have to define several containment zones to accommodate the cases. That is why the number has gone up,” said CP Tiwari, additional district magistrate (city). “In case more cases arrive now, we will have to accommodate all active cases and more numbers of containment zones will be marked. Earlier, the area was more, so we could accommodate more cases in a single containment zone,” he added. According to UP government’s order, the category-1 zones will have an area of 100 metres radius as against 250 metres earlier. The category-2 zones will have an area of 200 metres radius as against the previous area of 500 metres, along with additional buffer zone of 250 metres. “Since the order directed that the buffer zone in case of category-2 zones will be assessed based on local conditions, we are not defining any particular area for it. The buffer zone for each category-2 zone is assessed on local conditions,” ADM Tiwari said. The containment zones are created in case of emergence of Covid-19 cases and various exercises like surveillance, sanitization and door-to-door surveys are taken up in order to contain infection as well as break its chain from spreading further. “The rise in number of containment zones is due to the revision in area. But we are ensuring that the containment zones are sealed and de-sealed as per guidelines. Our activities of surveillance and containment have also been stepped up and we are also focussing on carrying out testing in containment zones,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Under the Unlock 3 guidelines issued by the UP government on July 30, state chief secretary RK Tiwari had said that the lockdown conditions will be applicable in the containment zones till August 31. “The containment zones will be defined as per the government order issued on July 24 and the list of containment zones will also be uploaded on the website by the district administration,” the order had said.On June 14, the UP government had issued revised guidelines in which they said that high-rise buildings/towers will be sealed only for 14 days as against 21 days earlier as part of the containment exercise. The directions were issued after residents had approached officials about the inconvenience faced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-number-of-containment-zones-rise-due-to-revision-in-their-area/story-Y2Z8pq8aBZdpBVOfFpU2CJ.html
05-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad ‘discharges’ first batch of 34 patients in home isolation||Ghaziabad Almost two weeks after the first Covid-19 patient was allowed home isolation in the district, the first batch of 34 such patients was ‘discharged’ on Tuesday. None of the patients under home isolation got into critical condition as a result of strict monitoring, district administration officials said, adding that they would remain in home quarantine for seven more days. The first patient in Ghaziabad, who was allowed home isolation on July 22, is a 31-year-old man from a locality under the jurisdiction of Indirapuram police station. According to the guidelines issued by the UP government, the patients in home isolation will be termed as discharged in 10-day period from the date of Covid-19 test, if they do not have fever during the past three days. “Based on guidelines for patients in home isolation, we have started with their discharge. The first batch of 34 patients was discharged on Tuesday after completion of 10 days. Now, they will have to remain in home quarantine for a further period of seven days as per norms. As a result of regular monitoring, none of the patients got into any critical condition,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “Our teams deployed at the dedicated control room are taking up daily update of health status, oxygen levels and temperatures of the patients who are in home isolation. We have laid special emphasis on the monitoring aspect of such patients as they are not under direct observation of our doctors,” he added. The Uttar Pradesh government on July 20 allowed for home isolation of asymptomatic patients with certain criteria. Prior to this, all the positive patients, whether symptomatic or asymptomatic, had to be admitted to Covid hospitals. “Since the patients in home isolation need not get physically discharged from any Covid facility, we will update the portal and mark these as discharged upon completion of the criteria mentioned for their discharge. During the further seven days’ period of home quarantine, such cases will not be termed as patients. However, they will continue to monitor their health with the help of medical kit available with them. There will be no need of any testing once the home isolation period ends,” said an officer from the health department who wished not to be named. The conditions for home isolation include the undertaking from the patient, a consulting doctor to declare the patient asymptomatic, round-the-clock availability of a caregiver for the patient, a minimum of two toilets at home and separate isolation room. Patients are also required to purchase pulse oximeter, thermometer, mask and gloves, among others. According to official records, the district had a total of 208 patients, 75 women, in home isolation till August 3 and their age ranged from one year to 66 years. About 40 of such patients were allowed the facility under the jurisdiction of Kavi Nagar police station, 53 under Sihani Gate police station, 26 under Indirapuram police station, 27 in Sahibabad, and 19 under Kotwali police station, among others. Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to come up with a plasma bank at MMG Hospital and the process for initiation for plasma therapy is already underway, the officials said. “We have a list of about 115 persons who recovered from Covid-19 and wish to donate plasma to active patients. So, we have planned that plasma bank will come up at MMG Hospital so that it can be stored safely. Our process for taking permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research is already underway. Once we get the permission, we will initiate plasma therapy. The equipment required for it will be bought from Rs 5 crore funds which will be provided to us by the government,” Pandey added. Plasma therapy involves treating a positive patient with the plasma of a compatible patient who recovered from Covid-19. The antibodies present in the plasma are expected to help the patient fight off the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-discharges-first-batch-of-34-patients-in-home-isolation/story-u9ZfXREhk3m2lrg1OZK0FM.html
05-08-2020||Gurugram||Fake currency racket busted, three held||The police on Sunday arrested three members of a gang and claimed to have busted a fake currency racket in the city that was involved in circulating counterfeit notes in Haryana, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh. The police said they received a tip-off on Sunday morning that two men had done shopping worth more than Rs 10,000 at New Palam Vihar, but the currency notes they paid turned out to be fake.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the team conducting the investigations found that the men had come on a motorcycle to buy dairy products and paid for it with currency, which was fake. The information was passed to the crime unit and based on that the men were tracked to a rented accommodation in New Palam Vihar. “One of the officials from the crime team contacted one of the suspects and tried to strike a deal. Initially he was reluctant and tried to mislead us. He later agreed and offered to deliver counterfeit notes worth Rs 5,000 for Rs 1,000,” he said. Police said after the time of delivery was fixed, they raided the house and arrested three men from the spot. They were identified as Sanjeev Kumar and Ritik Kumar of village Gochi in Jhajjar and Bhavishya Singh of Sonipat. Police allegedly recovered printers from the room which were used for printing the currency. During questioning the suspects revealed that they took three months of training from Uttar Pradesh and then they starting making printouts of currency notes to match the original, said police. “Two of them were experts in printing and could replicate the watermark which was similar to those found on original notes. After checking the notes carefully, it was found that some features were missing and paper used for the notes was different than the ones used in original currency,” said Sangwan. The gang earlier used to watch YouTube to take the training but could not learn the techniques following which they contacted a person who had served jail time in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh for printing counterfeit notes, said police. “We recovered fake notes worth Rs 19,100 in the denomination of Rs 200 and Rs 100, apart from Rs 1,000 in genuine cash. During questioning, the man revealed that they formed a team through common friends and took up a one-bedroom apartment in New Palam Vihar. They claimed that there was one more person involved in the racket that supplied fake currency notes to different part of the city as well as the state,” Sangwan said. A case under sections 26, 27, 28 and 29 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against them. The modus operandi of the gang was to sell the fake notes to traders and people dealing in changing money for less than half the rate of the denominated notes. Police said they have circulated more than Rs 20 lakh in the last four months with two printers and a computer in their room. “They had also engaged agents from different cities to identify potential customers, who would buy fake notes at one-fourth the rate and double their investment by using them in business,” Said Sangwan. Police is conducting raids and questioning more people to know the exact numbers of members involved in the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fake-currency-racket-busted-three-held/story-wEamt82cq2kSfVYkiTiBoJ.html
05-08-2020||Gurugram||Haryana’s higher education department keeps college fees unchanged in view of Covid-19 pandemic||The state higher education department on Tuesday said that it would not implement any fee hike in government colleges for the upcoming 2020-21 academic session, keeping in mind the financial distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.Usually, universities across the state increase their fees by 10-15% every year, said officials. However, according to officials, increasing the fees this year could have adverse implications for the gross enrolment ratio of the state with many students being discouraged from taking admission.In a letter shared with all government colleges on Tuesday, the department said that this year too, the fee structure for the 2018-19 session will continue to prevail. This is the second year in a row that the higher education department has not hiked fees for colleges in the state. Earlier, in November 2019, the department was forced to roll back fee hike for the 2019-2020 session after protests by students.The department said that this year, the Covid-19 pandemic had caused major disruptions in the lives of people across the globe. It has created new challenges and put extreme economic pressure on people. This necessitated that fee structure is kept unchanged, keeping in mind the shifting ground realities.SP Sukhija, joint director-2, department of higher education, said that the department had taken the decision of not increasing college fees this year keeping in mind the interests of the students. “We have been receiving many representations and requests from people expressing their inability to pay an increased fee since their source of income has dried up. Routinely, universities increase their fees by 10-15% every year. If we were to go by the usual precedent, fee this year would have shot up. We, however, took a compassionate view so that students don’t have to suffer and pay an increased fee,” said Sukhija.He added that hiking the fee could have discouraged students from weaker economic sections of the society from taking admission. “If the fee is hiked and the students are not in a position to take admission, then this would adversely affect the enrolment ration in the state. We don’t want our students to be deprived of education due to higher fees,” said Sukhija.The decision to keep the fee structure unchanged this year had earlier been discussed in a meeting with all principals that took place last Sunday. Pooja Khullar, principal of the Dronacharya Government College, said that the decision had been taken keeping in mind the various constraints that people are facing due to the pandemic. “There will be no enhancement of fees this year. The department has decided to continue with the old fee structure so that students are not dissuaded from taking admission,” said Khullar.Satyamanyu Yadav, principal of Government College in Sector 9, said that the department had increased the fee last year but it had been rolled back after protests by students. This year, however, the department had decided against increasing the fee in view of the hardships faced by people because of the Covid-19 pandemic.The department of higher education is expected to initiate the online admission process for undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the coming days. Nodal admission officers have already been appointed in various colleges across the state to facilitate the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-s-higher-education-department-keeps-college-fees-unchanged-in-view-of-covid-19-pandemic/story-qnfR8rZOOSUrd9saMsIUXI.html
05-08-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Brothers stab each other to death in drunken brawl||Two brothers, aged 28 and 32 years, allegedly stabbed each other to death following an altercation outside their house in Rajiv Colony, Sahibabad, late Monday. The Ghaziabad police said both men were rushed to MMG Hospital, where they succumbed to injuries soon after. The police said 28-year-old Mohan Lal and his brother Sagar Kumar alias Mota got into a fight outside their uncle’s house, nearby their own home in Rajiv Colony. Police said the men were in an inebriated state and inflicted multiple stab wounds on each other. “There was some household dispute between the two and soon there was heated exchange of words which resulted in the fight. As both of them were intoxicated, they picked up knives from the house and stabbed each other. This resulted in critical injuries and blood loss. After the police was informed, the brothers were rushed to the hospital where they later died,” Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city), said. “There was no motive as such for the fight, except for some minor household disputes between the two brothers which finally ended in two murders. There is no issue or fight over property as their house is small -- about 50 square yards,” he added. The police said Sagar was married and had a two-year-old son and a daughter born 10 days ago. His younger brother Mohan Lal was unmarried, but used to stay in the same house with Sagar. “Soon after the incident, their cousin gave a police complaint and we registered a case of attempt to murder. But later, they men died and so the case will have no suspect or victim now,” an officer from the Sahibabad police station said. When approached, the family members declined to speak to the media. Sujit Giri, a neighbour and husband of the local councillor, said, “There were altercations between the brothers in the past as well but the one on Monday night proved fatal. They were drinking together that night and ended up fighting and stabbing each other. The family is poor and we neighbours are helping them with the last rites and autopsy formalities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-brothers-stab-each-other-to-death-in-drunken-brawl/story-SNWuiC0IqzrDL8lWhgAfXJ.html
05-08-2020||City||Murder of elderly woman: No arrest even after a week||Noida: The city police have detained 25 people for questioning in connection with the murder of a 70-year-old woman whose body was found in her Sector 15 house on July 28. However, no arrests have been made in the case, the police said.The victim, Santosh Kumari, had been found strangled in the washroom of her house by a family friend on the morning of July 28 after which a murder case was registered at Sector 20 police station. The police had said that there were no signs of forced entry suggesting that the killer was known to the woman. She lived alone on the first floor of the building while tenants lived on the ground and second floor.“So far we have questioned nearly 25 people in connection to the murder and are working on several angles,” said RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.Police officials said that most of the people who were questioned are those who were in regular contact with her, like neighbours, household staff, etc. However, there has been no concrete evidence against anyone even a week after her death.According to the police, the woman’s autopsy report had been unclear in terms of cause of death, it had indicated a murder following which her viscera samples were preserved and sent for testing. The officials said that all angles like robbery and property dispute were being probed.“We have a few leads and are working on them. Questioning is being done constantly,” said Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1.The house that the woman was living in had been sold in February, giving police another avenue to probe.The woman’s body had been found by a Delhi resident who had been asked to check up on her by her son who lives outside India. The police believe that she had been killed on the night of July 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murder-of-elderly-woman-no-arrest-even-after-a-week/story-e1X6tFKO42jTqNOmYqz1jJ.html
05-08-2020||City||Noida: Another SHO tests positive for Covid-19||A station house officer(SHO) of a police station in Greater Noida tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19 )on Tuesday. The police officer is the second SHO to be infected with the disease in the district’s police force which has reported a total of 76 infections so far.Another police officer at the police station where the SHO—who had returned from leave only a few days ago—was deployed has also tested positive for Covid-19.“The SHO and a senior sub-inspector were showing mild symptoms like fever and were tested for Covid-19. The reports came back positive on Tuesday and they were admitted for treatment at a hospital in Greater Noida,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.The police nodal officer for coronavirus, Ankur Aggarwal, said according to government regulations the entire police station concerned has been sanitised and will remain closed for 24 hours. The police personnel and the other staff at the station have also been tested and their reports are awaited, he added.The police said they will also work on tracing members of the general public who may have come in contact with the infected police officers in the past few days.Before this, the SHO of Sector 49 police station in Noida had tested positive for the infection in June. A total of nine police personnel from the station had tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 virus on June 13. Till Tuesday, 76 police personnel in the district had tested positive. The first case in the district police force had come to light on May 5 when a policeman with Dial 112 in the Sector 20 police jurisdiction had tested positive.Of the total cases in the force, 65 police personnel have already recovered while 10 are still undergoing treatment. A 57-year-old diabetic constable posted at the district court had succumbed to the disease on June 27.The nodal officer said that most of the new cases are either asymptomatic or those with very mild symptoms.Meanwhile, the department maintained that police personnel deployed in containment zones were being regularly tested apart from random testing of other police personnel and front-line workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-another-sho-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-cOYi60BYG62gjVnCNtbyHM.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai defers 1st merit list for degree courses to August 6||The University of Mumbai (MU) on Tuesday decided to postpone the announcement of the first merit list to undergraduate degree courses by two days after it decided to revise the schedule. The first merit list, which was originally scheduled to be released at 7pm on Tuesday, will now be released at 11am on Thursday, August 6.In a circular released on Tuesday, the university announced the revised schedule and reiterated that the admission process remains as explained in the previous circular.A senior official from the university told HT that the decision to revise the schedule was to ensure that all students have enough time to complete the registration and college admission form filling process. “Many affiliated colleges spread across Raigad, Palghar and Sindhudurg have been facing trouble because of the lockdown and incessant rains. Therefore, their staff has not managed to report to duty. The extension was given keeping them in mind,” the official said.The university has asked students to submit a declaration form along with their pre-admission registration form, to the allotted college, in order to confirm their admissions. The colleges, in turn, have been asked to give provisional admission based on the certificate, and confirm the same after students submit a hard copy of their mark sheet and all other necessary documents at a later date.“All colleges shall provide an online system in order to avoid the physical presence of students. Colleges in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, and Palghar, where an online system is difficult to implement, can ask students to visit the college campus, provided they ensure social distancing norms are adhered to,” stated the circular dated August 4.BOX:Revised schedule for degree college admissions:*Sale of admission forms (colleges to make it available online): July 24 to August 5 (Till 1pm)*Pre-admission online forms: July 22 to August 5 (till 1pm)*Submission of admission forms along with a copy of the pre-admission form (in-house and minority quota admissions to be completed in this period): July 27 to August 5 (till 3pm)*First merit list: August 6 (11am)*Verification of documents and payment of fees: August 6 to August 11 (till 3pm)*Second merit list: August 11 (7pm)*Verification of documents and payment of fees: August 12 to August 17 (till 3pm)*Third merit list: August 17 (7pm)*Verification of documents and payment of fees: August 18 to August 21(till 3pm) *Link for online pre-admission registration is available on mum.digitaluniversity.ac||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-defers-1st-merit-list-for-degree-courses-to-august-6/story-qnDJ8jrX7pNjFZHKwB6V1L.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||Agreement in place to install smog tower at Anand Vihar||The Centre has formalised an agreement for setting up the first smog tower in Delhi on an experimental basis at Anand Vihar to curb rising air pollution. The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) has entered a tripartite agreement on July 30 with IIT-Bombay, the technical supervisor of the project, and Tata Projects Limited (TPL), the agency that will execute the project within 10 months after the designs are obtained from US-based University of Minnesota, which holds the patent for the technology.Last week, the Supreme Court had warned that it would initiated contempt proceedings against IIT-Bombay for threatening to back out of the proposal to construct smog towers in Delhi.In an affidavit filed by MoEFCC in order to persuade the court from taking an adverse view of the delay to execute the project. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra that the first installment for the project, estimated at Rs 18.58 crore, has been released and once the design of the tower is available from University of Minnesota, work will begin. The project management consultant will be National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC), Mehta informed. The bench, also comprising Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari said, “We want to know when the initial hiccups will be over and the work will begin.” The Court posted the matter for Monday. The bench had last week expressed dissatisfaction over the technical designs for the smog tower being unavailable. The court reminded the Centre of its February 28 order this year directing work on the smog tower to commence forthwith. The bench was under an impression that tower designs and specifications were already in place. The MoEFCC affidavit clarified that the delay was in finalising the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). As per the initial agreement, TPL was to obtain the designs and specification from University of Minnesota. But this took time as IIT-Bombay insisted on adding TPL in the MoU only by April this year. On April 22, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) convened a special meeting to approve the tripartite agreement between Ministry, IIT-B and TPL. The agreement was signed on July 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/agreement-in-place-to-install-smog-tower-at-anand-vihar/story-0ioKdPGcKU90Ei8Gx7aFkO.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Dahisar river overflows, floods structures at SGNP||Heavy rain led to the overflow of the Dahisar river in the northwestern suburbs on Monday and Tuesday, inundating parts of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), and causing road damage. Areas within and along the periphery of SGNP in Borivli witnessed waterlogging with the national park office and six structures of staff quarters getting flooded. “All structures had 1.5-foot-high water. Our staff is working on its removal. However, more flooding was witnessed along Shanti Van bridge at SGNP’s periphery, which has brought traffic to a standstill,” said Vijay Barabde, range forest officer, SGNP. Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife-west), said, “Luckily no animals have been injured in the wild or at the animal rescue centres, and there have been minimal tree fall cases. Fortunately, an accurate forecast by the weather bureau helped us identify the risk we were facing. On Monday, all major files, electronics, and other valuables were kept at a height of five feet and above, to ensure they do not get damaged.” Last year, the park’s offices were flooded up to 3.5 feet, and important documents and computers were damaged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dahisar-river-overflows-floods-structures-at-sgnp/story-kMpONb26jwgEPNY6BC4rgJ.html
05-08-2020||City||15-year-old electrocuted by live cable on waterlogged road in Thane, dies||A 15-year-old boy was electrocuted and died on the spot on Tuesday morning after he came in contact with a live cable on a waterlogged road near his house in Owala, Thane.The live cable submerged in 2.5-foot-deep water near an electric pole. Heavy rain lashed Thane and Kalyan cities since early on Tuesday, leading to waterlogging at several places.The boy, Rakib Ashapuram Mandal, a resident of Vivek Seth chawl, got electrocuted near the Hanuman temple on Ghodbunder Road. “When the water started entering his home, Mandal stepped out to look for help. This is when he got electrocuted,” said an officer from Kasarvadavli police station. “His body was taken to a civil hospital for a post-mortem, and Kasarvadavli police are investigating further,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, regional disaster management cell, Thane.Waterlogging was also experienced in Kopri, Anand Nagar, Vrindavan Society, and Wagale Estate areas in Thane.Thane city recorded 100mm of rainfall on Tuesday, with water entering some houses in Bhiwandi and other low-lying areas.A 90-foot-wide compound wall of a housing society collapsed on three vehicles near Kirkire chawl opposite Nilgiri Society, Pokhran Road number 2. Part of a ceiling collapsed in an apartment in Vrushti building, Vartak Nagar, but no one was injured.Tree fall incidents were reported in 13 locations across Thane city on Tuesday.Kalyan recorded 50 mm of rainfall, leaving commuters stranded at Kalyan railway station after cancellation of services on Tuesday morning.“With trains cancelled and fewer buses, the crowd outside Kalyan station increased. We had to wait for an hour to get transport back home in the morning,” said Rajesh Kankal, 43, a resident of Kalyan who works in Prabhadevi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-year-old-electrocuted-by-live-cable-on-waterlogged-road-in-thane-dies/story-8uGtqWXPKdKoM4vobWmVfL.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai drowns under its monsoon woes||A house collapse leading to two deaths, waterlogging and shutting of local train services – heavy rain in the city and suburbs since Monday night brought back every year’s monsoon woes.Four from a family fell into a nullah in Vakola after parts of a ground-plus-one house collapsed along with the retaining wall around 11.30am. Two of them – a 1-year-old girl and a 26-year-old woman – died, a three-year-old girl was rescued and was in stable condition, while one girl was missing. The house was located on the banks of the nullah in Santacruz (East), according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s disaster management cell. The Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) had suspended search operations at the time of going to press owing to the darkness. The search will continue on Wednesday. “The house was constructed using support from the wall, and was probably an illegal structure. The load of the structure might have also resulted in the wall collapse, due to which parts of the house collapsed,” said a BMC official. “No major evacuation of those residing on the banks of the rivers or nullahs was undertaken on Tuesday, but will be undertaken, if necessary. The situation of Covid-19 also has to be considered before moving citizens to nearby municipal schools.”The heavy rain till 12 noon led to waterlogging in 20 locations. At 9am, BMC asked all non-essential offices to remain shut. Traffic was affected on several roads owing to the closure of Milan subway, Andheri subway, Khar subway, Malad subway, National College and Dahisar subway.Train services on the Central Railway’s (CR) main and harbour line were shut in the morning owing to waterlogging at Kurla, Wadala, Chunabhatti and Parel stations. CR’s local train services on the main line resumed at 2.55pm, and on the harbour line at 4.08pm. On the Western Railway (WR), train services between Churchgate and Andheri were suspended due to waterlogging in the morning.“Due to heavy rain, about 200mm water was reported on tracks between Dadar and Prabhadevi. After water levels receded, the first slow train from Andheri resumed at 11.40am and fast local train service from Virar resumed at 12.45pm.” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, Western Railway.The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) also diverted its buses on more than 56 routes in the city owing to waterlogging on 26 roads. Waterlogging was also reported at Hindmata, Gandhi market, SIES College, Sion, Dadar TT, Bhendi Bazar, JJ flyover junction, Thakurdwar in Marine Lines, Postal Colony in Chembur, Chunabhatti railway station, Mankhurd station and Tilak Nagar station.Two minors, including Adnan Shaikh, 5, and Imran Shaikh, 13, were injured as a tree fell on their house. The incident was reported at 2.11am on Tuesday at Chembur’s HP Nagar. Both were admitted to Shatabdi Hospital in Govandi. Overall, 142 incidents of tree/ branch fall were reported between 8am on August 3 and 6pm on August 4.Further, a landslide was reported on the Western Express Highway near Malad around 7.30am. No injuries were reported, but traffic on the southbound lane was hit for a few hours as the debris was being cleared.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, mayor Kishori Pednekar and guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray visited several parts of the city on Tuesday to take a stock of the situation. Thackeray visited Hindmata and Gandhi market junction where rain water did not drain out for hours. Chahal also visited Mithi river, BKC, Milan subway and Andheri subway.Sanjay Darade, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “We briefed them about the situation and the ground challenges. By the time, rain got lighter, high tide was scheduled due to which rainwater took time to drain out. Our pumps were working fine, and the drains were also cleaned before the monsoon.”Nikhil Desai, a civic activist from Matunga said, “BMC spent around ₹100 crore to widen the drain at Hindmata, but despite this, we see flooding there. Several areas were waterlogged till 5pm, when there was no or light rain. This means that cleaning of drains was not done properly.”Meanwhile, starting Wednesday, 20% water cut will be implemented in the city owing to low rainfall in catchment areas. The water level in the seven lakes supplying drinking water to Mumbai was 34.95% as of Tuesday, compared to 91% in 2019 and 83% in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-die-in-house-collapse-waterlogging-witnessed-at-20-spots-in-mumbai/story-ORFyh8BNZylBUauGUkbwxH.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||Deadline for second sero survey extended till Aug 7||The results of Delhi’s second serological survey for Covid-19 are likely to be announced by August 10, senior government officials said on Tuesday even as the deadline for the collection of samples was extended by two days till August 7. Around 15,000 blood samples – half of which will be from people between the ages of 18 and 49 -- will be collected from across Delhi between August 1 and 5, according to guidelines released by the state government for the city’s second serological survey for Covid-19 will be carried out, setting a target that is slightly lower than the previous such study.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said, “We will have to extend the serological survey in Delhi by two more days. Around 15,000 samples will be collected for the survey.” The extension, the official said, is on account of two festival holidays -- Eid-ul Zuha on Saturday and Rakshabandhan on Monday -- that led to a reduction in the number of people who came to centres to get their blood drawn. The findings of the study will help determine how much closer Delhi has gotten to the herd immunity threshold after the first serological survey in Delhi covering close to 21,800 people between June 27 and July 10, showed 22.86% of those tested had antibodies and we thus possibly immune to the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19. The sample collection for the second round started on August 1 in four districts – North, Northwest, New Delhi and South. In all, 15,015 samples – from a cross-section of people selected to represent Delhi’s population demographic and – will be collected and tested for Sars-Cov-2 antibodies that will indicate a past infection. “The repeated sero-surveillance will help us understand what proportion of people has been exposed since the last round and tell us whether the circulation is still on. It will also help us understand the proportion of cases that actually need medical attention—what it shows so far is that a majority of the cases are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. However, we still do not know whether the presence of the antibodies will protect against a second infection and whether enough number of people with such protection can create a barrier and protect others from the infection,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology at ICMR.“If we go by the experience of other coronaviruses, the antibodies offer protection for a few months to a couple of years. But we do not know whether Sars-CoV-2 behaves like other viruses,” he said.The highest number of samples has to be collected are from the Northwest district (2,200), followed by West (2,145), and Central (1,548). The fewest will be from New Delhi district, where 885 have to be collected, according to the break-up given in the standard operating procedure (SOP) of the government, a copy of which is with HT. Each team, which can collect 25 to 40 samples a day, will consist of ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), a phlebotomist or a lab technician, and a community volunteer. Samples will be processed in 18 laboratories across the Capital, in Delhi government and central government hospitals, including the NCDC laboratory.Unlike the first round of the surveillance, where all of the samples had been collected door-to-door, the government has also allowed collection at selected spots and health centre. All those included in the previous sero-surveillance done between June 27 and July 10 will be excluded from the second round of the survey. A serological survey in Mumbai in July end -- conducted only in three wards as against all 11 districts in Delhi -- found that 57% of those living in slums and 16% of non-slum dwellers had antibodies against the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/deadline-for-second-serological-study-extended-till-aug-7-results-likely-by-aug-10/story-uR9ak8uxz1inG7gUX2zLMI.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||Why is Delhi govt resisting court monitoring of testing in city, asks HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said it did not understand the reason for the Delhi government’s “resistance” to the courts monitoring from time to time the ramping up of Covid-19 testing in the city.The remark came after the Delhi government told the court that issues raised (by other pleas) have already been addressed and adequate steps have been taken to manage health care and other services in the national capital.A bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad, while hearing a plea filed through advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking to increase Covid-19 testing in the city, was told by the Delhi government counsel that last week, another bench of the Delhi high court had disposed of a similar plea during which the court had noted that adequate steps have been taken by the government to fight the pandemic.Delhi government counsel Satyakam also raised questions on the maintainability of the application and said the petitioner should have filed a separate petition rather than filing an application in an already disposed of matter.He said such applications can be filed only for making corrections/modifications in the order but not for raising fresh concerns and hence the matter should not be heard any further.However, the court said the earlier pleas, which were decided by the other benches, were concerned with the treatment, availability of beds, personal protective equipment kits, ambulances and denial of treatment to patients.The bench also said in the course of the past two months, rapid expansion has taken place in terms of testing as the Delhi government understood the breadth of the infection and took measures to deal with it. It also said that taking note of the orders and facts in place, lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal had also constituted a committee to look into Covid-19 testing and care.“...the resistance of the Delhi government to this court monitoring the progress made in ramping up the testing, is incomprehensible when admittedly, this is not an adversarial litigation and it is purely in the interest of the citizens of Delhi that all government departments and agencies act in tandem and work collectively to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic for larger public good. The technical plea taken by the government on the maintainability of an application in a disposed of matter would have engaged this Court had it been a routine litigation between two private parties. This is not so here,” the court said.During the hearing, the Delhi government, in a status report, told the court that the mandate of the Delhi government is to ramp up testing and deploy a combination of both rapid antigen testing and RT-PCR testing in such a manner that all categories of vulnerable groups and areas are covered.It also said the Delhi government, till July 30, had conducted 5,24,431 RT-PCR tests -- 27,604 tests per million -- which are more than double the national average of 13,647 tests per million.It asked the Delhi government to file a fresh status report and posted the matter for August 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/why-is-delhi-govt-resisting-court-monitoring-of-testing-in-city-asks-hc/story-Is21rNNsPY67SZy5rM5tHK.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||Gyms, hotels to stay shut in Delhi||Gyms and yoga centres in Delhi will stay shut which have been otherwise allowed to operate under the central government’s Unlock 3.0 guidelines — to be applicable from August 5 — the third phase of the gradual lifting of curbs announced to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Currently in Delhi, the government has done away with the curfew hours (10 pm – 5 am) under the Centre’s Unlock 3.0 guidelines. This was notified through an order issued on July 31. The same order also mentioned that other than the relaxation on curfew provisions, the status quo would remain in Delhi until further orders. Which means, as of now, yoga centres and gyms cannot operate in the city, nor can hotels and weekly markets,” said a senior official of the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe DDMA is chaired by the L-G. Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson.Last week, the Delhi government had decided to allow hotels and weekly markets to operate. But the Lieutenant Governor reversed the decision, saying the Covid situation in Delhi is still “fragile”. A senior government official said, the Delhi government is in the process of redrafting the proposal to be sent to the L-G office.A senior Delhi government official said, “In the proposal that is being redrafted, the Delhi government shall include yoga centres and gyms along with hotels and weekly markets. The final call on this will be the L-G’s. As far as the Delhi government’s opinion is concerned, they are in favour of re-opening of these activities”The central government’s un-lockdown guidelines allowed hotels and hospitality services to be operational from June 8 (under Unlock 1.0 plan). However, yoga centres and gyms were allowed to operate from August 5 (under Unlock 3.0).The Union home ministry issued the plan, “Unlock 3”, on Wednesday prepared after receiving feedback from states and in consultation held with central ministries and departments, to open up more activities outside containment zones. States have to take the final call on lockdown and relaxation norms. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on August 1 wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah, urging him to intervene and allow economic activities in Delhi. Sisodia’s letter has so far yielded no response, said another Delhi government official.Chirag Sethi, vice-president Delhi Gym Association, said: “This is a very tough situation for us and we are very anxious. We expect the government to allow gyms to open as soon as possible because the livelihood of over a lakh people depends on the fitness industry. More wait will cause more revenue loss for the industry which had been completely shut for around four months now.”Sandeep Khandelwal, president of Delhi Hotel and Restaurant Owners’ Association, said: “Hotels in Delhi employ around 400,000 people. Hotels have been shut since March 25. The hospitality industry is under a lot of stress and the government must be considerate towards us. We have written to both the Delhi government and central government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gyms-hotels-to-stay-shut-in-delhi/story-6P7FnvKZTHkjJbFLoxd4OI.html
05-08-2020||Delhi||Civil services exam results: Delhi and Delhi Police have much reason to cheer||The civil services exam results are out and among those who did Delhi proud are a police constable who joined the force as a high school graduate; a woman topper whose mother encouraged her to appear for the exam and a 23-year-old man who managed to fulfil his grandfather’s much cherished dream. The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) announced the results Wednesday and 829 candidates have been recommended for appointment to various civil services this year. Among the top five candidates, two are from Delhi -- 26-year-old Delhi topper Jatin Kishore, who secured all India rank 2, and 23-year-old Himanshu Jain, a resident of Shahdara, who secured all India rank 4 and came second in Delhi. Jain had no chance to celebrate on Wednesday as he was busy with hospital discharge formalities of his father who had been undergoing treatment for the past three weeks.“Now that my father is back home, we can all celebrate together,” said the former student of Hansraj College. “My grandfather wanted me to get into the civil services and that inspired me to take the exam. Getting into the services would provide me with the platform to work for society. When I didn’t clear the exams in my first attempt, I became more determined to do so this time,” Jain said.Kishore, an Indian economic service (IES) officer, was busy at work at the central government’s department of rural development when congratulatory calls started pouring in. Kishore, who lives in East of Kailash, said, “IAS (Indian administrative service) offers more field exposure and we can work on the ground to impact more lives directly. That is why I appeared for the UPSC exams even after clearing IES,” said Kishore. So did he expect to be the Delhi topper? Kishore said, “I don’t think anyone expects this. It has been a good surprise.”Also, on top of the world on Wednesday was Delhi Police constable Firoz Alam, who works with the police control room and secured all India rank of 645 in his sixth attempt. He said, “This was my final attempt at cracking the exams. Seeing senior officers in the force over the years, I too was inspired to serve my country in a better manner which is why I on kept trying.”Alam has been posted with the central police control room in Haiderpur since 2016. Assistant commissioner of police (PCR) Jitendra Kumar, who had background similar to his, in Hindi literature, helped him study. “We never discouraged or stopped him from taking leaves for exam preparations. He was a high school graduate when he joined the force and now, after completing his graduation and postgraduation while in service, he has cleared the civil services as well. We are all proud of him,” the ACP said.When asked if he realised the similarities he shared with the fictional police officer Imran Ansari of popular web series Pataal Lok (he too clears the civil services exams while in service), Alam said, “ I recently saw Paatal Lok and I did happen to think I too might clear the exams while working hard. And that happened today.” Delhi commissioner of police SN Shrivastava also took to Twitter to congratulate the successful aspirants. “Very happy to share that at least 5 successful Civil Services aspirants come from Delhi Police family. Heartiest congratulations to Vishakha d/o ASI Rajkumar (6 rank), Navneet d/o Insp Mann (33), ACP Natisha (37), ACP Garima (459),Ct Firoz (645),” he tweeted.Natisha Mathur and Garima Dahiya are assistant commissioners of police (under training). Navneet Mann, 24, a resident of Naraina Vihar and an engineering graduate from Delhi’s Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women, said, “My father’s work in the police force inspired me to work in the public service and on ground. During second or third year of engineering, I decided to opt for civil services.” The second all India woman topper is also from Delhi. Vishakha Yadav, whose father is an assistant sub-inspector with the Delhi Police, secured all India rank 6. “It was her mother who encouraged her to get into civil services after some of her friends were talking about it,” said ASI RajKumar, who is posted in Dwarka district.“Vishakha has always performed well academically and so we were confident that she would clear the exams but being ranked sixth countrywide was unbelievable,” Kumar said.Delhi lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal congratulated Vishakha and tweeted,“Heartiest congratulations to Vishakha D/o Delhi Police ASI Raj Kumar for securing 06th rank in UPSC 2019. Wish her successful & fulfilling career. Vishakha Indeed a proud moment for @DelhiPolice!”.Thirty candidates who trained at the Residential Coaching Academy (RCA) of Jamia Millia Islamia have cleared the exam this year. “Around 25 of them were residing in RCA and five were trained at the mock interview programme of the centre,” the university’s media coordinator Ahmad Azeem said. Vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar congratulated the students and said she would extend all support to the institute to better its performance in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/civil-services-exam-results-delhi-and-delhi-police-have-much-reason-to-cheer/story-cQzjQ0E8b5nCCE0TCqdjdJ.html
05-08-2020||Pune||15-min power outage at Pune’s Naidu hosp sparks panic, exposes age-old genset||PUNE Patients admitted to Naidu hospital, the only infectious disease control hospital run under the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) ambit, experienced a traumatic 15 minutes on Monday night when power supply to the premises shut down. The civic body is to now install a second generator and appoint a dedicated electrician to ensure no further power supply problems. Following the incident, PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal called a meeting on Tuesday, attended by civic health chief Dr Ramchandra Hankare and the head of the electricity department, Srinivas Kandul.“During the meeting, we discussed steps to avoid a similar incident in the future by ensuring people from the maintenance department are on duty during the night and also, to install a UPS which can act as a quick power backup until the generator takes over,” said Kandul. NCP leader Nitin Kadam said, “At 11:45 pm I got a call from one of the staff at the hospital, who said that there has been a power failure. This was particularly dangerous for those in the ICU. The power failure lasted for 15 minutes and the staff and patients, both panicked. In the last 15 days, the hospital has reported a power failure thrice. Can’t the civic body get a proper generator for the critical patients at least?”According to Kandul, the Naidu hospital has a generator back up of 125kv which, due to being old, takes time to switch on.Agarwal said she has instructed officials to visit the electricity department on Wednesday with a request to ensure no power cuts at key hospitals treating Covid patients. During the meeting, Hankare stated that the hospital ventilators have a 30-minute power back up. “Whatever has happened is a lesson for us. The battery power back up installed started immediately. Only the conversion between the genset and the ventilators did not start, but the battery backup started immediately,” said Hankare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/15-min-power-outage-at-naidu-hosp-sparks-panic-after-age-old-genset-takes-time-to-kick-in/story-qTxpggXiGNlmJN6AOp3pGI.html
05-08-2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid cases cross 63k; eight PMC hospitals remain underutilised||PUNE: When Pune reported Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 positive case during the second week of March this year, the response of Pune Municipal was usual: refer every case to Naidu hospital known for dealing with infectious diseases. While the rise in cases turned Naidu into an overflowing hospital, PMC ignored its other infrastructure, built and lying unused for years. The civic body has not learnt its lesson from previous outbreaks — Sars in 2004 and swine flu in 2009 — to better equip its medical facilities, said health activists, who staged a protest in front of PMC main building on Tuesday. Activists alleged that elected members and civic administration have always been busy building flyovers, cement roads, widen roads, take up mega projects and beautification works and neglected basic sectors like health and education in Pune. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “We are increasing the bed capacity at Dalvi Hospital, Laigude Hospital and other PMC-owned hospitals.” “Despite building infrastructure, many of PMC’s hospitals are lying used at a time when the civic body is spending crores on relatively non-important things,” said Abhijit More, co-convener of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan. The activists point out that while Covid cases in the city have crossed 63,000 as on August 4, as per the state health department data, PMC is yet to fully utilise the facilities at eight of its hospitals — Balasaheb Thackeray hospital (Mitramandal chowk), Rajmata Jijamata hospital (Mitramandal Chowk), Bindumadhav hospital (Karvenagar), Rajiv Gandhi hospital (Yerawada), Karne hospital (Yerawada), Laigude hospital (Sinhgad road), which is now used as Covid care centre, Dalvi Hospital (Shivajinagar) which has become operational) and underutilised Kamla Nehru hospital. “Instead of spending funds to create jumbo facilities, why does the state and PMC utilise these places as it will remain permanent?” said Kiran Moghe, who along with Sunit SR, Poornima Chikarmane and Medha Thatte, agitated in front of PMC main building. Former municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar, who is now working with the central government and is also the head of the central team visiting the city, accepted that the city’s health sector is neglected. Kumar said, “Even during my tenure as municipal commissioner, we neglected the health sector. A country like India does not have enough testing facility, but we are increasing the numbers. While the elected members discuss many topics at the PMC general body meeting, health issues take a back seat.” PMC and the state government are setting up two jumbo facilities, each at the cost of 70 crore having 800 beds, and a third is also planned. “The example set by the city to handle the swine flu situation was followed by other cities. As municipal commissioner during that period, we focused on contact tracing and testing and it was expected that the health infrastructure would improve to face such outbreaks in future,” said retired bureaucrat and former commissioner Mahesh Zagade. Dr Siddharth Dhende, corporator and former mayor, said, “Many civic hospitals are non-functional. With PMC unable to recruit medical staff, many of its hospitals are run by private parties. Our demand to audit these PMC hospitals run on public-private partnership (PPP) basis is yet to be met.” Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, who was former municipal commissioner, said, “Some of the hospitals and clinics are unused. PMC is trying to utilise it and some have been converted into Covid care centres. We have also strengthened the facilities at Sassoon General hospital.” Medical facility status Rs210 crore: Fund spent to set up three jumbo hospitals 6 months: Functional period of the temporary jumbo hospitals 18 hospitals: Constructed by PMC and lying unused Rs70 crore: Fund released by the state government to strengthen facilities at Sassoon General Hospital The underutilised two hospitals run by the state government — Aundh and Bibvewadi —will be used for Covid care. PMC-owned health infrastructure General hospital: Kamla Nehru Hospital Infectious disease hospital: Naidu Hospital Maternity hospital: 18 Dispensaries: 41 Underutilised and unused civic hospitals Balasaheb Thackeray hospital, Mitramandal chowk Rajmata Jijamata hospital, Mitramandal Chowk Bindumadhav hospital, Karvenagar Rajiv Gandhi hospital, Yerawada Karne hospital, Yerawada Laigude hospital, Sinhgad road (It is now used as Covid care centre) Dalvi Hospital, Shivajingar (becoming operational) Rs50-cr facilities at Kamla Nehru hospital lying unused Pune Municipal Corporation in the last few years has spent more than Rs50 crore to better the facilities at Kamla Nehru hospital. The civic administration purchased medical equipment and set up an ICU ward, but these facilities are not been used for patients yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-covid-cases-cross-58k-eight-pmc-hospitals-remain-underutilised/story-0o5hvAairpH2Y03rfTWVkO.html
05-08-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai rains highlights: 2 dead, 1 rescued from Santacruz drain; 1 girl still missing||One more body recovered from Santacruz drain, 1 girl still missingThe NDRF team searching for the remaining two people from a drain in Santacruz in Mumbai have recovered the body of another female, who fell into a drain after her room collapsed on Tuesday morning due to heavy overnight rains in Mumbai. Of the four people who fell into the drain, two are now dead while one girl has been rescued. Search operation underway to find the missing 7-year old girl : ANISearch ops continue for 2 still missing after falling into drainThe condition of the three-year-old was rescued from the drain and admitted to the VN Desai Hospital is stated to be stable. Search operation ongoing for remaining two people.NDRF recovers body of child from house collapse siteA NDRF team has recovered the body of a one-and-a-half-year-old girl from the site where rooms of a residential chawl had collapsed at Santa Cruz in Mumbai: ANIPortion of road collapses in Borivali (East)A portion of road collapsed at Rajendra Nagar, Borivali(E) on Tuesday. However no casualties have been reported. 3 missing, one rescued after falling into drain following house collapseFour people including two girls fell in the Vakola Nallah in Santacruz East following a house collapse incident due to heavy rains at around 11:30 am on Tuesday. One girl was rescued by Mumbai Police and shifted to VN Desai Hospital, but one female and two girls are still missing, said Chief Fire Officer Prabhat Rahangdale. Search operation is ongoing. Two fire engines and one ambulance at the spot. MFB has requested presence of NDRF for the search operations..Bombay HC’s hearings adjourned due to rainsBombay High Court adjourned its virtual hearings in various cases on Tuesday in view of heavy rains that lashed city overnight and in morningMeT dept sounds red alert for today, tomorrow in Mumbai High tide hits Mumbai as heavy rainfall continues to lash the city. The MeT department has sounded a red alert for today & tomorrow for an extremely heavy downpour.#WATCH High tide hits #Mumbai as heavy rainfall continues to lash the city. The MeT department has sounded a red alert for today & tomorrow for an extremely heavy downpour. #Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/qrjUKWavdqLocal train services resume partially on Western RailwayLocal train services resume partially on the Western Railway. “Water level at all places has started receding. The first slow train from Churchgate started at 12.05 hrs and the one from Andheri started at 11.40 hrs. Fast lines will also shortly resume after inspection of points,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, Western Railway.Intense rainfall in many parts of Mumbai in next 3 hrs: IMDIntense to very intense rainfall likely to continue in many parts of Mumbai during the next three hours: India Meteorological DepartmentA ANI230mm rain in 10hrs, flood-like situation: BMC CommissionerBMC Commissioner tells news agency ANI that 230 mm rainfall occurred within 10 hours. It’s a flood-like situation. Mithi river had swelled up in the morning because of heavy rains, crossing the danger mark. As of now, it is flowing below danger level. The evacuation of people has also been stopped right nowOne person electrocuted to death in ThaneOne person was electrocuted and died on the spot amid heavy rainfall in Thane. Commuters were stranded at Kalyan station after train services were called off due to water-logging on tracks after incessant rainfall on TuesdayLocal train services suspended on some routes in Mumbai and suburbsLocal train services suspended on some routes in Mumbai and suburbs due to water-logging on rail tracks following heavy overnight rain in the city: OfficialsOps at Mumbai airport affected due to rainsOperations at the Mumbai airport have been affected due to heavy rain. “Between 4 am to 6 am very strong westerly winds lashed Mumbai Airport. Whatever meagre traffic that airport sees these days was affected by the winds and accompanying rains. Three domestic and one International arrivals had to hold for 30 to 40 minutes. Two flights-f Bluedart aviation from Delhi Mumbai first performed go around due bad weather and at 5.15am they diverted to Ahmedabad due strong gusting winds beyond it’s permissible limits for landing. Second flight (IndiGo), from Hamad to Mumbai couldn’t land at on its first attempt at 5 am due strong winds of 30 knots and landed safely on its second attempt after 20 minute,” said a Mumbai airport official.Holiday for state govt offices in Mumbai, suburban areas today due to rainDue to heavy rainfall in Mumbai and the suburban region and prediction for heavy rainfall by the IMD, holiday has been declared for all state govt offices in the Mumbai and Mumbai Suburban region today : State Disaster Management CellWaterlogging in many Mumbai areasMany areas in Mumbai are experiencing water-logging due to heavy rains including Bhendi Bazar and Vile Parle.Water enters houses in Kandivli areaWater has entered houses in Kandivali area following incessant rainfall in Mumbai.Western Express Highway sees landslide due to heavy rainsLandslides were reported along the Western Express Highway in Kandivali. The Mumbai Fire Brigade said there were no casualties. Santacruz, Colaba, Mahalaxmi receive record rainfall in last 24 hoursWeather stations at Colaba and Santacruz recorded 252.2mm and 268.6mm rainfall in last 24 hours. IMD considers that more than 204.5mm rain is considered ‘extreme’. Ram Mandir and Mira Road recorded 152mm rainfall, and Mahalaxmi reported rainfall up to 172mm. Most stations in Thane and Navi Mumbai reported more than 150 mm rainfall. Suburban services stopped at Vadala and Parel: Central RailwayThe suburban services at Vadala and Parel harbour and main lines have been halted due to high tide. Central railways said that there are no suburban trains held up between these stations.  Due to high tide resulting in water logging at Vadala and Parel suburban services are suspended on main line & harbour line. No suburban trains are held up in between stations. Down mail/express trains are being rescheduled: Central Railway #MumbaiRainBEST diverts its bus routesThe BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) have diverted more than 56 bus routes in the city. BMC asks offices, establishments to remain closed due to heavy rainsThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation asked all offices and establishments, barring essential service, to remain shut due to heavy rains. Mumbai: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has appealed to all offices and other establishments to remain shut today, except emergency services, in view of heavy rainfall forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-live-train-services-halted-between-csmt-and-kurla/story-Ghr84xoEVv5TBrBkDWKmkN.html
05-08-2020||World||Colombia’s long Covid-19 lockdown fuels anxiety and depression||Like much of the world, Colombia shut down in March as coronavirus cases surged in Europe and began trickling into the South American country.But while restrictions have been lifted in many places elsewhere, a nationwide stay-at-home order remains in effect in Colombia more than four months after being put into place.Isolation orders have been extended repeatedly as cases continue to rise and a limited economic reopening that began in April has inched forward only slightly. Colombia now has the ninth-highest total of Covid-19 infections worldwide, prompting President Iván Duque to prolong the quarantine again until late August.The effects of the long isolation are beginning to surface: In the capital of Bogota, the mayor’s office reports that suicide attempts are up 21% since the start of quarantine. Psychologists have seen a dramatic rise in new patients complaining of anxiety and depression. Divorce lawyers say they are getting more inquiries, although clients also discover they cannot afford to separate.“From one moment to the next, my life changed,” said Myriam Roncancio, 35, who is living with her parents after breaking up with her husband. “A 180-degree turn.”Health experts say Colombia and a handful of other places in Latin America with especially long lockdowns have been moderately successful in using the time to slow infections, boost testing and expand ICU capacity. But they also worry about quarantine fatigue just as cases reach their peak, and they say more should be done to stress commonsense protections.“I’m worried about middle- to low-income countries where it seems quarantine is the main strategy,” says Andrés Vecino, a health economist at John Hopkins University. “And that creates a problem because in the medium term, it gets exhausted.”The long lockdown is essentially a result of timing: Colombia and much of South America imposed the strict measures when they had far fewer cases than Europe. Quarantines in Europe have steadily been lifted as confirmed cases have dropped, although some countries in Africa are still locked down.But in Latin America -– now an epicenter in the pandemic -– reports of infections are continuing to climb.“We wanted to go at the same velocity as Europe,” said Carlos Alvarez, a clinical trial coordinator for the World Health Organization in Colombia. “But the moment of the pandemic was different.”A map by researchers at the University of Oxford tracking government response measures shows much of the world in an accordion-like dance of opening and closing to various degrees, while a considerable part of South America remains stuck.“It’s not the only region -– but it is more true in Latin America than many other parts of the world, I’d say,” said Thomas Hale, a professor spearheading the project.Outside the region, a few other parts of the world remain continuously confined.In Africa, where cases are rising, several countries have imposed strict measures. South Africa, with more than 500,000 cases, has banned the sale of alcohol and cigarettes, closed bars and imposed a nighttime curfew. Masks are mandatory in public areas, with fines imposed on those who ignore the regulation.To be sure, even Colombia’s nationwide “preventative obligatory isolation” was never as deep and strict as quarantines elsewhere. There are now 46 exceptions that allow people to leave home for various activities.Peru gave up on isolation measures after three months due to the severe economic cost and high number of informal workers flouting the quarantine. Others like Brazil and Mexico never closed entirely.But many Colombians like Nilva Rodriguez, 50, in Barranquilla, have scarcely left their homes. Only twice in four months has she been outside the house she shares with her elderly parents, brother, his pregnant wife and a teenage child.When she talks to relatives in Miami, she says they are stunned to learn that she cannot even go to a nearby beach because it remains closed.Her mother, accustomed to going to church each day, has grown depressed and complains that virtual Mass just isn’t the same. Her father sometimes gets irritable. Everyone has staked out a part of the house for themselves.“Every month has its drama, its situation,” she says.Calls to a Bogota hotline to report domestic violence have more than doubled since before quarantine. The mayor’s office has set up a mobile brigade operating around the clock to respond to mental health crises. A city phone service offering psychological support has gotten nearly 25,000 calls during the lockdown.Miguel Antonio Duarte, a psychologist in Bogota, said he has twice as many patients. They include men with anger-management issues and women looking to end relationships.“This context has allowed women to finally realize they are being mistreated,” he said.Conversely, the lockdown has also made it more difficult for many women to report domestic abuse and file for divorce, said lawyer Jimmy Jiménez.In Bogota, residents are allowed out for certain nonessential activities only on odd or even days of the week, depending on the last number of their national identification cards. Because many also work from home, that means little time to escape from an abusive spouse. Those seeking divorces quickly realize they can’t afford it, barely able to pay rent, utilities and food bills as a family unit.As a result, many strained couples stay together, sleeping in separate rooms.The escalating mental strain is happening in a country where many already feel anxiety, depression or post-traumatic stress related to Colombia’s long civil conflict -– and where there is considerable stigma around psychological ailments.“This is a country with the traumas of war, drug trafficking, violence,” said Dr. Omar Cuéllar, the director of a private mental health clinic in Bogota. “It’s a hotbed in which very easily any new circumstance can make things that much worse.”Colombia has significantly increased virus testing and expanded ICU capacity by almost 40% since the outbreak began — advancements that officials say have allowed it to avoid a total collapse of the health care system.Yet experts like Dr. Luis Jorge Hernández, a public health professor at the University of the Andes, worry about the harmful side effects of asking people to stay inside so long, like lower vaccination rates and worsening cardiac disease in those already mostly sitting indoors.“The quarantine is causing a lot of damage,” he said.President Iván Duque says the country is moving toward more focused quarantines. Bogota is instituting stricter lockdowns in certain neighborhoods for two-week periods. The mayor also is requiring those who are obese or with certain chronic diseases to stay indoors.The Americas branch of the WHO put out a strict call last week for nations not to reopen until their cases are declining.For Roncancio, whose marriage of 10 years ended abruptly, life has been on hold.After she lost her job as a restaurant administrator at the start of the outbreak and her husband lost his as a baggage handler at Bogota’s airport, they were unable to pay their rent and their quarreling became more frequent. That’s when he left, she says.Now she shares a room with her two children in her parents’ apartment and gets out only twice a week to buy groceries.“It’s like a ghost town,” she said. “I can’t get used to it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/colombia-s-long-covid-19-lockdown-fuels-anxiety-and-depression/story-IEs2WD8MXjrtM3nc7AUhNP.html
05-08-2020||World||Pompeo in call with Lebanese PM reaffirms US commitment to assist after blast||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in a call with Lebanese Prime Minister Hassan Diab on Wednesday reiterated ‘steadfast’ commitment to assist the Lebanese people, the State Department said on Wednesday, after a massive warehouse blast killed 135 people and injured thousands.Around 5,000 people were injured in Tuesday’s explosion at Beirut port, which investigators blamed on negligence, and up to 250,000 were left without homes fit to live in after shockwaves smashed building facades, sucked furniture out into streets and shattered windows miles inland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-in-call-with-lebanese-pm-reaffirms-us-commitment-to-assist-after-blast/story-mLq1fGaToSstRg0TyrhLSO.html
05-08-2020||World||Beirut reels from huge blast as death toll climbs to at least 135||Lebanese rescue teams pulled out bodies and hunted for missing in the wreckage of buildings on Wednesday as investigations blamed negligence for a massive warehouse explosion that sent a devastating blast wave across Beirut, killing at least 135.More than 5,000 people were injured in Tuesday’s explosion at Beirut port, Health Minister Hamad Hassan said, and up to 250,000 were left without homes fit to live in after shockwaves smashed building facades, sucked furniture out into streets and shattered windows miles inland.Hassan said tens of people remained missing. Prime Minister Hassan Diab declared three days of mourning from Thursday.The death toll was expected to rise from the blast, which officials blamed on a huge stockpile of highly explosive material stored for years in unsafe conditions at the port. The explosion was the most powerful ever to rip through Beirut, a city still scarred by civil war that ended three decades ago and reeling from an economic meltdown and a surge in coronavirus infections. The blast rattled buildings on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, about 100 miles (160 km) away.President Michel Aoun said 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, used in fertilisers and bombs, had been stored for six years at the port without safety measures, after it was seized.In an address to the nation during an emergency cabinet session, Aoun said: “No words can describe the horror that has hit Beirut last night, turning it into a disaster-stricken city”.He said the government was “determined to investigate and expose what happened as soon as possible, to hold the responsible and the negligent accountable.”An official source familiar with preliminary investigations blamed the incident on “inaction and negligence”, saying “nothing was done” by committees and judges involved in the matter to order the removal of hazardous material.The cabinet ordered port officials involved in storing or guarding the material since 2014 to be put under house arrest, ministerial sources told Reuters. The cabinet also announced a two-week state of emergency in Beirut.GRAPHIC: Blast rocks Lebanese port area https://graphics.reuters.com/LEBANON-SECURITY/BLAST/xklvydjjqpg/chart.png‘COLLAPSE OF LEBANON’Ordinary Lebanese, who have lost jobs and watched savings evaporate in Lebanon’s financial crisis, blamed politicians who have overseen decades of state corruption and bad governance.“This explosion seals the collapse of Lebanon. I really blame the ruling class,” said Hassan Zaiter, 32, a manager at the heavily damaged Le Gray Hotel in downtown Beirut.The health minister said the death toll had climbed to 135, as the search for victims continued after shockwaves from the blast hurled some of the victims into the sea.Relatives gathered at the cordon to Beirut port seeking information on those still missing. Many of those killed were port and custom employees, people working in the area or those driving nearby during the Tuesday evening rush hour.The Red Cross was coordinating with the Health Ministry to set up morgues as hospitals were overwhelmed. Health officials said hospitals were struggling with the big influx of casualties and were running out of beds and equipment to attend to the injured and those in critical condition.Beirut’s Clemenceau Medical Center was “like a slaughterhouse, blood covering the corridors and the lifts,” said Sara, one of its nurses.Beirut Governor Marwan Abboud told broadcaster LBC the blast had caused damage worth up to $5 billion, and possibly more, and left up to 250,000 people without homes. “This is the killer blow for Beirut, we are a disaster zone,” said Bilal, a man in his 60s, in the downtown area.Offers of international support poured in. Gulf Arab states, who in the past were major financial supporters of Lebanon but recently stepped back because of what they say is Iranian meddling, sent planes with medical equipment and other supplies. Iran offered food and a field hospital, ISNA news agency said.The United States, Britain, France and other Western nations, which have been demanding political and economic change in Lebanon, also offered help. Germany, the Netherlands and Cyprus offered specialised search and rescue teams.Two French planes were expected to arrive on Thursday with 55 rescuers, medical equipment and a mobile clinic. French President Emmanuel Macron will also visit Lebanon on Thursday. Other Arab and European countries are sending doctors, mobile hospitals and equipment.‘CATASTROPHE’For many it was a dreadful reminder of the 1975-1990 civil war that tore the nation apart and destroyed swathes of Beirut, much of which had since been rebuilt.“This is a catastrophe for Beirut and Lebanon.” Beirut’s mayor, Jamal Itani, told Reuters while inspecting damage.Officials did not say what caused the initial blaze at the port that set off the blast. A security source and media said it was started by welding work being carried out on a warehouse.Taxi driver Abou Khaled said ministers “are the first that should be held accountable for this disaster. They committed a crime against the people of this nation with their negligence.”The port district was left a tangled wreck, disabling the nation’s main route for imports needed to feed a nation of more than 6 million people.Lebanon has already been struggling to house and feed refugees fleeing conflict in neighbouring Syria and has no trade or other ties with its only other neighbour Israel.“On a scale, this explosion is scaled down from a nuclear bomb rather than up from a conventional bomb,” said Roland Alford, managing director of British explosive ordnance disposal firm Alford Technologies. “This is huge.”The blast prompted the Special Tribunal for Lebanon on Wednesday to postpone its verdict in the trial over the 2005 bombing that killed ex-Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri to Aug. 18. The tribunal’s decision had been expected this Friday.The U.N.-backed court put on trial four suspects from the Iranian-backed Shi’ite Muslim group Hezbollah. Hariri and 21 others were killed by a big truck bomb on another part of the Beirut waterfront, about 2 km (about one mile) from the port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beirut-reels-from-huge-blast-as-death-toll-climbs-to-at-least-135/story-EcVKOQoD5MFoPZrIvJKHfM.html
05-08-2020||World||Coronavirus testing in the US is dropping, even as deaths mount||US testing for the coronavirus is dropping even as infections remain high and the death toll rises by more than 1,000 a day, a worrisome trend that officials attribute largely to Americans getting discouraged over having to wait hours to get a test and days or weeks to find out the results.An Associated Press analysis found that the number of tests per day slid 3.6% over the past two weeks to 750,000, with the count falling in 22 states. That includes places like Alabama, Mississippi, Missouri and Iowa where the percentage of positive tests is high and continuing to climb, an indicator that the virus is still spreading uncontrolled.Amid the crisis, some health officials are calling for the introduction of a different type of test that would yield results in a matter of minutes and would be cheap and simple enough for millions of Americans to test themselves — but would also be less accurate.“There’s a sense of desperation that we need to do something else,” said Dr. Ashish Jha, director of Harvard’s Global Health Institute.Widespread testing is considered essential to containing the outbreak as the U.S. approaches a mammoth 5 million confirmed infections and more than 156,000 deaths out of over 700,000 worldwide.Testing demand is expected to surge again this fall, when schools reopen and flu season hits, most likely outstripping supplies and leading to new delays and bottlenecks.Some of the decline in testing over the past few weeks was expected after backlogged commercial labs urged doctors to concentrate on their highest-risk patients. But some health and government officials are seeing growing public frustration and waning demand.In Iowa, state officials are reporting less interest in testing, despite ample supplies. The state’s daily testing rate peaked in mid-July but has declined 40% in the last two weeks.“We have the capacity. Iowans just need to test,” Gov. Kim Reynolds said last week.Jessica Moore of rural Newberry, South Carolina, said that after a private lab lost her Covid-19 test results in mid-July, she had to get re-tested at a pop-up site organized by the state.Moore and her husband arrived early on a Saturday morning at the site, a community center, where they waited for two hours for her test. Moore watched in the rear-view mirror as people drove up, saw the long line of cars, and then turned around and left.“If people have something to do on a Saturday and they want to get tested, they’re not going to wait for two hours in the South Carolina heat for a test, especially if they’re not symptomatic,” Moore said.Before traveling from Florida to Delaware last month, Laura DuBose Schumacher signed up to go to a drive-up testing site in Orlando with her husband. They were given a one-hour window in which to arrive.They got there at the start of the window, but after 50 minutes it looked as if the wait would be another hour. Others who had gone through the line told them that they wouldn’t get their results until five days later, a Monday, at the earliest. They were planning to travel the next day, so they gave up.“Monday would have been pointless, so we left the line,” Schumacher said.The number of confirmed infections in the U.S. has topped 4.7 million, with new cases running at nearly 60,000 a day on average, down from more than 70,000 in the second half of July.U.S. testing is built on highly sensitive molecular tests that detect the genetic code of the coronavirus. Although the test is considered the gold standard for accuracy, experts increasingly say the country’s overburdened lab system is incapable of keeping pace with the outbreak and producing results within two or three days, the time frame crucial to isolating patients and containing the virus.“They’re doing as good a job as they possibly can do, but the current system will not allow them to keep up with the demand,” said Mara Aspinall of Arizona State University’s College of Health Solutions.Testing delays have led researchers at Harvard and elsewhere to propose a new approach using so-called antigen tests — rapid technology already used to screen for flu, strep throat and other common infections. Instead of detecting the virus itself, such tests look for viral proteins, or antigens, which are generally considered a less accurate measure of infection.A number of companies are studying Covid-19 antigen tests in which you spit on a specially coated strip of paper, and if you are infected, it changes color. Experts say the speed and widespread availability of such tests would more than make up for their lower precision.While no such tests for the coronavirus are on the U.S. market, experts say the technology is simple and the hurdles are more regulatory than technical. The Harvard researchers say production could quickly be scaled into the millions.A proposal from the Harvard researchers calls for the federal government to distribute $1 saliva-based antigen tests to all Americans so that they can test themselves regularly, perhaps even daily.Even with accuracy as low as 50%, researchers estimate the paper strip tests would uncover five times more Covid-19 cases than the current laboratory-based approach, which federal officials estimate catches just 1 in 10 infections.But the approach faces resistance in Washington, where federal regulators have required at least 80% accuracy for new Covid-19 tests.To date, the Food and Drug Administration has allowed only two Covid-19 antigen tests to enter the market. Those tests require a nasal swab supervised by a health professional and can only be run on specialized machines found at hospitals, doctor’s offices and clinics.Also, because of the risk of false negatives, doctors may need to confirm a negative result with a genetic test when patients have possible symptoms of Covid-19.On Tuesday, the governors of Maryland, Virginia, Louisiana and three other states announced an agreement with the Rockefeller Foundation to purchase more than 3 million of the FDA-cleared antigen tests, underscoring the growing interest in the technology.When asked about introducing cheaper, paper-based tests, the government’s “testing czar,” Adm. Brett Giroir, warned that their accuracy could fall as low as 20% to 30%.“I don’t think that would do a service to the American public of having something that is wrong seven out of 10 times,” Giroir said last week. “I think that could be catastrophic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-testing-in-the-us-is-dropping-even-as-deaths-mount/story-Ac09CHZmZY5xiP8obuHt1J.html
05-08-2020||World||US officials say no sign Beirut blast was attack||Two US officials say there are no indications that the massive explosion Tuesday evening in Lebanon’s capital was the result of an attack by either a nation state or proxy forces.A senior Defense Department official and a member of the US intelligence community told The Associated Press that, at the moment, the explosion appears to have been caused by improper storage of explosions.Both individuals spoke Wednesday to the AP on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss intelligence briefings publicly.The senior Defense Department official told the AP that they had “no idea” what President Donald Trump was referring to when he said during a press briefing at the White House on Tuesday that the explosion “looks like a terrible attack. Trump later said that his “great generals” told him that they felt like it was an attack.Inquiries to the Pentagon on Tuesday about President Trump’s attack remarks were referred to the White House.The Paris prosecutor’s office says a first assessment has established that 21 French nationals were among those injured in the Beirut port explosion.In a statement Wednesday, the office said it is opening an “unintentional injuries” investigation into the blast and its causes.The investigation will be carried out by the French National Gendarmerie, one of the country’s two national police forces.The prosecutor’s statement said the group France Victimes is working to bring help and assistance to the French who were wounded, as well as their loved ones.Tunisian President Kaïs Saied has ordered the dispatch of two military planes loaded with medical equipment, medicine and food to Lebanon following the deadly Beirut port explosion.A statement from the presidency Wednesday said that the Tunisian head of state gave instructions to ministers of defense Imad Hazgui and interim Social Affairs and Health Minister Mohamed Habib K’chaou, to deliver this aid “urgently.” According to the statement, a team of Tunisian doctors and nurses will also be sent to Lebanon to help treat the wounded, 100 of whom will be flown back to Tunisia aboard the two planes to be treated in Tunisian hospitals.The Tunisian president sent a note of condolence to his Lebanese counterpart Michel Aoun on Tuesday, in which he assured him of Tunisia’s support and solidarity in this ordeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-officials-say-no-sign-beirut-blast-was-attack/story-YgSUypu6v6jhQDMdeg3AeO.html
05-08-2020||World||Beirut port head said explosive material was warehoused based on court order||Beirut port’s general manager said on Wednesday that the facility had warehoused highly-explosive material, blamed for the powerful blast that rocked Beirut, six years ago based on a court order, local broadcaster OTV reported.The broadcaster quoted Hassan Koraytem as telling it that the customs department and state security had asked authorities for the material to be exported or removed, but that “nothing happened”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beirut-port-head-said-explosive-material-was-warehoused-based-on-court-order/story-MABsH94FrQFUxVHricInCN.html
05-08-2020||World||‘Mars is looking real’: SpaceX’s test rocket makes 1st flight, landing upright||SpaceX launched a prototype of its Mars rocketship hundreds of feet into the air, then landed it upright in a successful test flight.The flight lasted barely 45 seconds and reached just 500 feet (150 meters) Tuesday night at the southeastern tip of Texas near Brownsville, but was an important first for SpaceX’s Starship. Some earlier tests ended in explosions on the pad.“Mars is looking real,” SpaceX founder and chief executive Elon Musk tweeted after the short hop. “Progress is accelerating.”Musk said several more short hops are planned before a test version of Starship aims for a high altitude. The latest test model is relatively plain: It stands a full-scale 100 feet (30 meters) tall and resembles a steel silo — or stretched-out can — with a cap on top.The private company plans to launch reusable Starships atop still-in-the-works rockets, carrying cargo or crew not only to low-Earth orbit but also the moon and Musk’s most desirable destination, Mars. The entire stack will stretch nearly 400 feet (120 meters).On Sunday, SpaceX safely returned two NASA astronauts from the International Space Station following a two-month test flight. Their Dragon capsule splashed down in the Gulf of Mexico off the Pensacola, Florida, coast.SpaceX is now the only private company to fly people to and from orbit.“We’re going to go to the moon. We’re going to have a base on the moon. We’re going to send people to Mars and make life multi-planetary,” Musk said following splashdown. “This day heralds a new age of space exploration. That’s what it’s all about.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mars-is-looking-real-spacex-s-test-rocket-makes-1st-flight-landing-upright/story-cC0DeCfdllOAxzFnGDyLaL.html
05-08-2020||World||Beirut blast: Warnings of ‘extreme danger’ ignored by Lebanon officials about stored ammonium nitrate||The volatile chemical suspected of causing the deadly explosion that flattened Lebanon’s main port had been lying in storage there for six years despite warnings from customs officials about its hazards, documents show.The ammonium nitrate -- equivalent to 1,800 tons of TNT -- was unloaded from the cargo ship Rhosus in 2014, according to two letters issued by the director general of Lebanese Customs. For reasons that are unclear, dockworkers unloaded the chemical, which can be used to make fertilizers and explosives, and put it into storage.Workers welding a door on Tuesday started a fire that ignited the chemicals, Lebanese broadcaster LBCI said, citing people who attended a Supreme Council of Defense briefing after the blast. Authorities haven’t said what triggered the explosion that roared through Beirut, killing at least 100 people and wounding 4,000.Customs officials asked judicial authorities at least twice to issue orders for the highly inflammable substance to be confiscated or re-exported, according to the letters from the customs authority. In one of the letters, dated May 3, 2016, the director general at that time, Shafik Merhe, warned of “the extreme danger” from storing the chemical in a warehouse “in these unsuitable weather conditions,” saying it posed a risk to the staff and port.LBCI reported on Wednesday that the Rhosus had been scheduled to sail with its cargo from Beirut six years ago but stayed at the port due to a mechanical failure. Prime Minister Hassan Diab on Tuesday described the storage of 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate at the port as “unacceptable” and vowed those responsible would be held accountable.The widely used commercial chemical explosive is almost as powerful as dynamite. In 1995, Timothy McVeigh used about 2 tons of it to blow up the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma, killing 168 people.As Lebanese army personnel and rescue workers sifted through the rubble, looking for dozens of missing people, the government placed all port officials under house arrest, Information Minister Manal Abdel-Samad told reporters after an emergency cabinet meeting. A two-week state of emergency has been imposed in the city, and a coronavirus-related lockdown was extended for the next two months.Outrage over the government’s role in the calamity ran high in a country already groaning under the weight of its worst financial crisis and a resurgent coronavirus outbreak. Dozens of people gathered in downtown Beirut as former Prime Minister Saad Hariri inspected the damage, beating cars in his convoy and shouting “They killed Beirut.”The explosion was so powerful that it was heard in Cyprus, and severely damaged buildings miles away. Massive shipping containers were flipped upside down as if they were toys, and cranes melted under the intense fire that still burned on Wednesday, and was being doused by helicopters whirring above.“It’s like an apocalypse,” lawmaker Yassine Jaber told Bloomberg. “Pure negligence and that’s the ultimate manifestation of how bad governance has been in Lebanon, with no accountability whatsoever, a manifestation of failure that should jolt us to wake up.”Hospitals, already stretched to capacity by the virus emergency, were overwhelmed. The government appealed to other countries for emergency aid as concerns mounted over food supply in the import-dependent nation.Wheat silos at the port were damaged, and their contents -- equal to about six weeks of the country’s needs -- were rendered unfit for consumption, Economy Minister Raoul Nehme said. He assured Lebanese there would be no flour or bread crisis.France and various Arab states pledged medical aid, while Germany offered members of its armed forces to aid search operations. French President Emmanuel Macron plans to visit Lebanon on Thursday, Agence France Presse reported.“The damage is massive at the port and it will take a very long time to fix and build,” Public Works Minister Michel Najjar told a local television station. The port at Lebanon’s second-largest city, Tripoli, will serve as the alternative, possibly backed up by facilities in Sidon and Tyre, Najjar said.The Beirut port handles 6 million tons of shipments a year.Before the blast, talks with the International Monetary Fund for a $10 billion loan had stalled over the government’s failure to agree on a reform plan, and Gulf states deflected Lebanon’s request for a bailout, afraid money would fall into the hands of Iran-backed Hezbollah militants. Officials had been discussing ways to partially privatize the port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beirut-blast-warnings-of-extreme-danger-ignored-by-lebanon-officials-about-stored-ammonium-nitrate/story-Sd2AA6YZmJ9PwbPZhUd6SK.html
05-08-2020||World||Beirut blast blamed on chemical cargo removed from ship in 2014||The volatile chemical that Lebanese authorities blame for Tuesday’s lethal blast in Beirut had been lying in storage at the city’s port for six years in spite of warnings from customs officials about its hazards, documents show.The ammonium nitrate arrived as cargo on the ship Rhosus in 2014, according to two letters issued by the director general of Lebanese Customs. For reasons that are unclear, dockworkers unloaded the chemical, which can be used to make fertilizers and explosives, and put it into storage.Customs officials later asked judicial authorities at least twice to issue orders for the ammonium nitrate to be confiscated or re-exported, according to the letters. In one of the letters, dated May 3, 2016, the director general at that time, Shafik Merhe, warned of “the extreme danger” from storing the chemical in a warehouse “in these unsuitable weather conditions.” The material posed a risk to the staff and the port, he said.Lebanese broadcaster LBCI reported that the Rhosus had been scheduled to sail with its cargo from Beirut six years ago but stayed at the port due to a mechanical failure. Workers welding a door on Tuesday started a fire that ignited the chemicals, LBCI said, citing people who attended a Supreme Council of Defense briefing after the blast.The explosion killed at least 100 people and wounded thousands more. Authorities blamed a quantity of ammonium nitrate equivalent to 1,800 tons of TNT that had been stored at the port, without saying what triggered the blast.Prime Minister Hassan Diab on Tuesday described the storage of 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate at the port as “unacceptable” and said that those responsible would be held accountable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beirut-blast-blamed-on-chemical-cargo-removed-from-ship-in-2014/story-atoGwmElcfROPvbt6mzzDN.html
05-08-2020||World||Donald Trump, Biden to accept their nominations remotely due to Covid-19||President Donald Trump and his presumptive Democratic challenger for the White House, Joe Biden, will accept their respective party nominations in speeches delivered remotely, in a major break from tradition as 2020 campaigns and candidates seek new ways to get around the Covid-19 epidemic.“I’ll probably do mine live from the White House,” President Trump said Wednesday on Fox News, hours after reports emerged Republicans could be considering the White House.“It’s easy and I think it’s a beautiful setting, and we are thinking about that. … It’s the easiest alternative,” he added.The Democratic National Convention said shortly after in a statement that Biden “will no longer travel to Milwaukee (venue of a pared down convention) and will instead address the nation and accept the Democratic nomination from his home state of Delaware”. Further details will be announced later.Candidates have traditionally accepted the nomination at lavishly mounted conventions that last three to four days. But in view of surging Covid-19 cases, both Trump and Biden have had to overhaul their plans, as have all others running for US House of Representatives, the Senate and state elections.Trump cancelled plans last month to hold the convention with the usual pomp and fanfare in Jacksonville, Florida after the state saw a surge in Covid-19 infections with the potential of continuing through till the convention slated for August 24-27. A limited version will be held in Charlottesville, North Carolina.US president have traditionally avoided the use of the White House and other federal facilities for overtly political purposes, but Trump will cross no legal lines if he did indeed deliver the acceptance speech from the White House as he has indicated, experts and pundits have said.Democrats took the first step in the direction of an unconventional convention when they announced in June that Joe Biden, the presumptive nominee, will accept the nomination at a pared down convention in Wisconsin. He will be physically there, but delegates and all others will attend remotely.Few other details have been made available of the conventions that will be followed by three presidential debates between Trump and Biden on September 29 and October 15 and 22. The Trump camp is pushing for a fourth, insinuating, at the same time, that former vice-president is trying to duck debates.At their conventions, two parties will declare their respective manifestoes, called platforms, which would lay out their agenda. Republican are going with their 2016 platform, as is. Democrats released a draft last month, which was a bridge-building exercise between the campaign and Bernie Sanders-led progressives of the party. Though still be finalized, it has also retained substantial portions from the 2026 platform adopted by Hillary Clinton, the nominee then.On India, for instance, it’s almost the same one-line construct: “And we will continue to invest in our strategic partnership with India — the world’s largest democracy, a nation of great diversity, and a growing Asia-Pacific power.”In 2016, the platform had this on India: “We will continue to invest in a long-term strategic partnership with India—the world’s largest democracy, a nation of great diversity, and an important Pacific power.”Democrats helping the Biden campaign have said the former vice-president is far more engaged on India than it may seem from the perfunctory one sentence in the draft platform. Biden has spoken more expansively of his views on India and said recently that the US and India are “natural partners” and the bilateral relationship will be a “high priority” for his administration if elected. He has also said he will overturn the freeze on H-1B visas, a key issue for India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-might-deliver-convention-speech-from-white-house/story-2TIGwAZmEqbYvGdkG3rruJ.html
05-08-2020||World||Pfizer announces deal with Canada for experimental Covid-19 vaccine||Pharmaceutical giant Pfizer Inc and German biotech firm BioNTech SE on Wednesday said they had signed a deal to supply Canada with an experimental coronavirus vaccine.Deliveries of the BNT162 mRNA-based vaccine candidate are planned over the course of 2021, subject to clinical success and Health Canada approval, the two companies said in a statement. They did not reveal financial details.Separately, the Canadian government said it would make an announcement on the next steps in procuring vaccines at 10 a.m. ET (1400 GMT) on Wednesday.There are no approved vaccines for the illness caused by the new coronavirus, but 19 vaccines are being tested in humans around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-announces-deal-with-canada-for-experimental-covid-19-vaccine/story-2niIw4DjJevf5i3OdDNBwO.html
05-08-2020||World||US futures climb with European stocks and gold||US futures rose and European stocks climbed to a one-week high as investors focused on US.-China trade discussions and American lawmakers making progress on an economic aid package.Square Inc., which runs an peer-to-peer payment app, rallied in the pre-market trading as revenue surged. Walt Disney Co. climbed after posting a surprise profit. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index posted broad-based gains, with travel companies, commodity producers and retailers leading the charge.Gold continued its ascent above a record $2,000 an ounce as investors considered the effects of more government stimulus. The dollar weakened . Ten-year Treasury yields edged up, but are still near the lowest since March.Oil climbed to a five-month high in London, topping $45 a barrel after U.S. industry data showed a decline in the nation’s stockpiles.Pressure is growing on Republicans and Democrats to resolve differences over a new U.S. virus relief package. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the goal is to strike a deal on legislation by the end of the week.“Hopes of a fiscal package will indeed be instrumental in any improvement in risk sentiment,” said Padhraic Garvey, head of Americas research at ING Financial Markets.Meanwhile, America and China plan to assess their trade agreement in mid-August against a backdrop of rising bilateral tension, according to people briefed on the matter. China’s yuan strengthened to its highest level since March 11.European economic data was positive, with a euro zone composite purchasing managers’ index climbing to 54.9, the highest level in just over two years and above a flash estimate. Orders increased for the first time in five months. Companies made further cuts to their workforce last month, according to IHS Markit, casting uncertainty over how sustainable the region’s upturn will be.Elsewhere, Lebanon’s bonds were steady following the deadly blast in Beirut on Tuesday. The stock market was closed.“Yesterday’s events could motivate the political parties to set aside their differences and make efforts to break the deadlock and begin to fix the economy,” said Richard Segal, a senior analyst at Manulife Investment Management in London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-futures-climb-with-european-stocks-and-gold/story-8AbRoRKi3YfsXGDoSfTnQI.html
05-08-2020||World||EU, Turkey and Gulf states among those aiding Beirut after blast||The European Union, Turkey and Gulf states are among those offering assistance to Lebanon following an explosion at a warehouse in Beirut that killed at least 100 people and injured nearly 4,000.Below are details of international assistance and pledges of help.EUROPEAN UNIONThe European Commission said it had activated the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, which is designed to help after natural disasters, following a request from Lebanon for aid and support.More than 100 highly trained firefighters were being deployed with vehicles, dogs and equipment, specialised in search and rescue in urban contexts, the European Union’s executive said.The Netherlands, Greece and Czech Republic had confirmed their participation, and France, Poland and Germany have offered assistance, a senior official said.The EU said it also activated its Copernicus satellite mapping system to help the Lebanese authorities assess the extent of the damage.President Emmanuel Macron’s office said France was sending 55 security personnel and 6 tonnes of health equipment, and around 10 emergency doctors would fly to Beirut.The Netherlands is sending a search and rescue team to Lebanon comprising 67 doctors, nurses, firemen and police officers to assist in the search for survivors.The Czech Republic is sending a 36-person rescue team, the Interior Ministry said.TURKEYTurkey’s Humanitarian Relief Foundation (IHH) is helping in the search for survivors, digging through debris to look for people and recover bodies. The group has also mobilised a kitchen at a Palestinian refugee camp to deliver food to those in need, said Mustafa Ozbek, an Istanbul-based IHH official.“We are providing assistance with one ambulance to transfer patients. We may provide help according to the needs of the hospital,” he said.KUWAITKuwait has delivered medical aid and other essentials. The ministry of health said Kuwaiti aid arrived in Lebanon by military plane on Wednesday morning.QATARQatar state news agency QNA said the country had dispatched a first military plane carrying medical aid on Wednesday. Three more planes were to follow later in the day containing two field hospitals of 500 beds each, equipped with respirators and other necessary medical supplies.WHO AND IFRCThe World Health Organization and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies were sending 40 tonnes of medical supplies, including personal protective equipment to Beirut on a flight paid for by Dubai-based International Humanitarian City, a hub for humanitarian emergency preparedness and response, a WHO representative said.“We are offering medical trauma kits and surgical kits containing things such as syringes, bandages and surgical gowns,” said Nevien Attalla, operations manager for the WHO’s Dubai hub.RUSSIARussia’s emergencies ministries said it was sending five planes carrying medical equipment, a field hospital and medical personnel. It said all medical staff travelling to Beirut would be equipped with personal protective gear in light of the coronavirus pandemic.IRANTehran will send nine tonnes of food, as well as medicine, medical equipment, medical personnel and a field hospital to Lebanon, Iranian media said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-turkey-and-gulf-states-among-those-aiding-beirut-after-blast/story-gO3KDO8jSYAjXvgdWThGBN.html
05-08-2020||World||China’s power use hits record on economic recovery, hot weather||China’s power use surged to a historic high this week as economic activity picked up further after coronavirus-related lockdowns and a heat wave drove up demand for cooling appliances, state media reported late on Wednesday.Power load at State Grid Corp of China, the country’s dominant power grid operator, reached 875 gigawatts on Monday, an all-time high, state-run Technology Daily reported.Jiangsu in east China, the largest power-consuming province under the State Grid Corp, recorded a power load of 108.5 gigawatts on Monday, it said.While heat wave is expected to recede in the northern and eastern parts of the country, central and southwestern provinces such as Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi and Sichuan are expected to experience another week of 38 degree Celsius weather.China Southern Power Grid Corp, which operates grids in southern provinces, also reported record power load at 199.8 gigawatts in late July, 7% higher than last year’s peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-power-use-hits-record-on-economic-recovery-hot-weather/story-2vmilgPYBJPzznLrashIyJ.html
05-08-2020||World||Israeli military sets up coronavirus task force||The Israeli military said Wednesday it was establishing a coronavirus task force aimed at cutting the chain of infection in the country.In a statement, the military said the new task force would begin operating next week and connect all the different bodies under one umbrella. The unit, headed by a brigadier general, will operate a sampling center, a quarantine center, recovery hotels, an evaluation complex and an epidemiological investigations center.The move looks to give the country’s largest organization overall responsibility for contact tracing at a time when the government has come under fire for its handling of the pandemic. The ministry of defense has long advocated utilizing the military’s vast infrastructure and resources to combat the spread of the virus but has been rebuffed till now because of inter-government squabbling.Israel received praise for its early handling of the coronavirus crisis and imposing tight movement restrictions. But since reopening the economy in May new cases have spiked to record highs, with upwards of 2,000 infections a day. As part of his set of recommendations to stem the tide, the country’s new coronavirus czar said more responsibility should be handed over to the military.The military said one of its main goals is to significantly shorten the waiting time for samples and epidemiological investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-military-sets-up-coronavirus-task-force/story-Gh9ft5MH3TBdBDmkuLyPWM.html
05-08-2020||World||Moderna says discussing supply deals with countries for Covid-19 vaccine||Moderna Inc said on Wednesday it has started talks with several countries for supply agreements for its experimental coronavirus vaccine and has received about $400 million in deposits for potential supply.Last week, Moderna announced the start of a late-stage trial on 30,000 people to demonstrate that its vaccine is safe and effective, the final hurdle prior to regulatory approval. It has said the vaccine could be ready for widespread use by the end of this year.“As we pivot to a commercial stage company, we recognize the need for responsible pricing in the face of the pandemic,” Chief Executive Officer Stéphane Bancel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-says-discussing-supply-deals-with-countries-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-UAp3LoWcgL1h59Qpfo9HPJ.html
05-08-2020||World||Beirut: French president Emmanuel Macron traveling to Lebanon after deadly explosion||French President Emmanuel Macron is traveling to Lebanon on Thursday to offer support for the country after a massive, deadly explosion.Macron’s office told The Associated Press on Wednesday that the French leader will meet with Lebanese political leaders. It provided no further details.Lebanon is a former French protectorate and the countries retain close political and economic ties.France is also sending several tons of aid and emergency workers after the explosion, which killed at least 100 people and wounded thousands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beirut-french-president-emmanuel-macron-traveling-to-lebanon-after-deadly-explosion/story-CJoc2TlYmjh0K5H9pQzm9O.html
05-08-2020||World||Meghan Markle’s friends can stay anonymous in privacy case, says UK judge||A British judge ruled Wednesday that the Duchess of Sussex can keep the names of five close friends secret while she brings a privacy invasion lawsuit against a British newspaper — but he chided both sides in the case for playing out their battle in the media as well as the courtroom.The former Meghan Markle is suing the publisher of the Mail on Sunday and the MailOnline website over five articles that published portions of a handwritten letter she wrote to her estranged father, Thomas Markle, after her marriage to Prince Harry in 2018.Meghan, 39, is seeking damages from publisher Associated Newspapers Ltd. for alleged misuse of private information, copyright infringement and data protection breaches.The duchess asked the judge to prohibit publishing details of female friends who spoke anonymously to People magazine to condemn the alleged bullying she had received from the media. She argued that the friends were not parties to the case and had a “basic right to privacy.”The women’s names are included in a confidential court document, but they have been identified in public only as A to E.Associated Newspapers’ attorney Antony White said during a court hearing last week that the friends were potential witnesses in the case, and keeping their names secret “would be a heavy curtailment of the media’s and the defendant’s entitlement to report this case and the public’s right to know about it.”The judge acknowledged he had to balance “the competing demands of confidentiality and open justice.”Warby ruled in favor of anonymity, saying it would serve justice by shielding Meghan’s friends from the “glare of publicity” in the pretrial stage of the case.“Generally, it does not help the interests of justice if those involved in litigation are subjected to, or surrounded by, a frenzy of publicity,” he said. “At trial, that is a price that may have to be paid in the interests of transparency. But it is not a necessary concomitant of the pretrial phase.”No date has been set for the full trial, which is likely to be one of the highest-profile civil cases in the U.K. for years.The judge said that in pretrial wrangling, each side had “overstated its case” and made “hyperbolic assertions” about the other.“Neither side has, so far, been willing to confine the presentation of its case to the courtroom,” Warby said.“Both sides have demonstrated an eagerness to play out the merits of their dispute in public, outside the courtroom, primarily in media reports.,” he said. “That approach to litigation has little to do with enabling public scrutiny of the legal process, or enhancing the due administration of justice.”Associated Newspapers, which is contesting the duchess’s privacy-infringement claim, says it was Meghan’s friends who brought the letter into the public domain by describing it in the People article. One told the magazine that the duchess had written: “Dad, I’m so heartbroken. I love you. I have one father. Please stop victimizing me through the media so we can repair our relationship.”The publisher’s lawyers argue that the information about the letter disclosed in the article must have come “directly or indirectly” from Meghan.But Meghan’s attorney, Justin Rusbrooke, argued that the duchess was unaware her friends were speaking to the magazine. They say the anonymous interviews were arranged by one of the five friends, who was concerned about the toll media criticism was taking on the duchess, pregnant at the time with her first child.American actress Meghan Markle, star of TV legal drama “Suits,” married Harry, grandson of Queen Elizabeth II, in a lavish ceremony at Windsor Castle in May 2018. Their son, Archie, was born the following year.In January, the couple announced they were quitting royal duties and moving to North America, citing what they said was unbearable intrusion and racist attitudes from the British media. They are currently based in the Los Angeles area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/meghan-markle-s-friends-can-stay-anonymous-in-privacy-case-says-uk-judge/story-IUSfGtXR1EpACR5zhT3rbI.html
05-08-2020||World||‘Most powerful ever to rip through Beirut’: City reels from huge blast, death toll climbs to at least 100||Lebanese rescue workers dug through the mangled wreckage of buildings on Wednesday looking for survivors after a massive warehouse explosion sent a devastating blast wave across Beirut, killing at least 100 people and injuring nearly 4,000.Officials said the toll was expected to rise after Tuesday’s blast at port warehouses that stored highly explosive material.The blast was the most powerful ever to rip through Beirut, a city still scarred by civil war three decades ago and reeling from an economic meltdown and a surge in coronavirus infections.It sent a mushroom cloud into the sky and rattled windows on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, about 100 miles (160 km) away.President Michel Aoun said 2,750 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, used in fertilisers and bombs, had been stored for six years at the port without safety measures. He called it “unacceptable”.An official source familiar with preliminary investigations blamed the incident on negligence. Ordinary Lebanese blamed politicians who have overseen decades of state corruption and bad governance that has plunged Lebanon into financial crisis.“It’s like a war zone. I’m speechless,” Beirut’s mayor, Jamal Itani, told Reuters while inspecting damage he estimated ran into billions of dollars. “This is a catastrophe for Beirut and Lebanon.”The head of Lebanon’s Red Cross, George Kettani, said at least 100 people had been killed. “We are still sweeping the area. There could still be victims. I hope not,” he said.The intensity of the blast threw victims into the sea and rescue teams were trying to recover bodies. Many of those killed were port and custom employees and people working in the area or driving through during the Tuesday afternoon rush hour.The Red Cross was coordinating with the Health Ministry to set up morgues because hospitals were overwhelmed, Kettani said.‘KILLER BLOW’Facades of central Beirut buildings were ripped off, furniture was sucked into streets and roads were strewn with glass and debris. Cars near the port were flipped over.“This is the killer blow for Beirut, we are a disaster zone. My building shuddered, I thought it was an earthquake,” said Bilal, a man in his 60s, in the downtown area.Like others, he blamed the political elite. “We already have a financial economic crisis, people are hungry and, these thieves and looters, will they compensate for the losses? Who will compensate for those who lost their loved ones,” he said.Offers of international support poured in. Gulf Arab states, who in the past were major financial supporters of Lebanon but recently stepped back because of what they say is Iranian meddling, sent planes with medical equipment and other supplies. Iran offered food and a field hospital, ISNA news agency said.The United States, Britain, France and other Western nations, which have been demanding political change in Lebanon, also offered help. The Netherlands said it was sending doctors, nurses and specialised search and rescue teams.“This explosion seals the collapse of Lebanon. I really blame the ruling class,” said Hassan Zaiter, 32, a manager at the heavily damaged Le Gray Hotel in downtown Beirut.For many it was a dreadful reminder of the 1975 to 1990 civil war that tore the nation apart and destroyed swathes of Beirut, much of which had been rebuilt. Post-war reconstruction and political corruption mired Lebanon in huge debts.TANGLED WRECK“With this blast they took us back to the years of war ... Our leaders are in a coma,” said Ali Abdulwahed, 46, a manager at Café de l’Etoile, a restaurant next to parliament.Prime Minister Hassan Diab promised accountability, saying: “Those responsible will pay the price”.Officials did not say what caused the initial blaze at the port that set off the blast. A security source and media said it was started by welding work being carried out on a warehouse.The port district was left a tangled wreck, disabling the nation’s main route for imports needed to feed a nation of more than 6 million people. Lebanon has already been struggling to house and feed hundreds of thousands of refugees from Syria.Lebanon’s main grain silo at the port was destroyed, leaving the nation with less than a month’s wheat reserves.The U.S. embassy in Beirut, which moved to another part of the city after a huge bomb attack struck its originally waterfront embassy in 1983, warned residents about reports of toxic gases released by the port blast.The explosion came three days before a U.N.-backed court is due to deliver a verdict in the trial of four suspects from the Iranian-backed Shi’ite Muslim group Hezbollah over a 2005 bombing that killed former Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri and 21 others.Hariri was killed by a huge truck bomb on another part of the Beirut waterfront, about 2 km (about one mile) from the port.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/most-powerful-ever-to-rip-through-beirut-city-reels-from-huge-blast-death-toll-climbs-to-at-least-100/story-88JRbTknt9uG0iCQWH7D3O.html
05-08-2020||World||Lebanese confront devastation after massive Beirut explosion||Residents of Beirut confronted a scene of utter devastation on Wednesday, a day after a massive explosion at the port rippled across the Lebanese capital, killing at least 100 people, wounding thousands and leaving entire city blocks flooded with glass and rubble.Smoke was still rising from the port, where a towering building of silos was half destroyed, spilling out mounds of grain. Hangars around it were completely toppled. Much of the downtown area was littered with damaged vehicles and debris that had rained down from the shattered facades of buildings.An official with the Lebanese Red Cross said at least 100 people were killed and more than 4,000 were wounded. George Kettaneh said the toll could rise further.It was unclear what caused the blast, which appeared to have been triggered by a fire and struck with the force of an earthquake. It was the most powerful explosion ever seen in the city, which was split in half by the 1975-1990 civil war and has endured conflicts with neighboring Israel and periodic bombings and terror attacks.Scores of people were missing, with relatives pleading on social media for help locating loved ones. An Instagram page called “Locating Victims Beirut” sprang up with photos of missing people, and radio presenters read the names of missing or wounded people throughout the night. Many residents moved in with friends or relatives after their apartments were damaged and treated their own injuries because hospitals were overwhelmed.Lebanon was already on the brink of collapse amid a severe economic crisis that has ignited mass protests in recent months. Its health system is confronting a coronavirus surge, and there were concerns the virus could spread further as people flooded into hospitals.There was no evidence the explosion was an attack. Instead, many Lebanese blamed it on decades of corruption and poor governance by the entrenched political class that has ruled the tiny Mediterranean country since the civil war.Saint George University Hospital, one of the major private hospitals in Beirut which had been receiving Covid-19 patients, was out of commission Wednesday after suffering major damage. A physician who identified himself as Dr. Emile said 16 staff and patients, including four nurses, died in the blast. He declined to give his last name out of privacy concerns.The blast also wounded a number of UN peacekeepers stationed in the area. Bangladesh said 21 members of its Navy were wounded, one critically. Italy, one of the top contributors to the UNIFIL mission, said one of its soldiers was wounded.Interior Minister Mohammed Fahmi told a local TV station that it appeared the blast was caused by the detonation of more than 2,700 tons of ammonium nitrate that had been stored in a warehouse ever since it was confiscated from a cargo ship impounded in 2013.Explosives experts and video footage suggested the ammonium nitrate may have been ignited by a fire at what appeared to be a nearby warehouse containing fireworks.Ammonium nitrate is a common ingredient in fertilizer as well as explosives. It was used in the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995, when a truck bomb containing 2,180 kilograms (4,800 pounds) of fertilizer and fuel oil ripped through a federal building, killing 168 people and wounding hundreds more.Security forces cordoned off the port area on Wednesday as a bulldozer entered to help clear away debris. A young man begged troops to allow him to enter and search for his father, who has been missing since the blast occurred. He was directed to a port official who wrote down his details.In Beirut’s hard-hit Achrafieh district, civil defense workers and soldiers were working on locating missing people and clearing the rubble. At least one man was still pinned under stones from an old building that had collapsed. Volunteers hooked him up to an oxygen tank to help him breathe while others tried to free his leg.The blast severely damaged numerous apartment buildings, potentially leaving large numbers of people homeless at a time when many Lebanese have lost their jobs and seen their savings evaporate because of a currency crisis. The explosion also raises concerns about how Lebanon will continue to import nearly all of its vital goods with its main port devastated.Prime Minister Hassan Diab, in a short televised speech, appealed for international aid, saying: “We are witnessing a real catastrophe.” He reiterated his pledge that those responsible for the disaster will pay the price, without commenting on the cause.There is also the issue of food security in Lebanon, a tiny country already hosting over 1 million Syrians displaced by that country’s nearly decade-long civil war.Drone footage shot Wednesday by The Associated Press showed that the blast tore open a cluster of towering grain silos, dumping their contents into the debris and earth thrown up by the blast. Some 80% of Lebanon’s wheat supply is imported, according to the US Agriculture Department.Estimates suggest some 85% of the country’s grain was stored at the now-destroyed silos.Lebanon’s state-run National News Agency quoted Raoul Nehme, the minister of economy and trade, as saying that all the wheat stored at the facility had been “contaminated” and couldn’t be used. But he insisted Lebanon had enough wheat for its immediate needs and would import more.Several countries have pledged aid in the aftermath of the blast, with even Israel offering humanitarian assistance. The two countries have been in conflict for decades, and Israel fought a 2006 war with the Hezbollah militant group.Lebanon’s economic crisis is rooted in decades of systemic corruption by political factions that exploit public institutions for the benefit of their supporters. Decades after the civil war, residents endure frequent power outages and poor public services.Lebanese have held mass protests calling for sweeping political change since last autumn but few of their demands have been met as the economic situation has steadily worsened.Beirut’s port and the customs authority are notoriously corrupt. Like nearly all public institutions, they are controlled by Lebanon’s political factions, including Hezbollah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lebanese-confront-devastation-after-massive-beirut-explosion/story-oUaPCNDUdHpzyfMzEz99uN.html
05-08-2020||World||Search for Beirut blast survivors intensifies as death toll mounts||Army personnel and rescue workers sifted through mountains of rubble from a massive explosion that flattened Lebanon’s main port, looking for survivors from a blast that roared through the capital, Beirut, killing dozens and wounding thousands more.Lebanese authorities appealed to other countries for emergency aid as concerns over food supply in the import-dependent nation mounted. Officials blamed highly explosive materials equal to 1,800 tons of TNT that had been stored at the port for years, but haven’t said whether the explosion on Tuesday evening was an accident or an attack.Outrage over the government’s role in the calamity ran high in a country already groaning under the weight of the worst financial crisis in its history, and a resurgent coronavirus outbreak. The explosion was so powerful that it was heard in Cyprus, and severely damaged buildings miles away. Massive shipping containers were flipped upside down as if they were toys, and cranes melted under the intense fire that still burned on Wednesday, and was being doused by helicopters whirring above.“It’s like an apocalypse,” lawmaker Yassine Jaber told Bloomberg. “Pure negligence and that’s the ultimate manifestation of how bad governance has been in Lebanon, with no accountability whatsoever, a manifestation of failure that should jolt us to wake up.”Hospitals, already stretched to capacity by the virus emergency, were overwhelmed by a casualty toll that climbed throughout the night. At least 100 people were killed, 4,000 were injured, and dozens were missing.The army cordoned off the port, through which much of Lebanon’s food and other supplies enter. The nation imports nearly all of its needs from abroad, including wheat and fuel, which the central bank has been subsidizing from its dwindling reserves. Wheat silos at the port were damaged, and their contents -- equal to about six weeks of the country’s needs -- were rendered unfit for consumption, Economy Minister Raoul Nehme said.Nehme will be meeting with wheat importers and formulating a response plan, his office said.“The damage is massive at the port and it will take a very long time to fix and build,” Public Works Minister Michel Najjar told a local television station. The port at Lebanon’s second-largest city, Tripoli, will serve as the alternative, possibly backed up by facilities in Sidon and Tyre, Najjar said.The Beirut port handles 6 million tons of shipments a year.A two-week state of emergency was declared, and cabinet is expected to meet later in the day to discuss this latest crisis to beset the country. The government issued a global appeal for help, its own coffers emptied by corruption and mismanagement. Before the blast, talks with the International Monetary Fund for a $10 billion loan had stalled over the government’s failure to agree on a reform plan, and Gulf states deflected Lebanon’s request for a bailout, afraid money would fall into the hands of Iran-backed Hezbollah militants.The calamity was Lebanon’s worst in decades. Video footage showed what appeared to be a fire, followed by crackling lights and then a much larger explosion as an enormous cloud of smoke rapidly engulfed the area around the Port of Beirut.The aftermath of the explosion left people rushing for help on foot and motorbikes, some with blood streaming over their faces, outside a Beirut hospital. One hospital said it had taken in 400 people and others appealed for blood donations, saying they’d reached their capacity. On Wednesday, people were on the streets inspecting their damaged shops and homes.‘Destroyed City’“Beirut has never seen anything like this before,” the city’s governor, Marwan Abboud, told reporters near the scene, comparing it to the aftermath of a nuclear bomb. “It is a destroyed city, people lying on the streets, damage everywhere.”Prime Minister Hassan Diab described the blast as a “major national disaster,” and said the material that caused the explosion had been there since 2014.“I will not rest until we hold whoever is responsible accountable and punish them with the most severe punishment,” he said. “It’s unacceptable that 2,750 tons of ammonium nitrate have been stored in a container in a depot for the past six years,” he said during a meeting of the Higher Defense Council.In Washington, President Donald Trump added to confusion over the chain of events in Beirut, saying U.S. military officials “seem to think it was an attack. It was a bomb of some kind.” He said he “met with some of our great generals and they just seem to feel that it was. This was not some kind of a manufacturing explosion type of event.”He provided no evidence to back up that assertion and the White House National Security Council had no comment.The explosion took place during the first of a two-day grace period that the government had given citizens before it reinforces a full lockdown with a curfew to contain the coronavirus epidemic after the country saw a major spike in cases in recent weeks.Traffic was heavy throughout the day as people flooded the capital and other areas. Myriam Sawma, 31, was among the many who left their homes to buy essentials before the lockdown resumed.“I was at the mall and we heard the first blast and then another and complete white smoke covered the area. People were screaming and running everywhere,” said Sawma, who was at a popular shopping center in the neighborhood of Ashrafieh.The port explosion came as Lebanon braces for a verdict from a United Nations-backed court on Friday in the case of the 2005 assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri. The Special Tribunal for Lebanon has accused four members of Hezbollah of having a role in the killing, which was a turning point in the country’s modern history. The assassination sparked nationwide protests and forced the collapse of a government as well as the withdrawal of Syrian troops that had stationed in Lebanon after the civil war from 1975-1990, ending its tutelage over its neighbor.Hezbollah, which also plays an influential role in Lebanon’s political and economic life, has denied the allegations and said it would not hand over the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/search-for-beirut-blast-survivors-intensifies-as-death-toll-mounts/story-6rp5ZnAMQ5MxtaOlJPa3mM.html
05-08-2020||World||After blast, Lebanon has enough grain for less than a month, minister says||Lebanon’s main grain silo at Beirut port was destroyed in a blast along with the wheat inside, leaving the nation with less than a month’s reserves of the grain although other vessels with supplies are on the way, the economy minister said on Wednesday.Raoul Nehme told Reuters a day after Tuesday’s devastating blast that Lebanon needed reserves for at least three months to ensure food security and was looking at other storage areas.He said reserves now stood at “a bit less than a month”.The explosion was the most powerful ever to rip through Beirut, leaving the port district a wreck of mangled masonry and disabling the main entry port for imports to feed a nation of more than 6 million people.The Beirut silo was capable of holding 120,000 tonnes of grain, said Ahmed Tamer, the director of the port of Tripoli, Lebanon’s second biggest city.The port in Tripoli, Lebanon’s second biggest port, is not equipped with grain storage facilities but wheat could be transferred to warehouses 2 km (about one mile) away, he said.At the time of the blast, the Beirut silo held no more than 15,000 tonnes of wheat as some millers had unloaded cargoes directly because of a delay in issuing letters of credit for payment, Ahmed Hattit, the head of the wheat importers union, told the local Al-Akhbar newspaper.Hattit said existing reserves of flour were sufficient to cover market needs for a month and a half and said there were four ships carrying cargoes totalling 28,000 tonnes of wheat that had not docked at the port yet.Lebanon is trying to immediately transfer four vessels carrying 25,000 tonnes of flour to the port in Tripoli, an economy ministry official told news channel LBCI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-blast-lebanon-has-enough-grain-for-less-than-a-month-minister-says/story-8kJ165FctPriBlh7NhOpYM.html
05-08-2020||World||US sending highest official to Taiwan since ties cut in 1979||The US secretary of Health and Human Services is scheduled to visit Taiwan in coming days in the highest-level visit by an American Cabinet official since the break in formal diplomatic relations between Washington and Taipei in 1979.The visit by Alex Azar, and especially a planned meeting with Taiwan’s president, will likely create new friction between the US and China, which claims Taiwan as its own territory to be annexed by force if necessary. Taiwan is a key irritant in the troubled relationship between the world’s two largest economies, which are also at odds over trade, technology, territorial claims in the South China Sea and China’s response to the coronavirus pandemic.In Beijing, foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said China has lodged “solemn complaints” over the visit with U.S. officials in both Beijing and Washington.“The Taiwan issue is the most important and sensitive issue in China-US relations,” Wang said at a daily briefing. He said Washington needs to stop all forms of official contact with Taiwan and make good on its commitment to Beijing to “avoid serious damage to China-US relations and peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.”The US maintains only unofficial ties with Taiwan in deference to Beijing, but is the island’s most important ally and provider of defense equipment.The American Institute in Taiwan, which operates as Washington’s de facto embassy on the island, said Wednesday that Azar’s “historic visit will strengthen the U.S.-Taiwan partnership and enhance US-Taiwan cooperation to combat the global Covid-19 pandemic.”In a tweet, Taiwan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said it looks forward to welcoming Azar and his delegation. “This is the highest-level visit by a US Cabinet official since 1979! Taiwan and the US are like minded partners cooperating closely in combating coronavirus and promoting freedom democracy & human rights worldwide.”The ministry said Azar will meet with independence-minded President Tsai Ing-wen, with whose government Beijing cut off virtually all contacts four years ago, and with Foreign Minister Joseph Wu and top health officials.Tsai tweeted to Azar that “Your timely visit is another testament to the strong Taiwan-US partnership based on our longstanding friendship & shared values.”AIT said Azar will discuss the disease, global health and Taiwan’s role as a supplier of medical equipment and technology.The visit is believed to be scheduled for next week, although AIT said details on the timing and agenda would be announced later.Azar would be the first HHS secretary to visit Taiwan and the first Cabinet member to visit in six years, the last being then-Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy. His Cabinet ranking is higher than previous U.S. visitors.“Taiwan has been a model of transparency and cooperation in global health during the Covid-19 pandemic and long before it,” Azar said in the AIT statement. “This trip represents an opportunity to strengthen our economic and public health cooperation with Taiwan, especially as the United States and other countries work to strengthen and diversify our sources for crucial medical products.”Azar’s visit was facilitated by the 2018 passage of the Taiwan Travel Act that encouraged sending higher-level officials to Taiwan after decades during which such contacts were rare and freighted with safeguards to avoid roiling ties with Beijing.McCarthy’s visit to Taiwan in 2014 sparked a protest from China’s foreign ministry, which accused the U.S. of betraying commitments made to it about maintaining only unofficial links with Taipei.China objects to all official contact between Taiwan and the U.S. But its increasing diplomatic pressure, including poaching Taiwan’s few remaining diplomatic allies and excluding it from international gatherings including the World Health Assembly, have fostered already considerable bipartisan sympathy for Taipei in Washington and prompted new measures to strengthen governmental and military ties.Taiwan’s strong performance in handling its Covid-19 outbreak has also won it plaudits while highlighting its exclusion from the World Health Organization and other UN bodies. Despite its close proximity to China, where the global pandemic is believed to have originated, the island of 23 million has recorded just 476 cases and seven deaths from Covid-19, largely as a result of rigorous testing and case tracing.“In contrast to authoritarian systems, US and Taiwan societies and economies are uniquely equipped to drive global progress in areas such as medicine and science to help the world tackle emerging threats,” AIT said. “The Covid-19 pandemic is the most recent example of joint U.S.-Taiwan efforts to confront global challenges for the good of the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sending-highest-official-to-taiwan-since-ties-cut-in-1979/story-ShkeMwjuCy10cPUDWGSdqN.html
05-08-2020||World||Fireworks, ammonium nitrate likely fueled Beirut explosion||Fireworks and ammonium nitrate appear to have been the fuel that ignited a massive explosion that rocked the Lebanese capital of Beirut, experts and videos of the blast suggest.The scale of the damage — from the epicenter of the explosion at the port of Beirut to the windows blown out kilometers (miles) away — resembles other blasts involving the chemical compound commonly used as an agricultural fertilizer.But the compound itself typically doesn’t detonate on its own and requires another ignition source. That likely came from a fire that engulfed what initially appeared to be fireworks that were stored at the port.Online videos of the disaster’s initial moments show sparks and lights inside the smoke rising from the blaze, just prior to the massive blast. That likely indicates that fireworks were involved, said Boaz Hayoun, owner of the Tamar Group, an Israeli firm that works closely with the Israeli government on safety and certification issues involving explosives.“Before the big explosion, you can see in the center of the fire, you can see sparks, you can hear sounds like popcorn and you can hear whistles,” Hayoun told The Associated Press. “This is very specific behavior of fireworks, the visuals, the sounds and the transformation from a slow burn to a massive explosion.”Jeffrey Lewis, a missile expert at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies in Monterey, California, offered a similar assessment.“It looks like an accident,” Lewis told the AP. “First, there was a fire preceding the explosion, which is not an attack. And some of the videos show munitions what I could call popcorning, exploding like ’pop, pop, pop, pop.’”He added that “it’s very common to see fires detonate explosives.”“If you have a fire raging next to something explosive, and you don’t put it out, it blows up,” he said.The white cloud that accompanied the massive blast appeared to be a condensation cloud, often common in massive explosions in humid conditions that can follow the shock waves of an explosion, Lewis said.Orange clouds also followed the blast, likely from toxic nitrogen dioxide gas that’s released after an explosion involving nitrates.Experts typically determine the power of the blast by measuring the crater left behind, which appeared massive in aerial footage shot on Wednesday morning by the AP.The Beirut blast, based on the crater and glass windows being blown out a distance away, exploded with the force equivalent to detonating at least 2.2 kilotons of TNT, said Sim Tack, an analyst and weapons expert at the Texas-based private intelligence firm Stratfor.What initially started the fire at the port remains unclear. Beirut was sunny before Tuesday’s explosion, with a daily high of 30 degrees Celsius (86 degrees Fahrenheit).Lebanese Interior Minister Mohammed Fahmi, in comments to a local TV station, made no mention of ignited fireworks but said it appeared the blast was caused by the detonation of more than 2,700 tons of ammonium nitrate that had been stored in a warehouse at the dock ever since it was confiscated from a cargo ship in 2014. That amount could cause the explosive force seen in the blast Tuesday, Tack said.Based on the timeline and the size of the cargo, that ship could be the MV Rhosus. The ship was initially seized in Beirut in 2013 when it entered the port due to technical problems, according to lawyers involved in the case. It came from the nation of Georgia, and had been bound for Mozambique.“Owing to the risks associated with retaining the ammonium nitrate on board the vessel, the port authorities discharged the cargo onto the port’s warehouses,” the lawyers wrote in a 2015 article published by shiparrested.com. “The vessel and cargo remain to date in port awaiting auctioning and/or proper disposal.”It remains unclear what conditions the ammonium nitrate had been stored in — or why tons of an explosive chemical compound had been left there for years. Lebanon already was on the brink of collapse amid a severe economic crisis that has ignited mass protests in recent months.The devastation surrounding the port resembled other ammonium nitrate explosions, such as the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing and a 1947 ship explosion that struck Texas City, Texas.It also is unclear what conditions a possible shipment of fireworks at the port had been stored in. Fireworks are very common in Lebanon, used to celebrate religious occasions and weddings.While military explosives are generally safe to transport, common “cheap pyrotechnics” made in China are often of very low quality and can ignite very easily, especially in hot weather, said Hayoun, the Israeli explosives expert.The “end result,” he added is that “hundreds of tons of energetic materials” were detonated to create a explosion of this magnitude.“It started definitely with fireworks,” he said.___Follow Jon Gambrell and Josef Federman on Twitter at www.twitter.com/jongambrellAP and www.twitter.com/joseffederman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fireworks-ammonium-nitrate-likely-fueled-beirut-explosion/story-GFTfW2MCvzFyaJ9CgMXgcJ.html
05-08-2020||World||Covid-19: Boris Johnson govt rapped for delay in imposing border curbs||An influential committee of UK parliament on Wednesday criticised the Boris Johnson government for allowing thousands of travellers into the UK without requiring them to self-isolate before the March 23 lockdown, which led to a “far worse” situation.The Home Affairs Select Committee is particularly critical in its report of the decision on March 13 to remove self-isolation guidance for travellers arriving at a time when other comparable countries were strengthening their border measures.At the time, it said hundreds of new coronavirus cases were arriving every day, particularly from Spain, Italy and France, including British residents returning home. It also added that the decision not to include Spain in country-specific measures in late February was a mistake.The cross-party committee said it was unable to find any scientific evidence to justify this “inexplicable decision” and says that the failure to have any special border measures in place in mid March was a “serious error”.As of Tuesday night, there were 46,299 deaths and 306,293 cases in the UK, making it the worst affected European country and one of the worst in the world. Recent decline in deaths and cases has prompted the government to ease restrictions.Yvette Cooper, committee chair, said: “The government’s failure to have proper quarantine measures in place in March as the infection was spreading fast was a grave error and meant Covid spread faster and reached more people”.“The UK was almost unique in having no border checks or quarantine arrangements at that time. That alone should have rung loud alarm bells for ministers and made them think again”.“Many times Ministers told us they were following the science, but we cannot find any science at all behind their completely inexplicable decision to lift all the self isolation guidance for travellers on 13 March a full ten days before lockdown”, she added.Drawing on evidence that thousands of people with the virus arrived in or returned to the UK in February and March, the committee concluded that the UK’s experience has been “far worse” as a result of the decision not to require quarantine during March.Cooper added: “We are concerned that border measures just weren’t taken seriously enough at the beginning of the crisis, either in the discussions among scientific advisers or in ministerial decision making”.“It appears ministers took decisions without critical information they should have had, and it has been extremely difficult to work out who took key decisions and on what basis”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-boris-johnson-govt-rapped-for-delay-in-imposing-border-curbs/story-yjtuQ0lbnP8dGiaSAbskvL.html
05-08-2020||World||‘India’s move in J&K illegal’: China on one year of Article 370 abrogation||China on Wednesday said that “unilateral” changes India made to the status of the former state of Jammu and Kashmir by splitting it into two separate union territories in 2019 were illegal and invalid.China also called on India and Pakistan to resolve the dispute over Kashmir through dialogue and consultations.Jammu and Kashmir ceased to be a state and became two union territories - Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh - in October, three months after Parliament revoked the special status enjoyed by the former state under Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5 last year.Responding to a query on the impact of New Delhi’s decision one year later, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said that Beijing has been closely following the situation in Kashmir.“China follows closely the situation in the Kashmir region. China’s position on the Kashmir issue is clear and consistent. This issue is a dispute leftover from history between Pakistan and India. That is an objective fact as laid out by the UN Charter, UN Security Council resolutions and the bilateral agreements between Pakistan and India,” spokesperson Wang said at the regular ministry briefing on Wednesday.He was responding to a question from the Associated Press of Pakistan on the change of Kashmir’s status.“Any unilateral change to the status quo is illegal and invalid. This issue should be properly resolved peacefully through dialogue and consultations between the parties concerned,” Wang said.Wang added that Pakistan and India are neighbours “...that cannot be moved away. Co-existence serves the fundamental interests of both and the common aspiration of the international community.”China hopes, Wang said, that the two countries could properly handle differences through dialogue, improve relations and jointly safeguard peace, security and development of both countries and the wider region.Wang did not separately mention the areas over which New Delhi and Beijing have disputes in the region.Last year, China had called the move “unacceptable”, urging New Delhi to respect Chinese territorial sovereignty and uphold peace and tranquility in the border areas.Beijing had then referred to the disputed territory of Aksai Chin, which China controls but New Delhi claims as part of the new union territory of Ladakh.India had then rejected Beijing’s criticism, saying the proposal to form new UTs including that of Ladakh was an “internal matter”.New Delhi had also pointed out the two sides had agreed to maintain peace along their disputed border until a mutually acceptable solution is found to the issue.External affairs minister S Jaishankar had visited Beijing in August and explained India’s position, saying that the change in the administrative status of the region did not impact the Line of Actual Control (LAC) - the de facto border with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-s-move-in-j-k-illegal-china-on-one-year-of-article-370-abrogation/story-IcqbXZrz2PuONlbXth4dIJ.html
05-08-2020||World||‘Will have to manage Covid-19 over 2021’: Theresa Tam||Canadian public health authorities have warned that even with the availability of a vaccine, citizens should not expect a return to the normalcy that prevailed before the Covid-19 pandemic for two to three years.During a regular briefing, Canada’s Chief Public Health Officer Dr Theresa Tam said that “at this stage” the focus and “hopes” cannot be entirely placed on the vaccine. “We’re going to have to manage this pandemic certainly over the next year,” adding that there has to be “planning” for the “longer term”, potentially “the next two to three years during which the vaccine may play a role.”Her deputy Dr Howard Njoo reiterated that point, as he said, “People might think that if we get a vaccine then everything goes back to normal the way it was before. That’s not the case.” He also said that precautions and some restrictions that have been in place since the outset of the coronavirus crisis like social distancing and wearing of masks “will still have to continue with the new reality for quite some time.”Tam echoed that point and said that while a vaccine, whenever it is available, and if it is “safe and effective” will comprise “one important layer of protection.” However, other “personal, daily” measures will have to continue.Canada will release guidelines for safety for children as several provinces plan reopening schools this September. This will include wearing of masks for older children. Canada has so far reported 117,664 confirmed cases of Covid-19 and recorded 8958 deaths.The warning from public health officials came as a new survey showed that while the majority of Canadians are ready to take the vaccine whenever it is available, a significant number remain sceptical about its efficacy. The poll from the non-profit Angus Reid Institute noted that “one-in-seven (14%), say that they will not get a vaccine in addition to eight per cent who say they are not sure.” On the other hand, nearly half, 46 per cent of respondents, said “they will get a vaccination as quickly as possible if it becomes available” while another 32 per cent said they were “willing to be vaccinated but not immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-have-to-manage-covid-19-over-2021-theresa-tam/story-Wxf860Ut5cs4boEkflo7JL.html
05-08-2020||World||‘Like an animal’: NASA astronauts describe noisy, jolting descent||SpaceX’s crewed capsule isn’t called Dragon for nothing.The two NASA astronauts brought back to Earth on Sunday said they felt they were inside the belly of a beast as it careened into the atmosphere at 17,500 mph.“It came alive,” said mission commander Bob Behnkhen at a virtual press conference held Tuesday in Houston, Texas.The thrusters were firing to keep the capsule, called “Endeavour,” pointed precisely at its target site off the coast of Pensacola, for the first water landing by a US spaceship since 1975.“The atmosphere starts to make noise, you can hear that rumble outside the vehicle and as the vehicle tries to control, you feel a little bit of that shimmy in your body,” continued the 50-year-old.“It doesn’t sound like a machine, it sounds like an animal coming through the atmosphere with all that all the puffs that are happening from the thrusters and the atmospheric noise,” he added.Not only was ride down deafening, but each time the vessel carried out descent sequences like jettisoning its “trunk” that contained the power system and firing parachutes, it was also bone-jarring.“Very much like getting hit in the back of the chair with a baseball bat, you know, just a crack,” said Behnken, describing the sensation.Behnken and crewmate Doug Hurley, 53, are best friends in real life and both are married to fellow astronauts.They were addressing journalists, as tradition dictates, two days after their return from a six-month stay on the International Space Station. The success of the demonstration mission for SpaceX Crew Dragon, the first crewed US spaceship to achieve orbit since the Space Shuttle era, means it will likely soon be certified for regular service.The next mission is already planned for September.“The mission went just like the simulators, from start to finish, all the way there was really no surprises,” said Hurley.Both men are veterans of the Space Shuttle program, which ended in 2011, and they had been training for five years with SpaceX.Splash down at 15 miles per hour in the Gulf of Mexico felt “pretty firm,” said Hurley, but that was expected.One person who will particularly benefit from Behnken’s knowledge: astronaut Megan McArthur, who is slated to make the same voyage in the spring of 2021 on the same spacecraft, and is Behnken’s wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/like-an-animal-nasa-astronauts-describe-noisy-jolting-descent/story-c8N5P8KWlqHMTuIAamjiYO.html
05-08-2020||World||‘Shocked, saddened by loss of lives in Beirut explosion’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed shock over the explosion in Lebanon’s Beirut in which more than 70 people were killed.“Shocked and saddened by the large explosion in Beirut city leading to loss of life and property. Our thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families and the injured,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said on Twitter on Wednesday.The massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky.It was not clear what caused the blast, which struck with the force of a 3.5 magnitude earthquake, according to Germany’s geosciences center GFZ, and was heard and felt as far away as Cyprus more than 200 kilometres across the Mediterranean. Shocked and saddened by the large explosion in Beirut city leading to loss of life and property. Our thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families and the injured: PM @narendramodiGlobal leaders gave offered help and support to Lebanon in the wake of the explosion. French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday said France will deploy a civil security detachment and several tonnes of medical equipment to Lebanon.“Emergency doctors will also reach Beirut as soon as possible to strengthen hospitals. France is already engaged,” the French President said in a tweet.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, also extended his deepest condolences to all those affected by the “massive explosion at the port of Beirut.”UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said his country is ready to provide support in any way it can.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shocked-saddened-by-loss-of-lives-in-beirut-explosion-pm-modi/story-Cd43K5EDG1U4UpBU7GdodL.html
05-08-2020||World||Lebanon blast: Indian Embassy staff safe, in touch with Indian community members, says Envoy Suhel Azaz Khan||Indian Embassy in Lebanon is in touch with the Indian community after a massive explosion rocked capital Beirut on Tuesday, leaving many feared dead and a “considerable number of people” injured.Indian envoy to Lebanon Suhel Ajaz Khan told ANI: “All our embassy staff are safe. We are in touch with Indian community members, so far there is no report of casualty. We are keeping a close watch and are in touch with community organisations. There is lot of damage to buildings in central Beirut.”The Embassy has also shared its helpline numbers with the Indian community.The National News Agency of Lebanon reported that a warehouse at the Beirut Port caught fire and lead to major explosions, which reverberated in the capital and the suburbs and left behind great damages to the surrounding buildings and a considerable number of wounded.Dramatic images and videos on social media showed huge plumes of smoke billowing out of the site of the massive blast near Beirut’s port.Local media showed people reporting shattering of glass windows of buildings and cars shaking.Al Jazeera reported that the force of the blast was massive and it caused panic in the streets and pieces of glass were seen everywhere.The daily quoted Hamad Hassan, Lebanon’s health minister saying hundreds were wounded in the explosion. It also quoted security sources put the initial death toll at 10 but medical and rescue teams on the ground said dozens were killed.Several people on board an Italian ship docked near the explosion site, the Orient Queen, were wounded and taken to hospital.Though the cause of the blast is unknown, the initial reports have stated that the explosion occurred in Beirut’s port area containing warehouses.The blast comes ahead of a verdict on Friday by UN-backed panel on the 2005 assassination of former prime minister Rafik Hariri, who was killed in car bombing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lebanon-blast-indian-embassy-staff-safe-in-touch-with-indian-community-members-says-envoy-suhel-azaz-khan/story-w4geg7D545Z4wU9rwj8aGP.html
05-08-2020||World||Novavax Covid-19 vaccine induces immune response in early study||Novavax Inc said on Tuesday its experimental Covid-19 vaccine produced high levels of antibodies against the novel coronavirus, according to initial data from a small, early-stage clinical trial, sending the company’s shares up 10%. The company said it could start a large pivotal Phase III trial as soon as late September, and on a conference call added that it could produce 1 billion to 2 billion doses of the vaccine in 2021.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Novavax research chief Gregory Glenn told Reuters the late-stage clinical trial could potentially glean enough data to obtain regulatory approvals as early as December. Maryland-based Novavax said its vaccine candidate, NVX-CoV2373, produced higher levels of the antibodies in healthy volunteers after two doses than those found in recovered Covid-19 patients, raising hopes for its eventual success.The addition of the company’s MatrixM adjuvant, a substance designed to boost the body’s immune response, did enhance the effect of the vaccine in the study, the company said. The Novavax vaccine is among the first of a handful of programs singled out for US funding under Operation Warp Speed, the White House program to accelerate access to vaccines and treatments that can fight the virus. Effective vaccines and treatments are considered essential to halting a pandemic that has claimed more than 695,000 lives worldwide.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Novavax’s vaccine contains synthesized pieces of the surface protein that the coronavirus uses to invade human cells, spurring production of antibodies to fight the infection.The US government in July agreed to pay Novavax $1.6 billion to help cover costs related to testing and manufacturing the vaccine, with the aim of procuring 100 million doses by January 2021.The trial, which started in late May, tested the vaccine in 106 subjects aged 18 to 59 versus a placebo. The Phase I study looked at the vaccine’s safety and ability to induce immune responses.It tested 5 microgram and 25 microgram doses of the vaccine, with and without the adjuvant. The company said it would likely move forward with the lower dose.Eight study participants experienced adverse side effects after receiving a second vaccine dose during the trial, although none required medical intervention, the company said. Headache, fatigue, and muscle pain were among the more common side effects, and the vaccine was “well tolerated” overall, the company said.Because Covid-19 vaccines are being developed at unprecedented speed, safety issues are being watched very closely. “When you are talking about vaccinating the entire world, safety is almost more important than efficacy,” said Brad Loncar, chief executive of Loncar Investments, an investment fund specializing in biotechnology companies.The Phase II portion of the study will be conducted in multiple countries, including the United States. It will gauge the vaccine’s ability to prevent infections or reduce severity of Covid-19, in addition to safety and immune response, among a broader range of volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/novavax-covid-19-vaccine-induces-immune-response-in-early-study/story-uvA8OtBoi3dfLWH2Y4dJYM.html
05-08-2020||World||Bangladesh PM Hasina assures ‘proper’ probe, trial in retired army major killing||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Tuesday assured the mother of a retired Army Major who had served her as a member of the special security force that a “proper” probe would be carried out into his killing by the police.Major (Retired) Sinha Mohammed Rashed Khan, who took voluntary retirement two years ago, was killed in police firing on Friday at a check-post in Cox’s Bazar, triggering an uproar across the country. Immediately after the incident, the authorities concerned withdrew 16 policemen, including the check-post in-charge. The prime minister’s Press Secretary Ihsaul Karim said Hasina telephoned Rashed’s mother and assured the family of providing financial assistance.“The prime minister assured Rashed’s family of carrying out a proper probe into the killing and trying the persons responsible (for the murder),” he told PTI. The Home Ministry has launched an investigation into the killing, forming a high-level committee.According to family members, 36-year-old Rashed used to make travel documentaries following his retirement and was staying at Cox’s Bazar for the last two months for making a film.Rashed was killed when he was returning to Cox’s Bazar from Teknaf along with an associate in a private car, the Prothom Alo newspaper reported, citing an “intelligence agency report”.The report said as the duo reached the check point, police halted the vehicle and after knowing Rashed’s identity, signalled them to proceed. However, they immediately stopped them again and ordered the duo to come out of the car.The report said as Rashed came out of the car, the check-post in-charge inspector Liakat Ali shot him three times.Shortly after the incident, an operative of the intelligence agency and villagers from nearby area came to the scene and found Rashed lying in a pool of blood but alive. However, when the intelligence agency operative wanted to record the video of the scene identifying himself, police snatched away his handset and the identity card.According to the report, the policemen delayed in taking Rashed to a hospital in Cox’s Bazar. When he was brought to the hospital, the doctors declared him dead on arrival and described the delay as an “ill strategy of police”.Police is yet to issue any formal statement. A local police officer claimed that an altercation between Rashed and the policemen at the check-point took place after they halted his vehicle and attempted a search suspecting him and his associate as robbers. Rashed allegedly brandished his pistol, prompting the inspector to fire the gunshots in “self defence”.According to the police officer, foreign liquor and cannabis were recovered during a search at the rest house where Rashed and his associate were staying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-pm-hasina-assures-proper-probe-trial-in-retired-army-major-killing/story-8YXlNFVtQEZbQplUQzTnsO.html
05-08-2020||World||Trump encourages mail voting in key battleground Florida after months of criticising method||In an abrupt reversal, President Donald Trump now is encouraging voters in the critical swing state of Florida to vote by mail after months of criticising the practice, and only days after threatening to sue Nevada over a new vote-by-mail law.His encouragement follows a surge in Democratic requests to vote for mail in Florida, a state that Trump almost certainly must win to secure a second term. Democrats currently have about 1.9 million Floridians signed up to vote by mail this November, almost 600,000 more than the Republicans’ 1.3 million, according to the Florida Secretary of State.In 2016, both sides had about 1.3 million signed up before the general election.“Whether you call it Vote by Mail or Absentee Voting, in Florida the election system is Safe and Secure, Tried and True. Florida’s Voting system has been cleaned up (we defeated Democrats attempts at change), so in Florida I encourage all to request a Ballot & Vote by Mail!,” Trump tweeted Tuesday.White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany rejected the notion that the president has changed his views. She said he supports absentee voting by mail for a reason, as opposed to states mailing out ballots to all voters regardless of whether they requested them. Most election officials say there is little effective difference between absentee voting and voting by mail.Trump elaborated on why he supports voting by mail in Florida, but not elsewhere.“They’ve been doing this over many years and they’ve made it really terrific,” Trump said.“This took years to do,” he added. “This doesn’t take weeks or months. In the case of Nevada, they’re going to be voting in a matter of weeks. And you can’t do that.”Yet Florida hardly has a history of flawless elections, most notably in 2000 when the state’s disputed vote count had to be resolved by the U.S. Supreme Court, delivering the presidency to George W. Bush over Al Gore.Trump cited a New York race as an example of what can go wrong, claiming no one could know the winner. In that race, a judge ruled Monday that about 1,000 disputed ballots should be counted. That will likely not affect the outcome since the incumbent, longtime Democratic Rep. Carolyn Maloney is leading her closest challenger by about 3,700 votes.“I think they have to do the election over. That election is no good,” Trump said.More voters during this year’s primary elections opted to vote by mail, and several states relaxed restrictions for voting absentee through the mail. Trump himself voted by mail in the Florida primary earlier this year.Five states have relied on mail-in ballots since even before the coronavirus pandemic raised concerns about voting in person, but there is no evidence to support Trump’s assertion that voting by mail leads to widespread fraud.Trump has gone so far as to suggest by tweet that the November election should be delayed “until people can properly, securely and safely vote.”States that use mail-in votes exclusively say they have necessary safeguards in place to ensure that a hostile foreign actor doesn’t disrupt the vote. Election security experts say voter fraud is rare in all forms of balloting, including by mail.With Florida’s large retirement population, voting by mail is expected to become a more popular option this November. Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., was asked Saturday if he had concerns about the option. “No, I’m not concerned about mail-in voting in Florida,” he said tersely.Florida GOP officials welcomed Trump’s tweet.“Thank you for the clarification Mr President! This is very helpful,” said Joe Gruters, the chair of Florida’s Republican Party. “Florida will deliver you the 29 electoral votes!”Florida is considered a must-win state for Trump’s reelection prospects. Its presidential contests are usually close, with Trump winning by just 1.2 percentage points in 2016, and George W. Bush winning Florida by just 537 votes in 2000.Nevada lawmakers have recently passed a bill that would add the state to a growing list of U.S. states mailing active voters ballots ahead of the November election.The bill, which was passed Sunday, was signed into law Monday by Gov. Steve Sisolak, a Democrat. Nevada joins seven states that plan on automatically sending voters mail ballots, including California and Vermont, which moved earlier this summer to adopt automatic mail ballot policies.Trump called the bill’s passage “an illegal late night coup” in a tweet Monday morning. He accused Sisolak of exploiting COVID-19 to ensure votes in Nevada would favor Democrats.__Associated Press writers Bobby Caina Calvan in Tallahassee, Florida, and Terry Spencer in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-encourages-mail-voting-in-key-battleground-florida-after-months-of-criticising-method/story-iX53JwRPXLa6wLINpk0ltN.html
05-08-2020||World||Pompeo offers US help to Lebanon after ‘horrible tragedy’||Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Tuesday offered US assistance to Lebanon after Beirut was rocked by massive blasts.“We are monitoring and stand ready to assist the people of Lebanon as they recover from this horrible tragedy,” Pompeo wrote on Twitter.Pompeo in an accompanying statement said that the United States will wait for the findings of Lebanese authorities on the cause of the explosions, which killed at least 50 people and flattened the Mediterranean city’s harborside.Also read: Israel not involved in Beirut blast, Israeli official says“Our team in Beirut has reported to me the extensive damage to a city and a people that I hold dear, an additional challenge in a time of already deep crisis,” said Pompeo, who has spoken in the past of his personal interest in Lebanon.The US embassy in Beirut encouraged Americans in the city to take shelter.“There are reports of toxic gases released in the explosion so all in the area should stay indoors and wear masks if available,” it said in a security alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-offers-us-help-to-lebanon-after-horrible-tragedy/story-gUUpx1rghhFHc5Jk7kfroK.html
05-08-2020||World||Massive Beirut blast kills more than 70, injures thousands||A massive explosion rocked Beirut on Tuesday, flattening much of the city’s port, damaging buildings across the capital and sending a giant mushroom cloud into the sky. More than 70 people were killed and 3,000 injured, with bodies buried in the rubble, officials said.The blast struck with the force of a 3.5 magnitude earthquake, according to Germany’s geosciences center GFZ, and it was heard and felt as far away as Cyprus more than 200 kilometers (180 miles) across the Mediterranean.Also read: Beirut blast area housed highly-explosive materials, says Lebanese internal security chiefThe sudden devastation overwhelmed a country already struggling with both the coronavirus pandemic and an economic crisis. For hours afterward, ambulances rushing in from around Lebanon carried away the wounded. Hospitals quickly filled beyond capacity, pleading for blood supplies, and generators to keep their lights on.For blocks around the port, where the explosion took place, bloodied residents staggered through streets lined with overturned cars and littered with rubble from shattered buildings. Windows and doors were blown out kilometers (miles) away. Army helicopters helped battle fires raging at Beirut’s port.The cause of the blast was not immediately known, but initial reports suggested a fire had detonated a warehouse at the port.Abbas Ibrahim, chief of Lebanese General Security, said it might have been caused by highly explosive material that was confiscated from a ship some time ago and stored at the port. Local television channel LBC said the material was sodium nitrate. Witnesses reported seeing a strange orange-colored cloud like that which appears when toxic nitrogen dioxide gas is released after an explosion involving nitrates.Also read: Massive blast shakes Lebanon’s capital Beirut, hundreds injuredThe explosion came amid ongoing tensions between Israel and the Hezbollah military group on Lebanon’s southern border. Many residents reported hearing planes overhead just before the blast, fueling rumors of an attack, though Israeli military overflights are common. An Israeli government official said Israel “had nothing to do” with the blast. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter with the news media. Israeli officials usually do not comment on “foreign reports.”U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo extended his “deepest condolences” to the people of Beirut and said the United States is closely monitoring the situation. “Our team in Beirut has reported to me the extensive damage to a city and a people that I hold dear, an additional challenge in a time of already deep crisis,” Pompeo said in a written statement.The blast was stunning even for a city that has seen civil war, suicide bombings and bombardment by Israel.“It was a real horror show. I haven’t seen anything like that since the days of the (civil) war,” said Marwan Ramadan, who was about 500 meters (yards) from the port and was knocked off his feet by the force of the explosion.Health Minister Hassan Hamad said the preliminary toll was more than 70 dead and more than 3,000 wounded. Emergency teams streamed in from across Lebanon to help, and the injured had to be taken to hospitals outside the capital. Hamad added that hospitals were barely coping and offers of aid were pouring in from Arab states and friends of Lebanon.Beirut’s governor, Marwan Abboud, broke into tears as he toured the site, exclaiming, “Beirut is a devastated city.” Prime Minister Hassan Diab vowed that “those responsible will pay.”Initially, video taken by residents showed a fire raging at the port, sending up a giant column of smoke, illuminated by flashes of what appeared to be fireworks. Local TV stations reported that a fireworks warehouse was involved. The fire then appeared to spread to a nearby building, triggering a more massive explosion, sending up a mushroom cloud and generating a shock wave.Also read: Massive blast at Beirut port injures dozens across capitalOne of Israel’s top bomb experts, Boaz Hayoun, said fireworks could have been a factor setting off the bigger blast. “Before the big explosion, ... in the center of the fire, you can see sparks, you can hear sounds like popcorn and you can hear whistles,” said Hayoun, owner of the Tamar Group, which works closely with the Israeli government on safety and certification issues involving explosives. “This is very specific behavior of fireworks.”Charbel Haj, who works at the port, said it started as small explosions like firecrackers. Then, he said, he was thrown off his feet by the huge blast. His clothes were torn.Some of those injured lay on the ground at the port, Associated Press staff at the scene said. A civil defense official said there were still bodies inside the port, many under debris.Outside one hospital, Omar Kinno sat on the pavement, holding back tears. Kinno, a Syrian, said one of his sisters was killed when the blast rocked their apartment near the port, and another sister’s neck was broken. His injured mother and father were taken to a hospital but he didn’t know which, and he was making calls trying to track them down.“I have no idea what happened to my parents. I am totally lost,” he said.Confusion reigned across the city, as people cleared out of damaged homes or tried to locate family. Motorcyclists picked their way through traffic, carrying the injured.One woman covered in blood from the waist up walked down a trashed street while talking furiously on her phone. On another street, a woman with a bloodied face looked distraught, staggering through traffic with two friends at her side.“This country is cursed,” a young man passing by muttered.The blast came at a time when Lebanon’s economy is facing collapse from the financial crisis and the coronavirus restrictions. Many have lost jobs, while the worth of their savings has evaporated as the currency has plunged in value against the dollar. The result has thrown many into poverty.Several of Beirut’s hospitals were damaged in the blast. Roum Hospital put out a call for people to bring it spare generators to keep its electricity going as it evacuated patients because of heavy damage.Outside the St. George University Hospital in Beirut’s Achrafieh neighborhood, people with various injuries arrived in ambulances, in cars and on foot. The explosion had caused major damage inside the building and knocked out the electricity at the hospital. Dozens of injured were being treated on the spot on the street outside, on stretchers and wheelchairs.“This is a catastrophe we have on our hands,” said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements.The U.N. peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, UNIFIL, said one of its ships in the port was damaged and a number of its peacekeepers were injured, some seriously.It was reminiscent of massive blasts during Lebanon’s civil war and took place only three days before a U.N.-backed tribunal was set to give its verdict in the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri in a truck bombing more than 15 years ago. That explosion, with a ton of explosives, was felt kilometers (miles) away, just like Tuesday’s explosion.French President Emmanuel Macron said in a tweet that his country was sending aid. Israel offered emergency assistance through international intermediaries, its Foreign Ministry said in a statement. Iran, Hezbollah’s patron, also said it was ready to help. “Stay strong, Lebanon,” its foreign minister, Javad Zarif, said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/27-dead-about-2-500-wounded-in-beirut-blasts-health-minister/story-0Y5tORDGjzMydR9yzRdLGJ.html
05-08-2020||World||Covid-19 effect on students a catastrophe, may hurt decades of progress: UN||United Nations secretary-general Antonio Guterres warned on Tuesday that the world faces a “generational catastrophe” because of school closures amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and said that getting students safely back to the classroom must be “a top priority”.Guterres said that as of mid-July, schools were closed in some 160 countries, affecting more than 1 billion students, while at least 40 million children have missed out on pre-school.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThis came on top of more than 250 million children already being out of school before the pandemic and only a quarter of secondary school students in developing countries leaving with basic skills, he said in a video statement.“Now we face a generational catastrophe that could waste untold human potential, undermine decades of progress, and exacerbate entrenched inequalities,” said Guterres as he launched a UN “Save our Future” campaign. “Once local transmission of Covid-19 is under control, getting students back into schools and learning institutions as safely as possible must be a top priority,” he said. “Consultation with parents, carers, teachers and young people is fundamental.”Educationist and former University Grants Commission (UGC) member Dr Inder Mohan Kapahy said: “Covid-19 pandemic has caused an unprecedented existential crisis in the whole world, particularly in the developing nations. In India alone, a minimum of 30 million school students are adversely affected. In poorer countries, schools provide not only education but also nutrients, food and life skills. A conservative estimate is that disruption in school education may continue for at least four months more.”Also read: UN chief says 1 billion students affected by Covid-19 closuresAccording to a global projection covering 180 countries by the UN education agency UNESCO and partner organisations, some 23.8 million additional children and youths from pre-primary school to university level are at risk of dropping out or not having access to school next year due to the pandemic’s economic impact.“We are at a defining moment for the world’s children and young people,” Guterres said in a video message and a 26-page policy briefing. “The decisions that governments and partners take now will have lasting impact on hundreds of millions of young people, and on the development prospects of countries for decades to come.”According to the policy briefing, “the unparalleled education disruption” from the pandemic is far from over and as many as 100 countries have not yet announced a date for schools to reopen.Guterres called for action in four key areas, the first being reopening schools. “Once local transmission of Covid-19 is under control,” he said, “getting students back into schools and learning institutions as safely as possible must be a top priority.”Guterres said increasing financing for education must be given priority. Before the pandemic, low- and middle-income countries faced an education funding gap of $1.5 trillion annually, he said, and the gap in education financing globally could increase by 30% because of the pandemic.The secretary-general said education initiatives must target “those at greatest risk of being left behind”, including youngsters in crises, minorities, and the displaced and disabled. And these initiatives should urgently seek to bridge the digital divide that has become even more evident during the Covid-19 crisis, he said.On a positive note, Guterres said the pandemic is providing “a generational opportunity to reimagine education” and leap forward to systems that deliver quality education.Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Delhi’s Springdales School, said: “There is no doubt this is one of the greatest human crises that has taken place. And its largest impact has been felt on children — regular students, more so children in rural areas across the world because they have absolutely no access to education. So there is no doubt an entire aspect of learning that will be affected by the pandemic because there are these ages of learning that will face a gap at different levels because of the pandemic, whether it is the foundation, primary, middle level or another level.”Educationist Meeta Sengupta said that the “continuity of learning” is the first step for bringing back students to classrooms whenever the schools reopen. “We need to start working as a community to create a mesh network of the internet to make it available to the poor. There should be measures to raise funds for digital devices and internet connection to enable children from poor families to continue learning at their homes. The continuity should not break because once students step out of learning; coming back is very difficult. The relationship between students and schools should be continued,” she said.Findings from a National Statistical Office survey on social consumption on education, conducted in 2017-18, show that India’s gross enrolment ratio was 99.2 between primary and middle school education level. It is the ratio of the number of persons currently enrolled in a particular level of education to the number of persons in the corresponding official age group. For example, the ratio of 99.2 in primary to middle school level means for every 100 persons in the age group of 6 to 13 years, there are 99.2 students enrolled in Classes 1 to 8. To be sure, this does not mean nearly everyone in the age group of 6 to 13 years is enrolled in school because some of the students in Classes 1 to 8 would be students from other age groups, particularly above the age of 13, who enrol at a age higher than the one recommended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-effect-on-students-a-catastrophe-may-hurt-decades-of-progress-un/story-EWOIDwq2m9LrWjOiVd6QWK.html
05-08-2020||World||Donald Trump defends US’ testing, cites India’s handling of coronavirus||President Donald Trump on Tuesday used India’s statistics on testing coronavirus disease to defend his handling of the Covid-19 epidemic in the United States and said that the former country is having a “tremendous problem” battling the disease. The US president brought up India’s Covid-19 tests, as he has many times before, his administration’s better testing record as he battles widespread criticism of his handling of the epidemic, marked by abject denial of the threat, underplaying the magnitude of the crisis and being dismissive of social distancing norms advocated his own public health officials and member his of task force.“India has 1.4 billion people, they have 11 million tests,” he said, to contrast the 60 million tests in the United States with a population of 330 million. “I think we’re doing very well. I think that we have done as well as any nation. If you really look, if you take a look at what’s going on, especially now with all these flare ups and nations that they were talking about,” Trump said.Statistically, the United States has conducted most Covid-19 tests but experts suggest that it should carry out more tests as the country has already clocked 4.7 million infections and 155,000 fatalities, a quarter of the global count.The president has used either outdated numbers of Indian testing. India had conducted nearly 18 million tests by July 28, when the Axios interview was recorded, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research, the official tracker. The 20 million mark was crossed on Sunday.Trump had used the same figures — of 60 million for the US and 11 million for India — at a news briefing last Friday, which did not tally what the White House said later. In a statement issued in support of Trump’s claims of better testing, the White House had said, “India has a population more than four times as large as the United States, but has only conducted around one-third of the number of tests.”In a periodic attack, the president also attacked China for the epidemic. “This was sent to us by China, one way or the other,” he said of the virus, which was first detected in Wuhan, China last December. “And we are never going to forget it. believe me, we are never going to forget it.”Trump brought up India-China clashes to show he takes his intelligence briefings — called the President’s Daily Brief (PBD) — seriously, and that he reads them and, he insisted, comprehends them “better” than a lot of people. The interviewer had asked about it in the context of information that was reported to have been cited in a February PBD that Russians were offering bounty to Taliban fighters for killing American forces in Afghanistan. Trump has insisted that information never reached him, and also that it was based on dubious intelligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-defends-us-testing-cites-india-s-handling-of-coronavirus/story-OvooWIUqURXm36paGsLuYJ.html
05-08-2020||World||White House says US tracking explosion in Beirut closely||The Trump administration is closely tracking the deadly explosion in Beirut, White House spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany told a news briefing on Tuesday, but she offered no details about the causes of the blast.Witnesses and security sources in Beirut said the huge explosion near the center of Beirut killed at least 10 people and sent shockwaves across the Lebanese capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-says-u-s-tracking-explosion-in-beirut-closely/story-yvJDmqh0UZ4OSsLc7mCddO.html
05-08-2020||World||Israel not involved in Beirut blast, Israeli official says||Israel has nothing to do with a huge explosion at the Beirut port area on Tuesday, an Israeli official said.“Israel has nothing to do with the incident,” the official said on condition of anonymity. Israel’s Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi told Israeli N12 television news that the explosion was most likely an accident caused by a fire. The blast occurred in the city’s port area, where there were warehouses housing explosives, Lebanon’s state news agency NNA and two security sources said. A third security source said there were chemcials stored in the area.Footage of the blast shared around by residents on social media showed a column of smoke rising from the port district followed by an enormous blast. Those who filming what initially appeared to be a big blaze where thrown backwards by the shock.It was not immediately clear what caused the blaze that set off the blast or what kind of explosives were in the warehouses. The governor of Beirut port told Sky News that a team of firefighters at the scene had “disappeared” after the explosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-not-involved-in-beirut-blast-israeli-official-says/story-Acg57ejkyMCQDeZvf4lxwI.html
05-08-2020||World||Trump says Beirut explosion an ‘attack’ caused by a ‘bomb’||US President Donald Trump on Tuesday suggested that the massive explosion that killed at least 78 people and wounded thousands in Beirut, Lebanon was an “attack” caused by a “bomb of some kind”.“It looks like a terrible attack,” President Trump said to reporters at a White House news briefing on the Covid-19 epidemic.When pressed for details he said he had met with “some of our great generals, and they just seem to feel that it was. This was not a -- some kind of a manufacturing explosion”.He aded: “They seem to think it was an attack. It was a bomb of some kind.”No further details were available. Unidentified defense department officials told CNN they had no evidence to suggest it was an attack, as the president indicated.Lebanese authorities have not yet called the explosion as an attack. “I will not relax until we find the responsible party for what happened, hold it accountable and apply the most serious punishments against it because it isn’t acceptable that a shipment of ammonium nitrate — estimated to be 2,750 tons — was in a depot for the past six years without precautionary measures being taken,” a senior official said in a televised statement from Prime Minister Hassan Diab, according to The New York Time.It also quoted Maj. Gen. Abbas Ibrahim, the head of Lebanon’s general security service, hours earlier that “highly explosive materials” were stored at the site.Ammonium nitrate has been used in deadly accidents such as one in Texas in 1937 that killed over 580 people, and in bombings as in Oklahoma City in 1995 in which 168 people died.Shortly before Trump’s remarks, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said, “I’d like to extend my deepest condolences to all those affected by the massive explosion at the port of Beirut today,. We are closely monitoring and stand ready to assist the people of Lebanon as they recover from this tragedy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-beirut-explosion-an-attack-caused-by-a-bomb/story-4Mybage4zhqTHMQmEA0lYK.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Universal appeal of Lord Ram cannot be hijacked, is not BJP’s property’: Tharoor||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday took a swipe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said the universal appeal of Lord Ram and Sanatan Dharma cannot be hijacked by those who chant either hymns or slogans. The articulate Congress leader emphasized that Lord Ram belonged to all of humanity and also invoked Mahatma Gandhi’s idea of the legendary Hindu king.Taking to microblogging social media platform Twitter, Tharoor tweeted, “The universal appeal of Ram & Sanatan Dharma cannot be commandeered by those who chant either hymns or slogans. He belongs to all humanity. For Hindutva, Ram is a God to be worshipped; for Gandhiji, Ram represented the ideal qualities that every person should practice &seek to emulate.”On a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the construction of the historic Ram Temple in Ayodhya and presided over the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’, Tharoor in a series of tweets said that Lord Ram was “not the property of the BJP”. ALSO READ | ‘Lord Ram living in tents for years, will finally get a temple’: PM Modi at Ayodhya event“He is the ideal man whose image is deeply etched in the hearts & minds of millions. Gandhiji always sang his hymns & died w/ “Hey Ram” on his lips. He talked about a Ram Rajya where all would live in peace & prosperity. Can’t let His name be hijacked!” Tharoor wrote.The Congress leader also clarified that the Congress party had never been opposed to the construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya, but it was against the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992. The centuries old mosque had been demolished by a large number of kar sevaks on December 6, 1992.Tharoor also recalled that in 1989, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhiji had allowed the VHP to do shilanyas on non-disputed land nearby as an alternate site.India on Wednesday witnessed the historic ceremony of the Bhoomi Pujan in Ayodhya with celebrations panning out across states. The much-awaited foundation stone laying ceremony of for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya was concluded by PM Narendra Modi on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/universal-appeal-of-lord-ram-cannot-be-hijacked-is-not-bjp-s-property-tharoor/story-Ic06gRiQ7TM09Am7TB883K.html
05-08-2020||India||Tigress Sundari to be relocated from Odisha to Madhya Pradesh in a month||More than two years after a tigress was brought from Madhya Pradesh to Odisha under India’s first inter-state relocation exercise of tigers, the Odisha government said on Wednesday that it will return the big cat in a month.Chief Wildlife Warden of Odisha, Hari Shankar Upadhyay said though shifting of the tigress has been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the National Tiger Conservation Authority would begin the process in a month after assessing the situation.Tigress Sundari was brought from the Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh in June 2018 as part of the inter-state tiger translocation project and released into Satkosia Tiger Reserve in August the same year. However it was shifted to an enclosure in the tiger reserve after it killed a 45-year-old woman and a 65-year-old man living inside the reserve in September 2018 triggering violence by locals who burnt the forest department’s boats and beat house.Mahabir, the first tiger relocated from a tiger reserve in Madhya Pradesh in June 2018 died due to metal snares laid by poachers in Satkosia Tiger Reserve that caused a deep wound on its neck. Its carcass was found under a bush in the tiger reserve.In December last year, the National Tiger Conservation Authority had asked the Odisha government to send back Sundari from Satkosia and accused the Odisha forest and wildlife department of making a mess of the monitoring and management of the relocated tigress. The tigress relocated from Bandhavgarh tiger reserve of MP under inter-state relocation exercise of tigers was not monitored and managed as per the standard operating procedure set by it, the NTCA had alleged.“Tigress T-2(Sundari) cannot be allowed to be kept in a small enclosure for any longer time. Therefore, in interest of Tiger Conservation, Tigress T-2 shall be withdrawn and brought to Ghorela centre at Kanha Tiger Reserve, Madhya Pradesh, with immediate effect for re-wilding and subsequent release to suitable habitat,” the NTCA had written to Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tigress-sundari-to-be-relocated-from-odisha-to-madhya-pradesh-in-a-month/story-C1MRGJz1S9MG8g9FXJcOlN.html
05-08-2020||India||Man in MP shoos away tigress with trick taught by elders, saves wife and brother too||The courage, determination and presence of mind a 30-year-old tribal man in Umaria district, 516 km east of Bhopal, not only saved him but also his wife and brother after they were attacked by a tigress in Bandhavgarh tiger reserve while they were on their way home on a bike, said a forest official on Wednesday. Ram Milan Baiga, a resident of Garhpuri village which is located in core area of Bandhavgarh reserve, was returning to his village on Monday evening on a bike with his wife Meera Baiga, 25 and brother Shyam Baiga, 28, when a tigress attacked them in Khitauli range of the reserve, said NP Kartikeya, a range officer. The forest officer confirmed that pug marks of a tigress found on the spot after the incident. “All three fell on the ground after the tigress attacked but instead of running away, Ram Milan stood there, asked wife and brother not to run away and started making noises as taught by his elders in his childhood on how to shoo away wild animals. They continued to stand there and kept making noises for about 15 minutes to drive away the tigress. Later deputy range officer Gajraj Singh reached there and took them to the outpost,” said Kartikeya. Ram Milan and Meera suffered injuries on their hands and legs and were admitted to the district hospital where their condition is stable, the official said. Kartikeya said, “If these three had tried to run away this could have been dangerous for all of them but Ram Milan’s courage, presence of mind and strategy worked perfectly for all of them.” Ram Milan said, “I had seen my elders making noises loudly to shoo the wild animals away while taking the cattle in the forest areas for grazing. Despite living in a village, that too in the core area of tiger reserve, I had never had such an encounter with any wild animal so far. This was quite a different experience on Monday and scary moments for us that I would never be able to forget.” He said he was initially stunned when the tigress attacked before he remembered the survival trick.“I saw the tigress standing just a few metres away from us after it attacked us and we fell on the ground. For some moments I froze and was at my wit’s end before I used the trick taught to us by our elders and it really worked. When I started making noises my wife and brother too followed. I am overjoyed because I not only could save my life but also the lives of my wife and brother. Nothing could be more joyous a moment for me than this.” Retired conservator of forest Jagdish Chandra said, “Sometimes a tiger or tigress attacks a human being in self-defence too sensing a threat to its life from him if he or she gets close to it in any particular situation. Standing still is a good practice to avoid conflict as running away may further strengthen the perceived threat felt by the tiger or tigress. Making noises too can help one while not running away as it may take the tiger by surprise but it all depends on particular situations in which a person is confronting a wild animal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-in-mp-shoos-away-tigress-with-trick-taught-by-elders-saves-wife-and-brother-too/story-2Xqei7JX4LvGgtRfOvVzIN.html
05-08-2020||India||Testing drops in Bengal’s private labs after govt caps cost, total tests cross 1 million mark||The numbers of swab testing in several private laboratories have dropped over the past one month after the West Bengal government fixed the rate of Covid-19 tests and brought it down to nearly half in June-end. The number of tests in government laboratories, however, has shot up. The total number of samples tested in the state, including private laboratories, crossed the one million mark on Wednesday and touched 1.03 million “The state government had on June 26 capped the cost of Covid-19 testing to Rs 2,250 at private laboratories and private hospitals in the state. Earlier it was Rs 4,500. Thereafter the number of tests per day has dropped in some private laboratories,” said a senior official of the Bengal government’s health department. One private laboratory tested more than 11,000 samples in the last 15 days in June. In the month of July, however, it could conduct only around 9000 tests. Another well-known laboratory chain conducted more than 60,000 tests in the last 15 days of June. However after the cost was capped, the number of tests came down to half in July. “Some of our employees tested positive and the facility had to be closed down for some days for sanitization. We decided to go slow. Also as the government has ramped up its own testing facilities more people are now approaching the government laboratories,” said an official of a well-known private laboratory in Kolkata. Even though some private laboratories said that they have increased their testing rate, it is not as high as the government’s testing. “We have almost reached our optimum capacity and hence can’t increase the number of tests any more. We are trying to procure an extra machine by the end of August to ramp it up further,” said an official of the private hospital where samples are tested. The Mamata Banerjee administration which, had earlier received flak from the inter-ministerial central team and the opposition parties for its low testing rate in April, has now increased its daily testing several times. While in the first week of April there were only four state-run laboratories and less than 100 samples were tested per day, by the first week of May the number of samples tested per day was increased to around 2500. In the first week of July the number was further ramped up and 10,000 tests were being done in one day. Now more than 22,000 tests are done in 57 laboratories. “The number of tests is being further increased with antigen tests. More than 24,000 antigen tests have already been done. We are going to increase the number of daily tests to around 25,000,” said a senior health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/testing-drops-in-bengal-s-private-labs-after-govt-caps-cost-total-tests-cross-1-million-mark/story-2jYUQ2crbt4xNNVgRh29SN.html
05-08-2020||India||For once, saffron cuts across political divide with Ram temple event celebrations in MP||The saffron hue cut across party lines in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday with both the ruling party and opposition leaders embracing the colour to mark the foundation stone laying ceremony for construction of a grand Ram temple at Ayodhya. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, discharged earlier in the day from a Bhopal hospital after getting cured of Covid-19, turned up in saffron clothes before the media and so did state Congress president Kamal Nath on his social media page. Several other leaders including ministers posted their profile photos either in saffron clothes or posted a picture of Lord Ram in place of their profile photos. On the occasion, the state headquarters of the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress parties were both illuminated. In the evening Congress workers worshipped Lord Ram at their state headquarters in Bhopal by placing a framed image of ‘Ram darbar’ at the main gate, lighting lamps and performing an aarti in presence of Kamal Nath and several other senior Congress leaders. Bhajans were sung and Congress workers even chanted ‘Jai Shriram’, said Narendra Saluja, media coordinator of state Congress president. Talking to media persons after he was discharged, Chouhan said PM Narendra Modi was a once-in-five-centuries leader since it was under his leadership that the Central government made forceful pleas before the Supreme Court and the latter ruled in favour of the temple. “We have seen leaders of decades and a century but Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the leader of five centuries as one of the most contentious issues in the country was resolved amicably,” Chouhan said. Also Read: Gorakhpur celebrates Ram temple foundation stone laying ceremony with diyas, colours, bhajansSenior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said, “Laying of foundation stone for the magnificent temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya is a moment of amazing joy and glory for every Indian. Please come together to celebrate the occasion by lighting lamps at our homes and make this historical moment lasting forever.” State Congress president Kamal Nath, who recited Hanuman Chalisa on Tuesday said, “I welcome the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. People in the country had been waiting for and expecting this for a long time. The construction of Ram temple is taking place with consent of every Indian and this is possible in India only.”Also Read: ‘Not surprised by Priyanka Gandhi’s Ram temple comment’: Kerala CM Vijayan Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh stuck to his stand and said, “Laying of foundation stone for god Ramlala temple in Ayodhya is taking place in violation of the established norms of astrology. I pray to the god to forgive us and grant blessings for construction of the temple without any obstruction.” People across the state celebrated the occasion reciting Sundarkand in temples, greeting one another. Special worship and prayers were organised at Mahakal temple in Ujjain and other temples in Bhopal, Jabalpur, Gwalior, Indore and other districts. Fireworks were organised in Bhopal and people danced while beating drums, as per reports from various parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-once-saffron-cut-across-political-divide-with-ram-temple-event-celebrations-in-mp/story-wi5GrNgKvEYCFl9OWVSnnK.html
05-08-2020||India||Mumbai rains: PM Modi assures all possible help to Maharashtra CM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray about the prevailing situation in Mumbai and surrounding areas due to heavy rains and assured all possible support, the Prime Minister’s Office said.Incessant heavy rains and strong winds battered Mumbai and adjoining areas on Wednesday.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray regarding the situation prevailing in Mumbai and surrounding areas due to heavy rainfall,” the PMO tweeted.PM Modi assured Thackeray all possible support, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-rains-pm-modi-assures-all-possible-help-to-maharashtra-cm/story-YqHkcGrK6xDWECjhn0486M.html
05-08-2020||India||Sangam city loudspeakers give ‘voice’ to Ram temple ceremony in Ayodhya||Though more that 160 km away from the temple town of Ayodhya where the bhoomi pujan (ground-breaking) ceremony took place on Wednesday to lay the foundation of a grand Ram temple, Prayagraj played a significant part in the proceedings. It was a firm from Prayagraj, also called Sangam city, which installed loudspeakers free of cost for the event. Around 3,500 loudspeakers from Prayagraj were used so that residents of Ayodhya could hear bhajans and Vedic mantras during the bhoomi pujan and the addresses by the leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Owner of the firm Praveen Malviya volunteered and offered his service free of cost. “Around 3,500 loudspeakers were sent to Ayodhya on the occasion of bhoomi pujan so that people of Ayodhya could hear the mantras chanted during the ceremony. It was a great opportunity to serve Lord Ram on this occasion,” he said. The firm has been associated with religious events and its loudspeakers have been used during the annual Magh Mela and during Kumbh and Ardh Kumbh fairs for the past many decades. Loudspeakers play an important role during the fairs in making important announcements and contacting the kin of people who get lost in the crowds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sangam-city-loudspeakers-give-voice-to-ram-temple-ceremony-in-ayodhya/story-updIpb0PvILvTUsnVZEZwK.html
05-08-2020||India||Religious fervour as PM Modi lays foundation of Ram Temple in Ayodhya||People including members of Bharatiya Janata Party and Vishwa Hindu Parishad lit earthen lamps in different parts of the country to celebrate laying of the foundation stone of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, as government functionaries, irrespective of political affiliations, termed the event as a “historic moment” for every Indian.There was mood of fervour and accomplishment as saffron group members blew conch shells at 12.15 p.m. when Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered prayers at Ayodhya for laying the foundation of the Ram Temple, and later in the evening lit earthen lamps and held special prayers for Lord Ram at their homes and offices.BJP offices in various states were decorated and live telecasts of the bhoomi pujan were shown on big screens outside the offices. The party members raised slogans of Jai Shri Ram and Jai Siya Ram as special prayers for Lord Ram were held through public address systems. After bhoomi pujan by PM Modi, ladoos were distributed among people at several places.Ram Temples, which were especially decorated for the occasion, witnessed huge attendance of devotees. Entire streets leading to these temples in the Hindi heartland were decorated. Throughout the day, special prayers were held at several temples.However, rains at several parts of the country including Ayodhya on Wednesday dampened the celebrations but not the sentiments. In Raj Bhavans in several states such as Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, diyas were lit and special prayers were held.Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra, who held recitation of Sundarkand with his family members and lit 101 earthen lamps at the Raj Bhawan in Jaipur, said the commitment to build the Ram Temple has been fulfilled. “The temple will be established as a symbol of cultural and national unity and with the spirit of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’,” said Mishra, who hails from Uttar Pradesh and was minister in NDA-1.Governors of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand Anandiben Patel and Baby Rani Maurya congratulated the Prime Minister saying it as the fulfilment of a big commitment. “The dream of all Hindu believers has moved towards reality today,” Maurya said.Rajasthan chief minister and Congress leader Ashok Gehlot expressed hope that it would become a symbol of unity in the country.“His life teaches us the importance of truth, justice, equality for all, compassion and brotherhood. We need to focus on establishing an egalitarian society based on the values espoused by Lord Ram,” Gehlot tweeted. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh also tweeted a congratulatory message and said the temple will bring unity and prosperity in the country.West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, who had ordered complete lockdown in the state on Wednesday for Covid-19 management, said, “Our country has always upheld the age-old legacy of unity in diversity, and we must preserve this to our last breath!”However, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh claimed that several party workers were arrested when they violated the lockdown restrictions to visit local temples in Bengal. At Kharagpur in West Midnapore district police resorted to lathi charge after minor clashes with BJP workers. “Mamata Banerjee is anti-Hindu,” he said.Ruling party chief ministers such as Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khatter and Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan termed the day as historic. “This happy moment is historic for every Indian,” Khatter said while his MP counterpart said the “dream of 500 years” has come true.The Ram temple will strengthen peace and humanity in the country, said Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal. Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said the dreams of thousands (of people) who sacrificed their lives for the construction of the temple has come true.“There was a long and hard struggle for 500 years. But the power of Indian democratic values, judiciary and executive, under the leadership of PM Modi, has shown the world how solutions to problems can be found peacefully through democratic and constitutional means,” said UP chief minister Yodi Adityanath.Karnataka Minister KS Eshwarappa on Wednesday hailed the laying of foundation stone (bhoomi pujan) for a grand Ram Temple and said “Kashi Vishwanath and Krishna Janmasthan temples have to be liberated”.“A beautiful temple will come up, but there are Kashi Vishwanath and Krishna Janmasthan temples which have to be liberated,” Eshwarappa said.(With state bureau and agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-fervour-as-pm-modi-lays-foundation-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-q5MNa7IenoUjx2vJAoRAbN.html
05-08-2020||India||Monsoon fury leaves Mumbai battered, bruised and waterlogged||Torrential rain and strong wind battered Mumbai and its neighbouring areas on Wednesday leaving many areas waterlogged and disrupting traffic.Water entered the state-run J J Hospital in the Byculla area as the rain continued to pound through the day.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked the Mumbai municipal corporation to stay on high alert in the view of more rain forecast for Thursday. He took stock of the situation and asked the BMC to coordinate with the police and railway authorities, health machinery and NDRF to ensure that citizens do not face any hardships.The incessant rain and high speed wind disrupted rail and road traffic, tripped power supply and uprooted trees in several areas. Many low-lying areas have been badly waterlogged. Public transport in and around Mumbai which was already operating under restrictions because of the Covid-`19 pandemic, was further disrupted due to waterlogging on rail tracks and roads.Low-lying areas of Chembur, Parel, Hindmata, Wadala and other areas of Mumbai reported massive waterlogging.Authorities also pressed into service the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) which rescued around 200 passengers from a local train stranded in heavy rain between Masjid Bunder and Byculla stations in the evening.High speed wind also toppled three large cranes at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust in adjoining Raigad district. “Due to high-speed winds, three key cranes fell at one of our terminals, but no one was injured in the incident,” PTI quoted chairman of JNPT Sanjay Sethi as saying.He said the collapse of the cranes won’t affect operations at JNPT, one of the country’s biggest ports.A tower of a telecom company also toppled in the wind near Old Vashi Creek Bridge in Navi Mumbai. At 6 pm, the MeT department issued an alert for intense spells of 30 to 50 mm rainfall per hour with strong winds in Mumbai and suburban areas.It said strong winds could reach up to 70 to 80 km per hour speed and occasionally gust to 100 km per hour in the next three to four hours.The Central Railway suspended local train services on the Harbour Line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT) and Vadala railway stations. Train services suspended due to waterlogging between Masjid Bunder and Sandhurst Road railway station. Mainline train services were operational.Train services on Western Railway suspended between Churchgate and Mumbai Central railway stations. “Due to very heavy rain and fallen trees near the tracks at Churchgate, Mumbai Central and in between Marine Lines and Charni Road, the special suburban trains have been suspended temporarily between Mumbai Central and Churchgate. Trains are being reversed from Mumbai Central Dadar, Bandra and Andheri,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, Western Railway.The Central Railway and Western Railway have been operating nearly 350 special train services each daily for those working in essential and emergency services amid the Covid-19 pandemicBus services of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) were also affected due to water-logging on some roads.South Mumbai was badly hit as heavy rains led to waterlogging on several roads and low-lying areas.The Colaba weather observatory recorded 229.6 mm rain in 9 hours (8.30 am to 5.30 pm), heaviest rain for the season for south Mumbai. Santacruz recorded 65.8 mm during this time.According to the IMD, Thane city, Dombivli and Kalyan areas, which are part of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), received more than 120 mm rainfall during a 12-hour period ending at 5.30 am Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-fury-leaves-mumbai-battered-bruised-and-waterlogged/story-0SgGWeYh7I1USUDA4KiM2I.html
05-08-2020||India||With 112 Covid-19 deaths, Tamil Nadu records highest toll in 24 hours||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported 112 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease, the highest number of fatalities that the state has logged in a single-day till date, taking the death toll to 4,461. The southern state is the second worst-hit in the country after Maharashtra, by the Covid-19 pandemic, with capital city Chennai recording the maximum number of patients.In the last 24 hours, Tamil Nadu has added 5,175 new coronavirus cases taking the case count to 2.73 lakh.The number of people who have recovered from the infection has surpassed the fresh cases with 6,031 people getting discharged from various hospitals, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,14,815.Currently, the state has 54,184 active cases of coronavirus, a government health bulletin said.Among the fresh cases, Chennai reported 1,044 patients and three nearby districts of Chengelpet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram together logged 1,301 cases crossing the state capital’s count.Tamil Nadu’s case count now stands at 2,73,460 and Chennai accounts for about 1,05,004 patients.After remaining shut for over four months as part of steps taken to fight the infectious disease, gyms in Tamil Nadu are due to open from August 10.Chief Minister K Palaniswami agreed to open gyms after considering a representation from the Tamil Nadu Gym Owners and Trainers Welfare Association. The CM passed an order allowing gyms to resume services from August 10 since the Centre too has allowed such facilities to work from today, the government said.The gyms will be allowed to offer services only to people aged up to 50 years and Standard Operating Procedures, which will be issued separately for them, will have to be followed and social distancing maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-112-covid-19-deaths-tamil-nadu-records-highest-toll-in-24-hours/story-0MXxUkk7r4IZcDEQPau0tO.html
05-08-2020||India||‘I got my calling on the ghats of Varanasi’||Actor Madhrima Roy considers herself lucky that in small span of her career she got a variety of roles to play, that too across mediums, “Mine has been a small journey but still I am content with my work as luckily I got to play diverse characters with wonderful scripts. Though I come from a non-film background, for me reaching to this point has been an overwhelming experience,” she said over the phone. For Madhurima, her journey has been a learning experience. “Hailing from army background, I was brought up in a way where you need to be strong and independent self. I started as insurance salesman when I was studying in Pune and had just completed my college. I remember my father telling me to understand the importance of standing on your own feet and being self sufficient. And then followed a series of jobs and I learnt to do my own things. Then in the middle, I got selected for a Miss India contest in the year 2011. And then modelling happened and I reached Mumbai. To begin with, I took up a job in a public relations company. Meanwhile, I did get an offer for a travel show and got selected. I was paired up with a musician. When we reached Varanasi and happened to perform a small skit on the ghats, I realised that it is acting that I want take up as a career. You can say on the ghats of Varanasi I got my calling.” The pretty actor has been part of films as well as web shows and says it is difficult to choose between the two. “See as far as script, screenplay and characterization is concerned, I can’t differentiate between the two mediums. For me film sets are larger than life where we take one or two scenes and the entire day goes to get that perfect shot; whereas in web series you don’t get too many takes and not too many minutes to shoot in a day. In web, characters are fleshed out in depth as series are longer version of story telling and you get at least seven to eight episodes to bring out layers of any particular character,” she said. The versatile actor has previously appeared in ‘Criminal Justice,’ the third season of ‘Little Things,’ the second season of ‘Inside Edge’ and the first season of ‘Four More Shots Please!.’ In films, she has been part of last year’s release ‘Judgementall Hai Kya’ and The Zoya Factor.She is thrilled with the response a recent OTT show has received. “When I was offered ‘Mafia’, there were multiple things that excited me about the show. First it was a bilingual show (streaming in Hindi and Bangla), a crime thriller and the character I got to play was well written. We shot deep inside a forest that was four hours from Darjeeling in West Bengal and the entire outdoor shoot was such a beautiful experience. Now when the show is so well received and my character Birsa Dsgupta has earned me quite a lot of praise, it’s like all our hard work has paid off.”Madhurima has already started shooting for her upcoming web series, a crime drama ‘Mumbhai.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-got-my-calling-on-the-ghats-of-varanasi/story-6RAFqV6110Zi4bJBeaHRoN.html
05-08-2020||India||MP promotes mask banks to contain Covid-19; survey says 28% people wear masks only to dodge police||The Madhya Pradesh government is promoting mask banks to motivate people under ‘one mask- several lives’ campaign, launched to control spread of coronavirus in the state in view of the state’s decision to not impose any further lockdown restrictions except on Sundays and during the night hours.The decision comes a few days after an online survey covering more than 1,000 people in 70 cities and towns of the state found that 44% people found wearing a mask inconvenient while 28% of the respondents wore masks only due to fear of police personnel. State officials say people’s failure to religiously follow the safety norms is one of the main reasons behind the spread of the virus in the state. Under the ‘ek mask- anek jindagi’ campaign, a part of Kill Corona drive part II, launched for a fortnight from August 1, as many as 1.30 lakh masks were donated by social organisations, public representatives and other people, out of which 1.15 lakh masks have been distributed. All the civic bodies are supposed to run these banks to encourage people to wear masks. Also Read: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan discharged from hospital after recovering from Covid-19Urban administration and development minister, Bhupendra Singh, said, “As many as 413 mask banks have been established so far across the state with support of non-government organisations, public representatives and other people.” The focus on encouraging use of masks by the public as a containment tool can be seen in the context of the findings of the online survey conducted by Public Relations Society consisting of former professors from several journalism universities and heads of departments. According to the report, as many as 54% of the respondents said they wore masks to protect themselves from infection while 8% of them said they did it to protect others. “The survey suggested that 9% respondents did not wear face masks, while 28% said they wore face masks only on seeing police personnel. Those not wearing face masks gave two reasons- First, they didn’t step out of their houses, hence they didn’t need it and second, they were strong and therefore nothing would happen to them. A small percentage said face masks were expensive to use,” said Pushpendra Pal Singh, the founder member of the organization. Also Read: Independence Day 2020: Wear your love for the nation on your face mask Singh said while the survey suggested there was massive awareness among people on masks, but still there were people who didn’t wear it at all, and some others, who didn’t wear it regularly or properly. Hence, those ignoring the requirement were not only putting themselves at risk of contracting the virus but also others. The survey, conducted among the youth, also found out that 71% of college-going youth had worn face masks every time while going out in the last seven days, while 16% had worn it occasionally and the remaining wore it rarely. As per the health department’s bulletin released on Wednesday evening, the state has registered 35,734 Covid-19 patients so far with 652 new patients identified in the past 24 hours. A total of 929 patients have died so far. When the unlock period began in the state on June 16, the state had 10,935 patients and 465 casualties, registered in roughly three months since March 20. However, the cases have more than doubled by 24,799 since June 16. Similarly, the unlock period has seen 464 deaths, almost equal the number reported in the first three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-promotes-mask-banks-to-contain-covid-19-survey-says-28-people-wear-masks-only-to-dodge-police/story-QkkFWVtAdRZJjQ5BUXFCuI.html
05-08-2020||India||Gorakhpur celebrates Ram temple foundation stone laying ceremony with diyas, colours, bhajans||The laying of the foundation stone for the Ram temple in Ayodhya by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday sparked off celebrations in Gorakhpur.Earthen lamps (diyas) were lit on the premises of the Gorakhnath temple where the priests recited verses from the Ramcharitmanas and devotees organised bhajan- kirtan to mark the occasion. “The mahants of the Gorakhnath Math belonging to the Nath panth have played a pivotal role in the Ram temple movement since the British period. The present mahant, Yogi Adityanath, who is the chief minister of the state, also gave momentum to the movement after he joined the Nath panth in 1992. After becoming chief minister, he not only named Ayodhya district, but also upgraded the town to a municipal corporation. He has launched several projects for development of the temple town,” said Kamalnath, a priest at Gorakhnath temple. “Today is a historic day for us. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the (Ram) temple. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, as well as a large number of seers from across the country were present on the occasion. Lamps were lit on the samadhis of Mahant Digvijay Nath and Mahant Avaidyanath, two leading lights of the Ram temple movement,” he said. The Covid-19 guidelines were implemented during the celebrations, Kamalnath said. Religious songs were played in other temples of Gorakhpur too. People played with colours at crossings of the city. Besides, a special programme was organised at the Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s local office. Gorakhpur MP and actor Ravi Kishan too joined the celebrations. “I have urged people to light lamps at their houses to celebrate the groundbreaking ceremony for the Ram temple. For people across the country, it’s Diwali,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorakhpur-celebrates-ram-temple-foundation-stone-laying-ceremony-with-diyas-colours-bhajans/story-OzqUBSt3x6WORzAJELN10K.html
05-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: ‘A blessed day’, tweets PM Modi on Ram temple bhoomi poojan ceremony and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘A blessed day’: PM Modi tweets on Ram temple bhoomi poojan ceremonyPrime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the day of foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya will remain etched in the memory of every Indian.Read more. ED summons Rhea Chakraborty for questioning on Friday in Sushant Singh Rajput caseEnforcement Directorate on Wednesday issued summons to Sushant Singh Rajput’s former live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty asking her to appear before the agency on Friday at 11 am, said officials privy to the development.Read more. Imran Khan’s Pakistan might end up regretting its new ‘political map’. Here is whyPrime Minister Imran Khan’s move to unveil the so-called new ‘political map’ of Pakistan by including the entire erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as well as Junagadh in Gujarat may be an exercise to appease the domestic political sentiments but the move is fraught with serious implications. And none of them are good for Pakistan.Read more. ‘Lord Ram living in tents for years, will finally get a temple’: PM Modi at Ayodhya eventPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed gratitude to all citizens of the country, the Indian diaspora across the world and all the devotees of Lord Ram as he laid the foundation stone for Ram temple in Ayodhya. This is the first time that a Prime Minister has visited Ram Janmabhoomi to offer prayers at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949.Read more. Uddhav Thackeray puts BMC on high alert citing more rains in Mumbai on ThursdayMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the Mumbai municipal corporation to stay on high alert in the view of weather forecast for the current spell of rains to continue on Thursday leading to further water logging and other disruptions to routine life in the city.Read more. Ram Temple | ‘BJP, RSS intervention expedited the process’: Rita JoshiBJP leader Rita Bahuguna Joshi spoke on the construction of Ram temple. Speaking in a debate at Hindustan Times, Joshi spoke on the politics around the construction of the temple and said the process was expedited by BJP and other Sangh organizations. “The entire country has accepted the decision and people should not try to invoke others,” Joshi said. Joshi added that development is the main goal for the BJP government and that won’t be mixed with religious issues. Watch more. 60 Years of Mughal-e-Azam: Iconic Bollywood film screenplay enters Oscars libraryMughal-e-Azam is a larger-than-life epic that can easily be considered an important chapter for cinema-lovers. The magnum opus, directed by K Asif, is still a captivating watch, 60 years since its release in 1960. Gifted actors such as Prithiviraj Kapoor, Dilip Kumar and Madhubala became synonymous with their onscreen personas - Akbar, Salim and Anarkali.Read more. Samsung Galaxy Note 20 series goes official with big upgrades, improvementsSamsung has officially launched the Galaxy Note 20 series. Thanks to a recent spate of leaks and rumours, there was little left to know about the latest smartphone series. Nonetheless, the new series features Galaxy Note 20 and Galaxy Note 20 Ultra.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-a-blessed-day-tweets-pm-modi-on-ram-temple-bhoomi-poojan-ceremony-and-all-the-latest-news/story-e3IYqQRjCTUWafGDBe7lOL.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Not surprised by Priyanka Gandhi’s Ram temple comment’: Kerala CM Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday accused the Congress of toeing the ‘soft Hindutva’ line, saying he was not surprised over party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi’s statement supporting the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya.“We all know who opened the doors of the temple and who allowed ‘Kar Sewa’ which ultimately led to the demolition of the Masjid. The Congress always supported soft Hindutva. So I did not find any surprise in the statements of Congress leaders, including Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi,” the CM said.The Indian Union Muslim League, a major ally of the Congress in Kerala, on Wednesday passed a resolution expressing displeasure over Priyanka Gandhi’s statement on the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, saying her statement was inappropriate and reminded Congress leaders not to dilute their secular credentials. The CPI (M) has been taunting the League, asking it to explain its position after Priyanka lauded the construction of Ram temple. Without taking the name of anyone, the CM said the country was in the midst of a pandemic and all efforts should be there to contain the spread of the virus and it was no time for any celebration or festival. He said politburo has made the position on the temple clear and he did not want to elaborate it further. Meanwhile, the state has reported seven deaths and 1195 new cases. Out of 29,150 total cases active are 11,495 and recovered 17, 537. With seven more casualties the death toll went up to 96 and there are 515 containment spots in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-surprised-by-priyanka-gandhi-s-ram-temple-comment-kerala-cm-vijayan/story-o8QeJvKq1Kp4syHI1PdJGL.html
05-08-2020||India||Three Karnataka links to Ram Temple’s Bhoomi Pujan in Ayodhya||There are three key Karnataka links to the Bhoomi Pujan conducted in Ayodhya on Wednesday. The first is now well known that the auspicious time or the muhuraat for the foundation stone laying ceremony was recommended by Belgavi-based astrologer N R Vijayendra Sharma.The Abhijit muhurta in Shatabisha Nakshatra was recommended as one of the options after Sharma’s original choice of the event on Akshay Tritiya on April 26, could not be carried out due to the nationwide lockdown because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.Similarly, there are two other important associations of the state to the event. The three- feet tall wooden idol of Kodanda Rama (Rama with bow and arrow) presented to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath was made by Kengeri, Bangalore-based wood carving sculptor Rama Murthy. The idol carved from local Thega (teak wood) was sent along with one and half feet tall idols of Lord Ram’s sons Luv and Kush, according to Murthy.The final association is that the ‘Raghupati’ laddoos made of pure ghee and saffron which were distributed after the foundation stone laying ceremony had some of the 20,000 kilograms of ghee which was supplied by the Karnataka Milk Federation. It is the same ghee that KMF retails under the brand name ‘Nandini and which also provides flavour to the famous Tirupati laddoos too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-karnataka-links-to-ram-temple-s-bhoomi-pujan-in-ayodhya/story-kEznVqX9n0dVgOiJe1kgdN.html
05-08-2020||India||‘See no merit in your petition’: SC to rape-accused bishop Franco Mulakkal||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed deposed Jalandhar Bishop Franco Mulakkal to face trial as it dismissed his plea seeking discharge in the rape case lodged against him by a nun, saying that there is no merit in his petition.“You don’t have a case, we do not see any merit in your petition,” said an SC bench headed by CJI SA Bobde.Appearing for Mulakkal, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi sought to convince a bench that his client was being made a victim for proceeding against the nun. The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, however, was not convinced. Mulakkal, while serving as Bishop of Jalandhar Diocese of the Roman Catholic Church, was accused of raping a nun belonging to the Missionaries of Jesus congregation. The complaint was filed with the Kerala police in June 2018. Mulakkal was accused of raping the 43-year-old nun on more than 13 occasions during his visits to the Kerala convent between 2014 and 2016. The victim was the Mother Superior of the convent in question. He was later removed from the charge of the Jalandhar diocese. He first approached the local court in Kerala praying for discharge, claiming that he was being falsely implicated by the victim who had an axe to grind against him after he initiated disciplinary proceedings against her for alleged financial misdemeanors. The plea was dismissed in March following which he approached Kerala High Court. His petition before the HC stated, “Due to the disciplinary proceedings initiated by the petitioner (Mulakkal) against the sister, she has maliciously and falsely implicated him with an ulterior motive to wreak vengeance on him and cooked up this story just because of her personal grudge towards him, without any justification.” After examining the wealth of evidence against him, the July 7 HC order dismissing his petition, noted, “Rape is the most revolting, cruel and hated crime to a woman… Thus when the records indicate that prima facie materials are available to show that the Sister was subjected to sexual assault, including rape, at the hands of the superior authority who is the Bishop of the Diocese, it is not possible to infer that this Bishop was falsely implicated by the Mother Superior of the Home functioning under him, on mere enmity as contended by him.” Mulakkal pinned hopes on the Supreme Court to avert a possible trial. The Kerala government had filed a caveat in the Supreme Court anticipating an order on his plea. The state police filed the charge-sheet in April 2019 naming Mulakkal. Even the Kerala High Court had said that the antecedents of the victim do not make out a case to doubt the prosecution story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/see-no-merit-in-your-petition-sc-to-rape-accused-bishop-franco-mulakkal/story-aDriWTpRLLjiiJj1E7JSGJ.html
05-08-2020||India||ED summons Rhea Chakraborty for questioning on Friday in Sushant Singh Rajput case||Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday issued summons to Sushant Singh Rajput’s former live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty asking her to appear before the agency on Friday at 11 am, said officials privy to the development.Rhea Chakarborty is said to have gone out of public view ever since she posted a video appeal claiming innocence and wishing that the truth behind Sushant Singh Rajput’s death comes out one day clearing her name. Bihar police has been claiming that it has been unable to trace Chakraborty, who has been accused of diverting huge sums from Sushant’s account apart from keeping him in confinement and harassing him mentally.Also Read: ‘Rhea Chakraborty is absconding, she is not coming forward’ says DGP BiharThe Enforcement Directorate is probing the financial misconduct aspect of the investigation.Earlier today, Central government notified a CBI probe into the abetment of suicide case registered against Rhea Chakraborty by Sushant Singh Rajput’s father in Patna. The case was filed several days after Rajput, aged 34, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. Rhea has filed a petition in Supreme Court seeking transfer of the case registered in Bihar to Mumbai. During the hearing of the case, the apex court today directed the Mumbai Police to place before it the status report of the probe conducted so far.Also Read: IPS officer asked me to pressurise Rhea Chakraborty: DCP DahiyaAmong the several questions swirling over Sushant’s death, one pertains to alleged financial fleecing of the rising star at the hands of his former girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty. Bihar Police DGP Gupteshwar Pandey in a sensational claim made on Tuesday said that Rs 50 crore was withdrawn from the late actor’s account in the last four years and Rs 15 crore was withdrawn in the last year alone. He also accused the Mumbai Police of deliberately not probing the financial angle in the case. Sushant’s parents and Bihar police have earlier blamed Rhea Chakraborty of manipulating Sushant including diverting his money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-rhea-chakraborty-for-questioning-on-friday-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-GhXq1dH9O3dSEou9wZWZAJ.html
05-08-2020||India||SpiceJet operates two flights from Moscow and Tashkent to repatriate 295 Indians||SpiceJet said on Wednesday that it operated a repatriation flight each from Moscow in Russia and from Tashkent in Uzbekistan, bringing back a total of 295 Indians. These flights were operated in association with film actor Sonu Sood, the airline said in a press release. “The 295 Indian nationals repatriated had been stranded in Russia and Uzbekistan for over two months,” it said. SpiceJet said it used its Boeing 737 aircraft for the Moscow-Chennai flight that was operated on Tuesday and the Tashkent-Delhi flight operated on Wednesday. The low-cost carrier said it will be operating another repatriation flight from Manila to Delhi on August 7 to bring back 180 Indians from the capital city of Philippines. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the pandemic. However, special international charter flights, permitted by the Indian aviation regulator DGCA, have been operating as usual. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-operates-two-flights-from-moscow-and-tashkent-to-repatriate-295-indians/story-evi9ZAeixeSepJ53Z9i5qJ.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Amazing Ayodhya’: New book to tell history of Lord Rama’s birth place||Coinciding with the Ram temple ‘bhoomi pujan’, publishing house Bloomsbury on Wednesday announced their latest book that will shed light on the history of Ayodhya.Titled “Amazing Ayodhya”, the book by Neena Rai promises to offer “authentic information” about the city, which will not only help understand the life and times of ancient Hindus, but also the revered figures of Rama and Sita.“No one grows up in India untouched by the beautiful story of Ram and Sita. Every Deepavali, one hears about Ram and Sita’s welcome back to Ayodhya. But amongst all the celebrations one hardly pays attention to the fascinating city of Ayodhya. All that we hear about Ayodhya is how the city was lit up to welcome its king and queen. “In order to understand the avatars we worship, we must understand how life and times were in their ‘yug’. ‘Amazing Ayodhya’ is an attempt in gaining knowledge of Ayodhya, its architecture and other details -- like how big was Ayodhya? How was it shaped like? What were the houses like? Who established Ayodhya? What kind of animals lived there?” Rai told PTI.According to the publishers, the well-researched book is replete with descriptions and draws out comparisons of an earlier era with our current life and culture, thus connecting the past with the present.  “The author compares Ayodhya with the cultures of other ancient civilisations so that the reader feels connected to the past and the content of the book appears contemporary.  ‘Amazing Ayodhya’ is a must-read for a better understanding of history, scriptures and Hindu civilisation,” it added.The book will hit the stands in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazing-ayodhya-new-book-to-tell-history-of-lord-rama-s-birth-place/story-GNnrJixUcPkRGiYy7ZoQUN.html
05-08-2020||India||South Mumbai gets season’s heaviest rain in 9 hours, CM Uddhav Thackeray asks people to stay home||With heavy rain battering Mumbai city and adjoining districts from Tuesday night and continuously on Wednesday, the Colaba weather observatory has recorded 229.6 mm rain in about nine hours (from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm)—the season’s heaviest rainfall for south Mumbai. The Mumbai Police has requested people to stay indoors and not to venture out in the stormy weather which is also likely to continue on Thursday, according to the weather forecast. “We request Mumbaikars to stay indoors and not venture out unless it is extremely essential. Practice all necessary precautions and do not venture out near the shore or waterlogged areas,” the Mumbai Police said in a statement.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also appealed to the people to stay indoors and venture out only for essential work. The chief minister asked civic agency-- the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to coordinate with the police and railway authorities, health machinery and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to ensure that people do not face any problems due to the inclement weather.ALSO READ | Local train services, BEST buses hit hard as heavy rain lashes Mumbai, ThaneState minister for Tourism and Environment Aditya Thackeray took to Twitter and echoed the CM’s thoughts. “While we’ve asked all to stay home, the police and urban/ rural local bodies staff are on the streets and are braving the stormy rains. Please stay home and stay put wherever indoors you are across the entire belt receiving rains,” the Thackeray scion tweeted. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) officials have been directed to ensure that there is no mishap at the ongoing work at Metro Rail sites, a statement from the chief minister’s office said.Heavy rains lashed parts of Mumbai and neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts on Wednesday, affecting some local train and bus services due to water-logging on rail tracks and arterial roads. ALSO READ | Mumbai drowns under its monsoon woesThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has already put the city and its suburbs on red alert and issued a warning to people to stay indoors amid forecasts of high tide. Normal life was disrupted across Mumbai and a few districts as heavy rain continued to batter the city.The red alert was issued for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts of Maharashtra. The weather agency’s warning for Mumbai is just for Wednesday but that for Thane, Palghar and Nashik is for both Wednesday and Thursday.The Central Railway suspended local train services on the Harbour railway line between the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Wadala railway stations. Train services were suspended due to water-logging between Masjid Bunder and Sandhurst Road railway station. Mainline train services, however, are currently operational.Due to heavy rain and water-logging, the train services on the Harbour line between CSMT (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus) and Vashi and on the mainline between CSMT and Thane have been suspended, the Central Railway informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-mumbai-gets-season-s-heaviest-rain-in-9-hours-cm-uddhav-thackeray-asks-people-to-stay-home/story-sMPQHwB95O7I44nyg8DlBP.html
05-08-2020||India||Vocal in support for Ram temple now, Congress seeks to change its pro-Muslim party image||The apparent shift in the Congress’ stand on the Ram temple in Ayodhya is widely attributed to the party’s attempt to change the perception of being a pro-Muslim party that was listed by the AK Antony-led panel in 2014 as one of the major reasons for its worst-ever electoral performance in the Lok Sabha polls that year. For the past six years, the grand old party has been trying hard to change that image. Though the Congress had all along maintained that it will abide the Supreme Court verdict on the Ayodhya issue or support any negotiated settlement arrived at by the parties concerned, it had held that the demolition of the Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992 was a “shameful and criminal act for which the perpetrators must be brought to justice”. It had never been this vocal in its support for the construction of the Ram temple. Barring few exceptions that too privately, majority of Congress leaders had come out in support of the move. Tasked to look into the reasons for the 2014 Lok Sabha poll debacle, a four-member committee, headed by former defence minister AK Antony, in its report concluded that fighting elections on secularism versus communalism plank had hurt the Congress as it was identified a pro-Muslim party which resulted in substantial gains for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also tried to change that opinion with his frequent temple visits during subsequent elections that prompted his political rivals to charge him with playing a “soft Hindutva” card. He had also visited Ayodhya in September 2016, becoming the first member of the Gandhi family to visit the holy city in 26 years. His father and former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had visited Ayodhya in 1990. On Wednesday, Rahul Gandhi said Lord Ram is the ultimate embodiment of supreme human values and can never appear in cruelty, hatred or injustice but did not mention the bhoomi pujan ceremony at Ayodhya in his tweet unlike his sister and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “Maryada Purshottam Lord Ram is the ultimate embodiment of supreme human values. He is the core of humanism embedded deep in our hearts. Ram is love, he can never appear in hatred. Ram is compassion. He can never appear in cruelty. Ram is justice, he can never appear in injustice,” he tweeted in Hindi. Soon after the Supreme Court verdict on Ayodhya came in November last year, the Congress not only welcomed it but also sought to take credit for paving the way for the construction of the Ram temple. The Congress insisted that it was the party-led central government that had acquired the 67 acre land outside the disputed 2.77 acre land in 1993 to maintain the law and order. The opposition party also sought to remind its detractors that it was the Rajiv Gandhi government that allowed the ‘shilanyas’ or a ground-breaking ceremony at an undisputed site close to Babri Masjid and had also opened the doors of the Ram temple in 1986. The credit-taking exercise by the Congress was in line with a view of a section of its leaders, especially from North India, asking that the party should talk openly about the ‘shilanyas’ at Ayodhya in 1986 and the acquiring of land during its tenures to counter the BJP. After the demolition of the Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992, the PV Narasimha Rao government had acquired the disputed site and 67 acres of land surrounding it through a law passed in 1993. The land included pockets of government land, a disputed shrine and land belonging to the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas. But the Nyas opposed the take over and said the land should be handed over to its rightful owner. The Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, met on November 9 last year and unanimously passed a resolution, welcoming the judgment and favouring the construction of the Ram temple. “The Indian National Congress respects the verdict of the Supreme Court in the Ayodhya case. We appeal to all the parties concerned and to all communities to abide by the secular values and spirit of fraternity enshrined in our Constitution and to maintain peace and harmony,” the resolution said. The issue also resonated at a meeting between Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party’s Rajya Sabha members on July 30. Deepender Singh Hooda said the Congress leaders should speak in one voice and stick to the CWC resolution on the issue as it is attached to the sentiments of millions of Indians. On Tuesday, Priyanka Gandhi had expressed the hope that the groundbreaking ceremony in Ayodhya would be a celebration of national unity, brotherhood and cultural harmony. “Lord Ram belongs to everybody. Lord Ram wants everybody’s welfare. That is why he is called ‘Maryada Purshottam’,” she said in a statement. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath hosted a ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ recital at his residence in Bhopal on the eve of bhoomi pujan on Tuesday and announced that 11 silver bricks, bought from contributions by Congress members, will be sent for the construction of the temple. In Chhattisgarh, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has announced construction of a “magnificent” Mata Kaushalya (mother of Lord Ram) temple in Raipur and developing religious tourist circuits of Valmiki Ashram at Turturiya, where twins of Lord Ram, Luv and Kush, were said to have born. A 1,000 year-old Shiv temple in Rampal area of Jagdalpur district, believed to have been established by Lord Ram during exile, will also be renovated, the Congress government had said in a statement on Monday. Congress party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala and former union minister Manish Tewari welcomed the bhoomi pujan ceremony, saying this was an occasion to resolve to follow the path of ‘Dharma’ set by Lord Ram. A Congress leader on the condition of anonymity dismissed suggestion that the grand old party has shunned ‘soft-Hindutva’ and adopted the ‘hardline Hindutva’ stand, saying Lord Ram is a unifier, the protector and the voice of the oppressed and the deprived and an assimilation of all cultures, castes, class and religions. “The nation and its people must now decide who depicts these values – the assimilating, cohabitating, all-inclusive ideology of the Congress party or the inherently divisive, hateful and parochial ideology of the BJP-RSS,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vocal-in-support-for-ram-temple-now-congress-seeks-to-change-its-pro-muslim-party-image/story-wcqc2lwRs1KOH79y6E3loI.html
05-08-2020||India||China allows Indians to return, puts in place strict Covid-19 medical protocol||Nearly 150 Indians including diplomats’ families, officials of multilateral banks and private individuals are expected to return to China on a special Air India flight from New Delhi to Guangzhou on Thursday.The final sanction from Beijing for their return was preceded by intensive rounds of discussions between Indian and Chinese officials in the backdrop Beijing not allowing Indians into China in the last special flight, which flew in on June 29.Chinese officials had made it clear this time that Indians will only be allowed on Thursday’s flight if each individual had done serum antibody detection and nucleic acid tests within five days (before boarding) and their individual health forms were endorsed by the Chinese embassy in New Delhi.A fresh nucleic acid test has to be done once the passengers disembark in Guangzhou – if positive, the passenger would have to return to New Delhi on the same flight.Also read | ‘India’s move in J&K illegal’: China on one year of Article 370 abrogationPrivately employed Indians planning to return to China had another mandatory requirement to be completed – an invitation letter signed by the local Chinese foreign affairs office where they work.On its way back to New Delhi from the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou on Thursday morning, the flight, part of the fifth phase of the Vande Bharat Mission to evacuate Indians stranded abroad because of the pandemic, is expected to fly back more than 200 Indians.Most returning Indians are students studying medicine in China.The Chinese government allowed Thursday’s VBM flight to bring Indians back to China more than a month after blocking Indian nationals from returning because two returning Indians were diagnosed with Covid-19 on a Shanghai-bound special flight on June 20.Among those returning to China on Thursday are Indians working for the multilateral banks, the New Development Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.The arriving Indians will be quarantined at hotels designated by local health authorities in Guangzhou for two weeks.China has increasingly restricted foreign nationals from returning to the country unless their return is deemed important by the companies they work. The country has also made it mandatory for everyone to apply for a fresh visa.Also read: Upset at India’s big review of Confucius institutes tomorrow, China says ‘be fair’China has also implemented a strict medical protocol to be followed by those hoping to return.China suspended the entry of foreign nationals holding normal visas or residence permits from March 28 because of the spreading pandemic.Entry of persons with diplomatic visas were not affected except for the fact they could only return on special or chartered flights.In February, India had evacuated hundreds of its citizens from the worst-hit Hubei province in central China, and the first pandemic epicentre, Wuhan city, the provincial capital in two special flights.China has seemingly controlled the Covid-19 outbreak, barring the 300 domestically transmitted cases in Beijing in June, more than 600 cases in Xinjiang in the northwest and 90 cases in the northeastern city of Dalian.The health authorities are monitoring imported cases of Covid-19 – mostly among Chinese nationals returning from abroad.The Chinese mainland reported five new imported Covid-19 cases Tuesday, bringing the total number of imported cases to 2103, the National Health Commission said Wednesday.No deaths had been reported from the imported cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-allows-indians-to-return-puts-in-place-strict-covid-19-medical-protocol/story-QUo9tC2PFyYO9SRwnX8uLL.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi’s constituency Varanasi celebrates Ram temple ceremony||Kashi celebrated as Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed bhoomi pujan of Ram temple at Ayodhya on Wednesday. While priest Ganesh Dutt Shastri blew a conch shell at his house near Dashashwamedh Ghat as he watched the live screening of the groundbreaking ceremony, others performed yagna and distributed sweets to express their joy.Hindu Yuva Vahini (HYV) members recited devotional songs at the Guru Gorakshnath Temple premises in Maidagin area.“Today is a great day for all of us for now a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya is assured,” HYV’s divisional coordinator Ambarish Singh Bhola said.BJP’s Kashi region cleanliness project coordinator Anoop Jaiswal, along with his party workers, offered prayers to Lord Ram near Geeta Temple in the vicinity of Girjaghar intersection and paid floral tributes to late VHP leader Ashok Singhal and Kothari bandhu, the two young RSS workers killed in police firing in Ayodhya in 1990. Also Read: To ‘liberate’ Kashi and Mathura, mosques should give way to mandirs, says Karnataka ministerAmid drumbeats, the BJP workers distributed sweets. Another group of BJP workers offered around 10 kg laddoos at Lord Hanuman Temple on Maidagini intersection.Rudrabhishek was done by BJP workers at Siddheshwar Temple in Asi area while Baba Balakdas with his pupils performed rituals at Patalpuri Mutt.Vivek Singh, a Karni Sena functionary, said their members offered 101 kg laddoos at Sai Temple in Nadesar area. Muslim and Hindu women also celebrated while social worker Nazneen Ansari sang Ram aarti written in Urdu. Ansari, who has written Hanuman Chalisa, Ram Prarthana and Ram aarti in Urdu, is now translating Ramcharitmanas in Urdu.“I have been performing Sri Ram aarti for the last 14 years. Construction of a grand Ram Temple will add to the glory of all,” Ansari said and added, “Lord Ram is ours and we are of Lord Ram.” Also Read: Ram dhun reverberates across continents, Indian community in US celebrates Ram temple bhoomi pujanDr Rajiv Srivastava, founder of Vishal Bharat Sansthan, was also present. A group of Kashi’s Muslim women performed aarti of Lord Ram. RSS workers at Sigra watched the screening of the bhoomi pujan ceremony on television. Circle officer Dashashwamedh Ghat Awadhesh Pandey said security had been increased and the police have been instructed to keep a strict vigil at the ghats. Security was also tightened around the prominent religious places, including the temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-s-constituency-varanasi-celebrates-ram-temple-ceremony/story-UMz3wPMu0Kn81SVO863yVI.html
05-08-2020||India||Centre asks CBI to probe actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case||The Centre on Wednesday evening issued a notification asking the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, a day after Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar demanded such a probe. On Monday, political leaders cutting across party lines pushed for a CBI probe into the case in the Bihar assembly.Uddhav Thackeray, Nitish Kumar’s counterpart in Maharashtra, where the actor died, and the western state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh had both earlier ruled out a CBI probe.The agency is likely to register an FIR by later tonight or early morning on Thursday, said officials aware of the developments. Earlier today, the Centre told the Supreme Court that it has accepted the request by the Bihar government to order a CBI probe in Sushant Singh Rajput case. “Union of India has in principle accepted the request by Bihar to have a CBI probe. Notification regarding the same will be issued by end of day today,” the court was told.The late actor’s father had alleged that there were unexplained transfers from his son’s bank account involving actor Rhea Chakraborty, a film and TV actor, and others. He had accused Chakraborty of having befriended his son in May 2019 with the intention of furthering her own career.The actor’s father, who also sought a CBI probe, had said on Monday he had filed a complaint with Mumbai Police in February claiming Rajput’s life was in danger. The revelation came as Singh filed an FIR with Patna police, alleging Mumbai police of inaction even after 40 days of the actor’s sudden death.Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Mumbai Police, which are investigating the case along with a parallel investigation by Patna Police, said the actor died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-cbi-to-investigate-actor-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-had-demanded-probe/story-6l2HuuLZuDOboZ8X5CZWwO.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s mother watches Ram temple event on TV as son plays key part||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mother Heeraben was seen on Wednesday watching the action from Ayodhya on her television set as her son performed the groundbreaking ceremony for a proposed Ram temple at Ayodhya, the very site where the Babri Masjid once stood. Pictures showed Heeraben, her hands joined in prayer, surveying the action on the flat screen TV as PM Modi went about playing his part in the proceedings. Heeraben, who lives in Gandhinagar, was seen lighting diyas in April after PM Modi made an appeal to the nation in its fight against coronavirus. She has been a great champion of the causes her son espouses: be it donating to the PMCARES fund or lighting diyas or getting in a queue during demonetisation move. Across the country, people remained glued to their television sets as Modi performed the bhoomi pujan at the Ram JanmabhoomiThe wait of centuries has ended, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said after performing the groundbreaking ceremony.Beginning his speech with “Jai Siya Ram”, the prime minister told the gathering that a grand temple will now be built for “Ram Lalla”, the infant Ram, who had been living in a temporary tent for years.“Many people made sacrifices for the Ram temple. I pay my respects to all of them,” he said in the speech that followed the laying of the foundation for the Ram temple.He also released a postage stamp to mark the event.Sending out the message that “Ram is everywhere, Ram belongs to all”, Modi said the temple symbolises India’s rich heritage and will be an inspiration to all of humanity.Despite efforts to eradicate Lord Ram’s existence, he lives in our hearts and is the basis of our culture, Modi said.Citing Lord Ram’s message, Modi said the more powerful India gets, the more it will be loved and remain peaceful.“Social harmony was the core principle of Lord Ram’s governance,” the prime minister said.The construction of the Ram temple is an instrument to unite the country, he said, adding that it will lift the economy of the entire region.“We have to join stones for the construction of Ram temple with mutual love, brotherhood,” he said, asserting that everyone’s sentiments have to be taken care of.Last November, the Supreme Court paved the way for the construction of the Ram temple at the site where the 16th century Babri mosque was demolished in December 1992.While allotting the Ram Janmabhoomi site for a temple to be built by a trust, it ordered that a five-acre site should be found elsewhere in Ayodhya for a new mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-mother-watches-ram-temple-event-on-tv-as-son-plays-key-part/story-0WQxHYGWKQDQN9FnMMOyiN.html
05-08-2020||India||500-years-long wait is over, wish of India’s 135 crore people fulfilled: Yogi on Ram Mandir bhoomi poojan||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Ram temple has marked the end of a 500-year-long wait and thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for paving way for construction of the temple through a democratic and constitutional process.“A 500-year-long wait for this historical day culminated today because of Prime Minister Modi. The wishes of India’s 135 crore people and the well-wishers of Sanatan Dharma followers have been fulfilled,” said Adityanath who began his address with couplets from the Ramcharitmanas of sage Tulsidas.After the ceremony, Adityanath said that the power of Indian democracy and judiciary had shown the world how solutions to problems can be found through democratic and constitutional means. Attributing the initiation of temple construction to the PM Modi, he said, “Prime Minister’s foresight and wisdom paved the way for peaceful resolution of Ram temple issue.”“In this 500-year-long struggle, many brave men and women laid down their lives. The struggle went on for this goal. Prime Minister Modi showed that the resolution of the problem through peaceful means was possible. We could fulfil the dream of Ram temple because we abided by the constitution,” the chief minister said. “Deepotsav ceremony was started in Ayodhya three years ago. Now, it is getting materialised (by bhoomi pujan). Work is in progress on the Ramayan circuit. Now, development of Ayodhya will take place,” said the chief minister while addressing the gathering on the Ram Janmabhoomi campus after the bhoomi pujan. BEGINNING OF A NEW INDIA: BHAGWATSoon after the bhoomi pujan ceremony, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said that this is the beginning of a new India.“Our country believes in ‘Vasudev Kutubhkam’ i.e. world is one family. We believe in taking everyone along. Today is a new beginning of a new India,” he said while addressing the gathering.There was a wave of joy in the whole country now and it was a pleasure to have centuries of fulfilment, Bhagwat said.“When the then RSS chief Balasaheb Deoras told me that 20-30 years of hard work was required for construction of Ram Mandir, I took a pledge (for construction of Ram Mandir).”“Construction of Ram temple is not like construction of any other temple,” Bhagwat added.Remembering those who could not be present on the occasion, including BJP veteran LK Advani, he said, “So many people had sacrificed, they couldn’t be here physically. There are some who couldn’t come here. Advani ji must be at his home watching this. There are some who should have come but could not because of the situation (Covid-19).”The RSS chief also remembered late VHP president Ashok Singhal and the late Mahant Ramchandra Paramhans Das, who had spearheaded the movement for the construction of temple. WISHES OF RAM BHAKTS FULFILLED: NRITYA GOPAL DASShri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust chairman Mahant Nritya Gopal Das also addressed the gathering and spoke about early completion of the temple “The wishes of Ram bhakts living across the globe has been fulfilled today with the Shree Ganesha (beginning) of the construction of the Ram temple. People will get to see that the Ram temple is built,” Das said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-years-long-wait-is-over-wishes-of-india-s-135-crore-people-fulfilled-yogi-on-ram-mandir-bhoomi-poojan/story-Au7UebFujK9LqEMkaHTMVN.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Bound to values of Ram’: Uma Bharti sheds reluctance, attends Ram Temple ceremony||Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti finally attended the foundation stone laying ceremony for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday after initial reluctance.Bharti, earlier on August 3, had declared her intention to skip the main ceremony in Ayodhya citing the threat from coronavirus infection to dignitaries such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She had said she will instead be present chanting hymns at the banks of Sarayu river in the city.However, Bharti, a prominent figure of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, tweeted on Wednesday to say she was bound by her faith in Lord Ram and since she was invited by the top officials of the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust and asked by them to attend the grand event, she would oblige.“I am bound by the values of Maryada Purshottam Ram. I have been instructed to be present at the site for the groundbreaking ceremony by a senior official of the Ram Temple trust. Therefore I will be attending this programme.,” she tweeted this morning. Also Read: Ayodhya relives ‘Ramayan’ days; People throng shops with TV sets to watch Ram Mandir bhoomi poojanBharti was seen seated next to Sadhvi Rithambara, another prominent leader of the Ram temple movement, during the ceremony.Yoga guru Baba Ramdev and Swami Avadeshanand Giri, head of the Juna Akhara, were also present at the ceremony.Senior Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) leader Dinesh ji, who goes by one name, introduced RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to saints present at the venue.Iqbal Ansari, a Muslim litigant in the Ayodhya title suit, too, attended the ceremony. But Mohammad Sharif, a Padma Shri awardee, could not attend the event due to ill-health. Both are residents of Ayodhya.Also Read: Lord Ram is within all of us: PM Modi’s top quotes after Ayodhya bhoomi poojanAfter Prime Minister Narendra Modi left the venue, some of the invitees also went to the ceremony site and paid their respects there.Other stalwarts of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement including former deputy Prime Minister LK Advani, former BJP president Murli Manohar Joshi and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh were not present in person for the ceremony due to the greater threat Covid-19 infection poses to elderly people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bound-to-values-of-ram-uma-bharti-sheds-reluctance-attends-ram-temple-ceremony/story-QCfPikwc5po3i3eqOENxxO.html
05-08-2020||India||Ambulance driver who ferried Sushant Singh Rajput’s body says getting hundreds of ‘hate’ calls||The ambulance driver who ferried the body of Sushant Singh Rajput claimed on Wednesday that he has been receiving hundreds of hate and threat calls every day from the deceased actor’s fans.Rajput was found dead at his Bandra home on June 14 and both Mumbai and Bihar police are carrying out separate probes in connection with his death.“My brother and I provide ambulance service to various hospitals in the city, but ever since we ferried Sushant’s body, we have been receiving threat calls for a month now,” said Vishal Bandgar. Callers often used foul language and alleged that the actor was alive when he was moved into the ambulance, Bandgar claimed.“They allege that we strangled Sushant to death and that we will be punished by God and killed,” he said.The Bandgar brothers own four ambulances, with four contact numbers displayed on them and calls keep coming on every number from all over the country, he said, adding that they plan to lodge a police complaint soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambulance-driver-who-ferried-sushant-singh-rajput-s-body-says-getting-hundreds-of-hate-calls/story-u1VHPbiWEgVPrDdBji2roN.html
05-08-2020||India||Bhoomi poojan in Ayodhya will establish self-confidence for making India self-reliant: Mohan Bhagwat||The ground breaking ceremony of a Ram temple in Ayodhya has spread joy across the country and will establish the self confidence needed for making India self-reliant, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday said. Recalling the three-decade-old struggle of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and its ideological family members for the construction of the temple, he hailed the contribution of veteran BJP leader LK Advani, late VHP president Ashok Singhal and Mahant Ramchandra Das Paramhans.There are many people who worked hard and some even sacrificed their lives for the temple, many may not be here physically, Bhagwat said remembering Singhal and spiritual face of the temple movement late Paramhans.“While there are some like Advani ji who led rath yatra but could not come due to the current situation (Covid-19 pandemic). He must be watching this from his home on TV,” Bhagwat said while addressing from the Ram temple site in Ayodhya. Bhagwat, the guest of honour for the ground breaking ceremony, termed it is a moment of joy asserting “there is a wave of happiness in the country”.“There is a pleasure of fulfilment of a dream for years. But the greatest joy is establishment of the self confidence and self-sufficiency needed for making India self-reliant is realised today,” said the RSS chief, who sat along with Modi at the havan ceremony. With the bhoomi pujan, the Sangh’s three-decade-old pledge of constructing the Ram temple in Ayodhya is being realised, he said.“When we had taken the pledge, our then Sangh chief Balasahab Deoras had told us we would have to work hard continuously for 20-30 years and we did,” Bhagwat said, adding today the society is realising the joy of fulfilment of its pledge.Emphasising that the foundation stone of the temple laid on Wednesday signifies the spirit to take everyone along, he said it is being done by the able leadership of the country to make India a global leader.Requesting people to follow the ideals of Lord Ram to regain the past glory of the country, Bhagwat said people should also build an Ayodhya inside them based on values and teachings of its king to make India great.Projecting Ram as an universal king, the RSS chief said he belongs to all and all belongs to him.Bhagwat was one of the selected invitees at the ‘bhoomi poojan’ ceremony of the Ram temple at the site where a large number of Hindus believe Lord Ram was born.Construction of the Ram temple has been a core issue of the RSS, and it has been providing all necessary support to its ideological family members BJP and VHP to realise this long awaited mission of the saffron organisations.Besides Bhagwat, top office bearers of Sangh - its general secretary Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi, its joint general secretaries Krishna Gopal and Dattateya Hosabale were also present at the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhoomi-poojan-in-ayodhya-will-establish-self-confidence-for-making-india-self-reliant-mohan-bhagwat/story-i39nyzjVadqLOuLYfscqkL.html
05-08-2020||India||Rajasthan HC reserves order on petition seeking quashing of probe against Union minister Shekhawat||After hearing arguments for three hours on Wednesday, a single bench of Rajasthan High Court reserved its order on the petition filed on July 28 seeking quashing of a lower court order that directed investigation against Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and others in a cooperative society scam case. Jaipur additional district judge no. 8 Pawan Kumar, on July 21, directed the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police to probe the alleged role of the Union minister, his wife Naunad Kanwar and their alleged friends Rajendra Baheti and Kevalchand Dakliya in the Rs 884-crore Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society fraud case. The fraud case was registered by the SOG in August 2019. Also read: Rajasthan HC issues notice to Speaker on appeal seeking stay on merger of six BSP MLAsThe lower court issued the order on the basis of a revision petition filed by two complainants, Ladu Singh and Guman Singh from Barmer, who had invested Rs 68 lakh in the co-operative society and were denied their dues upon maturity of the sum. The petition to quash the lower court’s order was filed in the HC by Kevalchand Dakliya who is allegedly Shekhawat’s friend and a shareholder in Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society “After arguments, the court has reserved its orders,” said Vivek Bajwa, counsel for Dakliya. Also read: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan discharged from hospital after recovering from Covid-19Ladu Singh’s counsel, AK Jain, said that the argument started at around 12.30 pm and ended around 3.30 pm after which the single bench of justice Satish Kumar Sharma reserved its orders. “My arguments were that the HC should not intervene in the case as it’s not a matter of injustice. The lower court has not taken any cognizance in the case but only issued directions,” Jain said. The SOG had registered the case against the co-operative society on August 23, 2019, after a preliminary inquiry on the basis of the complaints by investors. The SOG had found that 50,000 investors were defrauded of Rs 884 crore. Meanwhile, the hearing on the bail application of Sanjay Jain, a power broker arrested on charges of toppling the government, will take place in the lower court on Thursday. Jain was arrested on the night of July 17 by the SOG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-reserves-order-on-petition-seeking-quashing-of-probe-against-union-minister-shekhawat/story-YUIquHJwxFmqUAwtv3PAaL.html
05-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand sets up temporary jail at AIR centre in Almora to check Covid-19 among prisoners||Almora jail administration in Uttarakhand has set up a temporary jail at the staff quarters of Akashvani centre in the district for new inmates to ensure that prisoners in the main district jail are not infected by Covid-19.Satish Sukhija, senior jail superintendent of Almora said “We have set up a temporary jail at staff quarters phase-3, Akashvani centre Almora for new inmates. Whenever new inmates come, they will be kept in this temporary jail.”“Twenty-two inmates have been brought in this jail so far. Eleven police personnel have been posted at this jail for security,” he said.Officials said the jail administration has acquired seven staff quarters at Almora Akashvani Centre premises where new inmates will be kept there for at least 18 days and then they will be shifted to district/central jails in Almora and Bageshwar.“Each new inmate will be kept here for 18 days. After this period they will undergo Covid-19 test. Once they test negative they will be shifted to the main jail”, Sukhija said.Sukhija also said that it is a very tough task to maintain social distancing in jails. “No matter how much effort is made, rules are not followed. So we have decided to keep the new inmates in temporary jail,” he saidAll India Radio officers in Almora who did not wish to be named, said authorities took over these quarters even after their opposition. “After the temporary jail was built here, the families of the other employees living here are facing problems. It has become difficult for women, children to leave their houses”, said one AIR officerAccording to jail officials around 168 prisoners are lodged in main jails of the district.Coronavirus has infected many inmates in jails of US Nagar and Nainital districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-sets-up-temporary-jail-at-air-centre-in-almora-to-check-covid-19-among-prisoners/story-UmEFtWpXi2o3kgcOLJP5JL.html
05-08-2020||India||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan discharged from hospital after recovering from Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was discharged from a private hospital here on Wednesday after recovering from coronavirus infection, an official said.Doctors have advised Chouhan, who was in the hospital for 11 days, to stay in home-quarantine and monitor his health for a week, the official added.Chouhan, 61, tested positive for coronavirus on July 25.He tweeted on Sunday that he did not have any symptoms of the infection and would be discharged if he tested negative in the latest test.In a health bulletin issued on Wednesday, the Chirayu hospital where he was admitted said Chouhan had been asymptomatic for the past 10 days.The doctors who were treating him found that all his clinical parameters within normal limits, it said.“They (doctors) advised discharge as per the ICMR policy dated May 8, 2020, wherein patients can be discharged after 10 days of symptoms onset and no fever for three days.There will be no need for testing prior to discharge,” the bulletin said.Chouhan, in a tweet, thanked the hospital staff and said there was no need to fear, but people should be careful.He urged people not to hide coronavirus symptoms, and consult a doctor and follow the guidelines.State BJP media in-charge Lokendra Parashar said the chief minister was in sound health.Welcoming the news, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh advised Chouhan to follow all the isolation norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-discharged-from-hospital-after-recovering-from-covid-19/story-C9yQ6G3XYDYmNNMWCKHS6N.html
05-08-2020||India||RJD chief Lalu Prasad moved to RIMS director’s bungalow amid Covid-19 fear, BJP cries foul||Incarcerated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, who is undergoing treatment at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Jharkhand, was moved to the hospital director’s bungalow on Wednesday in view of his clinical safety arising from the spurt in Covid-19 infection. Ranchi senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surendra Kumar Jha confirmed that Prasad was moved to director’s bungalow. “RIMS and the jail administrations had decided to move Prasad from the paying ward and it was carried out today,” Jha said. Prasad’s moving was being speculated ever since a dedicated Covid-19 ward started functioning in RIMS after the pandemic broke out. It gained momentum after one of his caretakers tested positive Covid-19 recently. However, the former Bihar chief minister underwent a Covid-19 test which came out negative on July 26. Also read: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan discharged from hospital after recovering from Covid-19Several rooms on the floor where Prasad was admitted were also occupied due to security reasons, which were now needed for the treatment of coronavirus patients, a RIMS official said requesting anonymity. Jharkhand’s total Covid-19 tally crossed 14,000, of which Ranchi accounts for over 2,500 cases. The number of active cases was registered at 1,802 in Ranchi till Tuesday evening. Superintendent of Birsa Munda Central Jail, where Prasad was imprisoned before he was admitted to RIMS, Hamid Akhtar said, “We had received a request from the RIMS administration regarding Prasad’s movement to the bungalow. They said as Covid-19 cases are rising, they wanted to use other rooms which were occupied due to security reasons for Prasad.” Finally, it was decided that Prasad would be moved to the director’s bungalow, which is also a part of the RIMS campus, Akhtar added. The official residence of the RIMS director has been vacant after former director Dr DK Singh left RIMS last month. The incumbent director, Dr Manju Gari, is yet to move in. Earlier, the police administration carried out the security audit of the bungalow on receiving the request letter from the RIMS administration. Lalu Prasad Yadav is serving a jail term after being convicted in the fodder scam cases and was admitted to the RIMS paying ward with stage-3 kidney problems in December 2018. Meanwhile, he applied for a regular bail in July. The state BJP termed Prasad’s shifting to director’s bungalow as special treatment by the incumbent Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Congress-led government in Jharkhand in the view of upcoming Bihar election. “Now, the director’s bungalow would turn into an RJD headquarter where Bihar poll strategies would be chalked out,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo. The JMM, however, rubbished the allegation describing it as the BJP’s stunt to get political mileage. “Prasad is imprisoned. How can the director’s bungalow turn into RJD headquarter? Since BJP has no work, it is levelling baseless allegation,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. He said the jail and the RIMS administration took the decision in view of Prasad’s age and rising cases of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-chief-lalu-prasad-moved-to-rims-director-s-bungalow-amid-covid-19-fear-bjp-cries-foul/story-OfuVy0ZtCfKMz6RYAyM0RI.html
05-08-2020||India||Cong placates Kerala ally Muslim League over Priyanka Gandhi’s Ram temple endorsement||The Congress party heaved a sigh of relief after the Muslim League, one of its oldest allies, diluted its tough position on general secretary Priyanka Gandhi’s statement lauding Ram temple construction and limited its criticism to terming it “inappropriate and untimely” in a party resolution passed on Wednesday. The resolution passed in an emergency meeting of the League’s executive committee in Malappuram also asked Congress leaders not to dilute their secular credentials. In her tweet Priyanka had said “boomipoojan” will be “an occasion for national unity, fraternity and cultural congregation.”“The Congress is a secular party. We are upset with statements of some of its leaders including that of Priyanka Gandhi, which we feel are inappropriate and untimely,” said the resolution. The League has also asked its leaders not to air their opinions freely on this issue.Also Read: Hours before Ayodhya event, Muslim body questions Supreme Court judgementMany senior Congress leaders including AICC general secretary K C Venugopal had called Muslim League leaders not to take any hasty decision when assembly elections are only nine months away.After Priyanka Gandhi’s statement, party’s senior leader E T Mohammad Basheer MP had expressed reservations. State Congress leaders were in a piquant situation after the ruling CPI(M) and others taunted the League to explain its position on the contentious issue. A worried Congress was forced to seek intervention of the party high command to cool tempers within the League ranks.“The League is a trusted partner of the UDF. Any attempt to create a wedge will not succeed,” said former chief minister Oommen Chandy, who enjoys a good rapport with the League leadership. League leader P K Kuhalikutty also shared this view later. The League has been a part of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) since the coalition was formed in late seventies. But before this, it was in the left camp and shared power in the second EMS Namboodiripad ministry in 1967.Eying the minority vote bank, the CPI(M) has been wooing unhappy League leaders for quite some time. The party has accommodated many erstwhile League leaders including former MP T K Hamsa and state higher education minister in the Pinarayi government, K T Jaleel. The temple issue had caused a split in the League after the demolition of Babri Masjid when senior leader Sulaiman Sait and others walked out of the party questioning its alliance with the Congress. Also Read: Kerala physician among 3 Indian Islamic State operatives killed in Afghanistan prison attackA moderate face in Kerala, the party lost some of its ground to fundamentalist outfits after the masjid demolition but later bounced back. After the Congress, it is the second biggest party in the UDF with two MPs in Lok Sabha from the state. “The party will have to prevail over hardliners so it called an emergency meeting to cool tempers. Otherwise the party has good equations with the Congress leadership,” said political observer Sunnkutty Abraham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-placates-kerala-ally-muslim-league-over-priyanka-gandhi-s-ram-temple-endorsement/story-KXZ8XlPXp4mLGGIkMj4MMI.html
05-08-2020||India||Indian School of Business to help Andhra govt revive economy in post-Covid-19 world||Hyderabad-based Indian School of Business (ISB), one of the prestigious business schools in the country, will help the Andhra Pradesh government in reviving the state’s economy and generation of employment in the state in the post-Covid-19 scenario. On Wednesday, the state government entered into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the ISB to work with various departments for chalking out measures for economic recovery and growth monitoring. Chief executive officer of the state economic development board (EDB) J V N Subramanyam and ISB dean Prof Rajendra Srivastava exchanged the MoU in the presence of state industries and commerce minister Mekapati Gautam Reddy. Reddy told reporters later that the ISB would be the knowledge partner of the state government to work on various initiatives such as skill development, e-governance, turning Vishakhapatnam into a growth engine and improving value addition in food processing etc.” He said the ISB would nurture a think tank by setting up a policy lab called “GoAP-ISB Policy Lab,” a public policy laboratory to drive evidence-based policy decisions. “It aims to create a Knowledge Bank for strategic planning, policy analysis, data analytics and action-research essential for sustaining high rates of growth,” he said. The policy lab would also focus on investment flows, employment generation and wealth creation. “The lab will be modelled on the lines of Policy Lab in the UK cabinet and would enable greater synergistic functioning of departments and work towards the objective of economic monitoring, recovery, and development,” the minister said. Special chief secretary, industries and commerce Karikal Valaven, secretary of information technology-enabled services and communications Bhanuprakash Yetaru and managing director of AP state skill development corporation Arja Sreekanth were also present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-school-of-business-to-help-andhra-govt-revive-economy-in-post-covid-19-world/story-KPZEFwpB248bw4ZgwltKMM.html
05-08-2020||India||Ayodhya relives ‘Ramayan’ days; People throng shops with TV sets to watch Ram Mandir bhoomi poojan||From blowing of conch shells and ringing of bells to ceaseless chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Siyavar Ramchandra Ki Jai’, streets of this temple town got immersed in a religious fervour on Wednesday as the foundation laying ceremony for a Ram Temple got underway here. Some jewellery shops in the famous Shrigaar Haat area turned into places for community television spots as passers-by and even some security personnel and mediapersons joined shopkeepers to watch the live telecast of ‘bhoomi poojan’ by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the temple and his speech. Many recalled that these scenes were similar to ones quite common in late 1980s when ‘Ramayan’ serial was telecast on Doordarshan and people used to gather at few houses and shops having TV sets. Rooftops of buildings in the area, close to Hanumangarhi Temple, became hubs and vantage points for video journalists and photographers, while roadside trees provided the much-needed shade to security forces deployed for the occasion.  Some shopkeepers were also seen distributing laddoos (sweets), while saffron flags with pictures of Lord Ram and Lord Hanuman were seen on many balconies, verandahs and rooftops. While only a few shops were open and police barricades stopped people well before the ceremony area, crowds gathered on rooftops with social distancing making way for heavy jostling among people to get a glimpse of what many described as a historic moment for Ayodhya, a Sanksrit word that means ‘unconquerable’ and has long been known as birthplace of Lord Ram. Chants of Jai Shri Ram, blowing of conch shells and ringing of bells reached a crescendo the moment the word got around about Modi’s arrival at the main venue, where access was highly restricted due to safeguard measures in place to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Another round of chants began when the prime minister began his speech with ‘Jai Siya Ram’ and crowds in front of TV sets also responded loudly to Modi’s ‘Siyavar Ramchandra ki Jai’ slogan. Wearing a green-coloured mask, 60-year-old Shanti, who was glued to a TV set at a jewellery shop, said, “I feel extremely overwhelmed to experience this glorious and historic moment. I feel happy that now the Ram temple will be built.” Mahendra Yadav, seated next to Shanti, said, “It is a very important moment in my life, and I am going to cherish it to the hilt. If possible, I will tell stories about this day to my grandchildren.” Many were also seen reciting couplets of Ramcharit Manas quoted by Modi in his speech. Nagraj said, “Though, I am sitting at Shringaar Haat, I feel like sitting at the site of Bhoomipujan.” Shiv Dayal Soni, a third-generation jeweller, said, “It was a different type of footfall at my shop today. I did not get any customers today and instead devotees came here and watched the live telecast of Bhoomi poojan and the speech of Prime Minister Modi.” Glued to TV at the same place, along with many passers-by and some security personnel, Savitri Soni said, “I feel proud to witness this momentous occasion. People coming here at the shop and watching this event on television gives me immense satisfaction. Today’s scene reminds me of the first Ramayan serial, when people used to gather the house of a person having a television, and Ramayan was collectively viewed.” As people were chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’, a ‘Chabiwala Baba’ also arrived on the scene with a nearly 3-feet long key made of cardboard. When asked about the key, he said, “This is the key of knowledge and it has the power to bring transformation and change of heart.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-relives-ramayan-days-people-throng-shops-with-tv-sets-to-watch-ram-mandir-bhoomi-poojan/story-QKVocROp9s6bziq4pJrCXM.html
05-08-2020||India||On big Ram temple day, Uttar Pradesh BJP leader recalls his ‘prized’ possession||Amid celebrations in Ayodhya over the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of a proposed Ram temple, Uttar Pradesh BJP leader Sunil Bharala on Tuesday said he still has his “prized” possession at home – a piece of a brick of the Babri mosque that was demolished 28 years ago by a frenzied mob. Sunil Bharala was a young BJP functionary, after a stint with the RSS, when he participated in kar seva in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Presently, he is the chairman of Uttar Pradesh labour welfare council, a post equivalent to a minister of state. “There was a mad scramble among kar sevaks to possess a piece of brick of the structure whose three domes had for decades mocked Hindus and symbolised religious persecution of the majority in their own country...I still have the prized brick at home,” Bharala told Hindustan Times.Back then, Bharala was a functionary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha’s Daurala unit. “I remember that bigger leaders like LK Advaniji were on stage and repeatedly cautioning kar sevaks against taking the law into their hands. Yet, till the time he was on stage, the crowd respected his words. But the moment he left, slogans like ‘ek dhakka aur do... (just one more push...)’ were raised and they charged up many young kar sevaks like me,” he recalled. Cut to present, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, who was in Ayodhya for the bhoomi poojan today, also remembered LK Advani and said had it not been for coronavirus, Advani would have been in Ayodhya. “So many people had sacrificed, they couldn’t be here physically. There are some who couldn’t come here, Advani ji must be at his home watching this. There are some who should’ve come but couldn’t be invited because of the situation (Covid-19),” said Mohan Bhagwat.Bharala spoke about how kar sevaks carried with them hand pump handles and other heavy hand-held iron instruments but stopped short of conceding that the build up at Ayodhya on December 6 was planned.“For years those domes were symbols of Hindu suppression. For years, those symbols would mock us. I guess the patience of Hindus had run out. Leaders like Sadhvi Rithambhara’s speeches filled the cadres with renewed vigour and I guess it would have been impossible for anyone to stop them then,” Bharala recalled. “I was associated with the RSS and all that I knew was that the Babri domes appeared to mock us. So, aware of the kar seva, we decided to leave for Ayodhya in a white car, which had UP ‘government’ written on it. That helped us fox the police at many places and since we had changed our attire from dhoti kurta to shirts and trousers, policemen didn’t suspect us,” Bharala said. He said when they reached Ayodhya, Dinesh Sharma, present deputy CM, and Sadhvi Rithambhara were there. In no time they were next to the disputed structure, which was brought down in a surprisingly quick time, he added.“I still remember the stampede that followed as the police opened cane charge to disperse the mob. I don’t know how long I ran and how far? But, when I stopped, I realised I had run away a bit too far. I only had Rs 20 with me. Somehow I reached home but the scramble for the brick piece, the way we foxed cops and the dash for safety are still etched in my memory. Today, all seems worth it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-prized-babri-mosque-brick-at-home-up-minister-on-big-ram-temple-day/story-IMc4F8BTCfU0PTso5I7T8K.html
05-08-2020||India||To ‘liberate’ Kashi and Mathura, mosques should give way to mandirs, says Karnataka minister||K S Eshwarappa, a senior minister in Karnataka declared shortly after the ground breaking ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya that the focus would be next on “liberating” Kashi and Mathura.Eshwarappa who is the panchayat raj and rural development minister in chief minister B S Yediyurappa’s cabinet was speaking at an event in Shivamogga district where puja and havans were organized to mark the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya.“A mark of slavery has been erased. Two more remain at Kashi and Mathura, which need to be (erased) and where the mosques should give way to mandirs.” The minister who is also a former president of the Karnataka unit of the BJP said that all efforts should be carried out to ensure that other marks of slavery (ghulamgiri) are erased to build a strong India.Congress spokesperson B L Shankar refused to comment on the remarks of Eshwarappa saying “We don’t know whether this is the official stance of BJP as a party or Eshwarappa’s personal stance. If the BJP takes a stand on this, then only we will comment on the matter.”Incidentally, the Congress has also welcomed the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya but has said the issue should be used to unite and not divide people. KPCC President D K Shivakumar had declared on Tuesday that ‘Lord Ram is in the hearts of all Congressmen.”Earlier Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered prayers and laid the foundation stone for a grand temple at the site believed to be Lord Ram’s birthplace in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-liberate-kashi-and-mathura-mosques-should-give-way-to-mandirs-says-karnataka-minister/story-a9QCdlTwEhRC7QGzmIslkI.html
05-08-2020||India||First-of-its-kind mobile Covid-19 lab dedicated to public||Touted as a first of its kind in the nation, a mobile Covid-19 lab was inaugurated on Wednesday by the Karnataka Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar.The lab, approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) can do 9,000 RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests per month, an official press release said here. “This is a unique lab having all safety features and capable of producing 100% accurate results within four hours,” Dr Sudhakar was quoted as saying in the press release. The Indian Institute of Science (IISC) had developed the lab and handed it over to the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). The mobile lab can also be used for molecular diagnostic-testing and can be deployed in coronavirus hot spots quickly, the release said adding, apart from Covid-19, the lab can be utilised for testing H1N1, HCV, TB, HPV and HIV among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-of-its-kind-mobile-covid-19-lab-dedicated-to-publicd/story-edN33DoT3kWsSDyYLaZwrN.html
05-08-2020||India||Rajasthan HC issues notice to Speaker on appeal seeking stay on merger of six BSP MLAs||The Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday asked state assembly Speaker CP Joshi to respond by Thursday to the petition filed by Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) seeking an immediate stay on the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress.The six MLAs, who won the BSP ticket, had joined the Congress in September 2019 and the Speaker had approved the merger next day. The MLAs are Sandeep Yadav (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), LakhanMeena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati).The Bharatiya Janata Party had opposed the merger and sought the disqualification of the six MLAs in February 2020. Joshi on July 30 rejected the disqualification petition.Besides BSP, BJP MLA Madan Dilawar had filed a petition with the single bench of Rajasthan High Court seeking a stay on Speaker’s order. The single bench sought reply from Joshi and the six MLAs by August 11.Also read: Rajasthan govt cracks whip on Mukundra officers after death of two adult tigers On Tuesday, the BSP and Dilawar filed a review petition with the division bench of the High Court seeking a stay on the merger of BSP MLAs with the Congress. “The division bench comprising chief justice Indrajeet Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta has issued notice to assembly Speaker and has sought a reply by tomorrow,” said Dinesh Kumar Garg, counsel for BSP.He said the arguments on behalf of the BSP were made by BSP national general secretary Satish Mishra and on behalf of the BJP the arguments were made by Harish Salve.Garg said that earlier, they had prayed the court to accept their special appeal and to suspend the order of assembly Speaker dated September 18, 2019, whereby he had declared that 6 elected representatives of BSP have merged with Indian National Congress.He said, earlier, the single bench of the HC had issued a notice to the six MLAs who, at present, are in a private hotel in Jaisalmer and had sought a reply by August 11.“As per the news published in the newspapers that the six MLAs were staying at a hotel in Jaipur and now been shifted to a hotel in Jaisalmer, service of the notices upon the respondents is not possible and the session of the assembly is proposed to be started on August 14. If the stay prayed for is not granted the present, the matter would be rendered infructuous and will defeat the whole purpose of filing the present writ petition before the court,” Garg said. BJP spokesperson Pankaj Meena said that it’s a fact that the nod to the merger of the MLAs was biased. “This notice reflects that the merger of the BSP MLAs with the Congress was not fair and the issuing of notice is indicative of the fact,” Meena said. BSP state president Bhagwan Singh Baba said that the party is excited as the case is moving swiftly and in the right direction. “The issuing of the notice is a positive indicator and we have full faith in the judiciary, we will get justice,” Baba said. State Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said that the matter is subjudice. “I can only say that the Speaker is a constitutional post and the decision taken by him were constitutionally and legally correct,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-hc-issues-notice-to-speaker-on-appeal-seeking-stay-on-merger-of-six-bsp-mlas/story-GhZtQY4axQHUv5tmBtJAaN.html
05-08-2020||India||India crosses two crore Covid tests, more than six lakh daily tests on last two days||The Union health ministry has released data to show that India is continuously ramping up its Covid 19 testing capabilities to cross two crore cumulative tests mark including more than 6 lakh samples tested over 24 hours for two consecutive days.The health ministry release follows WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan’s observations that India had not conducted an adequate number of tests compared to some other countries like Germany, Taiwan, South Korea and Japan that she claimed had “successfully” managed the disease.The health ministry data released on Wednesday says India’s tests per million has increased sharply to reach 15,568.“India has continued testing over 6 lakh Covid-19 samples for the second consecutive day. With 6,19,652 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the cumulative testing as on date has reached 2,14,84,402. The tests per million has seen a sharp increase to 15,568,” a health ministry release said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn Tuesday, Swaminathan had said that there was a need for a benchmark figure of tests per million to indicate satisfactory level of testing. “We need to have some benchmark and every public health department needs to have benchmarks on what is the rate of testing per lakh or per million, what is the test positivity rate,” she was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.She added that without an adequate number of tests, fighting the virus is like “fighting fire blindfolded”. The Centre had announced its intention to sharply increase testing levels to reach one million tests a day by the end of August. The health ministry statement on Wednesday says that the Center and states are committed to aggressive testing for early detection and treatment of coronavirus cases.“The resolve of Union and State/UT Governments to follow aggressive testing as the first important step in the early detection and treatment/home isolation of COVID-19 positive cases has resulted in India rapidly increasing the number of tests done per day,” it said. Also Read: Covid-19 pandemic: Proportion of youth infected with virus triples in five months, says WHOThe centre maintains that it is following a “graded and evolving response” which has translated into widening of the testing network in the country.“To keep up with the comprehensive ‘TEST, TRACK and TREAT’ strategy, the testing lab network in the country is being continuously strengthened. The lab network as on today consists of 1,366 labs in the country with 920 labs in the government sector and 446 private labs,” the statement says.As per a break of Covid 19 testing facility currently available in the country, there are 696 Real-Time RT PCR based testing labs including 421 in the government sector and 275 in the private sector. India also has 561 TrueNat based testing labs including 467 government owned labs and 94 private labs. The number of CBNAAT based testing labs stands at 109 including 32 run by the government and 77 operated by private entities.India is currently the third-worst affected country by coronavirus with 19,08,254 total confirmed cases of the disease including 12,82,215 cases that have been cured from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-two-crore-covid-tests-more-than-six-lakh-daily-tests-on-last-two-days/story-QsIXJQkFtu5skYeHPUHR6M.html
05-08-2020||India||Imran Khan’s Pakistan might end up regretting its new ‘political map’. Here is why||Prime Minister Imran Khan’s move to unveil the so-called new ‘political map’ of Pakistan by including the entire erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as well as Junagadh in Gujarat may be an exercise to appease the domestic political sentiments but the move is fraught with serious implications. And none of them are good for Pakistan.Such maps were published in 1947-48 when Mohammed Ali Jinnah was Pakistan’s first governor general. But the Islamic Republic had to rework the map that then had also included East Pakistan or the present day Bangladesh.The so-called new political map released by PM Imran Khan sounds a death knell to the self-determination movement among separatists in Kashmir Valley as Islamabad has now co-opted Jammu and Kashmir, leaving no space for either plebiscite or independent Kashmir. This does not come as a surprise to Kashmir watchers in New Delhi as both self-determination and so-called freedom struggle was a ruse for cross border terror activities.By showing the northern areas of Gilgit-Baltistan as part of Jammu and Kashmir, Islamabad’s promise of greater autonomy to this mountainous region stands nullified as the region has been merged with predominantly Sunni regions of Mirpur and Muzaffarabad as also the Valley.However, the impact of PM Khan’s cartographic hallucination on India-Pakistan ties is very significant. By reopening the 1947-48 maps, Pakistan has given up on bilateralism of 1972 Shimla Agreement and 1999 Lahore Declaration - the two agreements that committed both nations to resolving bilateral disputes bilaterally - and paved a way for unilateralism. Does Imran Khan’s ‘Naya Pakistan’ also want to give up other bilateral pacts too? Like the bilateral 1960 Indus Water Treaty that allows waters of Indus, Chenab and Jhelum to be used by Pakistan while allocating Beas, Ravi and Sutlej waters to India?Also Read: ‘Political absurdity’: India roasts Imran Khan over Pakistan’s new ‘political map’While the Indian government has dismissed the new Pakistan map as a “political absurdity”, the map opens up the route for unilateralism by India should it choose to invoke it in future as Islamabad has indulged in unilateralism by issuing a new map that depicts territories firmly under Indian control as Pakistani territory.But the map is also telling commentary about Pakistan’s relationship with its ‘iron brother’ China that has been engaged in a standoff with India for the last three months in East Ladakh. PM Khan, who is often accused of reducing Pakistan as a client-state of Xi Jinping’s China, has not only kept Shaksgam Valley and Aksai Chin out of its cartographic expansion but also left this frontier undefined to let China draw the line on the map.It is quite evident that Pakistan has followed Nepal. Kathmandu had issued a map to emphasise its illegal claims on Lipulekh, Limiyadhura and Kalapani in India’s Uttarakhand on 21 May 2020. It is not mere coincidence that both Pakistan and Nepal are close allies of Beijing with the latter pumping in money in form of infrastructure aid to prop up both regimes.Also Read: In Imran Khan’s 18-point Kashmir plan for Aug 5, outreach to Turkey, Malaysia and ChinaAlthough India has no desire to either expand its territorial claims or give up on bilateralism vis-a-vis Pakistan, the map reflects the frustration within the Imran Khan government over its inability to get the international community to side with Islamabad on the Kashmir issue after the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year.Pakistan watchers also see the move as a response to the rise of India in the comity of nations, particularly after the Indian troopers stood up to an aggressive People’s Liberation Army in Ladakh, particularly the bloody clash at Galwan on June 15. The larger question on how to deal with India is part of regular interlocution between foreign offices of China and Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imran-khan-s-new-political-map-will-backfire-on-pakistan-here-is-why/story-6PhKeCSkiproZshBGypkEI.html
05-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: With heavy rains lashing Mumbai, Thane, train and bus services come to standstill and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Local train services, BEST buses hit hard as heavy rain lashes Mumbai, ThaneIncessant heavy rain lashed parts of financial capital Mumbai and Maharashtra’s Thane and Palghar districts from Tuesday night, throwing local train and bus services out of gear due to water-logging on railway tracks and arterial roads, officials said on Wednesday. Read more‘Lord Ram living in tents for years, will finally get a temple’: PM Modi at Ayodhya eventPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed gratitude to all citizens of the country, the Indian diaspora across the world and all the devotees of Lord Ram as he laid the foundation stone for Ram temple in Ayodhya. This is the first time that a Prime Minister has visited Ram Janmabhoomi to offer prayers at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949. Read moreBurj Khalifa lights up in solidarity with Lebanon after Beirut explosionA massive explosion in Lebanon’s capital city Beirut left a trail of utter devastation sending shockwaves across the city. Now people from all corners of the world have taken to social media to express their grief over the incident and stand in solidarity with Lebanon. The hashtag #PrayForLebanon is also trending on Twitter. Read moreFelt like I betrayed my country, called my girlfriend and cried a lot: Ishant Sharma recalls conceding 30 runs to James FaulknerDescribing it as the turning point of his career, India pacer Ishant Sharma said he felt he had ‘betrayed the country’ when Australia’s James Faulkner hit him for 30 runs in an over in 2013. Read moreSamsung Galaxy Note 20 Ultra to debut with these five big upgradesSamsung introduced the ‘Ultra’ variant with this year’s Galaxy S20 series. The Galaxy Note 20 series that’s launching today will also have an Ultra model. As the name suggests, the Galaxy Note 20 Ultra will be the high-end model and it’s expected to come with some major upgrades. Read moreNineties curtain haircut a hit among celebritiesRemember the middle-parted poker straight hairstyle, called curtain hair, sported by actors Tom Cruise and Leonardo DiCaprio in the ’90s? The year 2020 has seen its resurgence, with actors and K-pop stars bringing it back in trend. However, this time, it is not just for those with straight hair but also being flaunted by celebs with wavy locks. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s death: Centre accepts Bihar govt’s request for CBI probeThe government has accepted Bihar government’s request of CBI probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, Centre’s senior second-most law officer Tushar Mehta stated it before the Supreme Court on Wednesday. Solicitor General Mehta made the submission during hearing of a plea by actor Rhea Chakraborty. Rhea had sought transfer of the case registered in Patna to Mumbai. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-with-heavy-rains-lashing-mumbai-thane-train-and-bus-services-come-to-standstill-and-all-the-latest-news/story-EMJUEejj5TuUdhm7cAWhhJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh cop suspended for kicking and slapping complainant||The Andhra Pradesh police on Wednesday suspended a police inspector in Srikakulam district for allegedly kicking and beating a villager who went to the police station to complain about a dispute over distribution of house sites on Tuesday. A video of the inspector, C Venugopal of Palasa-Kasigbugga town police station, kicking Marri Jagan from Tekkalipatnam village of Palasa block on his stomach and slapping him a couple of times, went viral in the social media, triggering protests from opposition parties and local Scheduled Caste organisations. Following instructions from state deputy chief minister Dharmana Krishna Das, district superintendent of police Amit Bardar and deputy inspector general L K V Ranga Rao ordered a probe into the incident and took action against the erring police inspector. Amit Bardar told reporters later in the afternoon that Venugopal had been placed under suspension and a probe had been ordered. Condemning the behaviour of the inspector against the villager, he apologised to the victim’s family on behalf of the police. “We shall take measures to prevent recurrence of such instances in future,” he assured. Andhra Pradesh director general of police Gautam Sawang also said such “highhanded behaviour is not acceptable in the police department.” The AP police, through its Twitter handle, said it will not tolerate highhanded behavior.“An incident was reported regarding Police behaviour with Youth in Srikakulam Dist. Inspector Kasibugga has been suspended for his highhanded #behaviour. An enquiry has also been ordered to go into the facts. Such behaviour cannot be tolerated within #APPolice & @POLICESRIKAKULM,” it tweeted.According to the police, the family of Marri Jagan had a dispute over land patta with some others in the village. On Tuesday evening, Jagan and his mother went to the Kasibugga police station to lodge a complaint. The inspector suddenly got angry and kicked the man out of the police station and slapped him repeatedly. The victim’s mother came to his rescue and took him away. Opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu tweeted the video of the attack and condemned the attack on the youth: “Shocking! Under orders from YSRCP Leaders, a Dalit man who went to lodge a complaint at the Police Station in Palasa, Srikakulam, was kicked & slapped by police even as his mother wailed & tried protecting her son. When will this YSRCP sponsored brutality & madness stop in AP?” Naidu’s son and TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh also condemned the incident and accused the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government of being a mute spectator to the attacks on Dalits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-cop-suspended-for-kicking-and-slapping-complainant/story-oYi6bfOcTbFtiEMTpMSp5L.html
05-08-2020||India||Local train services, BEST buses hit hard as heavy rain lashes Mumbai, Thane||Incessant heavy rain lashed parts of financial capital Mumbai and Maharashtra’s Thane and Palghar districts from Tuesday night, throwing local train and bus services out of gear due to water-logging on railway tracks and arterial roads, officials said on Wednesday.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has already put the city and its suburbs on red alert and issued a warning to people to stay indoors amid forecasts of high tide. Normal life was disrupted across Mumbai and a few districts as heavy continued to batter the city.“Intense rain is likely in Mumbai today. The city received heavy rainfall at isolated places in the last 12 hours. More impact was on western suburbs with rainfall of more than 150 mm,” the IMD said on Wednesday.The red alert was issued for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik districts of Maharashtra. The weather agency’s warning for Mumbai is just for Wednesday but that for Thane, Palghar and Nashik is for both Wednesday and Thursday.ALSO READ | Mumbai drowns under its monsoon woesThe Central Railway suspended local train services on the Harbour railway line between the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Wadala railway stations. Train services were suspended due to water-logging between Masjid Bunder and Sandhurst Road railway station. Mainline train services, however, are currently operational.Local train services have also been suspended on the Harbour railway line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Vashi railway stations and on the Central railway mainline between CSMT and Kurla railway stations.Water-logging was reported from low lying areas of Chembur, Parel, Hindmata, Wadala and other areas of Mumbai city. In Palghar district, Dahanu logged over 350 mm rainfall in the 12-hour period ending at 5.30 am on Wednesday while some areas in Thane received over 150 mm during the period, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather agency predicted more intense showers during the rest of the day on Wednesday.ALSO READ | Red alert issued for Mumbai, nearby areas battered by heavy rainAccording to the IMD, Thane city, Dombivli and Kalyan areas, which are part of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), received more than 120 mm rainfall during the same period.According to railway sources, suburban services were stopped due to water-logging on tracks at Palghar station. There was minor disruption at Palghar from 5.40 am to 7.10 am due to 266 mm rain in two hours and hence, a few trains were regulated enroute, Western Railway’s chief spokesperson Sumit Thakur said. He said the Western Railways suburban services were currently functioning normally between Churchgate and Dahanu Road.On the central line, there was water-logging on tracks in Sion and Kurla areas and trains were running with some delay. Both the Central Railway and Western Railway are operating nearly 350 special train services each daily for those working in essential and emergency services.Bus services of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST), the civic body’s transport wing, were also hit due to water-logging on arterial roads. BEST services were diverted on more than 30 routes, including two locations in Thane district, till 9 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-train-services-best-buses-hit-hard-as-heavy-rain-lashes-mumbai-thane/story-W13FKGwFcbFSe749pORIEJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Temple bhoomi pujan will pave way for ‘Ram rajya’: Sumitra Mahajan||The foundation laying of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday will pave the way for the concept of Ram Rajya to take shape in the country, former Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan said.Mahajan, who watched the live telecast of the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony in Ayodhya with other party leaders here, told this to reporters.“After years of penance by many people, the construction of Ram temple finally began in Ayodhya. People across the world are feeling happy and satisfied over it,” she said.“All of us dream for Ram rajya in the country. Now it will start taking shape as the feeling for it in everybody’s heart is growing,” Mahajan said.Earlier, BJP workers burst firecrackers to express happiness over the Ram temple ground breaking ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temple-bhoomi-pujan-will-pave-way-for-ram-rajya-sumitra-mahajan/story-kkNiDMQp9cCF2tCqchP6VM.html
05-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 67.19%; case fatality drops to 2.09%: Govt||A total of 51,706 patients have recuperated from Covid-19 in India in a span of 24 hours, the highest in a day, pushing the recovery rate to 67.19 per cent on Wednesday while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 2.09 per cent, the Union health ministry said.The recoveries have surged to 12,82,215 and are more than twice the active cases of the coronavirus infection, it said.Due to the record highest daily recoveries, the active cases have reduced to 5,86,244 and comprise 30.72 per cent of the total Covid-19 caseload.“With an increasing number of Covid-19 patients recovering, there has been a 63.8 per cent increase in the recovered cases in the last 14 days, indicating that the Covid-19 response and management driven by the Centre’s ‘test, track, treat’, strategy is yielding the desired results,” the ministry said in the statement.Coordinated implementation of the strategy by the Union and state and Union Territories governments has also ensured that the Covid-19 case fatality rate has been low when compared to the global scenario.“It has been progressively falling and stands at 2.09 per cent as on date,” the ministry said.The aggressive testing along with ramped up hospital infrastructure by collective efforts of the public and private sectors has ensured the increasing recovery rate, which has improved from 63 to 67 per cent in the last 14 days, it said.With such consistent increase, recoveries now exceed the active cases of Covid-19 by nearly 7 lakh.  India has continued testing more than 6 lakh Covid-19 samples for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, the ministry said.The resolve of Union and state or Union Territory governments to follow aggressive testing as the first important step in the early detection and treatment/home isolation of Covid-19 cases has resulted in India rapidly increasing the number of tests done per day, it said.“The graded and evolving response resulted in a testing strategy that steadily widened the testing network in the country,” it said. With 6,19,652 tests conducted on Tuesday, the cumulative testing as on date has reached 2,14,84,402. The tests per million has seen a sharp increase to 15,568. The testing lab network in the country is being continuously strengthened and as on date consists of 1,366 labs in the country with 920 labs in the government sector and 446 private labs.  India’s Covid-19 tally mounted to 19.08 lakh on Wednesday, with 52,509 people testing positive for Covid-19 in a day, while the death toll climbed to 39,795 with 857 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-67-19-case-fatality-drops-to-2-09-govt/story-C1qIVfK24aLZQ54nf5pmgM.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Modi violated oath of office by laying Ram temple foundation stone: Asaduddin Owaisi||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi said Wednesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi violated the oath of office by laying the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.“India is a secular country. The Prime Minister has violated the oath of office by laying the foundation stone of Ram Mandir. This is the day of the defeat of democracy and secularism and success of Hindutva,” ANI quoted Owaisi as saying.Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates hereLast month, Owaisi had said that Modi’s attendance at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ram temple would amount to “violation of the constitutional oath”.On Wednesday, Modi offered prayers and laid the foundation stone for a grand temple at the site believed to be the Lord Ram’s birthplace.The groundbreaking ceremony marked the formal launch of the temple’s construction promised by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party nearly 25 years ago. Last year, the Supreme Court cleared the hurdle in the construction of the temple when it awarded the site to Hindus after decades of litigation.The BJP rank and file has applauded the groundbreaking ceremony with Union home minister Amit Shah calling it the beginning of a new era.Vedic rituals marked the ground breaking ceremony in Ayodhya with 175 people in attendance because of restrictions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-violated-oath-of-office-by-laying-ram-temple-foundation-stone-asaduddin-owaisi/story-sOOdfd4QrjyckclsIfYsBM.html
05-08-2020||India||DMK MLA visits BJP office moments after suspension, says Stalin turned DMK into ‘family party’||Tamil Nadu’s DMK MLA Ku Ka Selvam visited BJP’s office in Chennai soon after he was suspended by party chief MK Stalin for alleged violation of party discipline after he praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and met BJP president JP Nadda in Delhi on Tuesday and claimed the DMK had become a family’s party.Ku Ka Selvam, was temporarily suspended by party chief Stalin and also served a show cause notice asking him why he should not be expelled from the primary membership of the party. While Selvan has in the past rejected speculations that he was inclined to join the BJP, his attack on Stalin on Wednesday at BJP’s office doesn’t indicate a reconciliatory posture.“The DMK now functions as a family’s party,” Selvam was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Selvam, who represents the prestigious Thousand Lights constituency in Chennai which houses DMK party’s headquarters and Stalin’s Chittaranjan avenue residence, is reported to be miffed with party for not picking him for DMK’s Chennai West district secretary post.On Tuesday, he travelled all the way to Delhi to meet railway minister Piyush Goyal with a request to install two lifts at a railway station under his constituency and also ended up meeting BJP president JP Nadda. Reports say he was accompanied by former DMK leader V.P. Duraiswamy who later joined the BJP.In Delhi, Selvam praised PM Modi for good governance and wished him well for the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya.Also Read: PM Modi’s wisdom paved way for peaceful resolution of Ram temple issue: Yogi AdityanathAfter the meeting, he denied he was joining the BJP and said he requested Nadda to develop Rameswaram and other places associated with Lord Ram further.An upset DMK on Wednesday issued an official statement announcing Selvam’s suspension.“DMK headquarters office secretary and executive committee member Ku Ka Selvam is relieved from the posts effective today.” He has also been asked to reply to a show cause notice for bringing disrepute to the party.Selvam has demanded that the DMK snaps ties with the Congress and condemn “Karuppar Kootam” channel, for allegedly denigrating ‘Kanda Sashti Kavacham’ hymn in praise of Lord Muruga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-mla-visits-bjp-office-moments-after-suspension-says-stalin-turned-dmk-into-family-party/story-A29vuEDDrahmfycdRc8YEP.html
05-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh launches social security scheme for tendupatta collectors||The Bhupesh Baghel-led Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday launched a social security scheme for tendupatta collectors in the name of the slain Congress leader Mahendra Karma, who was killed by the outlawed Communist Party of India (CPI)-Maoist rebels in May 2013, to provide financial aid to the family of collectors after their death. About 12.5 lakh tendupatta labourers’ families will be benefitted because of the new social security scheme. The government said that Saheed Mahendra Karma Tendupatta Sangrahak Samajik Suraksha Yojana would provide a one-time financial aid of Rs 2 lakh to the nominee, or the heir in case of normal death of the head of the registered tendupatta labourer of a family. “It is a social security scheme under which we will provide Rs 4 lakh to the family members in case of death due to accident or permanent disability caused because of the accident,” said Rakesh Chaturvedi, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), Chhattisgarh. The state forest department and Chhattisgarh State Minor Forest Produce Cooperatives Union Limited (CSMFPCUL) have jointly launched the scheme to provide social security to the labourers’ families engaged in tendupatta collection. CSMFPCUL authorities have been entrusted with the responsibility to implement the scheme. Each district authority has been instructed to process the claims within a month and the financial aid will be directly credited to the bank account of a tendupatta collector. The Congress government has also increased the tendupatta collection wage rate from Rs 2,500 to Rs 4,000 per standard sack since it came to power in end-2018 after 15 uninterrupted years of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule. However, the Chhattisgarh unit of the BJP took potshots at the Congress government. The BJP claimed that the insurance scheme for tendupatta labourers was stopped by the “careless Congress government”. “The careless Congress government stopped the insurance scheme for the tendupatta labourers that was introduced during the BJP rule. The Baghel government has been forced to start its new social scheme because of the pressure from our party leaders,” said Ajay Chandrakar, an ex-BJP minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-launches-social-security-scheme-for-tendupatta-collectors/story-SLVibk67UQfkQL2DXhUoIP.html
05-08-2020||India||New grasshopper species discovered after 116 years, named after 28-year-old Indian biologist||A new species of pygmy grasshopper, discovered after 116 years by a group of foreign researchers in Sri Lanka, has been named after a 28-year-old Indian orthopterist (one who studies grasshoppers) and conservation biologist Dhaneesh Bhaskar of Kerala. The new species, which was discovered by a group of Croatian and German researchers in Sinharaja rainforests of Sri Lanka, hails from Cladonotus genus and has been named as Cladonotus Bhaskari. The discovery is based on a single specimen of the species photographed in 2016 by Tom Kirschey in its natural rain forest habitat in Sri Lanka. The researchers then studied it and found it to be distinct from all the other discovered species of grasshoppers and then declared it as a new species in research journal Zootaxa in July this year. Also read: At Ayodhya Ram temple event, PM reiterates mantra to fight coronavirusBhaskar, who is a grasshopper researcher in Kerala Forest Research Institute and a member of the Species Survival Commission (grasshopper specialist group) of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), expressed happiness after knowing about the development. Bhaskar said, “I am deeply honoured with the move of the researchers. It will surely motivate me in pursuing my research on grasshoppers and contribute in a more significant manner in the Indian Orthoptera research.” One of the researchers from the group, Josip Skejo from Faculty of Science, Department of Biology, University of Zagreb, Croatia said, “We decided to name the new species of pygmy grasshopper after our good friend Bhaskar to honour him on his research he had done on the grasshoppers in India.” “We believe he is one of the few Indian researchers who have researched on the species of grasshoppers in India and Sri Lanka because, before this, all such research on grasshoppers in this area was done by foreign researchers only,” said Skejo. The other researchers of the group include Josef Tumbrinck, Maks Deranja, Karmela Adzic and Marko Pavlovic. Lauding Bhaskar’s research, Skejo also said, “Bhaskar made it possible for all the people around the world to get familiar with the grasshopper species of India after he initiated a project on digitalisation of all the specimens discovered here.” “I think naming a new species after him will give him huge motivation in his research of grasshoppers in India,” he said. On the significance of the discovery of the new species, he said, “It is very important because our study suggests it is the first specimen in last 70 years and the first new Cladonotus species in the last 116 years.” On the new species, Skejo said, “Cladonotus Bhaskari is the largest known specimen of genus Cladonotus and it is the only known female.” “Its body is robust and dark in colour. The living specimen in dark brown in colour while pale brown when the specimen is dried. It’s whole body, head and legs are covered in fine and minute spine-like tubercles. It resembles tiny twigs hence its also called Twighopper,” he said. “It is also clearly distinguished from other species of the genus by its long and spine-like frontomedial projection and cockscomb shaped promedial projection,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-grasshopper-species-discovered-after-116-years-named-after-28-year-old-indian-biologist/story-qRmgEvjaVoJJddnV30xNCK.html
05-08-2020||India||Meeting of parties called by Farooq Abdullah not held due to restrictions imposed by authorities: NC||A meeting of some political parties called by Jammu and Kashmir’s veteran leader Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday to discuss the situation arising out of the abrogation of Article 370 provisions a year ago could not be held due to strict restrictions imposed by authorities, his National Conference said. Abdullah had invited leaders of several political parties to his residence on Gupkar Road to chalk out a joint political strategy for restoration of the special status through democratic means. National Conference MP from Anantnag in south Kashmir Hasnain Masoodi and PDP’s Rajya Sabha member Fayaz Mir were turned away from Gupkar Road citing restrictions imposed by the authorities due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the district, NC leaders said. CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami, NC MP from Baramulla in north Kashmir Akbar Lone and Abdullah’s nephew Muzzafar Shah, who heads the Awami National Conference, were stopped at their residences and not allowed to go out, they said. Former chief minister and Abdullah’s son Omar Abdullah took to Twitter to say that the authorities in Kashmir did not allow the meeting to take place. Omar Abdullah, who is the vice president of the NC, said the Gupkar Road -- leading to his residence and that of his father -- was sealed by the authorities. “One year on, this is Gupkar road today - police vehicles opposite our gates, concertina wire strung across the road at regular intervals and no vehicles allowed. My father had called a meeting of leaders of MAINSTREAM parties to deliberate on the current situation,” Omar Abdullah said on Twitter, along with two pictures of the deserted road. The former chief minister said, “Clearly the meeting is not being allowed to go ahead. The BJP gets to announce a 15 day celebration to mark 5th Aug and a handful of us aren’t allowed to meet in my father’s lawn. So much for BJP national leaders wondering why there is no political activity.” The NC leader said the authorities were “still too afraid” to allow them to meet or carry out any normal political activity. “One year later the authorities are still too afraid to allow us to meet much less carry out any normal political activity. This fear speaks volumes about the true situation on the ground in Kashmir,” he said in another tweet. The senior Abdullah had called a similar meeting a day before the Centre’s move last year where the leaders of the valley-based political parties came up with a ‘Gupkar Declaration’ in which they resolved to fight against any attempts to abrogate the constitutional provisions that guaranteed the special status to Jammu and Kashmir or any move to trifurcate the state using democratic means. Meanwhile, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti said “prolonged enforced silence” would not “suppress” the emotions of the people of Kashmir forever. “A year ago we witnessed how a majoritarian govt mutilated and robbed JK in broad daylight. Seasons may have changed but the betrayal will never be forgiven or forgotten. Prolonged enforced silence wont suppress emotions forever,” Iltija posted on her mother’s Twitter handle which she has been using since Mehbooba was taken into custody in August last year. PTI SSB MIJ SKL SMN SMN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meeting-of-parties-called-by-farooq-abdullah-not-held-due-to-restrictions-imposed-by-authorities-nc/story-UiIuFjZmjxh1fPqAV1qk5J.html
05-08-2020||India||Police inspector fires two rounds before arresting robber, accomplice escapes||One robber was arrested and another managed to escape on Wednesday early morning after Praful Ghodke, inspector (law & order), Sakinaka police station, missed the targets shot at from his service revolver. Earlier, the duo had robbed an auto driver, Mohammed Sharif Shamsul Huda Khan (46), of Rs 5,200 and also stabbed him on Andheri-Ghatkopar Road at around 1 am in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Ghodke, who was on patrolling duty, reached the spot and found that the robbers had gone to a nearby Metro Rail construction site to rob of the construction workers. When Ghodke accosted them, the duo attacked him with knives and bamboo poles, said Kishor Sawant, senior inspector, Sakinaka police station. “Ghodke in a flash pulled out his service revolver and fired at the two robbers. But the bullets missed them and none of them were injured. In the mêlée, one of the accused escaped, but Ghodke arrested the other one with the help of a beat marshal and local residents,” said Sawant. The arrested accused had been identified as Mohammed Azhar Yusuf Shaikh (27), while the accused, who escaped, has been identified as Azaj alias Daku (30). Shaikh has eight cases of robbery, theft, housebreaking, and pickpocketing registered against him at Trombay police station, Sawant said. The police have booked both the accused under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 307 (attempt to murder), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with an attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the relevant sections of the Arms Act, 1959.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-inspector-fires-two-rounds-before-arresting-robber-accomplice-escapes/story-ilw9G7B4z1sxXA92REeNOL.html
05-08-2020||India||Should have given written complaint if he feared for Sushant’s safety: Mumbai Police on father’s claim||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday reiterated that actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father should have made a written complaint earlier this year, if he feared for his son’s safety. The actor’s father had earlier in a video statement said that he had warned the Mumbai Police in February that he was worried about his son’s life.“I told Sushant’s father clearly that he should give a written complaint. He wanted a person named Miranda to be kept in police custody. We never received any written complaint from him,” DCP Paramjit S Dahiya (Mumbai Police) said on Sushant Singh Rajput’s father sending him Whatsapp messages on February 25.A month and a half after the 34-year-old actor was found dead in his Bandra apartment in Mumbai on June 14, the Centre on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that it had accepted the Bihar government’s recommendation for a CBI probe into the sudden death of the actor.ALSO READ | Sushant Singh Rajput’s father releases video appeal: ‘Alerted Mumbai Police in February my son’s life in danger’A bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy observed that the truth behind the actor’s death should be revealed. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the Centre, told the apex court that the Bihar government’s recommendation for a CBI probe in the case had been accepted.The Supreme Court was hearing a plea by actress Rhea Chakraborty, who is seeking transfer of an FIR, accusing her of abetting the suicide of the actor, from Patna to Mumbai.ALSO READ | Sushant Singh Rajput’s family wanted us to take Rhea Chakraborty into custody, slap her: Mumbai copEarlier on Wednesday, the Bihar Police said that Rhea Chakraborty, against whom Sushant Singh Rajput’s father has filed an FIR in Patna, is absconding and has not been in touch with the police.“Rhea Chakraborty is not in touch with us. She is absconding, she is not coming forward. We don’t have any information about her being in touch with the Mumbai Police either,” Director General of Police Gupteshwar Pandey said.His statement came on a day when the Supreme Court heard a petition filed by Chakraborty seeking to transfer the case from Patna to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-have-made-a-written-complaint-if-he-feared-for-sushant-s-safety-mumbai-police-on-father-s-claim/story-SxIc587ULbTAl5sZkIMX9O.html
05-08-2020||India||Five labourers die in wall collapse in Dadra and Nagar Haveli||Five labourers died and two were injured when a newly constructed wall of a factory collapsed due to heavy rains near Silvassa city in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, police said on Wednesday.The incident took place at Surangi village, around 16 km from headquarters Silvassa, on Tuesday night, inspector Harish Rathod of Khanvel police station said.The labourers were hired by a contractor to construct a factory building and were living in a temporary shelter near the compound wall, which was built a few months ago, he said.“Following a heavy spell of rains, the wall collapsed on the labourers who were asleep, killing five of them on the spot,” he said, adding that two injured workers were rushed to a nearby hospital.The deceased labourers, who were natives of nearby Sindoni village, have been identified as Raju Jadav, Ashvin Jayram, Balu Kakal, Jahir Soma and Anil, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-labourers-die-in-wall-collapse-in-dadra-and-nagar-haveli/story-02mK2YTrhBEnDvPdWquXCP.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Modi’s wisdom paved way for peaceful resolution of Ram temple issue: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s foresight and wisdom paved the way for peaceful resolution of the Ram temple issue and fulfilling the dream.The power of Indian democracy and judiciary under the leadership of PM Modi has shown the world how solutions to problems can be found through democratic and constitutional means, he said at the groundbreaking ceremony for the temple here.“Prime Minister’s foresight and wisdom paved the way for peaceful resolution of Ram temple issue,” he said.Yogi said people have struggled for 500 years for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya.Prime Minister Modi earlier performed the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP’s ‘mandir’ movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power.On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court settled the fractious issue going back more than a century and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site. It also ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-wisdom-paved-way-for-peaceful-resolution-of-ram-temple-issue-yogi-adityanath/story-UaS5DNzOS4XA7GI3EERnaM.html
05-08-2020||India||The beginning of a new era, says Amit Shah after Ram temple bhoomi pujan||The laying of the foundation stone by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Ram temple in Ayodhya marks the beginning of a new era, Union home minister Amit Shah said Wednesday.Shah, who is under treatment for Covid-19, took to Twitter to hail the bhoomi pujan ceremony and described it as a historic day.“Today is a historic and proud day for India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the bhoomi pujan and laid the foundation stone of the grand Ram temple, which marks a golden chapter of Indian culture and civilization and has started a new era,” he tweeted.Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates hereHe also said that the construction of the temple has become possible because of the decisive leadership of Modi.“The Modi government will always be committed to protecting and preserving Indian culture and its values.”In another tweet he said, “The construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya has been a symbol of the faith of Hindus around the world for centuries. By performing bhoomi pujan PM Narendra Modi and Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra have honoured the faith of crores of people, and for this I express my heartfelt gratitude.”Shah said that Lord Ram’s character and philosophy of life is the cornerstone of Indian culture and that the temple will boost economic development.“The ideals and thoughts of Lord Shri Rama reside in the soul of India. His character and philosophy of life is the cornerstone of Indian culture. With the construction of Ram temple, this auspicious land will rise again in the world with its full splendor. Coordination of religion and development will also generate employment opportunities,” he said in another tweet.Shah also said that the construction of the Ram temple is the result of centuries of constant sacrifice, struggle, penance and sacrifice of innumerable devotees of Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-beginning-of-a-new-era-says-amit-shah-after-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-qhwfk631aYdaxAtR0hEgeI.html
05-08-2020||India||At Ayodhya Ram temple event, PM Modi reiterates mantra to fight coronavirus||Amid the festival-like celebrations, the coronavirus threat was not lost on Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he underlined the importance of social distancing and masks at the bhoomi pujan or groundbreaking ceremony for building a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya.“Do gaj ki doori, mask hai zaroori (A distance of two yards and wearing masks is necessary),” said the PM, who was wearing a golden dhoti kurta and a white mask, while wrapping up his speech at the ceremony.The wait of centuries has ended and India is writing a golden chapter in Ayodhya, PM Modi said after performing the bhoomi poojan of the proposed Ram temple. Beginning his speech with “Jai Siya Ram”, the Prime Minister told the gathering that a grand temple will be built for “Ram Lalla”, the infant Ram, who had been living in a temporary tent for years.“Many people made sacrifices for the Ram temple. I pay my respects to all of them,” the Prime Minister said after the groundbreaking ceremony of the temple at the spot where many Hindus believe Lord Ram was born.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said some people could not be here today due to restrictions in view of Covid-19, but they will be invited for future events in Ayodhya. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat remembered LK Advani, the face of the Ram temple movement in the 1990s, in his speech and acknowledged that many who sacrificed couldn’t be here because of the coronavirus situation. “So many people had sacrificed, they couldn’t be here physically. There are some who couldn’t come here, Advani ji must be at his home watching this. There are some who should’ve come but couldn’t be invited because of the situation (COVID-19),” said Mohan Bhagwat.The guest list for the event, including religious leaders who formed part of the movement that started in the 1980s, was restricted to 175 in view of the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-ayodhya-ram-temple-event-pm-modi-reiterates-mantra-to-fight-coronavirus/story-QQoWDdF5z3ht2vTYkkpTRI.html
05-08-2020||India||Lord Ram is within all of us: PM Modi’s top quotes after Ayodhya bhoomi poojan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the bhoomi poojan ceremony was an “emotional moment”, which has illuminated everyone’s heart in the entire country, after laying the foundation stone for the Ram temple in Ayodhya.“A long wait has ended today... A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla who had been living under a tent for many years,” the Prime Minister said during foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram temple.“With the construction of this temple, history is not only being made but is also being repeated. The way boatmen and tribals helped Lord Ram, the way children helped Lord Krishna lift Govardhan mountain, similarly, the temple’s construction will be completed with everyone’s efforts,” he added.Here are the top quotes from his speech at Ram Janmabhoomi site:* A grand temple will now be constructed for our Ramlala, who has been living under sacks and tents for years now* Breaking up and then standing again, Ram Janmabhoomi has been freed from this interference which was on for centuries* Ram is carved within our minds, he is within us. If we want to do some work, then we look up to Lord Ram for inspiration* Shri Ram’s temple will become the modern symbol of our culture, eternal faith and national spirit. And this temple will also become a symbol of the collective resolve power of crores and crores of people* The way Dalits, OBCs, tribals, every section of the society supported Gandhiji during the freedom struggle, this pious work of building Ram temple has started with the cooperation of people from all over the country* There is no aspect of life where our Ram does not inspire us. There is no such feeling of India in which Lord Ram is not seen. Ram is in the faith of India, Rama is in the ideals of India. Rama is in the divinity and philosophy of India* I believe that this grand Ram temple built in Ayodhya, like the name of Shri Ram, will reflect the rich heritage of Indian culture. I believe that the Ram temple to be built here will inspire the entire humanity till eternity* Ram speaks and thinks in accordance with time, place and circumstances. Ram teaches us to grow with time. Rama is in favour of change and modernity. With these same inspirations, India is moving ahead with Shri Ram’s ideals* Prabhu Shri Ram has taught us to follow the lessons of duty, how to perform our duties. He has shown us the path of realisation and researches out of opposition. We have to join these bricks of Ram temple with mutual love and brotherhood* I believe, we will all move forward, the country will move forward. This temple of Lord Ram will continue to inspire and guide humanity for years to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ram-is-within-all-of-us-pm-modi-s-top-quotes-after-ayodhya-bhoomi-poojan/story-0kXR6F5eCWiJljFmQkwrpJ.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Lord Ram can’t appear in injustice, hatred’: Rahul tweets as Ayodhya witnesses historic event||Lord Ram is justice, he is compassion and the manifestation of love; he can never appear in hatred, cruelty and injustice, tweeted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as India witnessed the historic moment of the foundation laying of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Taking to Twitter, the former Congress chief posted, “Maryada Purushottam Lord Ram” is the manifestation of the best human qualities that form the core of humanity. On Tuesday, Gandhi’s sister and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra released a statement ahead of the Ram mandir bhoomi pujan event. In the statement, she hoped for the event to become “an occasion of national unity, fraternity and cultural congregation”.  Also read: ‘Lord Ram living in tents for years, will finally get a temple’ - PM Modiमर्यादा पुरुषोत्तम भगवान राम सर्वोत्तम मानवीय गुणों का स्वरूप हैं। वे हमारे मन की गहराइयों में बसी मानवता की मूल भावना हैं।राम प्रेम हैंवे कभी घृणा में प्रकट नहीं हो सकतेराम करुणा हैंवे कभी क्रूरता में प्रकट नहीं हो सकतेराम न्याय हैंवे कभी अन्याय में प्रकट नहीं हो सकते।Earlier in the day, senior Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and MP Shashi Tharoor also tweeted ahead of the grand Ram temple ceremony. Sibal refrained from directly referring to the occasion and posted, “some moments in history are destined”. Tharoor said that “Ram Rajya would not be an occasion for triumphalist bigotry” if his virtues and values are spread all across. The much-awaited foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple concluded in Ayodhya on Wednesday with PM Modi performing the bhoomi pujan ceremony at the auspicious Ram janmbhoomi site. The prime minister released a commemorative postage stamp on the ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’ and addressed the nation on the groundbreaking occasion.“A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla who had been staying makeshift tent till now. Today, Ram janmbhoomi breaks free of the cycle of breaking and getting built again - that had been going on for centuries,” the prime minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ram-cannot-appear-in-injustice-hatred-rahul-gandhi-tweets-as-ayodhya-witnesses-historic-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-QeR7oYTis6ybkL0VPJkUQI.html
05-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Bihar Police say Rhea Chakraborty absconding, urge Mumbai Police to exempt their officer from quarantine||The Bihar Police chief on Wednesday said that Rhea Chakraborty, against whom Sushant Singh Rajput’s father has filed an FIR in Patna, is absconding.“Rhea Chakraborty is not in touch with us. She is absconding, she is not coming forward. We don’t have any information about she being in touch with even Mumbai Police,” Director General of Police Gupteshwar Pandey said.His statement came on a day when the Supreme Court heard a petition filed by Chakraborty seeking to transfer the case from Patna to Mumbai.The Centre told the Supreme Court that it has accepted the recommendation made by the Bihar government to transfer the probe in the case to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).An FIR was registered in Patna, based on a complaint filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh, against Chakraborty under several sections including abetment to suicide. A team of Bihar Police is in Mumbai to probe the matter.But the man leading the team, IPS officer Vinay Tiwari, was quarantined when he reached Mumbai to investigate the case. While the BrimanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the decision was taken due to the spread of Covid-19, the Bihar Police said Tiwari was “forcibly quarantined”.Pandey today requested the Maharashtra Police to exempt Tiwari from quarantine.“We requested BMC to exempt IPS officer Vinay Tiwari from being quarantined. We told them at least send him back as he is an IPS officer. This is not a professional behaviour. This officer is being kept as if he has been arrested,” the Bihar DGP said.Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Mumbai Police, which are investigating the case along with a parallel investigation by Patna Police, said he died by suicide.According to Mumbai Police, the statements of 56 people have been recorded till now in connection with the case, including the family of the late actor, his domestic help and several industry persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-bihar-police-say-rhea-chakraborty-absconding-urge-mumbai-police-to-exempt-their-officer-from-quarantine/story-ouZaFqJSHzXPl4pTMihveP.html
05-08-2020||India||Rajasthan govt cracks whip on Mukundra officers after death of two adult tigers in 10 days||The Ashok Gehlot-led Rajasthan government on Tuesday cracked the whip on officials of Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) following the death of two adult tigers in the past 10 days.The state government has removed Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF) Anand Mohan and Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF), MHTR, T Mohan Raj and also suspended assistant conservator of forests (ACF) Rajesh Kumar Sharma on charges of negligence in the discharge of their duties. Two tigers have died at the tiger reserve in the past 10 days. Tiger MH-3 had died on July 23 due to a cardiac arrest and tigress MT-2 was found dead on Monday (August 3). The tigress had delivered two cubs in June, of which one is missing and another is critically ill. Manoj Parashar and Bijo Joy have been appointed as the new CCF and DCF, MHTR, respectively. “The accountability of the officials has been fixed and directives have been issued to ensure that the ill cub is treated well,” said Sukhram Vishnoi, state forest minister. He said the tigers were radio-collared and cameras are installed in the reserve in a bid to ensure effective monitoring of the animals. However, the tigers’ deaths have exposed lapses in the monitoring of the animals. The carcass of tiger MT-2 (4) was found at Beora Talai in MHTR on Monday morning and its autopsy revealed that a territorial fight led to its death. Though the MHTR authorities have rescued one of its cubs, another one is still missing. MT-3 had died in MHTR on July 23 due to multiple-organ failure. The autopsy revealed that lumps of fat in its lungs and other body parts had caused its death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-cracks-whip-on-mukundra-officers-after-death-of-two-adult-tigers-in-10-days/story-O78dJes8m2ptfwbDlS7rKL.html
05-08-2020||India||After bhoomi poojan at Ayodhya, RSS’ Mohan Bhagwat says we have fulfilled our resolve||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Wednesday the foundation laying ceremony for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya has come after decades-old struggle and has been a moment of great satisfaction.The RSS chief said the organisation worked nearly 30 years for the fulfilment of the resolve to construct the temple in Ayodhya.“We had taken a resolution. I remember the then RSS chief Balasaheb Deoras telling us that we will have to struggle for 20 to 30 years, only then will this be fulfilled. We struggled and at the beginning of the 30th year, we have attained the joy of fulfilling our resolution,” Bhagwat said.His comments came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the bhoomi pujan of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP’s movement that defined its politics for three decades.“There is a wave of joy in the entire country today. There is a pleasure about the fulfilment of centuries of hope. The greatest joy is because of the establishment of the self-confidence, which was lacking, today to make India self-reliant,” he said.Catch all the LIVE updates from the Ram temple groundbreaking ceremony“So many people had sacrificed but they couldn’t be here physically. There are some who couldn’t come here, Advani ji must be watching this at his home. There are some who should’ve come but couldn’t be invited because of the situation (coronavirus pandemic,” he added.Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Governor Anadiben Patel were among those who attended the event at the site where some Hindus believe Lord Ram was born.The guest list, including religious leaders who formed part of the movement that started in the 1980s, was restricted to 175 in view of the Covid-19 crisis.Also Read: ‘Some moments are destined’: Kapil Sibal, Tharoor tweet ahead of historic Ram temple ceremonyPriests chanted Sanskrit shlokas and the ground-breaking ceremony got underway under a giant marquee decorated in shades of reds and yellows and Modi and the other dignitaries, all in masks, maintained social distancing.As the Prime Minister laid the foundation of the temple, slogans of ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ and ‘Har Har Mahadev’ went up as the ritual ended. The temple town was decorated with marigold flowers and yellow and saffron flags as residents celebrated the beginning of the construction of a grand Ram temple. Roads leading to Ayodhya were adorned with hoardings of the proposed temple and of Ram Lalla, the infant Ram, the deity now housed in a makeshift temple.The Prime Minister had arrived in Ayodhya in a helicopter from the state capital of Lucknow and was received by Adityanath among others. Before the ceremony to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple, the Prime Minister took part in prayers at the Hanuman Garhi temple.From there, he travelled to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi site where he performed prayers to the Bhagwan Shree Ramlala Virajman. He also planted a sapling of Parijat or Indian night jasmine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bhoomi-poojan-at-ayodhya-rss-mohan-bhagwat-says-we-have-fulfilled-our-resolve/story-kqQsI65xMwDKXkCkijqkBP.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Lord Ram living in tents for years, will finally get a temple’: PM Modi at Ayodhya event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed gratitude to all citizens of the country, the Indian diaspora across the world and all the devotees of Lord Ram as he laid the foundation stone for Ram temple in Ayodhya. This is the first time that a Prime Minister has visited Ram Janmabhoomi to offer prayers at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949.The Prime Minister started his address with “Jai Shri Ram” chant. “This chant is not just echoing in Ayodhya but in the entire world,” he said.He also said that Ram Lalla (infant Lord Ram) who has been living in tents for years will finally get a temple of his own now.“Today, Ram Janmbhoomi breaks free of the cycle of breaking and getting built again - that had been going on for centuries,” said PM Modi.“Lord Ram is in our hearts, whatever work we have to do he is our inspiration,” the prime minister added.He further said that attempts were made to finish the existence, but Lord Ram is the basis of India’s culture.“The movement for building a Ram temple had dedication, struggle and resolve. I bow to those people whose sacrifice has made this possible,” PM Modi said.Before the ceremony, the prime minister visited the Hanuman Garhi temple where he performed aarti of Lord Hanuman. Ramesh Das, the head mahant of the temple, gifted a turban and a crown to PM Modi.PM Modi has come to Ayodhya after a gap of 29 years. It was in 1991 when he last visited the city.He has been associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) movement to build a Ram temple for a long time. He was a part of veteran BJP leader LK Advani’s Rath Yatra in 1990.In 1991, when he last visited Ayodhya, Modi had said that he will come to city only when the construction of Ram temple begins. That was made possible by a judgement of the Supreme Court in November last year when a bench headed by former chief justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi ruled in favour of Hindus.The Muslims were given land separately for the construction of a mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ram-living-under-tents-for-years-will-finally-get-a-temple-pm-modi-at-ayodhya-event/story-KFuDHbNmfMH7mPpSlsb1EN.html
05-08-2020||India||PM performs ‘bhoomi pujan’ for Ram temple in Ayodhya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday performed the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of a Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP’s ‘mandir’ movement that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power.  RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath were among those who attended the event at the site where a large number of devout Hindus believe Lord Ram was born. Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates hereThe guest list, including religious leaders who formed part of the movement that started in the 1980s, was restricted to 175 in view of the Covid-19 crisis. As a priest chanted Sanskrit ‘shlokas’ and the ground-breaking ceremony got under way under a giant marquee decorated in shades of reds and yellows, Modi and the other dignitaries, all in masks, maintained social distancing and sat a safe distance away from each other.  Slogans of ‘Bharat Mataki Jai’ and ‘Har Har Mahadev’ went up as the ritual ended and the prime minister laid the foundation of the temple.Bhajans and ‘shlokas’ were heard as the town, festooned with marigold flowers and yellow and saffron flags, celebrated the beginning of the construction of a grand Ram temple. Roads leading to Ayodhya were adorned with hoardings of the proposed temple and of Ram Lalla, the infant Ram, the deity now housed in a makeshift temple. Most shops were painted in bright yellow.The prime minister arrived in Ayodhya in a helicopter where Adityanath among others received him. Before the function to lay the foundation stone of the ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’, the prime minister took part in prayers at the Hanumangarhi temple.From there, he travelled to the ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi’ where he performed prayers at the ‘Bhagwan Shree Ramlala Virajman’. He also planted a Parijat (Indian night jasmine) sapling. He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on the ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court settled the fractious issue going back more than a century and backed the construction of a Ram temple by a trust at the disputed site. It also ruled that an alternative five-acre plot must be found for a mosque in the Hindu holy town Delivering a unanimous judgement on a case that had long polarised the country, the court said the faith of the Hindus that Lord Ram was born at the site was undisputed The Ram Janmabhoomi movement got a fillip in 1990 with then BJP president L K Advani’s ‘rath yatra’. Two years later, in December 1992, the 16th century Mughal-era Babri Masjid, built on what a large sections believe is Lord Ram’s birthplace, was demolished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-performs-bhoomi-pujan-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-40qXjMhjnnjyCCjieiTpbP.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Defines India’s spirit of social harmony, testimony to Ramrajya’: President Kovind on Ayodhya event||President Ram Nath Kovind hailed the groundbreaking ceremony in Ayodhya where Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for Ram temple.“Felicitations to all for the foundation laying of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Being built in tune with law, it defines India’s spirit of social harmony and people’s zeal. It will be a testimony to ideals of RamRajya and a symbol of modern India,” he tweeted om Wednesday. Felicitations to all for the foundation laying of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Being built in tune with law, it defines India’s spirit of social harmony and people’s zeal. It will be a testimony to ideals of RamRajya and a symbol of modern India.PM Modi on Wednesday offered prayers and laid the foundation stone for a grand temple at the site believed to be the birthplace of Lord Ram in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya. The groundbreaking ceremony marks the formal launch of the temple’s construction promised by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nearly three decades earlier.Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath were among those who attended the event.The guest list, including religious leaders, was restricted to 175 in view of the Covid-19 crisis. As a priest chanted Sanskrit ‘shlokas’ and the groundbreaking ceremony got underway, PM Modi and the other dignitaries, all in masks, maintained social distancing and sat a safe distance away from each other.Slogans of ‘Bharat Mataki Jai’ and ‘Har Har Mahadev’ went up as the ritual ended and the prime minister laid the foundation of the temple.Bhajans and ‘shlokas’ were heard as the town, festooned with marigold flowers and yellow and saffron flags, celebrated the beginning of the construction of a grand Ram temple.Roads leading to Ayodhya were adorned with hoardings of the proposed temple and of Ram Lalla, the infant Ram, the deity now housed in a makeshift temple. Most shops were painted in bright yellow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defines-india-s-spirit-of-social-harmony-testimony-to-ramrajya-president-kovind-on-ayodhya-event/story-WT6lUUGFKMcSkJtmZupa2K.html
05-08-2020||India||IPS officer asked me to pressurise Rhea Chakraborty: DCP Dahiya||A senior Mumbai police official has claimed that Sushant Singh Rajput’s brother-in-law, an IPS officer, had asked him to pressurise the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty to end their relationship.Deputy Commissioner of Police Paramjitsingh Dahiya told a TV channel that O P Singh, brother-in-law of Rajput and senior IPS officer of Haryana police, had made the request in February this year.Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14.“Singh asked me to call Rhea Chakraborty to the police station informally and pressurise her,” said Dahiya, who was the zonal police head of Bandra region till April 1.Dahiya said Singh told him that Rajput’s family felt Rhea was “controlling” the actor and wanted her out of his life.Dahiya said the actor’s family did not submit a written complaint. He said O P Singh made the informal request (to pressurise Rhea) to him through WhatsApp messages on February 18 and 25. The DCP said Singh visited Mumbai on February 5 and told him to inform Rajput that he was in Mumbai. He also requested that a person called Miranda be kept in a day’s police custody, without any complaint or investigation, Dahiya said.The DCP said he “politely and firmly” told Singh that it was not possible for him to call anyone to the police station and keep him in custody as it was against procedure.Dahiya said he asked Singh to file a written complaint based on which the matter would be investigated. The written complaint never came, he added.Rajput’s father K K Singh has released a video saying he alerted Mumbai police on February 25 that his sons life was in danger.On Monday, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh said the family didnt raise any suspicion when the city police recorded their statements on June 16.“At that moment, they didnt raise any suspicion and also didn’t complain about any lapse in our investigation,” he said. PTI DC VT VT VT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ips-officer-asked-me-to-pressurise-rhea-chakraborty-dcp-dahiya/story-29T3KWfQ3CzTgPwyAMopKO.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Quarantining Bihar cop not a good signal’: Supreme Court in Sushant Singh Rajput case hearing||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that quarantining of Bihar Police officer, who had gone to Mumbai to investigate the Sushant Singh Rajput case, has not sent the right message.“Quarantining of Bihar Police officer has not sent good message despite the fact that Mumbai Police has good professional reputation,” the bench said.The lawyer representing Rajput’s father KK Singh said that the Maharashtra Police are destroying evidence in the case.The Centre had earlier told the top court that it has accepted the recommendation sent by the Bihar Police for a CBI probe into the actor’s death. “Truth should come out so far as actor’s death is concerned,” the bench then said.The Maharashtra Police, meanwhile, said that the Bihar Police has no jurisdiction to either lodge an FIR or investigate it and this has been made a political case. The submissions were made during a hearing of a plea by actor Rhea Chakraborty seeking transfer of the case registered in Bihar’s capital of Patna to Maharashtra’s Mumbai.A case was registered by Rajput’s father in Patna against Rhea Chakraborty, accusing her of abetting his son’s alleged suicide in June.IPS officer Vinay Tiwari had gone to Mumbai for investigation, but was quarantined. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that the decision was taken due to the spead of the coronavirus disease. But Bihar Director General of Police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey said that Tiwari was forcibly quarantined.Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Mumbai Police, which are investigating the case along with a parallel investigation by Patna Police, said have he died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quarantining-of-bihar-cop-not-a-good-signal-supreme-court-on-sushant-singh-rajput-case-hearing/story-KXLvIHFAwDPKwXhYkdhRqM.html
05-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: On bhoomi poojan day in Ayodhya, FM Sitharaman tweets rangoli pic from home and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On bhoomi poojan day in Ayodhya, FM Sitharaman tweets rangoli pic from homeOn the big Ram temple bhoomi poojan day in Ayodhya, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman showcased a rangoli or kolam on Lord Ram made at the little temple at her place. Read moreIn pics: Fireworks, havan and ceremonious rituals as India celebrates historic Ram mandir bhoomi pujanUttar Pradesh’s temple town of Ayodhya is all set to witness the historic foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple in a short while from now. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s family wanted us to take Rhea Chakraborty into custody, slap her: Mumbai copA Mumbai cop who was contacted by a relative of Sushant Singh Rajput’s has said that he was told to ‘slap’ the actor’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, after his family alleged that she was alienating him from his family and misappropriating his funds. Read moreXiaomi Mi TV Stick launched in India, check price, specsXiaomi has launched its Amazon Fire TV Stick-rival ‘Mi TV Stick’ in India. The Mi TV Stick made its debut just last month and now it’s here. Read moreAyodhya: What Ram Temple construction means to the young | ground reportThe millenials in Faizabad believes that the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya will benefit the town as well as boost the economy of the town. Watch to know moreWatch this man’s interesting innovation to maintain social distancing at shopWho doesn’t like a simple idea that can help fulfil or complete a big task? Well, this video shows one such method and several people are praising it. Read moreThe Rise And Fall Of Amar SinghIn the 1983 film Zelig, Woody Allen (who also wrote and directed the movie) plays the eponymous hero; a man who manages somehow to know everyone (from F Scott Fitzgerald to Adolf Hitler) and who turns up at every important event. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-on-bhoomi-poojan-day-in-ayodhya-fm-sitharaman-tweets-rangoli-pic-from-home-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0on4TwrbCIIYobOruVys7J.html
05-08-2020||India||Golden chapter, says PM Modi after laying foundation stone for Ram temple||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday offered prayers and laid the foundation stone for a grand temple at the site believed to be the birthplace of Lord Ram in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya. The groundbreaking ceremony marks the formal launch of the temple’s construction promised by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party nearly three decades earlier.LK Advani, 92, and Murli Manohar Joshi, 86, the two BJP stalwarts who had led the campaign to build the temple in its early days, are said to have watched the live telecast of the event because of the coronavirus pandemic. Home Minister Amit Shah, from his bed in a Gurugram hospital where the 55-year-old top BJP leader was admitted last week due to the virus.“A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla who had been staying in a tent for decades. Today, Ram janmbhoomi breaks free of the cycle of breaking and getting built again - that had been going on for centuries,” PM Modi said at the event who expressed gratitude to all the people who had made huge sacrifices for the temple moment.“India is creating a golden chapter in Ayodhya. The wait of centuries ends today,” PM Modi said in his televised address at the event.PM Modi used silver bricks during the rituals. But for the foundation stone, bricks donated by devouts from across the world in 1989 would be used. “There are 275,000 such bricks out of which 100 bricks with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ engraving have been taken,” the priest said as the vedic rituals, which have continued for three days, were coming to an end.Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates hereDressed in the traditional kurta and dhoti, PM Modi offered prayers at the Hanuman Garhi temple soon after landing in the riverside town of Ayodhya from Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow. Anil Mishra, member of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirth Kshetra Trust, said this puja was performed to “seek Lord Hanuman’s permission to start construction work of Ram Mandir”.PM Modi next headed straight to the temple for the ceremony. Security has been tight for the event, particularly in light of the coronavirus pandemic and the need to adhere to social distancing.Only 175 guests have been invited. Among them are Mohan Bhagwat, the chief of the ruling BJP’s ideological fountainhead Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh.But the temple trust has ordered 100,000 packets of laddus for distribution to people and dignitaries.PM Modi is the first prime minister to visit the Ram Janambhoomi and offer prayers at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949, escalating the row over the small plot of land on which a mosque had been built in the 16th century. Hindus believe the Babri Masjid, was built over a temple dedicated to Lord Ram, whose birthplace is also considered to be at the site.The temple construction has been made possible because of a Supreme Court verdict nine months ago that ended a legal battle lasting decades and awarded the site to Hindus. The Muslim community has been given a 5-acre plot at another location to build a new mosque to make up for the 500-year-old Babri Masjid demolished by a mob in 1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-6PtybMaVg4pvL92ufuBBbO.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Ram temple bhoomi pujan fulfilment of Bal Thackeray’s dream’, says Shiv Sena||With the bhoomi pujan ceremony for the construction of a Ram temple being held in Ayodhya on Wednesday, the Shiv Sena has termed the development as “fulfilment” of party founder Bal Thackeray’s dream.The NCP, which is one of the constituents in the Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, said the ceremony is a “matter of joy” for all and that Lord Ram is the deity of Indians.“Fulfilment of Balasaheb’s dream,” reads a graphic Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut shared on Twitter. pic.twitter.com/6wmQ5TL4ixThe graphic also depicts a temple and carries text “Shree Ram” and “garv se kaho hum Hindu hai (say with pride that we are Hindus)”.Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates hereThe late Sena patriarch, termed by party followers as “Hinduhridaysamrat” (Emperor of Hindu hearts), was a strong proponent of the temple cause.State NCP chief and minister Jayant Patil said he always worships at the temple of Lord Ram in his constituency in Sangli district.“Today ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram temple construction is being performed in Ayodhya. It is a matter of joy for all of us. We always worship with devotion in Lord Ram’s temple built in my constituency.“Maryadapurushottam Prabhu Shri Ram will forever be deity of Indians,” Patil tweeted with the hashtag “RamMandirAyodhya”.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for the temple in Ayodhya. PTI ENM NSK NSK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-fulfilment-of-bal-thackeray-s-dream-says-shiv-sena/story-i1kPuoDJYIvhleHiU9HuUI.html
05-08-2020||India||Many parts of Delhi receive light rain on Wednesday morning||Many parts of the national capital received light rains on Wednesday morning and India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said this was due to a cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh that had moved westwards. However, there is little likelihood of rain in the next three to four days as a well marked low pressure area has formed over northern Bay of Bengal, which will bring intense rains mainly to central and some parts of peninsular India.“The light rain in Delhi is a result of a cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh. But rain will reduce and the monsoons will be subdued for a few days here,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre.The well marked low pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal, off the north Odisha and West Bengal coast, and a cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat have strengthened the southwesterly monsoon flow. The monsoon is in active to vigorous phase over the Konkan coast and adjoining areas of the west coast, and eastern parts of India, including Odisha and West Bengal. Under this favourable scenario, widespread rain with scattered heavy to very heavy falls and isolated extremely heavy falls are most likely to continue over the Konkan and Goa (including Mumbai) till August 6, and over Madhya Maharashtra (Ghat areas) till August 5 and reduce thereafter, according to IMD’s Wednesday bulletin.Heavy to extremely heavy rain is very likely over Gujarat till August 6, and over Chhattisgarh and east Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. Very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu, Kerala and south interior and coastal Karnataka during the next four to five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-parts-of-delhi-receive-light-rain-on-wednesday-morning/story-oS5vsWjbgxervqUt6RvefJ.html
05-08-2020||India||In pics: Clad in golden dhoti-kurta, PM Modi performs bhoomi pujan rituals for Ram temple in Ayodhya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in the holy city of Ayodhya on Wednesday for the momentous foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple. Dressed in a golden-coloured traditional dhoti kurta, the prime minister’s first stop was the 10th-century Hanuman Garhi temple wherein he offered special prayers.PM Modi was presented with a headgear, silver ‘mukut’ and a stole by Sri Gaddinsheen Premdas Maharaj, head priest of the ancient Hanuman Garhi Temple.The prime minister then went on to offer prayers to Ram Lalla and performed ‘sashtang pranam’ at Ram Janmabhoomi. PM Modi also planted a Parijat sapling, considered a divine plant, ahead of foundation stone-laying of Ram temple. Surrounded by seers, the prime minister took part in the rituals and performed bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple. As per the priest at Ram temple bhoomi pujan, nine bricks were kept at the site of the ceremony which were sent by the devotees of Lord Ram from around the world in 1989.“There are 2 lakh 75 thousand such bricks out of which 100 bricks with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ engraving have been taken,” the priest said during the ceremony as reported by ANI.Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, among other dignitaries took part in the event at the Ram Janambhoomi site. Soil from more than 2000 pilgrimage sites and water from more than 100 rivers was brought for the rituals.After performing the rituals, the prime minister released a commemorative postage stamp on the ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’ and took to the stage to address the nation on the groundbreaking occasion. PM Modi began his address by chanting Jai Siya Ram and thanked all citizens of the nation as well as Indian diaspora across the world on the pious occasion.“A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla who had been staying makeshift tent till now. Today, Ram janmbhoomi breaks free of the cycle of breaking and getting built again - that had been going on for centuries,” the prime minister said. The prime minister will be in the temple town for around three hours before heading back to Lucknow at around 2.20 pm, as per his itinerary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-clad-in-golden-dhoti-kurta-pm-modi-performs-bhoomi-pujan-rituals-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-QaPd6jrVGZZhv3jtUZnCVP.html
05-08-2020||India||Accepted Bihar request for CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: Centre to SC||The government has accepted the request by the Bihar government to order the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Centre’s senior second-most law officer Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court on Wednesday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta made the submission during the hearing of a plea by actor Rhea Chakraborty seeking transfer of the case registered in Bihar’s capital of Patna to Maharashtra’s Mumbai.“Union of India has in principle accepted the request by Bihar to have a CBI probe. Notification regarding the same will be issued by end of day today,” Mehta said.The top court asked the parties involved to file their response in three days. It also ordered the Maharashtra government to apprise the court of the stage of investigation by Mumbai Police into Rajput’s death. The case will now be heard next week.Sushant Singh Rajput’s father, KK Singh, had filed a police complaint against Chakraborty in Patna, accusing her of abetting his son’s alleged suicide in June. His father has also alleged that Chakraborty illegally transferred Rs 15 crore from his son’s bank account and mentally harassed him.Chakraborty has challenged Bihar police’s jurisdiction in the matter, saying that the alleged crime took place in Mumbai.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had recommended that the CBI take over the case on Tuesday. Kumar said the decision was taken after Rajput’s father met the state police chief Gupteshwar Pandey. “The DGP spoke to Sushant Singh Rajput’s father this morning and he gave consent for CBI inquiry. So now, we are recommending CBI probe in the matter,” Kumar said on Tuesday.Uddhav Thackeray, Kumar’s counterpart in Maharashtra, and the western state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh had both earlier ruled out a CBI probe.Rajput’s father had also met Kumar seeking CBI investigation in the case. The actor’s father had said on Monday he had filed a complaint with Mumbai Police in February claiming Rajput’s life was in danger. The revelation came as Singh filed an FIR with Patna police, alleging Mumbai police of inaction even after 40 days of the actor’s sudden death.Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14. Mumbai Police, which are investigating the case along with a parallel investigation by Patna Police, said have he died by suicide.(Please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist if you need support or know someone who does. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accepted-bihar-request-for-cbi-probe-into-sushant-s-death-centre-to-supreme-court/story-owCW3tZMVfqRrxMHK94XaJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Mumbai: Lake levels increase to 37.36%, from 34.95% on Tuesday morning||The seven lakes that supply water to Mumbai have recorded a marginal increase in their water level following heavy rainfall over the past two days in the city and its suburbs, but the storage is found to be much below its capacity during the corresponding period in the past two yearsOn Wednesday morning, the water content in the lakes, located in Mumbai, and adjoining Thane and Palghar districts, was pegged at 37.36% -- up from 34.95% the previous day. While last year, the count during the corresponding period was 89.96%. The poor water content in the lakes has led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities to impose a 20% water usage from Wednesday onwards owing to meagre rainfall in the catchment areas. Between Tuesday and Wednesday morning, monsoon rains added 33,411 million litres (ML) water to the seven lakes and the total storage is at 5,39,307 ML. While in 2019 and 2018, the corresponding figure was 1,3,01,984 and 1,2,18,692 ML, respectively. The following is the break-up of the rainwater received by the seven lakes in and around Mumbai over the past 24 hours: Upper Vaitarna 97 millimetres (mm); Modak Sagar (141 mm); Tansa (83 mm), Middle Vaitarna (99 mm); Bhatsa (88 mm); Vehar (105 mm); and Tulsi (154 mm).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-lake-levels-increase-to-37-36-from-34-95-on-tuesday-morning/story-8G0YxXP52jKMVi8DaVTHGI.html
05-08-2020||India||On bhoomi poojan day in Ayodhya, FM Sitharaman tweets rangoli pic from home||On the big Ram temple bhoomi poojan day in Ayodhya, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman showcased a rangoli or kolam on Lord Ram made at the little temple at her place. “In many homes, a rangoli/kolam is made afresh each day with rice powder. This, today, in the little temple at my place,” tweeted the minister.  In many homes, a rangoli/kolam is made afresh each day with rice powder. This, today, in the little temple at my place. #Ayodhya #AyodhyaBhoomipoojan @ShriRamTeerth pic.twitter.com/GsphTU9dGsPM Modi arrived in the temple town of Ayodhya this morning for the groundbreaking ceremony for a Ram temple at the very site where the Bajri Masjid once stood. The masjid was demolished by kar sevaks on December 6, 1992. PM Modi is the first prime minister to visit the Ram Janmabhoomi to offer prayers at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949, escalating the row over the small plot of land on which a mosque had been built in the 16th century. Hindus believe the Babri Masjid, was built over a temple dedicated to Lord Ram, whose birthplace is also considered to be at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-bhoomi-pujan-day-in-ayodhya-fm-sitharaman-tweets-rangoli-pic-from-home/story-yrhW6VnIaau5BVccn3MIbO.html
05-08-2020||India||WATCH LIVE: PM Modi in Ayodhya for Ram temple bhoomi poojan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and UP Governor Anandiben Patel are among the 175 guests present for the grand groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya.The Prime Minister reached the Ram Janmabhoomi site after visiting the Hanuman Garhi temple where he stopped for special prayers. After a 10-minute darshan and prayer to Lord Ram, PM Modi participated in a tree plantation programme inside the premises.Watch the bhoomi poojan ceremony live from Ayodhya:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-in-ayodhya-for-ram-temple-bhoomi-poojan/story-wSXjwNguGH2G7aPKSegcNJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Bullet scarred, failing eyesight: But will visit Ram Janmabhoomi only when temple is built||Sudhir Nag, a kar sevak, who received a .303 rifle bullet shot under his right eye in 1990 during police firing in Ayodhya, is 30 years on still adamant that he will visit the Ram Janambhoomi site only when the Ram temple is built.  The bullet scar is still there. He has lost vision in the right eye and his vision in the left eye, too, is diminishing. But he is firm on his vow of not visiting the temple site till the temple is built. “I will set eye on Ram Janmabhoomi (RJB) when the temple is built. I would have stayed away from the Ram temple bhumi pujan ceremony even if I was invited,” says Nag paradoxically. He is not an invitee. Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates hereNag, a resident of Ayodhya, had vowed in 1990 to never go back to the RJB site where he was shot, until the temple was built.  The police firing on kar sevaks had taken place on the orders of the then chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav near the Ram Janmabhoomi site. “A .303 bullet had entered my face and some pellets entered my eyes. I instantly lost sight in the right eye as the retina was fully shattered while vision in the left eye is fading slowly,” said Nag who was 21 then. For close to three decades, Sudhir Nag has carried the scar on his face and a grudge in his heart. “Now, I don’t even have a grudge against him (Mulayam Singh Yadav). He, too, is witnessing the process for the temple construction. I will go to the RJB site when the temple is ready. Not before that. Doesn’t matter if I turn blind in the other eye also. A vow is a vow,” said Nag. Nag also condemned the deaths of 28 other kar sevaks in the police firing that ratcheted up tensions across the country. On October 30, 1990 Nag was leading a batch of 70 kar sevaks towards the RJB site when police firing started and a bullet hit him in the face. He survived following three successive surgeries at Lucknow’s Medical College. On December 6, 1992, thousands of kar sevaks stormed the police barricades, climbed on top of the three domes of the Babri masjid and broke it to pieces with hammers and pick axes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bullet-scarred-failing-eyesight-but-will-visit-rjb-only-when-temple-is-built/story-KN6JI5KPpvjheZSvntI5sL.html
05-08-2020||India||In pics: Fireworks, havan and ceremonious rituals as India celebrates historic Ram mandir bhoomi pujan||Uttar Pradesh’s temple town of Ayodhya witnessed the historic foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached Ayodhya on Wednesday and marked the occasion by laying the foundation stone of the grand temple and performing bhoomi pujan ritual. The momentous ceremony saw Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, among other dignitaries, in attendance. Ayodhya is spruced up and all decked with freshly painted buildings and decorations adorning every nook and corner of the town. In pics: Clad in golden dhoti-kurta, PM performs Ram temple bhoomi pujanNot just the temple town, celebrations marked the grand event across the country. Over 11,000 diyas are set to be lit across the city of Ayodhya, illuminating every street and all houses will be celebrating with a ‘deepotsava’, a festival of lights.Around 175 eminent guests have been invited for the ‘bhoomi poojan’ of Ram temple. Besides Prime Minister Modi, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Mahant Nritya Gopaldas Maharaj, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be present on stage.As per the priest at Ram temple bhoomi pujan, nine bricks were kept at the site of the ceremony which were sent by the devotees of Lord Ram from around the world in 1989.“There are 2 lakh 75 thousand such bricks out of which 100 bricks with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ engraving have been taken,” the priest said during the ceremony as reported by ANI.Several devotees have also donated silver bricks to the trust. All of them will be used for the ceremony on Wednesday and will be encashed for the construction of Ram Mandir. Around 100,000 lamps will be lit on the banks of the Saryu River on Wednesday.Celebratory mood also reverberated across continents as members of the Indian community were seen taking to the streets in Washington DC, chanting Jai Shree Ram and waving saffron flags.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-fireworks-havan-and-ceremonious-rituals-as-india-gears-up-for-historic-ram-mandir-bhoomi-pujan/story-sq68XfRm7kODAxIy6ffSvK.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Modi in Ayodhya, quick prayer at Hanuman Garhi before bhoomi poojan ceremony||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday landed in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya on Wednesday to participate in the grand groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of Ram temple, a poll promised fulfilled by his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The Prime Minister had left Delhi in the morning in an Indian Air Force (IAF) plane and landed in the state capital of Lucknow from where he was flown to the temple town in a helicopter. Click here to follow live udpates of bhoomi poojan ceremonyPM Modi visit the 10th-century Hanuman Garhi temple for special prayers. He is expected to reach the Ram Janmabhoomi site at 12pm, where he will visit Ram Lalla or the infant Lord Ram for 10 minutes, according to his official itinerary.He will participate in a tree plantation programme inside the premises and will plant a sapling of Parijat or Indian night jasmine. Modi will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’.Borders sealed, Covid-19 testsPM Modi will be there for at least three hours in the temple town, which has been decked with 150,000 lamps, many buildings given a fresh coat of paint and murals from the epic Ramayana have been painted on walls. There will be as many as 5,100 urns decorated by local artists on the road that Modi will travel on.Authorities have put in a massive security cloak in the town, which has been spruced up for the event. The borders of Ayodhya, which nearly 130km from the state capital of Lucknow, have been sealed, thousands of security personnel have been deployed and 75 check posts have been put to block approach roads.“Over 300 police personnel, who are younger, fit and healthy as well as tested negative for Covid-19 infection, have already been handpicked for deployment in VVIP security,” said a senior police official on condition of anonymity.Also read: The rise of the proud, global HinduAuthorities have put in place a strict protocol that includes testing all guests, enforcing the wearing of masks and sealing the district borders so that people from outside cannot gather at the site in the town where 16 people have succumbed to the coronavirus disease and has 604 active cases. “Everyone will wear a mask, everyone will maintain social distancing and it’s going to be fine,” Anuj Jha, the district magistrate who is also a member of the temple trust, said.The guests were allowed entry to the venue from 10am and they had to undergo Covid-19 test before getting in. Rapid testing kits will be used which will give result in 15 minutes. According to officials, the district health department will deploy its team for carrying out the tests, officials said.Auspicious moment, silver bricksA water-proof marquee has been put up at the venue for the ceremony and a stage has also been set up from where PM Modi is expected to address the gathering. The government has urged local residents to remain at home and follow the grand event on television.PM Modi, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and UP governor Anandiben Patel will be on the stage as 175 guests will be present for the bhoomi poojan.Vedic rituals had started at Ram Janmabhoomi at around 9am on Wednesday. The main programme of bhoomi poojan will begin at 12:30pm and PM Modi will lay five silver bricks as the temple foundation amid the chanting of Vedic hymns at 12:40pm. Priests and religious leaders have said that the muhurat or auspicious moment will last only for 32 seconds.The Prime Minister will use a 40-kilogram silver brick to lay the foundation of the temple. The brick, which has been donated by Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairperson of the temple trust, will be removed after the ceremony. The groundbreaking ceremony will be telecast live and CCTV screens have been put across the town for residents to follow the ceremony. Several devotees have also donated silver bricks to the trust. All of them will be used for the ceremony on Wednesday, said trust officials. “Later, these silver bricks will be enchased and the money will be used for the construction of Ram Mandir,” Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate to the trust chief, said.The Prime Minister will also meet Swami Nrityagopal Das and other members of the Ram Janmabhoomi trust after the programme. He will leave for the helipad at 2:05pm and for Lucknow at 2:20pm.Prohibitory orders are in force in the town and not more than five people will be allowed to gather. Markets and shops will remain open but with strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol. Outsiders will be stopped from entering the city and residents of Ayodhya will be allowed in if they produce any identification document.A Supreme Court ruling in November ended a decades-old dispute and ordered that a Ram temple be built on the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid site in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reaches-ayodhya-quick-prayer-at-hanuman-garhi-before-bhoomi-poojan-ceremony/story-AMQnos7nlsKziTfkQ5BNEL.html
05-08-2020||India||The Rise And Fall Of Amar Singh||In the 1983 film Zelig, Woody Allen (who also wrote and directed the movie) plays the eponymous hero; a man who manages somehow to know everyone (from F Scott Fitzgerald to Adolf Hitler) and who turns up at every important event. The film is a mockumentary, which is to say that it is made to look like a documentary with shots of the fictional Zelig inserted into actual footage of real events.I first met Amar Singh around four years after I saw the movie and in my mind, Amar Singh was always the Indian Zelig: a man who managed to work his way into any situation of consequence and to stand shoulder to shoulder with any important person he saw.I first met Amar Singh after I moved to Calcutta in 1986. He was no big deal then. Though he was a Rajput, his twin claims to fame were his association with the city’s prosperous Marwari community and his friendship with Bengal Congress leaders.As he was neither much of a businessman nor a politician of any great consequence, he was already punching much above his weight. He could get the city’s richest men --- the Birlas, the Goenkas, and others --- on the phone and became involved, at a high level, in the feuds that characterized the Bengal Congress of that era. (He was pro-Subrata Mukherjee, anti-Mamata Banerjee and so on.)He also understood the media. He would turn up at the ABP office, where I then worked, escorting visiting notables. He brought Dr. Karan Singh to see us. He came again with Veer Bahadur Singh who was then (if I remember correctly) Telecom Minister. Amar Singh was hardly the only local politician to accompany national biggies on their visits to Calcutta. But what made him different was that he demanded almost as much attention as the visitor he was escorting, inserting himself into every conversation and holding forth at length. Interrupt him and you risked offending the important visitor so most of us heard him out politely.ALSO READ: Two kinds of cockroachesIn a few years, Amar Singh had established a presence in Delhi as well. When Jaya and Amitabh Bachchan came to Calcutta for the premiere of Agneepath in 1990, Amar Singh attached himself to Jaya Bachchan whom he had helped with a Children’s Film Festival in Delhi. (At the time Jaya was Chairperson of the Children’s Film Society.) He was not yet a friend of Amitabh’s but because he popped up, Zelig-like, in all the photos, he came off to the general public as a close friend of all the Bachchans.The following year, when Chandra Shekhar was Prime Minister, Amar Singh who knew the PM a little, performed what would become a classic Amar Singh maneuver. He told Chandra Shekhar that he would introduce him to Amitabh Bachchan, who was not only a legend but was also of immediate consequence to Chandra Shekhar because his government was dependent on Congress support and Bachchan was Rajiv Gandhi’s close friend. To Bachchan, Singh said that Chandra Shekhar was like a brother to him and he, Amar Singh, would personally ensure that any problems that had been created for the Bachchans by the predecessor VP Singh- government would disappear.For years afterwards, Amar Singh would tell the story of how he personally carried the government file relating to a case against the Bachchans around till Chandra Shekhar agreed to sign it and close the case.“Amitji may have been a friend of Rajiv Gandhi’s but it was Amar Singh who got the files signed and the case disposed off,” Amar Singh would boost.This got him nowhere with Rajiv who turned down Amar Singh’s request for a Congress ticket for the 1991 election and refused to even meet him despite Amitabh’s urging. But it certainly endeared him to Amitabh and by 1992, the two men were extremely close and spoke to each other on the phone every single day.ALSO READ: The Covid PuzzleIn his later years, after the Bachchans had thrown him out, Amar Singh would complain bitterly that Amitabh was never sufficiently grateful for all the things that he had done for him. And certainly there is no doubt that during the crucial phase when Bachchan’s ABCL had collapsed, leaving debts of hundreds of crores, Amar Singh helped raise the funds required to get the debts settled.But equally, there is no doubt that Amar Singh gained much more from the association than he admitted. His career advanced within the Samajwadi Party because he was able to deliver the Bachchans whenever Mulayam Singh Yadav needed them. He gained entry to political circles that would never have allowed him in by promising to bring Amitabh along. And though the Bachchans treated him with extraordinary respect and deference, Amar Singh made it a point to gratuitously inform people that Amitabh would come to the airport to receive him when he visited Mumbai and that he had organized the weddings of both the Bachchan children, exercising total control over the guest list.Nobody really knows what went wrong with that relationship --- I only have Amar Singh’s version which was so poisonously anti-Bachchan as to lack all credibility --- but while it lasted, there is no doubt that Singh became the closest friend Amitabh had ever had, especially after the split between the Bachchan brothers.Did Amar Singh precipitate the split? He said various things at various times so it is hard to be certain. But there is no doubt that nearly everywhere Singh went, there were family issues. He was central to the split between Mulayam and his son Akhilesh. He was openly hostile to Mukesh Ambani and an active warrior for the Anil Ambani camp when the brothers fought. And when the Bajajs had a problem, he turned up there as well, Zelig-like.By the end of his time in the limelight, Amar Singh had either fallen out with or moved away from every powerful person he was once close too. The parting with the Bachchans was bitter. He ceased to be a figure of any consequence in UP politics after Akhilesh kicked him out of the SP, though he tried very hard but fruitlessly to get somewhere with the BJP.He was openly attacking Anil Ambani in interviews which meant that the parting could not have been cordial. His attempts to suck up to Mukesh Ambani (“I made a mistake by behaving badly with Mukeshbhai” etc.) were rebuffed. Subroto Roy of Sahara whose planes and helicopters Amar Singh flew around in during the glory days told a TV interviewer that he thought Amar Singh had now become so arrogant that his feet hardly touched the ground.The story of his fall may not be surprising: any moth that flies too close to the flame always risks going up in smoke. But the more remarkable story is the one of his rise. I saw him at fairly close quarters for over 30 years and I still can’t figure out how he managed to fly so high and get so far.Some of the explanations that I have heard from people who knew him make some sense. Yes, he was a perfect conduit between business and industry with an ability to fix deals, get projects cleared and raise election funding. But there are others who can do that too. So it is not enough of an explanation for his remarkable rise.Some of his success was probably influence-peddling. As he did with Chandra Shekhar and Amitabh Bachchan way back in 1991, he knew how to trade in contacts and to fling names around. In the heyday of the Mulayam government, he used to brag that his house filled up every morning with important figures (including civil servants) all looking for favours. Every favour handed out was an IOU that he banked. When HD Deve Gowda was Prime Minister, Amar Singh, who said he had arranged election financing for Gowda when he was just a Karnataka politician, would turn up at Race Course Road early in the morning and park himself there. Anyone who came to meet the Prime Minister would first have to reckon with Amar Singh.But much of his success had to do with his own drive, his own confidence and his ability to become the master of any situation. Often when he was with his star-friends, with top industrialists or even his political masters, it was hard to tell who was the star or the boss and who was the lesser figure.When he went with Mulayam to meet the President of India or such allies as Sonia Gandhi, Amar Singh was the one who took the chair nearest the host and led the conversation. Top industrialists were often reduced to inarticulate, blathering wrecks while Amar Singh took charge.But none of this quite captures the secret of Amar Singh’s success. How did he inveigle himself so successfully into the life of the notoriously private Bachchan family that they gave him his own room in their house?. Why did Anil Ambani, a smart, savvy and confident businessman, let Amar Singh pose as his alter-ego? Why did Mulayam let Amar Singh become his Svengali?I don’t think anyone has ever been able to answer these questions. Nor can anyone explain what finally went so wrong. Why did nearly all of Amar Singh’s friends turn their backs on him at roughly the same time?The last time I met him was in his huge new villa where he gave me a bitter interview about his ex-friends. He was excited to be the subject of a full-length interview, an increasingly rare occurrence towards the end of his life, and insisted on showing me around his palatial new house.When we got to his private cinema, he wanted to play a part of a song sequence from a Hindi movie on his huge screen.”You will be surprised by how good the sound is,” he bragged.But the system wouldn’t work. No picture would play. Amar Singh asked someone to fix it. The man tried but had no success.Amar Singh got angrier and angrier. “Aaj kuchch nahin chal raha hai!” he complained in exasperation and rage.And of course, he was right.To read more on The Taste With Vir, click hereFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-taste-with-vir-sanghvi-the-rise-and-fall-of-amar-singh/story-WvyGeqCM0neQdYzgd4MxMO.html
05-08-2020||India||Ramcharitmanas, congratulatory messages: What BJP leaders said on Ayodhya bhoomi pujan||Several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Wednesday congratulated people of the country as Prime Minister Narendra Modi headed to Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya to take part in the bhoomi poojan for the construction of the Ram temple. From Amit Shah to Rajnath Singh, several Union ministers and BJP leaders posted their messages on Twitter.Union home minister Shah, who has contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), had simply tweeted a digital photograph of the proposed Ram temple. pic.twitter.com/U9HLSVj5YRDefence minister Rajnath Singh posted a few lines from the epic poem Ramcharitmanas, written by Tulsidas, and retweeted photographs of the temple town by the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra. जद्यपि सब बैकुंठ बखाना। बेद पुरान बिदित जगु जाना॥अवधपुरी सम प्रिय नहिं सोऊ। यह प्रसंग जानइ कोउ कोऊ॥अति प्रिय मोहि इहाँ के बासी। मम धामदा पुरी सुख रासी॥⁰हरषे सब कपि सुनि प्रभु बानी। धन्य अवध जो राम बखानी॥#JaiShriRam https://t.co/OyjJSVaLOtUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also tweeted a few lines from the Ramcharitmanas, the tale of Lord Ram in Awadhi language, and extended his congratulations. Click here to follow all the live updates of Ayodhya bhoomi poojan“Dear Ram devotees, greetings to you, congratulations to you. Jai Shri Ram!” he said.Union minister Smriti Irani tweeted a bhajan or a devotional song sung by a little girl, Sooryagayathri. #JaiShriRam pic.twitter.com/s7hU0zkix3Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis also posted a video.“Lord Ramji’s temple had to be built had to become a Mandir. This is the temple of faith of millions of Ram devotees. Jai Shri Ram,” he said.BJP leader Pragya Singh Thakur said she was elated and speechless ahead of the ceremony.“Today, the mind is elated, happy, ecstatic. I am speechless I the bliss and all I can say is just that-Jai Shri Ram, the work is done. Jai Shri Ram, Jai Shri Ram, Jai Shri Ram, Jayshriram, Jai Shri Ram,” the member of Parliament from Bhopal tweeted.The groundbreaking ceremony for the Ram temple marks the end of a religious dispute that dates back to 1885 when a Hindu priest petitioned the local court to build a temple where the 16th-century Babri Masjid stood.Thousands of kar sevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers, scaled the Mughal-era mosque and demolished it on December 6, 1992. A political upheaval ensued that resulted in the dismissal of the state government even as a wave of communal riots swept India, killing thousands across the country.The construction of the Ram temple was cleared in a landmark verdict by the Supreme Court last year in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit. A five-judge bench of the top court awarded the 2.77-acre disputed site to the representative of Ram Lalla and instructed the Centre to set up a trust to oversee the construction of a temple.It also gave the main Muslim litigant, the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board, five acres of land at an alternative site in the district for a mosque.A separate criminal suit for the demolition of the mosque—where LK Advani and MM Joshi are accused—is being heard by a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lines-from-ramcharitmanas-to-congratulatory-messages-what-bjp-leaders-said-ahead-of-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-yDLhoNXpi0rzUKooHu4FkK.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Some moments are destined’: Kapil Sibal, Tharoor tweet ahead of historic Ram temple ceremony||Senior Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor tweeted ahead of the historic foundation laying ceremony of Ram mandir in Uttar Pradesh’s temple town of Ayodhya on Wednesday. Congress MP Tharoor said that Lord Ram epitomises “justice for all, righteous conduct, fairness and firmness in all dealings, moral rectitude and courage”. These values are much needed in such dark times, Tharoor added. He said if these values spread throughout the land, “Ram Rajya would not be an occasion for triumphalist bigotry”. Also read: PM leaves for Ayodhya to lay foundation stone of Ram templeLord ShriRam epitomises justice for all, righteous conduct, fairness&firmness in all dealings, moral rectitude &courage. These values are much needed in such dark times. If they spread throughout the land, Ram Rajya would not be an occasion for triumphalist bigotry. #JaiShriRam!Sibal, on the other hand, did not directly refer to the bhoomi pujan event but wove his tweet around “matters of faith”. In his tweet, Sibal said some events are destined to take place.  Also read: Prayers, rituals and security ring to mark big day for Ayodhya Ram temple todayMatters of Faithsome moments in history are destinedseedthe futurecourseof ourNation’s creed“Matters of Faith some moments in history are destined seed the future course of our Nation’s creed,” his tweet read. India woke up to a celebratory mood on Wednesday to witness the historic ceremony of Ram temple bhoomi poojan in Ayodhya. The momentous, much-awaited foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya was carried out by prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday noon. PM Modi first headed to the Hanuman Garhi temple and Shree Ramlalla Virajman to perform rituals. The construction work for the grand temple will commence after the ceremony. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat were among the 175 eminent guests who had been invited to Wednesday’s groundbreaking ceremony.As per the prime minister’s itinerary, his presence in the temple town will span around three hours before he heads back to Lucknow at around 2.20 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-moments-are-destined-kabil-sibal-tharoor-tweet-ahead-of-historic-ram-temple-ceremony/story-WDk6gB38wnq8WHzfLPa4IP.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Jai Shri Ram’: Arvind Kejriwal wishes the country ahead of Ayodhya event||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday congratulated the entire country for the groundbreaking ceremony in Ayodhya where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for a Ram temple.“Congratulations to the entire country on the occasion of Bhoomi Pujan. May we continue receving Lord Ram’s blessings. His blessings will help India end hunger and poverty and become the most powerful country in the world. May India show the path to the world in the future. Jai Shri Ram! Jai Bajrang Bali!” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. भूमि पूजन के मौक़े पर पूरे देश को बधाईभगवान राम का आशीर्वाद हम पर बना रहे। उनके आशीर्वाद से हमारे देश को भुखमरी, अशिक्षा और ग़रीबी से मुक्ति मिले और भारत दुनिया का सबसे शक्तिशाली राष्ट्र बने। आने वाले समय में भारत दुनिया को दिशा दे। जय श्री राम! जय बजरंग बली!The grounbreaking ceremony will begin after 12 pm on Wednesday.“It’s an emotional and historic moment. Wait has been worthwhile,” veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Lal Krishna Advani, who was at the forefront of the party’s temple campaign in 1990s, said on Tuesday.Only 175 people, including 135 saits, have been invited for the ceremony where PM Modi will lay a 40-kilogramme silver brick to symbolise the start of construction of the Ram temple.Construction of the temple was made possible by a verdict last year from the Supreme Court.Barricades have been put up across the town with heavy police presence, as authorities try to limit the number of visitors to maintain social distancing in the wake of Covid-19. At least two priests in the area and four policemen have tested positive for the coronavirus disease.The grand affair will be beamed onto large screens in Ayodhya as well as many cities across the country. Devotees have also been asked to light diyas (earthen lamps).Soil from almost 2,000 holy sites around India and water of around 100 holy rivers will be used in the foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jai-shri-ram-arvind-kejriwal-wishes-the-country-ahead-of-ayodhya-event/story-6BsPs2cHmhxPx73zHoFPJN.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Modi to plant ‘Parijaat’ sapling using traditional drip irrigation method ahead of ‘bhoomi pujan’||Among the plethora of activities lined up for Wednesday at the Ram temple site in Ayodhya, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to plant a ‘Parijaat’ sapling on the temple premises ahead of the ‘bhoomi pujan’.However, it is not just the holiness associated with the ‘Parijaat’ in the Hindu mythology, but also the manner in which the sapling will be planted that makes it unique.Click here to follow live updates of Ayodhya bhoomi poojanPM Modi is likely to use the traditional natural drip irrigation method, achieved by placing an unglazed clay pot filled with water parallel to the roots of the plant thereby providing water to the plant for about a week, while planting the auspicious ‘Parijaat’ sapling.The Prime Minister, earlier in July, had himself shared an example of this unique method which is already practiced in parts of Gujarat where water is scarce.Earlier, Mahant Rajkumar Das stating the list of activities lined up for August 5 had said that the ‘Parijaat’ sapling will be planted by the Prime Minister after he takes part in the pooja of ‘Bhagwan Shree Ramlala Virajman’.“Parijaat is considered as a divine tree, therefore, PM Modi will plant the tree. PM will go to Shree Ram Janmabhoomi where he will take part in pooja of ‘Bhagwan Shree Ramlala Virajman’. He will then plant a Parijat sapling and subsequently perform Bhoomi Pujan,” Das had told ANI.The much-awaited foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya will take place amid much fanfare on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to perform a ‘pooja’ at the Hanuman Garhi temple and Shree Ramlala Virajman before performing the ‘bhoomi pujan’.He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’.Sanitisation work was carried out at the Hanuman Garhi temple on Wednesday morning ahead of the PM’s visit. The Saryu Ghat was also decorated.Over 11,000 diyas are set to be lit across the city of Ayodhya, illuminating every street and all houses will be celebrating with a ‘deepotsava’, a festival of lights.Apart from PM Modi, the ceremony will be attended by Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) Chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttarakhand Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj, Senior BJP leaders LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, Iqbal Ansari (former litigant in Ayodhya land dispute case) and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-plant-parijaat-sapling-using-traditional-drip-irrigation-method-ahead-of-bhoomi-pujan/story-u5rfuP6gbleRUxqscpVNkM.html
05-08-2020||India||Ram dhun reverberates across continents, Indian community in US celebrates Ram temple bhoomi pujan||Not just across India but the excitement on the foundation laying ceremony of Ram Temple in Ayodhya reverberated across continents as members of the Indian community in the United States were seen gathering in groups outside Capitol Hill in Washington DC to celebrate the groundbreaking occasion. While some members of the community were seen clad in traditional attire, others donned yellow and saffron-coloured clothes and went out on a march raising saffron flags and chanting ‘Jai Shree Ram’. The highlight of the celebration was the ‘Ayodhya Sri Ram Mandir Tableau’ that ferried between the US Capitol Hill and White House. The organisers told ANI that their celebrations are marking the beginning of the historic temple construction.  Also read: Prayers, rituals and security ring to mark big day for Ayodhya Ram temple todayUSA: Members of the Indian community gathered outside the Capitol Hill in Washington DC to celebrate the foundation laying ceremony of #RamTemple in #Ayodhya pic.twitter.com/NofEWuM3E5Images of Lord Ram and 3D portraits of the Ram temple in Ayodhya is expected to be beamed across the giant billboards at the iconic Times Square on August 5 at 10 am EDT (local time). Temples across the US in states like California, Washington, Texas and Florida have announced special events to mark the historic event. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has left New Delhi for Ayodhya and will reach the temple town for the momentous ceremony today noon. The event is likely to take place at around 12.30 pm today with several chief ministers, Union ministers likely to be in attendance. Before performing the bhoomi pujan, PM Modi will head to the Hanuman Garhi temple and Shree Ramlalla Virajman to perform rituals.Ayodhya has been spruced up for the event while grand arrangements await the commencement of the much-awaited bhoomi pujan ceremony. PM Modi is likely to use a 40-kilogram silver brick during the ceremony for laying the foundation of the temple. The brick shall be removed after the ceremony. The construction work for the grand temple, which will be constructed in Nagara style of architecture, will commence after today’s ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-dhun-reverberates-across-continents-indian-community-in-us-celebrates-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-QgAAmuzaJaARKQU1CQKxjL.html
05-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 1.9 million, death toll at 39,795||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ballooned to more than 1.9 million after 52,509 new cases and 857 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry’s data showed on Wednesday.The country has been recording more than 50,000 Covid-19 cases for the last one week or since July 30 and has added more than 2 lakh infections since the beginning of this month. The number of active cases stands at 586,244 and the tally is at 1,908,254 till date.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAccording to the health ministry’s dashboard, 1,282,215 patients—51,706 people between Tuesday and Wednesday morning—have been cured of the viral disease and the recovery rate stands at 67.19%. The recovered cases in India are now double the active cases. The death toll has climbed to 39,795. The government has said that India has registered the lowest case fatality rate (CFR) since the first lockdown at 2.10% as compared to the global average.“The mortality analysis of the present data shows that 50% of deaths have happened in the age group of 60 years and above; 37% deaths belong to 45 to 60 years age group; while 11% deaths belong to 26-44 years age group,” the health ministry said on Tuesday. “This clearly highlights the people above the age of 45 belong to the high-risk group and the country’s containment strategy is focusing on this group. In the gender-wise distribution, 68% of people who died were men and 32% were women,” it said.Rajesh Bhushan, the secretary with the health ministry, said on Tuesday more than 20 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the country and more than 660,000 tests were done in the last 24 hours. The health secretary said 24 states and Union territories fared better on Monday than the national average of 15,119 tests per million. Goa leads with 84,927 tests per million, followed by Delhi having conducted 57,855 tests per million population. This indicates that many states and UTs have increased their testing capacities, Bhushan said. Also, 28 states and Union territories are performing more tests than the World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) guideline of 140 tests per day per million population. The country, on an average, is conducting 479 tests per day per million population.Maharashtra continued to add to the country’s infection tally as it recorded 450,196 Covid-19, including 15,842 deaths, according to the health ministry. In Tamil Nadu, there were 263,222 cases of the viral disease and Delhi recorded 138,482 cases so far.Active cases of Covid-19 in Delhi dropped below the 10,000-mark for the first time in over two months on Tuesday, the same day that the number of daily deaths also touched a two-month low, data showed.The Capital recorded 674 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections in the Capital to 139,156, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin. Globally, 18.4 million people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, and 699,575 have died, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-1-9-million-death-toll-at-39-795/story-siYV9QR661HyD4zh55gi4M.html
05-08-2020||India||PM Modi to be gifted headgear, silver crown at Hanumangarhi temple in Ayodhya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be gifted a headgear, a silver crown and a stole with the name of Lord Ram printed on it, said Sri Gaddinsheen Premdas Ji Maharaj, head priest of Hanumangarhi temple said on Wednesday.“We also hope that Prime Minister Modi rings the 3.5 quintal bell and proceed towards Ram Janmabhoomi,” he added.The head priest of the temple further said: “Prime Minister Modi is coming and it is a matter of pride for Ayodhya. Many Prime Ministers took office but none apart from Prime Minister Modi came for laying the foundation stone for Ram temple.”After offering prayers at Hanumangarhi temple, Prime Minister Modi will offer prayers to ‘Ram Lalla’ at Ram Janmabhoomi today. It will be followed by the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat, Ram Mandir Trust Chief Nritya Gopaldas, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will be on the stage for the event. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-be-gifted-headgear-silver-crown-at-hanumangarhi-temple-in-ayodhya/story-WPaqI9QZJOhUPrhQWhpImL.html
05-08-2020||India||‘August 5 is historical day’, says Ramdev on Ram temple ceremony||Yoga Guru Ramdev called August 5 a historical day ahead of the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday.The yoga guru, who will be attending the ceremony, reached Ayodhya on Tuesday afternoon.Ramdev visited the Hanuman Garhi temple in and morning and speaking to media persons, said, “This day (August 5) is historical and generations will remember the day with great pride.”Click here to follow all the live updates of foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram Temple in Ayodhya“A new history is being written in India and we should celebrate the day. I am confident that with the construction of Ram Temple, ‘Ram Rajya’ will be established in the country,” he said.Ramdev further said, “It will be an end of encroachment of all the cultural, financial and political issues. The establishment of Ram Temple will initiate a new culture in the country.”On being asked about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit, Ramdev said, “Our country is fortunate that we have a Prime Minister, who is a Ram and Hanuman ‘bhakt’. Prime Minister is the one who has made the ‘Hindu Dharm’ proud.”Meanwhile, security and Covid-19 protocol is being followed at Ayodhya’s Hanuman Garhi temple.Prime Minister Modi will offer prayers at the temple, ahead of foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/august-5-is-historical-day-says-ramdev-on-ram-temple-ceremony/story-i9kNCObWCHxeydfQKkqeGI.html
05-08-2020||India||Ayodhya set for grand Ram Temple ceremony today||The sacred temple town is all set for a historical occasion on Wednesday afternoon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ram Mandir at around 12:44 pm on Wednesday after the 135-year-old dispute was settled following a favourable Supreme Court (SC) ruling on November 9, 2019. PM Modi will also create history, when he becomes the first PM to visit Ram Janmabhoomi and offer his prayers. Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates here The PM’s chopper is slated to land at around 11:30 am at the makeshift helipad at Saket PG Degree College ground. Initially, the PM will offer his prayers at Hanuman Garhi temple, and later at Ram Janmabhoomi. Vedic rituals have started at Ram Janmabhoomi from around 9.30 am, where 21 priests are presiding over religious ceremonies. The three-day rituals that had started on Monday (August 3) will culminate with PM Modi performing bhumi pujan at the sanctum–sanctorum of Ram Mandir at Ram Janmabhoomi by using a 40-kilogram silver brick. Also read: Hours before Ayodhya event, AIMPLB questions Supreme Court judgementThe brick has been donated by Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, the chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust Mahant that was set up following the apex court ruling last year. However, the brick will not be used for the shrine’s construction.The PM is also slated to plant a parijat sapling after the bhumi pujan. Ayodhya is out of bounds for vehicular traffic and police personnel has been deployed across the town because of the dignitaries’ visit. Around 175 guests, including yoga guru Baba Ramdev, have been invited to attend the ceremony, who are expected to arrive by 10 am. Salil Singhal, the nephew of late Vishwa Hindu President (VHP) president Ashok Singhal, will be the host of Wednesday’s ceremony. Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath, UP governor Anandiben Patel, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) sarsanghchalak Mohan Baghwat and Mahant Nritya Gopal Das will share the dais with PM Modi in a bid to maintain social distancing norms because of the nationwide raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust, will also be present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-set-for-grand-ram-temple-ceremony-today/story-wy5IydjETStCBP05Y7jY0I.html
05-08-2020||India||From PM Modi to 135 seers: Guest list for Ayodhya Ram temple’s bhoomi pujan||Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya is all ready for the foundation-laying ceremony for the Ram temple on Wednesday with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the 175 people, including religious leaders and eminent local citizens, in attendance.Prime Minister Modi, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Governor Anandiben Patel will be the main guests during the bhoomi pujan.Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra, has said the small ceremony was being organised in Ayodhya view of the coronavirus pandemic.Follow Ram temple ceremony live updates here “If it were normal circumstances, then we would have had all those who have been associated with the movement from the beginning. However, the circumstances are such that very few can come,’’ Rai has said.Here are the highlights of the guest list:* The trust has confirmed that 135 of the 175 guests will be seers from different spiritual traditions. * Apart from Hindu religious leaders, the chairperson of the Sunni Waqf board from Lucknow, Jathedars or Sikh priests, and other religious heads have also been invited to the bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya.* The son of the oldest litigant in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit, a Padma Shri awardee and the chairperson of the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) are three Muslim invitees among the 175 guests attending the foundation-laying ceremony of the Ram temple on Wednesday.* Iqbal Ansari, 69, son of Hashim Ansari who died at of 95 in 2016, is the first invitee. * The second Mohammad Sharif, the 80-year-old who is known across the state for his work in holding final rites for at least 5,000 unclaimed Hindu and Muslim people.* Zufar Ahmed Faruqi, the chairperson of the UPSCWB that was the main Muslim party in the title suit and the head of the 15-member trust that is helming the construction of a mosque at a five-acre site in Ayodhya district, is the third.* The trust has also invited Purnima Kothari, the sister of two brothers from Kolkata who were kar sevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers, and died in police firing in Ayodhya on October 30, 1990, while on a procession to the 2.77-acre site.* The trust also invited family members of local kar sevaks in Ayodhya who died in the firing.* Former deputy prime minister LK Advani, the BJP leader considered by many as the face of the Ram Temple movement in the 90s, and K Parasaran, the lead counsel for the Hindu side in the title suit hearing in the Supreme Court are among those not invited to the bhoomi poojan because of their advanced age, which put them at greater risk of coronavirus infection.* Senior BJP leader and former education minister MM Joshi, others stalwarts from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) such as Kalraj Mishra and Kalyan Singh are also unlikely to attend.* BJP leader Uma Bharti has decided to stay away from the bhoomi poojan event and will visit the site after everyone will leave citing the safety of PM Modi and other guests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-pm-modi-to-135-seers-guest-list-for-ayodhya-ram-temple-s-bhoomi-pujan/story-qTRri9AaWVOGP1rFvn4R9K.html
05-08-2020||India||Sudarsan Pattnaik creates replica of Ram temple on Puri beach||Sand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik on Tuesday said he has created a replica of Ram temple on Puri beach, on the eve of its ground-breaking ceremony in Ayodhya.Pattnaik said, he was keen to create a sand sculpture of the temple at Ayodhya during ‘bhoomi pujan’, but had to do it on Puri beach because of an outbreak of Covid-19.“In fact, I visited Ayodhya last year and conducted a study for the purpose. However, I had to change my plans due to the pandemic,” he said.The artist said, he has created a five-feet tall replica of the temple on the beach for which he used about four tonnes of sand.Click here to follow all the live updates of ground-breaking ceremony in AyodhyaIt took around five hours to create this sculpture.“We are very happy that after a long wait, the temple is going to be constructed. It is a historic day for us,” said Pattnaik.The August 5 ceremony will mark the beginning of the construction of Ram temple after a decades-long title suit over the site in Ayodhya was settled by Supreme Court last November.Recipient of many awards, Pattnaik has participated in more than 60 international sand art competitions across the world and won a number of prizes for the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudarsan-pattnaik-creates-replica-of-ram-temple-on-puri-beach/story-Sn1t42KsS1OCnusvfL44NI.html
05-08-2020||India||Covid-19 protocols in place as Ayodhya gears up for grand Ram Temple ceremony||The Saryu Ghat was seen decorated ahead of the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday.In wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, sanitisation work was also done at the Hanuman Garhi temple in the morning ahead of the Prime Minister’s visit. Strict security and Covid-19 protocols will be followed at the temple.Follow Ram temple live updates here PM Modi will perform ‘pooja’ at Hanuman Garhi and Shree Ramlala Virajman before performing ‘bhoomi poojan’ of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had informed on Tuesday.He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’.Invitations have been sent to 175 people, including 135 saints of 35 religious organisations to attend the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-protocols-in-place-as-ayodhya-gears-up-for-grand-ram-temple-ceremony/story-YyfOjkrhSanFOTC2WaOFmM.html
05-08-2020||India||‘PM Modi undid decades of darkness’: Piyush Goyal on first anniversary of Article 370 abrogation||Union minister Piyush Goyal has marked the first anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370 by posting a tweet which said that the move ushered in justice, peace and prosperity for common man.“Ushering in justice, peace & prosperity for common man. PM @NarendraModi ji undid decades of darkness to bring development & opportunities to Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. Abrogating Article 370, HM @AmitShah ji unified nation & empowered people of these UTs to shape their future,” Goyal tweeted on Wednesday. Ushering in justice, peace & prosperity for common man.PM @NarendraModi ji undid decades of darkness to bring development & opportunities to Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh.Abrogating Article 370, HM @AmitShah ji unified nation & empowered people of these UTs to shape their future pic.twitter.com/2XnqhGspz2Article 370 was abrogated on August 5, 2019, which stripped erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and split it into two union territories - Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.A year later, the security situation in the region has not only stabilised but also progressively improved with more support from the people, multiple army, police, and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officers said.According to government data, the number of violent incidents in Kashmir was down to 120 from January to July, compared to 198 during the same time last year.The stone-throwing incidents - 102 - have also significantly reduced this year. Nearly 532 such incidents were reported in 2018 and 389 in 2019.Officials said terrorists are unable to carry out grenade attacks due to a robust presence and better coordination between security forces.Only 21 grenade attacks have been reported so far this year as compared to 52 during the same period in 2019.Officials said the influence of separatists or terror groups in calling for bandhs has also diminished with only four strike calls this year compared to 30 in 2019.In terms of strengthening the democratic apparatus, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday approved the creation of Block Development Fund of Rs 25 lakh which will be at the disposal of block development council chairpersons.Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said the decision has been taken by Lieutenant Governor Girish Chander Murmu with a view to strengthen and empower the panchayati raj system in Jammu and Kashmir.The administration last week announced a life insurance cover of Rs 25 lakh each to all elected members of panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies (ULBs) of the union territory in case of death due to a terror-related incident.The decision is aimed at strengthening the grassroots democracy by providing a sense of security to the elected members of local bodies who are under constant threat from terrorists, an official spokesman had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-undid-decades-of-darkness-piyush-goyal-on-first-anniversary-of-article-370-abrogation/story-Ygw7ZPl9J3ikpL1uR96XsK.html
05-08-2020||India||Ayodhya Ram Mandir Highlights: May blessings of Bhagwan Shree Ram always be upon us, says PM Modi||Earthen lamps have been lit in the premises of Badrinath and Gopinath temples in ChamoliUttarakhand: Earthen lamps have been lit in the premises of Badrinath and Gopinath temples in Chamoli on the occasion of ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. Uttarakhand: Earthen lamps have been lit in the premises of Badrinath & Gopinath temples in Chamoli on the occasion of 'Bhoomi Pujan' of #RamMandir in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. pic.twitter.com/HwT8sK4KhVMaharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari performed Aarti of Shri Ram at Raj BhavanMaharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari performed Aarti of Shri Ram at Raj Bhavan, Mumbai to celebrate the occasion of the Bhoomi Puja ceremony performed at the Ram Janambhoomi site in Ayodhya earlier today: Governor’s Office. Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari performed the Aarti of Shri Ram at Raj Bhavan, Mumbai to celebrate the occasion of the Bhoomi Puja ceremony performed at the Ram Janambhoomi site in Ayodhya earlier today: Governor's Office pic.twitter.com/2p8zxPjpJWMay the blessings of Bhagwan Shree Ram always be upon us: PM ModiA blessed day in Ayodhya. This day will remain etched in the memory of every Indian.May the blessings of Bhagwan Shree Ram always be upon us. May India scale new heights of progress. May every Indian be healthy and prosperous.  A blessed day in Ayodhya. This day will remain etched in the memory of every Indian.May the blessings of Bhagwan Shree Ram always be upon us. May India scale new heights of progress. May every Indian be healthy and prosperous. @ShriRamTeerth pic.twitter.com/4JbHYcTv0bRam temple digital billboard comes up in New York’s Times SquareUSA: Ram temple digital billboard comes up in New York’s Times Square. USA: #RamMandir digital billboard comes up in New York’s Times Square. pic.twitter.com/MqklVfD2frPeople light earthen lamps at Ram Ki Paudi on the occasion of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’Ayodhya: People light earthen lamps at Ram Ki Paudi on the occasion of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram temple. #WATCH Ayodhya: People light earthen lamps at Ram Ki Paudi on the occasion of 'Bhoomi Poojan' of #RamTemple. pic.twitter.com/hkKe3TBKMbAyodhya district lit up on occasion of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram templeAyodhya district lit up on the occasion of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram temple.Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of Ram temple, earlier today. Ayodhya district lit up on the occasion of 'Bhoomi Poojan' of #RamTemple.Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of #RamTemple, earlier today. pic.twitter.com/Vxrvxpkt7nRSS chief Mohan Bhagwat performs ‘Aarti’ at the banks of Saryu riverAyodhya: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat performs ‘Aarti’ at the banks of Saryu river. Connected through Ram-Sita, relationship between the two countries is deep and strong: Nepal envoy to IndiaIndian PM Modi laid Ram Temple’s foundation stone in Ayodhya. Connected through Ram-Sita, relationship between the two countries is deep and strong. Ram-Janaki continues to inspire the relationship to become more cooperative and strong in modern times: N Acharya, Nepal envoy to IndiaHeeraben, mother of PM Modi watched the live telecast of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram temple earlier todayGujarat: Heeraben, mother of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, watched the live telecast of ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram temple earlier today, at her residence in Gandhinagar.Yogi Adityanath presented an idol of Lord Ram to PM ModiUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath presented an idol of Lord Ram to Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram templein Ayodhya, earlier today.Lord Ram is loved by all and he is above any political consideration: Anand SharmaRam temple has been the demand of people from past many years. Congress welcomed the decision of Supreme Court with an open heart. Lord Ram is loved by all and he is above any political consideration. Politics and faith must be kept apart: Congress leader Anand SharmaRajasthan Governor congratulates people on Ram temple bhoomi pujanRajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday congratulated the people on the foundation laying of Ram temple in Ayodhya while Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot expressed hope that it would become a symbol of unity in the country.It is a historic day, says Ravi Shankar PrasadIt is a historic day. The construction of Ram Temple has started in Ayodhya today after sacrifices, wait and patience of generations. Indians and many people from across the world were waiting for this day for centuries: Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad.Nitin Gadkari recited Ram Raksha and worshipped Lord Ram with his familyMaharashtra: Union Minister Nitin Gadkari recited Ram Raksha and worshipped Lord Ram with his family at Nagpur during the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram temple in AyodhyaWe are proud of PM Modi who has fulfilled this dream: Assam CM Sarbananda SonowalIt’s a very important day for us. People were waiting from many years for a Ram temple on Ram Janmabhoomi. Today that dream has come true. We are proud of PM Modi who has fulfilled this dream. This temple will strengthen peace and humanity in country: Assam CM Sarbananda SonowalEmotional moment for entire country: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said the ram temple ‘bhoomi pujan’ event was as emotional moment for the entire country as a long wait has ended today. Yediyurappa greets people on bhoomi pujanKarnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his cabinet colleagues greeted people for the ground breaking ceremony for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. ‘A golden chapter in history of Indian culture’: Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah took to Twitter to laud the foundation laying ceremony on Ram temple in Ayodhya. “Today is a historic and proud day for India. Prime Minister on the birthplace of Lord Shri Ram @NarendraModiBhumi worshiped and laid the foundation stone of the grand Ram temple, which has written a golden chapter in the history of great Indian culture and civilization and has started a new era,” he wrote on Twitter in Hindi. Whenever humanity followed Lord Ram, development took place: PM ModiWhenever humanity followed Lord Ram, development took place; we have to take care of everyone’s sentiments, said PM ModiPM Modi reiterates social distancing mantraThe Prime Minister renewed his pitch for maintaining social distancing and wearing masks amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Ram temple construction in Ayodhya will lift region’s economy: PM ModiAs the construction of Ram temple will begin in Ayodhya, the entire region’s economy will be lifted, the Prime Minister said in his speech at the foundation laying ceremony. No aspect of life where Ram does not inspire us: PM ModiPM Modi asserted that there is no aspect of life where Ram does not inspire us and that he is always present with us in some or the other form. “Ram is in everyone and he belongs to everyone,” he added.Ram temple will be modern symbol of our culture, eternal faith and national spirit: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said the process of Ram temple’s construction is an attempt to connect the nation. It will be a modern symbol of our culture, eternal faith and national spirit, he added. ‘For years, Ram Lalla lived under makeshift arrangements’: PM Modi“For years, Ram Lalla lived under makeshift arrangements, work for a grand temple begins now,” PM Modi said in his address. “A grand temple will now be built for our Ram Lalla . Today, Ram janmbhoomi has broken free from the cycle of being demolished and built again which had been going on for centuries,” he said. Entire world is witnessing history being made: PM ModiIn his address at the grand ceremony, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the entire world is witnessing history being made with the foundation of Ram temple and called for chants of Jai Shri Ram. “History is also is being repeated. The way boatmen to tribals helped Lord Ram, the way children helped Lord Krishna lift Govardhan mountain, similarly, with everyone’s efforts of temple construction will be completed,” he said. ‘Siyaram Ramchandra ki jai’: PM Modi opens his address at AyodhyaPrime Minister Narendra Modi opened his address at Ayodhya with chants of “Siyaram Ramchandra ki jai”. He congratulated devotees of Ram and said that he was honoured to be invited to Ayodhya. ‘Temple will be constructed soon, wishes of devotees will be fulfilled’: Nitya Gopal DasPresident of Ram Mandir Trust Nitya Gopal Das addressed the foundation laying ceremony in Ayodhya. “I have been asked many times when will Ram temple be constructed. Now, it will be constructed soon. The wishes of devotees will be fulfilled,” he said. A new beginning of a new India: RSS chiefRSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said that India believes in ‘Vasudeva Kutumbakam’ i.e world is our guest and that Indians believe in taking everyone along. “Today is a new beginning of a new India,: he added. ‘Advani ji must be watching’: Mohan Bhagwat“Advani ji must be at his home watching this’, said RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat at the Ram temple ceremony in Ayodhya. There are some people who should’ve come but couldn’t be invited because of the Covid-19 situation, he said. ‘Some could not be here due to Covid-19’: CM Yogi Adityanath“Some people could not be here due to Covid-19 pandemic. They will be called for future events in Ayodhya’, said Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath during the foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple. West Bengal CM calls for unity in diversityOn the day the Prime Minister laid the foundation stone of Ram temple in Ayodhya, West Bengal chief minister appealed for unity in diversity. “Countrymen should preserve the age-old legacy till their last breath,” she tweeted. .500 years-long struggle for Ram temple in Ayodhya: Yogi AdityanathWhile addressing the foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said people struggled for 500 years for the temple and hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for fulfilment of dream to build temple in Ayodhya.‘Symbol of modern India based on the ideals of Ramrajya’: President Kovind“Congratulations to all on the inauguration of the construction of Ram-Mandir! The temple of Maryada Purushottam Prabhu Ram is being constructed in accordance with the process of justice and with the enthusiasm of the public and with the support of social harmony. The temple complex, I believe, will become a symbol of modern India based on the ideals of Ramrajya,” President Kovind said in a tweet. PM lays foundation for Ram temple in AyodhyaPrime Minister Narendra Modi has laid the foundation of the grand Ram temple in Ayodhya. Ram temple bhoomi poojan concludesThe rituals of bhoomi poojan concluded at the Ram temple site. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath participated in the rituals. Bricks sent by devotees in 1989 at Ram temple site: PriestDuring the bhoomi poojan rituals, one of the priests told the people about nine bricks at the spot that were sent by devotees of Lord Ram from around the world in 1989. “There are 2 lakh 75 thousand such bricks out of which 100 bricks with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ engraving have been taken,” the priest was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. PM Modi performs arti of Ram LallaAt Ram Janmabhoomi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered dandavat pranam at pre-fabricated makeshift Ram Mandir and performed arti of Ram Lalla.  He then planted a sapling of Parijat tree and reached bhumi pujan venue, sanctum- sanctorum of the proposed Ram Mandir.  PM Modi takes part in Bhoomi Pujan ceremonyPM Modi offers prayers at the Bhoomi Pujan ceremony. Prime Minister Narendra Modi takes part in Ram Temple 'Bhoomi Pujan' at Ayodhya pic.twitter.com/Qal0jH3EdyPM Modi on en route to HanumangarhiPM Modi on his way to Hanumangarhi. PM Narendra Modi on his way to the 10th century Hanuman Garhi Temple, soon after his arrival in #Ayodhya. pic.twitter.com/VgeYkit8j9PM willpower makes him tallest leader of India in last 500 years: Shivraj Singh ChouhanMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the tallest leader of India in the last 5 years because of his “willpower and resolve.” PM Modi arrives in AyodhyaPM Narendra Modi has arrived in Ayodhya for the grand foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple. He will first visit the Hanuman Garhi temple and then head to Ram Janmabhoomi site.Token of justice after 400 years of struggle: VHP America“We’re celebrating ‘Bhoomi Poojan’ of Ram Mandir. After a struggle of over 400 years and several sacrifices, we finally have a token of justice. We thank PM,” Mahendra Sapa, president (Washington DC chapter), Vishwa Hindu Parishad of America, organiser of celebration in Washington DC was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.PM Modi’s first stop at Hanuman Garhi templePM Modi will first visit the 10th century Hanuman Garhi temple on arrival in Ayodhya. Premises of the temple were sanitised earlier today.The Prime Minister will then proceed to Ram Janmabhoomi site to offer prayers to Ram Lalla lay the foundation stone for Ram temple.‘A signature event’: Swami Chidananda Saraswati“This is a signature event. This event will give a glimpse of India’s ‘unity in diversity’. It will bridge gaps and bring people together. We all are one-’Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’”, Swami Chidananda Saraswati was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. UP CM, Anandiben Patel, Uma Bharti arrive at Ram Janambhoomi siteUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, governor Anandiben Patel and BJP national vice president Uma Bharti have arrived at the Ram Janambhoomi site in Ayodhya on the occasion of ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the Ram temple. PM Modi lands in LucknowPM Narendra Modi Modi landed has landed in Lucknow. He will now head to Ayodhya to lay the foundation of the Ram temple with a sliver brick. Ayodhya has united everyone: Uma Bharti“Ayodhya has united everyone. Now the people of the country keep hold their head high in pride and say that there’s no discrimination,” BJP leader Uma Bharti, who is present at the Ram Janambhoomi site, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. A look inside the venue of Ram temple foundation laying ceremony‘August 5 is historical day’, says Ramdev“This day (August 5) is historical and generations will remember the day with great pride,” yoga guru Ramdev who will be attending the Ram temple foundation laying ceremony today, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Ramdev paid a visit to the Hanuman Garhi temple in the morning and said that “a new history is being written in India and we should celebrate the day. I am confident that with the construction of Ram Temple, ‘Ram Rajya’ will be established in the country,” according to ANI. Pragya Singh Thakur says ‘heart filled with joy’In a tweet in Hindi, BJP MP Pragya Thakur said that she was very happy and her heart was filled with joy as she chanted Jai Shri Ram. आज मन बहुत आल्हादित है प्रसन्न है भाव विभोर है।मैं परमानंद में हूं निशब्द हूं बस इतना ही कह पा रही हूं -जय श्री राम,हो गया काम।जय श्री राम, जय श्री राम, जय श्री राम, जयश्रीराम, जय श्रीराम...........................Yogi Adiyanath greets Lord Ram devoteesप्रबिसि नगर कीजे सब काजा।हृदयँ राखि कोसलपुर राजा।।श्री अवधपुरी में दशरथ नंदन श्रीरामलला के भव्य-दिव्य मंदिर निर्माण की बहुप्रतीक्षित अभिलाषा को पूर्ण करने हेतु उत्तर प्रदेश की पावन धरा पर पधार रहे आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी को समस्त राम भक्तों की ओर से राम-राम!Mayawati lauds Supreme Court verdict on AyodhyaBSP chief Mayawati lauded the Supreme Court for the Ayodhya verdict in September last year. She credited the apex court for paving the way for today’s foundation laying ceremony. “Supreme Court ended the dispute. Along with it, it also put a stop on the parties which were doing politics on this issue. It is due to the honourable court’s verdict that the foundation of the Ram temple is being laid down today, a lot of credit for this goes to the court,” Mayawati’s tweet, roughly translated to English from Hindi, read.At Hanumangarhi temple in Ayodhya, PM to be gifted headgear, silver crownPrime Minister Narendra Modi will be gifted a headgear, a silver crown and a stole with the name of Lord Ram printed on it, said Sri Gaddinsheen Premdas Ji Maharaj, head priest of Hanumangarhi temple said on Wednesday, according to news agency ANI.Security heightened ahead of PM Modi’s visitSecurity in the Ayodhya city has been heightened as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to visit shortly for the foundation laying ceremony of the much awaited Ram temple.RAF commandos took their position ahead PM Modi’s participation in the bhoomi poojan of the temple on Wednesday. PM Modi leaves for AyodhyaPrime Minister Narendra Modi has left for Ayodhya where he will lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple.  PM @narendramodi leaves for Ayodhya. pic.twitter.com/gIPyz7HCJJLocals rejoice at Saryu River bankIndian community in US gathers to celebrate Ram temple ceremonyMembers of the Indian community gathered outside the Capitol Hill in Washington DC to celebrate the foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Sadhus worship at Ram ki PediSadhus were seen worshipping at Ram ki Pedi on the day of bhoomi poojan of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on early on Wednesday. Who will attend Ayodhya Ram temple’s bhoomi pujanApart from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Ram temple trust has confirmed that 135 of the 175 guests will be seers from different spiritual traditions. The Prime Minister, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Governor Anandiben Patel are the main guests during the bhoomi pujan.Ahead of Ram temple event, Ravi Shankar Prasad shares sketch from Constitution“Original document of the Constitution of India has a beautiful sketch of Lord Ram, Mata Sita and Laxman returning to Ayodhya after defeating Ravan. This is available at the beginning of the chapter related to Fundamental Rights. Felt like sharing this with you all.#JaiShriRam,” Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted. Original document of the Constitution of India has a beautiful sketch of Lord Ram, Mata Sita and Laxman returning to Ayodhya after defeating Ravan. This is available at the beginning of the chapter related to Fundamental Rights. Felt like sharing this with you all.#JaiShriRam pic.twitter.com/jCV9d8GWTORam temple will be unique example of Indian architecture: Temple trustThe Ram temple to be built in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya will a unique example of Indian architecture, the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra said in a tweet on Wednesday. श्री राम जन्मभूमि मन्दिर विश्व में भारतीय स्थापत्य कला का अनुपम उदाहरण होगा। जन्मभूमि मन्दिर के प्रस्तावित मॉडल के कुछ चित्र।Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Mandir will be a unique example of Indian architecture. Here are some photos of the proposed model.जय श्री राम! Jai Shri Ram! pic.twitter.com/8kJ4qEYah2Ayodhya lit with diyas ahead of mega eventThe entire city of Ayodhya was lit with earthen lamps on Wednesday ahead of the mega event where the Prime Minister lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple. According to news agency ANI, people also lit diyas on the banks of Saryu river as part of the ‘deepotsava’ celebrations.Ram temple is for everyone: Yogi AdityanathUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is personally monitoring the arrangements for the Ram temple bhoomi pujan, said the ceremony is a “dream come true.” “I am overjoyed, our five-century-long struggle and wait is going to end --all because of the perseverance and reverence of the devotees,” he added. PM Modi to lay foundation stone of Ram templeAt 12:40pm, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The city is all decked up for the groundbreaking ceremony. A total of 175 guests have been invited for the mega event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-ram-temple-groundbreaking-ceremony-janmabhoomi-pujan-live-updates-modi/story-6FmfO2QEJu84ZUteG6nHiK.html
05-08-2020||India||Former Maharashtra CM Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar passes away in Pune||Former Maharashtra chief minister Shivajirao Patil Nilangekar (89) died at a private hospital in Pune on Wednesday after a prolonged illness, family members and doctors, treating him for old-age-related ailments, said. Nilangekar, according to Ruby Hall Clinic authorities, was admitted on July 16, a day after he had tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive. “A confirmatory test result on July 31 showed him cured of the viral infection. However, he developed other health issues, including chronic renal failure and a heart condition,” said Dr. Kapil Zirpe, director, neurotrauma unit, Ruby Hall Clinic. Nilangekar, a Congress leader, who belonged to Latur in the Marathwada region, was Maharashtra CM between June 1985 and March 1986. He was compelled to resign from the CM’s post after the Bombay high court (HC) passed strictures against him following the detection of alleged fraud in the state medical college examinations in 1985. The fraud was allegedly perpetrated at his behest to help his daughter Chandrakala and her friend to get through the medical entrance examinations conducted by the Mumbai University. Nilangekar was succeeded by another Congress stalwart Shankarrao Chavan as Maharashtra CM. “Nilangekar’s demise has left the Congress party losing a veteran leader,” tweeted Congress’s Maharashtra unit. His last rites will be conducted at Nilanga in Latur, around 380 kilometres (km) east of Pune, in the Marathwada region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-maharashtra-cm-shivajirao-patil-nilangekar-passes-away-in-pune/story-CR4iO50JQmUQx6XcfZ7XbO.html
05-08-2020||India||For generations, this Muslim family in Ayodhya making ‘Khadaus’ for Hindu saints||A Muslim family-based in Ayodhya has been making ‘Khadaus’ (wooden footwear) for Hindu saints for several generations that is also its primary source of income. Mohd. Azam said he is the fifth generation in his family who is carrying forward the making khadaus. Also read | Struggle and violence: The chronicle of a 167-year-long saga“I make Khadaus, which are used by Hindu saints, for a living. These are also worshipped by many people. I am the fifth generation in my family who is making this, and carrying forward the tradition which was started by my ancestors,” he told ANI.Khadau possesses a great significance in the Hindu religion, in particular. In the epic mythology Ramayana, Bharat, Lord Ram’s younger brother, placed ‘Khadaus’ of Rama on the throne as a symbol of the latter’s authority over the kingdom. It is thus an object of worship for many, even today.Also read | At mosque site, a hope for amityAzam, who is working with seven others to make these Khadaus, expects a rise in its sales after the construction of Ram Temple in the holy city.“As the Ram Temple is getting constructed, many people will come to Ayodhya and I expect more sales of Khadaus, which will improve our condition and livelihood,” he said.Ruling out any communal disharmony, Azam added, “Hindus and Muslims are not viewed differently here. We all work together and celebrate each other’s festivals. I have co-workers who are Hindus, and we all live peacefully.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-generations-this-muslim-family-in-ayodhya-making-khadaus-for-hindu-saints/story-oODBygeY8NHoVR1nONgH2L.html
05-08-2020||India||Prayers, rituals and security ring mark big day for Ayodhya Ram temple||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya on Wednesday to lay the foundation of the Ram temple, which will mark a closure to the 135-year religious conflict in the country, amid a massive security arrangement in the town spruced up for the event.The borders of Ayodhya, which nearly 130km from the state capital of Lucknow, have been sealed, thousands of security personnel have been deployed and 75 check posts have been put to block approach roads.Also Read: Ram temple is for everyone: Yogi AdityanathPM Modi will be there for at least three hours in the temple town, which has been decked with 150,000 lamps, many buildings given a fresh coat of paint and murals from the epic Ramayana have been painted on walls. There will be as many as 5,100 urns decorated by local artists on the road that Modi will travel on.“Over 300 police personnel, who are younger, fit and healthy as well as tested negative for Covid-19 infection, have already been handpicked for deployment in VVIP security,” said a senior police official on condition of anonymity.Authorities have put in place a strict protocol that includes testing all guests, enforcing the wearing of masks and sealing the district borders so that people from outside cannot gather at the site in the town where 16 people have succumbed to the coronavirus disease and has 604 active cases. Also Read: Hours before Ayodhya event, AIMPLB questions Supreme Court judgement“Everyone will wear a mask, everyone will maintain social distancing and it’s going to be fine,” Anuj Jha, the district magistrate who is also a member of the temple trust, said.The temple trust had on Monday released the main invitation for the ceremony that listed PM Modi, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and UP governor Anandiben Patel as guests.The guests will be allowed entry to the venue from 10am and they will have to undergo Covid-19 test before entering the venue. Rapid testing kits will be used which will give result in 15 minutes. According to officials, the district health department will deploy its team for carrying out the tests, officials said.Vedic rituals will start at Ram Janmabhoomi at around 9am on Wednesday. Before the PM’s arrival for bhumi pujan, priests will complete several Vedic rituals, including Maha Ganpati, Ambika pujan, Varun pujan, Shodash matrika, Sapath Grahan matrika, Ayush mantra jaap, Nav Prastar Khand Shila pujan and graha shanti puja.A water-proof marquee has been put up at the venue for the ceremony and a stage has also been set up from where PM Modi is expected to address the gathering. The government has urged local residents to remain at home and follow the grand event on television.Also Read: At mosque site, a hope for amityPM Modi is expected to reach the Ram Janmabhoomi site at 12pm, where he will visit Ram Lalla or the infant Lord Ram for 10 minutes, according to his official itinerary. He will then participate in a tree plantation programme inside the premises. Modi will plant a sapling of Parijat or Indian night jasmine before performing the ‘bhoomi pujan’. He will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on ‘Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir’.The main programme of bhoomi poojan will begin at 12:30pm and PM Modi will lay five silver bricks as the temple foundation amid the chanting of Vedic hymns at 12:40pm. Priests and religious leaders have said that the muhurat or auspicious moment will last only for 32 seconds.Eight priests from Ayodhya, five each from Varanasi and Delhi and three from Kamikochi in Tamil Nadu are performing the rituals at Ram Janmabhoomi for the construction of the temple.The Prime Minister will use a 40-kilogram silver brick to lay the foundation of the temple. The brick, which has been donated by Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairperson of the temple trust, will be removed after the ceremony. The groundbreaking ceremony will be telecast live and CCTV screens have been put across the town for residents to follow the ceremony. Several devotees have also donated silver bricks to the trust. All of them will be used for the ceremony on Wednesday, said trust officials. “Later, these silver bricks will be enchased and the money will be used for the construction of Ram Mandir,” Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate to the trust chief, said.The Prime Minister will also meet Swami Nrityagopal Das and other members of the Ram Janmabhoomi trust after the programme. He will leave for the helipad at 2:05pm and for Lucknow at 2:20pm.Around 100,000 lamps will be lit on the banks of the Saryu River on Wednesday.Prohibitory orders are in force in the town and not more than five people will be allowed to gather. Markets and shops will remain open but with strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol. Outsiders will be stopped from entering the city and residents of Ayodhya will be allowed in if they produce any identification document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prayers-rituals-and-security-ring-to-mark-big-day-for-temple-in-ayodhya-today/story-iTXvL7bt3BEWuOFyDYfDDP.html
05-08-2020||India||Hours before Ayodhya event, Muslim body questions Supreme Court judgement||Ahead of the foundation stone laying ceremony for Ram temple in Ayodhya, the All India Muslim personal Law Board (AIMPLB) questioned the Supreme Court judgement in Ayodhya. On Twitter, it told its followers that there is “no need to be heartbroken”.“#BabriMasjid was and will always be a Masjid. #HagiaSophia is a great example for us. Usurpation of the land by an unjust, oppressive, shameful and majority appeasing judgment can’t change it’s status. No need to be heartbroken. Situations don’t last forever,” the AIMPLB tweet said. #BabriMasjid was and will always be a Masjid. #HagiaSophia is a great example for us. Usurpation of the land by an unjust, oppressive, shameful and majority appeasing judgment can't change it's status. No need to be heartbroken. Situations don't last forever.#ItsPolitics pic.twitter.com/nTOig7Mjx6The tweet also carried a press statement as attachment.The AIMPLB was among the litigants which had filed a review petition against the Supreme Court judgement in the Ayodhya case in November last year. The court had also directed the central government to allot a five-acre plot of land in Ayodhya for construction of a mosque.AIMPLB said it will not accept the alternative five-acre land. Another Muslim body, the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind (JUH), had also said that they opposed the unanimous Supreme Court decision.The AIMPLB was not a party to the case but had roped in three litigants - Mohammad Umar Khalid, a resident of Ayodhya town; Misbahuddin, a resident of Ayodhya district and Mehfusur Rehman, a resident of Tanda town in Ambedkar Nagar district - to file the review petition.However, all the review petitions were dismissed by the top court. The 136-year-old Ayodhya dispute ratcheted up communal tensions on December 6, 1992 when a mob scaled the Babri Masjid and demolished it, triggering a cycle of violence that killed at least 2,000 people across India. Many Hindus believe the site was the birthplace of warrior god Ram, and the 16th-century mosque was built after pulling down a temple dedicated to Ram.In 2010, the Allahabad high court ordered the land be distributed equally to the Nirmohi Akhara, Ram Lalla and the Sunni Central Waqf Board. But a five-judge Supreme Court bench, led by former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, unanimously set aside the high court ruling and awarded title of the land to Ram Lalla. It also ordered the government to set up a trust to oversee management of the site and the construction of a temple, and awarded five acres of land at an alternative site for a mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hours-before-ayodhya-event-aimplb-statement-rests-hope-on-hagia-sophia-moment/story-geF754ICqa9P2My5YZOVIM.html
05-08-2020||India||Kerala physician among 3 Indian Islamic State operatives killed in Afghanistan prison attack||Islamic State operative from Kerala - Dr Ijas Kallukettiya Purayil, included in the National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) “most wanted” list - was among three Indian-origin members of the terror group killed in a suicide attack in Afghanistan over the weekend. According to information and images released by the media arm of Islamic State’s Khorasan unit (ISKP) on Tuesday, Purayil alias Ijas, was among 11 terrorists who attempted to storm a prison at Jalalabad in Nangarhar province where IS prisoners were being held. Ijas was the only Indian attacker whose face was visible in photos released by IS, while the other two Indians were masked. People familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity it was believed all three Indian terrorists were from Kerala, from where a sizeable number of men and women had travelled to Afghanistan to join the Islamic State in 2016. Ijas was part of 22-member Kasargod module led by Abdul Rashid Abdulla. Ijas, seen in a photo standing before the black IS flag and holding an assault rifle, was a physician from Kasargod district in Kerala. According to the NIA’s website, his status is listed as “absconding”. A charge sheet filed by NIA in 2016 states Ijas was wanted in connection with a case registered in 2016 on charges of criminal conspiracy, commission of unlawful activities, and membership and support to the banned IS. Ijas, his wife Reffeala and their minor child left India via Hyderabad airport in June 2016 to join ISKP in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province. Reffeala is currently in a jail in Kabul’s Badam Bagh prison along with her five year old son who they took with them in 2016 and an infant born in Afghanistan. She was caught along with 24 other Indians among nearly 900 Islamic State fighters in November 2019. Indian intelligence agencies had even questioned her. A NIA team was supposed to go to Kabul to questioned Indians captured there including Reffeala but the trip was delayed in the wake of cancellation of international flights. The agency is now exploring if it can use a special flight to go to Kabul. NIA officials who didn’t wish to be named said that they also have received report of Ijas’s death but a DNA test can only provide a confirmation. The attack on the prison in Jalalabad ended on Monday with the killing of all the attackers by Afghan security forces. Afghan officials said a total of 29 people were killed and 50 others injured. The Afghan defence ministry said in a statement that the attackers and two security personnel were among the dead. It added that five prisoners were killed by the attackers and 1,025 prisoners were rescued. ISKP’s media arm released a 20-minute audio message in which the group’s spokesman Sultan Aziz Azzam provided details of the attack. This was one of the rare occasions when ISKP has made a detailed claim for an attack. Azzam said the attack was carried out by 11 IS members - four Tajiks, three Indians, three Afghans and a Pakistani, who were divided into four groups. The assault was in keeping with a promise by new ISKP chief Shahab al-Muhajir to release the group’s prisoners. A suicide bomber detonated an explosives-laden vehicle at the gate of the prison while others entered the jail and freed hundreds of prisoners, Azzam claimed. Earlier this year, NIA had registered its first case related to an attack on foreign soil following the IS attack on a Gurudwara in Kabul in March. ISKP member Mohammed Sajid Kuthurimmal, who also belongs to Kerala, was allegedly involved in this attack that killed nearly 30 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-physician-among-3-indians-is-operatives-killed-in-afghanistan-prison-attack/story-mVJIpIGY6SAWXIiTAXWaKN.html
05-08-2020||India||Moradabad firm sends accessories to be used during Ram temple bhoomi pujan||Moradabad-based metal firm has supplied ‘Panchpatra’ and ‘Nag Achmani’ to be used for Puja during the Bhumi Pujan of Ram Temple in Ayodhya.Sanjeev Kumar Verma of RG metal Industries, said, “Our firm is RG metal industries. We have been associated with selling Puja articles for the past 35 years. One of our businessman in Ayodhya Devi Charan send us on WhatsApp that Panchpatra and Nag Achmani were required. It was ready as it was available in our stock.Also read: Ram temple is for everyone, says Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath“We have to give that on August 2 and we sent it on July 31 and it has reached the temple on August 2,” Verma said. The Achmani and Panchpatra will be used during Puja during the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram Temple. It is our good fortune that we have been chosen by God and these goods have gone there. We have not earned any profit on this. It is sold on no profit-no loss.”Also read: 150 cops recovered from Covid-19 will be PM’s security ringSushil Babu from the RG metal industries said, “Aanchmani and Panchapatra has gone for Puja ceremony from here. Moradabad’s brass items are famous. We are hopeful that in future more of our items are sent to be used in the temple construction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moradabad-firm-sends-accessories-to-be-used-during-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-8S2Ey2gpeEMiF1w8A2IjJP.html
05-08-2020||India||Rapid Antigen tests comprise about 25-30% of total Covid-19 tests, says ICMR||Out of total Covid-19 tests being conducted every day across the country, about 25-30% tests comprise of rapid antigen tests, informed the union health ministry on Tuesday. So far, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has reported over two crore tests, out of which 26.5 lakh tests are antigen tests. In the last 24 hours, ICMR has conducted over 6,61,892 Covid-19 tests. With more than two crore tests done till date, ICMR reports 15,119 tests per million (TPM). “When we started, antigen tests comprised only 5-6 per cent of the total tests being conducted in a single, but this proportion is consistently rising. Today, total antigen tests are nearly between 25-30 per cent tests of the total number of covid19 tests done so far,” said ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava while addressing media on Covid-19 updates in India. Also read: Covid-19 effect on students a catastrophe, may hurt decades of progress, says UNDr Bhargava said that rapid antigen detection test has a very high specificity, i.e., its ability to detect true negative from 99.3 to 100%. However, it has moderate sensitivity between 55 to 85%.“This means that--about 45-15 per cent of the positive cases could be getting missed. And that is why we have reiterated in our advisory that if the person is symptomatic, the rapid antigen test results are negative then it should be followed by RT-PCR test to confirm the diagnosis,” Bhargava said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage When asked about what are chances of asymptomatic cases getting missed out, Bhargava said once the virus enters the body, it takes about five days for the person to manifest symptoms of fever. “From 0 day to 5 day, you may not have any symptoms. And that point of time, even the RT-PCR tests may be negative and even the antigen test is also negative. So that problem is there.” “Once I get the fever, then we expect the test will be positive whether it is by antigen test or RT-PCR test, from that perspective both are similar. From 0-5 day one may not have any symptoms and at that point of time even the RT-PCR and antigen test may be negative,” he said. Regarding the number of asymptomatic people and what percentage that varies and it ranges between 20 to 28 per cent, said Dr Bhargava pointed out a paper published in Indian Journal of Medical. Also read: Vaccine candidates from India progressing well, says ICMR“Our advisory is clearly saying that if they are symptomatic then the RT-PCR test would be positive and the chances of antigen test being positive are very high. If the antigen test is negative in an asymptomatic person, RT-PCR may also be negative in a large percentage. So you need to look for symptoms and if a person develops symptoms in next two-three days, a definitely a repeat RT-PCT test may be done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-antigen-tests-comprise-about-25-30-of-total-covid-19-tests-says-icmr/story-IMSdK4bRYXqbmP3h8eCmHN.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Bangas Awaam Mela’ held in J-K’s Handwara to mark Article 370 abrogation anniversary||Locals in Handwara town celebrated the first year of abrogation of Article 370 by organising a two-day festival ‘Bangas Awaam Mela’.“Soundly rejecting the efforts of Pakistan to create a false narrative around the first Anniversary of Abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, Kashmiris on Tuesday celebrated the event by holding the Bangus Awaam Mela in District Handwara with great fanfare,” according to local administration officials.The Annual Festival saw the participation of hundreds of Gujjars, Bakarwals and other Kashmiri sightseers from Kupwara, Tangdhar and Handwara. The Mela was conducted over two days commencing on August 3 with the grand finale on August 4, as per the officials.The first day Village Games were held which saw competitions like Horse Racing, Sheep Shepherding Challenge, Tugs of War and Wood Chopping Competitions between the Gujjar Bakerwal Community from various Bhaiks who inhabit the beautiful meadows during the summer months.Officials said, on the request of the community members, a free Veterinary and Medical Camp was also organized by the local Rashtriya Rifles unit over the two days of the festival.The Veterinary and Medical Camp was organized with an aim to provide basic health care facilities along with medicines to the locals who are residing in the remote region of Bangus valley. A total of 679 patients including 49 children were given treatment, advice and free medicines by the doctors. The veterinary camp provided medical aid to 135 livestock in addition to surgical assistance to wounded. On the second day of the festival, the audience enjoyed folk songs by the Gujjar community, patriotic songs by the local children, dances and a karate display by the Handwara Kudo Association in addition to the finals of the village games.The event culminated by rousing participation in the recitation of the National Anthem and a vote of thanks by the community elders to the Army for its support, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangas-awaam-mela-held-in-j-k-s-handwara-to-mark-article-370-abrogation-anniversary/story-IOXpH4ZATS97R5B4ls7fpM.html
05-08-2020||India||Women soldiers deployed for first time in Kashmir make positive impact: Assam Rifles||‘Rifle Women’ deployed on duty for the first time in Kashmir have within a few days managed to make a positive impact on the local populace, the Assam Rifles said. “Women soldiers of #AssamRifles deployed for the first time in Kashmir make a positive impact on the local populace in a matter of days. Smiling faces of locals is a testimony of professionalism of the Riflewomen of Assam Rifles,” the Assam Rifles tweeted.The ‘Rifle Women’ is an unit of the Assam Rifles, the oldest paramilitary force of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-soldiers-deployed-for-first-time-in-kashmir-make-positive-impact-assam-rifles/story-Gp3EUo9UaT1iXBvwiAzLaL.html
05-08-2020||India||Confucius institutes review: Beijing asks for ‘objectivity’||Against the backdrop of New Delhi’s reported plans to review the setting up of Confucius Institutes in the country, China on Tuesday said India should handle collaboration in education in an objective and fair manner and “avoid politicising normal cooperation”.As reported by HT on Sunday, India’s education ministry plans to review the setting up of Confucius Institutes and Confucius Classrooms in seven colleges and universities after security agencies alerted the government about growing Chinese influence in higher education.The ministry also plans to review 54 memoranda of understanding (MoUs) signed between Chinese institutions and prestigious Indian institutions such as the Indian Institutes of Technology, Banaras Hindu University, and Jawaharlal Nehru University. Reacting to these developments, Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said, “We hope Indian relevant parties can treat Confucius Institutes and China-India higher education cooperation in an objective and fair manner, avoid politicising normal cooperation, and maintain healthy and stable development of China-India people-to-people and cultural exchanges.”The Chinese side has responded in an increasingly assertive manner to India’s actions amid the months-long border standoff between the two sides, which currently shows little signs of abating.After India imposed a fresh ban on 47 clones of prohibited Chinese apps last month, China had said it will take “necessary measures” to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies.The Chinese embassy spokesperson said the two sides have cooperated on the Confucius Institute Project for more than 10 years, Ji added.All the Confucius Institutes in India were established by universities from the two countries “after signing legally binding cooperation agreement in accordance with the principles of mutual respect, friendly consultation, equality, and mutual benefit, and on the premise that the Indian side applied voluntarily and met the conditions for running the Institute,” Ji said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confucius-institutes-review-beijing-asks-for-objectivity/story-ksjDRhwWYTtxkT5w3b0I8J.html
05-08-2020||India||PLA drags its feet over disengagement. Stalemate at Ladakh continues||The high-powered China Study Group (CSG) met on Tuesday afternoon to assess feedback from the August 2 meeting of Indian and Chinese military commanders in Moldo-Chushul even as ground reports indicate that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is dragging its feet in restoring status quo in eastern Ladakh.It is understood that the military commanders’ marathon meeting ended in a stalemate with both sides holding their ground and the PLA commander asking for concessions for complete disengagement. Also read: India-China expand border talks, to revisit patrolling protocol to avoid skirmishesThe CSG will convey to the Indian Army the next steps to be taken on the ground; restoration of the pre-April 20 positions at four frictions points in eastern Ladakh is a prerequisite for normalisation of bilateral ties. The meeting was attended by the senior most ministers and officials of the government.While the Narendra Modi government remains tight-lipped about the August 2 commanders meeting, but a Chinese spokesman’s statement trying to delink the boundary problem from overall bilateral ties is an indicator that the PLA is resisting moves to restore status quo ante. “The two (India and China) should place the boundary issue in a proper position in bilateral relations and make sure differences do not escalate into disputes,” the Chinese spokesman said.This is diplomatic jargon for saying that border problems and overall bilateral ties should be kept on different, parallel tracks. It comes at a time when India is trying to block Beijing’s influence in core sectors of India like telecommunication and power as well as higher education and media.Also read: India, China set to hold fifth round of commander-level talks today on LAC disengagementThis is contrary to the long-held position of the Modi government that peace and tranquility on the Line of Actual Control was at the heart of bilateral ties. The Indian army, on its part, is prepared for a long haul on the border not only to forestall further aggression by the PLA in the coming months, but also to put pressure on it to restore status quo ante.Although Indian and Chinese special representatives on boundary talks on July 5 charted out a map for disengagement and then de-escalation, the PLA is dragging its feet both at patrolling point 17 and 17A (General Area Gogra) and on the finger features on the banks of the Pangong Tso.On both 17 and Pangong Tso, the Chinese want the Indian Army to concede some ground despite being the first aggressor in the Gogra-Hot Springs area. “ It is trying to impose the 1960 map on East Ladakh and claiming the PLA new positions are well within his perception of the 1,597 km LAC along occupied Aksai Chin,” said a senior official.While the Indian army and the PLA are no longer face to face on any off the four friction points, the Chinese are trying to position themselves on dominating heights in order to add more depth to their bases in Aksai Chin area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-study-group-meets-to-assess-lac-talks-of-aug-2/story-s0ZTKutziRoDpDARugkdeL.html
05-08-2020||India||At Bhoomi Pujan, 150 cops recovered from Covid-19 will be PM’s security ring||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi lands at the Saket College helipad in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town at 11.30am on Wednesday, he will have a special ring of protection — local police personnel who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the state’s deputy inspector general of police said on Tuesday. The PM will spend roughly three hours in the temple town for the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple and authorities are confident that the group of 150 recovered personnel — who experts say develop antibodies to the disease and are therefore unlikely to contract the infection or spread it , at least for the next few months — will be crucial to protect him from the threat of Covid-19. Also read | Snippets from Ayodhya: How the city has prepared for Ram temple event“It’s in the protocol for protecting the Prime Minister that he must be guarded by healthy personnel. Now what can be healthier in these times than a Covid-19 warrior,” said UP deputy inspector general of police Deepak Kumar. The recovered personnel will form the first layer of protection for the PM in a city where the disease has claimed 16 lives and where there are still 604 cases. They will also be posted at key positions in spots the PM is expected to visit to ensure that all security personnel in Modi’s proximity are not an infection threat. Kumar said he wrote to the UP director general of police Hitesh Chandra Awasthy on July 29 and made a special request that around 150 UP Police personnel who had contracted the disease and recovered by July 25 make their way to Ayodhya. The request was allowed immediately. “I had the entire list of all those impacted and the ADG (law and order) immediately okayed my request,” said Kumar. Most of the personnel are from Lucknow though some are from far-off districts such as Bareilly. The PM will visit the Hanuman Garhi temple, then make his way to the temple site where he will lay the foundation of the Ram temple and address 175 guests, plant a sapling and then meet members of the Shri Ram Janambhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust. Kumar agreed that 150 personnel were not enough to protect the PM in the high-profile event but added that the larger security detail will comprise 400 additional personnel who have tested negative for Covid-19 in the past 48 hours and then been isolated.Also read: Vedic rituals set stage for Ayodhya ceremony“Our aim is that every police personnel that the PM’s eyes fall on, is either a Covid-19 warrior or has been tested in the last 48 hours,” said Kumar. He said that the additional 400 personnel were isolated either at their own homes or a quarantine centre at the Ram Janambhoomi site. While 300 of those police personnel were administered Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (or RT-PCR) tests, the rest were given rapid antigen tests.The decision came a day after a second priest at the existing makeshift Ram temple tested positive for Covid-19 and authorities expressed concern that local residents were flouting social distancing guidelines. Last week, a junior priest and four other personnel were found to be infected with the virus that has claimed 1,800 lives in the state.To combat the threat of the infection, authorities have decided on a strict protocol that includes testing all guests, enforcing wearing of masks and sealing the district borders so that people from outside cannot gather at the site. The government has also appealed to local residents to remain at home and follow the event on television.”We are confident now that no one will be infected because we have tested anyone who will come within eight feet of a VIP,” said district magistrate Anuj Jha, who is also a member of the temple trust. Jha added that even people who put up the tents where the event will happen and the drivers of motorcades have been tested and found negative. ”Everyone will wear a mask, everyone will maintain social distancing and it’s going to be fine,” he said.People who have recovered from Covid-19 have increased immunity against reinfection because antibodies develop in their bodies that protect them in the event of any future exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus, at least temporarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/150-cops-recovered-from-covid-19-will-be-pm-s-security-ring/story-ONbE3SY3bROf4NibTuYRGJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Political absurdity: India on Pak’s boundary map||India on Tuesday described as an “exercise in political absurdity” a new map issued by Pakistan that lays claim to the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, and Junagadh in Gujarat state, on the eve of the first anniversary of the scrapping of J&K’s special status.Releasing the political map during a meeting in Islamabad attended by his cabinet and senior officials, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said this was the first step towards a political struggle to achieve the right of self-determination for the Kashmiri people.Hours later, India’s external affairs ministry described the “so-called ‘political map’ of Pakistan” released by Khan as “an exercise in political absurdity, laying untenable claims to territories in the Indian state of Gujarat and our Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and of Ladakh”. “These ridiculous assertions have neither legal validity nor international credibility. In fact, this new effort only confirms [the] reality of Pakistan’s obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism,” the ministry said in a brief statement, repeating New Delhi’s assertion that Islamabad uses terror as an instrument of state policy. Over the past few days, the Pakistani leadership has pulled out all stops to rake up the Kashmir issue ahead of the first anniversary of the Indian government’s decision on August 5, 2019 to scrap Jammu & Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 of the Constitution, and split the state into two UTs. Pakistan’s new map includes the whole of the UT of Jammu & Kashmir as part of the country’s territory, describing it as “Indian illegally occupied Jammu and Kashmir” and a “disputed territory” whose final status is to be decided in line with UN Security Council resolutions. The boundary of Himachal Pradesh is depicted as the international border. In a nod to China’s sensitivities, the map does not depict the Ladakh region, with a legend stating “frontier undefined”. An annotation on the map states the boundary in this area will be decided by “sovereign authorities concerned after the final settlement of the Jammu & Kashmir dispute”. During the ceremony at which the map was unveiled, Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi referred to the India-China border standoff in Ladakh and said Pakistan, too, has a view on the matter. Qureshi also said the map includes Siachen glacier as part of Pakistan to challenge the region’s “illegal occupation by India”. He further said the map depicts the boundary in the disputed Sri Creek region of Gujarat according to Pakistan’s stated position on the issue to challenge India’s claim. Khan described the unveiling of map as a “historic” move that he said was backed by his cabinet, the Kashmiri leadership and all of Pakistan’s political parties. “The move reflects the desires of the people of Pakistan and Kashmir and rejects India’s illegal action of August 5 last year,” he said, speaking in Urdu. The new map will be “used in schools and colleges and internationally” and the “only solution to the Kashmir issue can be found under the UN Security Council resolutions, which clearly give the right to the Kashmiri people to vote on whether to go with Pakistan or India,” Khan said. The map also depicts the Junagadh and Manavadar region of India’s Gujarat state as part of Pakistan. The nawab of Junagadh had opted to accede to Pakistan in September 1947, before fleeing from India with his family the following month. Junagadh voted overwhelmingly to stay with India in a plebiscite held in the region in 1948. Experts believe Pakistan has no legal ground for claiming the region. India’s move to nullify Article 370 last year had triggered a strong reaction from Pakistan, with whom India’s ties were then at an all-time low following the standoff over the Pulwama terror attack. It was also opposed by Pakistan’s “iron brother” ally China, which believed it would affect its territorial claims in Ladakh, especially after India included Aksai Chin region in new maps of the union territories. Pakistan plans to observe August 5 as “Youm-e-Istehsal” (day of exploitation) and Khan is scheduled to go to Muzaffarabad, the capital of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), to deliver a speech. On Monday, Pakistan’s foreign and defence ministers visited areas along the Line of Control (LoC) to raise the Kashmir issue. The Pakistani leadership has also attempted to mobilise support for its position on Kashmir from the country’s traditional allies, with only Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan assuring Khan and President Arif Alvi of his country’s backing on the issue. On Tuesday, Khan repeated his allegation that India is “trying to settle people from outside so that Kashmiris become a minority”. He added: “The map is the first step and we will launch a political struggle. We don’t believe in military solutions, we believe in political solutions.” Qureshi also said the Kashmir Highway in Islamabad has been named the Srinagar Highway. Solidarity walks, photo exhibitions and seminars will also be organised to protest against alleged atrocities in Jammu and Kashmir, he said. Academic Happymon Jacob, who closely tracks India-Pakistan relations, said Islamabad should “stop mouthing the worn-out platitude that it supports the Kashmiris’ right to self-determination”. “It only seeks to wrest Kashmir from India,” he said, adding that making the LoC the international boundary “is the only solution available to either side”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-absurdity-india-on-pak-s-boundary-map/story-smyBHHSUAKdsuE2eU4uZIK.html
05-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Children in some of the Germany’s provinces returned to school this week, the first in Europe to do so. The schools are ensuring social distancing, hand hygiene, and proper ventilation, although masks are not mandatory in classrooms in some regions (they are in others, and are also mandatory in the corridors). Deutsche Welle reported that “schools are considered low-risk”, citing research by doctors at the University Clinic of Leipzig that showed that “fewer than 20” of the 2,600 students and teachers tested showed Covid-19 antibodies, an indication of past infections. The cup-half-empty way of looking at that finding (which, this writer believes, is the best approach to dealing with Covid-19; prepare for the first, and then take what comes your way) would be that students and teachers are vulnerable to infection given the low immunity in the study group, but Germany’s management of the pandemic, thus far, has been exemplary, so I will hold my criticism.There can also be no arguing with the fact that children will have to return to schools sooner than later. On Tuesday, United Nation secretary general Antonio Guterres said the world could face “a generational catastrophe that could waste untold human potential, undermine decades of progress, and exacerbate entrenched inequalities”. Guterres said a billion students across 160 countries have been affected and that the “decisions governments and partners now take will have lasting impact on hundreds of millions of young people, and the development prospects of countries for decades to come” (see front page). The UN chief’s reference to decisions is clearly about the reopening of schools and colleges – something that has challenged policymakers around the world, including in India where online learning disadvantages those students who are already disadvantaged, amplifying the divide between them and others , which the country can ill-afford.But the risks of opening too early are significant.Israel, for instance, opened schools in May, only to see a wave of cases which set off the country’s second wave of infections, and caused school closures (and mass quarantines). The country is now making plans to open in fall for the school year; like many other countries, Israel has decided that not opening schools this year is not an option.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageStill, the experience of Israel comes up in any discussion on school openings; indeed, in education and government circles, the country’s hasty reopening of schools has become a cautionary tale.Like Israel, the Australian state of Victoria reopened schools only when it looked like it had the pandemic well under control, but after a resurgence of cases – not linked to the schools, but the sharing of a cigarette lighter among guards at a facility where international travellers were being quarantined – the state finally decided, late last week, to close most schools again. What does science say? The most authoritative research on the subject is a paper published in JAMA Pediatrics by doctors from the infectious diseases and pediatrics departments of the Ann and Robert H Lurie Children’s Hospital, Chicago, and from the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago. The study found that very young children (younger than five years), with even mild infections, have more of the viral RNA of the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19 in their nasopharynx (the upper part of the pharynx, between the nose and the mouth) than “older children and adults”… and that while the “infectious virus” itself wasn’t measured “pediatric studies [have] reported a correlation between higher nucleic acid levels and the ability to culture infectious virus”.The study concluded that “young children can potentially be important drivers” of the infection’s spread in the “general population”. The study, which covered 145 patients, comes with caveats associated with any study of this size, but it pretty much rules out day-care or school for very young children. And more research is needed on older children and their role as potential super spreaders.Yet, as Guterres pointed out on Tuesday, the alternative isn’t acceptable.PS: India’s decision is made easier by the fact that Covid-19 cases are continuing to rise and spread across the country (India saw 1,852,668 cases cumulatively till Monday night, of which 584,674 were active), which pretty much rules out opening schools for now – although when the time comes to open them, it will be interesting to see how the country goes about it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-eDYHscniVFi9OGncMlfTbK.html
05-08-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir’s elected legislature will happen at the right time: Lt Guv GC Murmu||In his first eight months as the first lieutenant governor of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir after the paradigm-shifting constitutional changes made on August 5 last year, Girish Chandra Murmu has steadfastly pursued the two-fold agenda he had set for himself: Pushing development projects and empowering democratic institutions at the grassroots. But his next challenges are more daunting as the former Gujarat cadre Indian Administrative Service officer wades into deeper waters to steady the volatile security situation and revive the frozen political process to pave the way for assembly elections. In a 45-minute interview by video conference from the Raj Bhawan in Srinagar, Murmu spoke to Ramesh Vinayak on a range of issues, from the mood on the street and release of mainstream Kashmiri leaders to the demand for restoration of statehood, and employment and investment. Excerpts: What has changed in Jammu and Kashmir since the effective abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year? After this (scrapping of Article 370), Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said there will be acceleration in development projects and overall growth. Our priority was to look into the deficiencies, particularly in road connectivity, electricity supply, drinking water and job opportunities. We concentrated our efforts on that and achieved tremendously. To illustrate, the Prime Minister’s Development Project was conceived in 2015 and it has big and small projects. Until a year-and-a-half ago, 27% of funds were spent and only seven projects were completed. Now, 17 projects stand commissioned and over 50% of funds have been used. These relate to hydro-electricity, highways, irrigation and power transmission. Similarly, we had 2,300 languishing projects since 2010. Of them, 606 have been completed in the past year. We have had a unique ‘back-to-village’ programme which, on the basis of the grassroots-level feedback, identified 20,000 small projects of which 7,000 have been executed. Under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana, an average of 1,600 km of road stretch is completed annually. J&K will do 5,000 km this year. All this is happening on the ground and is satisfying. When the government pushed through constitutional changes a year ago, a key argument it made was that this will deal a decisive blow to militancy in Kashmir. But there are continued reports of radicalisation; killings, including of political leaders; and the security situation still appears fragile. Has the government been unable to meet its objective on the security front? I think it is the other way around. Militancy has two aspects. One is to prevent or pre-empt people supporting or joining militancy. That we are addressing by focusing on youngsters, their empowerment, job creation and sports to bring them into the mainstream. This has minimised the recruitment (to militant ranks). The second piece is anti-militancy operations that have become effective due to synergy among security forces. One good thing in all these operations is that there is hardly any civilian casualty. So, there is public support to the peace process. It will definitely have an impact. This is a new narrative that will take its due course. How have the dynamics of militant violence changed in J&K in one year? There has been minimum violence. It was worse earlier. Desperation is there (in militants). Soft targets are there. Barring a few isolated incidents, they (militants) have not been able to do a big kind of thing. The overall security situation is very good. What is your reading on the mood on the street in Kashmir? Definitely people are enthusiastic and optimistic. They are looking forward to seeing development and creation of jobs in their areas. They want to prosper and have a better life. That is what I sense after visiting almost all districts and meeting a cross-section of people. Despite the release of detainees of mainstream parties, the political space in Kashmir remains in a freeze. What is the way forward to revive stalled politics? As there is President’s rule and the legislative assembly is dissolved, obviously there is some pause…some disruption. The parties’ activity as elected representatives is not there. But it is not true that there is complete absence of political activity. At the grassroots level, democracy is thriving and kicking. We have empowered panchayats and municipal bodies in the real sense. Now, (central) funds are directly going to them. We have to further strengthen them. Of course, an elected legislature has to be there. That would happen at the appropriate time. Why has the government not released all mainstream political leaders, including Mehbooba Mufti, who have participated in elections, peaceful politics and committed themselves to the Indian Constitution? All detentions are reviewed from time to time…now almost on weekly basis. The process looks into the circumstances under which people were detained. When the perception and situation changes, they are released. There is no discrimination. There appears to be a huge trust deficit between Kashmir’s mainstream politicians and the Centre. Well, I don’t sense that in my interactions with MLAs and MLCs. Though there is no elected legislature right now, we take their suggestions. The public has a lot of trust and confidence in the government .That is why it expects a lot more from us. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah has spoken of how he will not participate in elections till J&K remains a Union Territory. Your view? This is his personal view and I won’t be able to comment. All I can say is that this UT has a legislature, unlike Ladakh, and will have an elected government. The view that only this (Article 370) would ensure political participation is a bit far-fetched.Both the Prime Minister and home minister have said J&K’s statehood would be restored. Is the government open to restoring statehood as a confidence-building step? Confidence building is already going on at levels of grassroots and public participation. Whatever the PM and HM have said, they mean it. I don’t subscribe that only this (restoring statehood) will bring confidence. Even a UT with a legislature can have confidence of the people. When will you be able to hold assembly elections? Right now we are addressing deficiencies in development works to see that people’s worries and woes are minimised and that they are empowered. On elections, a decision will come at an appropriate time. While the government spoke of how Kashmiris — after the constitutional changes — will enjoy the same rights as other Indians, there is a view that people in J&K actually now enjoy fewer rights, with restrictions on political activity, detention of leaders, and curtailment of internet services. How would you respond to this? That is a misnomer and a wrong perception. Regardless of Article 370, people here enjoy the same rights and liberties as citizens elsewhere. The special status was a temporary provision and involved certain things at the local level. Any interpretation that J&K residents have fewer rights now is wrong both constitutionally and legally. It is a blatant lie. There is apprehension about the new domicile law which is seen as a precursor to changing the demographic profile of the Muslim-majority state. (The domicile law allows the grant of a domicile certificate to an outsider (not born in J & K) provided he or she lived in the erstwhile state for 15 years and his/her children have passed 10th and 12th examinations in the state. A domicile certificate entitles a person to buy property and apply for a government job.) This again is a misleading narrative…a malicious propaganda. In Kashmir, a particular community is majority. How can such a huge population change take place? The domicile law is only empowering those deprived earlier and not recognised as equal citizens; like the displaced persons from West Pakistan, Valmikis who were brought here long back, and the Gurkhas who have been here since the Maharaja’s time. It is nothing like that there will be an influx of outsiders and the demography will change. The nullification of special status was expected to open up J&K to investments. How have things moved on this front? Article 370 was not a barrier for investments. That was a policy issue. We have identified 6,000 acres of government land to create industrial clusters. We are not going to touch agricultural land, which is scarce. Already, memoranda of understanding (MOUs) have been signed for investment worth R 20,000 crore. Once the corona pandemic eases out, we shall hold the investment summit that was to happen in May. How has the coronavirus crisis impacted your plans? Our biggest recruitment drive for 10,000 jobs which was to happen in March-April has slowed down for the time being. Another 20,000 jobs are lined up. The infra projects have been hit in a substantive way as most labourers and contractors are outsiders and they moved out after the virus outbreak. Also, elections to the remaining panchayats have been delayed. You have been a bureaucrat and bring in a set of administrative skills. But do you think Kashmir is an issue that requires political outreach and has this happened? Well, I am giving my 100% to development and public outreach. I will try to strengthen the political institutions at every level and not leave any stone unturned to do what I am supposed to do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elected-legislature-will-happen-at-the-right-time-girish-chandra-murmu/story-oOLtj0iF9kRArQ2yK6AEVJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Aug 31 deadline for women officers to seek permanent commission in army||The Army on Tuesday set August 31 as the deadline for short-service commissioned (SSC) women officers to submit their applications for permanent commission. This comes days after the government on July 23 issued a formal sanction for granting the permanent commission following the Supreme Court’s February verdict in this regard.The court ruled that women officers, who have joined the Indian Army through SSC, are entitled to permanent commission. It added that women should be considered for command roles and that all women officers are entitled to permanent commission. The court asked the Army to give them permanent commission within three months in a major boost to gender parity.The Centre got a one-month extension on July 7 to implement the verdict after it moved an application before the apex court seeking the extension of the deadline by another six months citing the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to check its spread from March 25.“Detailed administrative instructions have been issued to all affected women officers giving out guidelines for submission of applications for consideration by a selection board,” an army spokesperson said on Tuesday. He said the Army headquarters was in the process of convening a special selection board for screening women officers for permanent commission.“Specimen formats and detailed checklists have been included in the administrative instructions in order to facilitate correct documentation.”The government’s July 23 order specified grant of permanent commission to women officers in 10 streams -- Army Air Defence, Signals, Engineers, Army Aviation, Electronics, and Mechanical Engineers, Army Service Corps, Army Ordnance Corps, and Intelligence Corps in addition to the existing streams of Judge and Advocate-General and Army Educational Corps. The selection board will be held after the receipt and verification of applications.The Supreme Court’s judgment was hailed for creating a new equality paradigm in the armed forces. It upheld a 2010 Delhi high court verdict. The Supreme Court ruled that women officers, who joined the Indian Army through SSC, are entitled to permanent commission even if they have more than 14 years of service. It also held that there cannot be an “absolute bar” on women officers being considered for command appointments, paving the way for their elevation to such roles. The case before the Supreme Court was only about permanent commission and command roles in the army’s non-combat streams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aug-31-deadline-for-women-officers-to-seek-permanent-commission-in-army/story-iBYsmQ9GRQWEWgxXEpuWfO.html
05-08-2020||India||Intense rain likely in central, peninsular regions: IMD||A low-pressure area has formed over the North Bay of Bengal for the first this monsoon season since June 21, which is likely to cause intense rainfall in central and peninsular India over the next three to four days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. Northwest India, including Delhi which had a rain deficiency of 28% as on Tuesday, is likely to largely remain dry during the period.IMD said the monsoon is in its active phase over Konkan and adjoining areas of the western coast, Odisha, and West Bengal. A cyclonic circulation is also lying over south Gujarat, which has strengthened monsoon flow over the Arabian Sea. Most parts of Konkan and Goa, including Mumbai, have been receiving heavy rain.IMD scientists said 10 weather stations in Mumbai have recorded extremely heavy rain of over 21 cm since Monday. “The heaviest spell was between 11.30 pm to 5.30 am on August 3 [Monday] night,” said National Weather Forecasting Centre senior scientist RK Jenamani.The low-pressure area over the West Bengal-Bangladesh coast is likely to move overland and reach Gujarat on August 7 across central India. “It will bring extremely heavy rain on its path covering Chhattisgarh, east Madhya Pradesh, west Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat. Gujarat is also getting moisture-laden winds from the Arabian Sea. The rain deficiency over central India will reduce this week,” said Jenamani. “We are not expecting rain in northwest India until August 8. Another low-pressure area is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal around August 9.”The low-pressure areas are the main rain-bearing systems during monsoon, which bring rain to parts of central and east India.IMD said the monsoon trough, which is presently near its normal position between Ganganagar and the Bay of Bengal, is likely to become active during the next two to three days.“The lower level south-westerly/westerly winds have strengthened over the Arabian Sea and over southern parts of Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea. Due to these favourable conditions, monsoon will enter its active phase over central and peninsular India from Tuesday for the next 3-4 days,” an IMD bulletin said. It said widespread and heavy to extremely heavy rainfall was likely over Konkan, Goa, Mumbai, Madhya Maharashtra on Tuesday and Wednesday. “Heavy to very heavy rain is also very likely at a few places over coastal Karnataka, over Kerala and Marathwada from August 4 to 7. Heavy rain is likely over parts of Gujarat on August 5 and 6 and over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, and Chhattisgarh on August 4 and 5.”IMD has also issued a moderate to severe thunderstorm and lightning warning for east Rajasthan, western Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Vidharbha on Wednesday.There was 2% rain deficiency across the country as on Tuesday with 10% in the east and northeast, 20% in the northwest, 7% in central India, and 14% excess in peninsular India. The country has recorded a 9.7% rainfall deficiency in July.A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is crucial for the agriculture sector, on which at least 700 million people in India depend on for livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people.Presently, strong squally winds with wind speed reaching 50-60kmph are prevailing over east-central Arabian Sea and along and off south Gujarat- Konkan-Karnataka coasts, over Mumbai and also over south and central Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to continue over these regions on Wednesday and over northeast Arabian Sea along and off Gujarat Coast on Wednesday and Thursday. Fisherman are advised not to venture into Arabian Sea, along and off Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa coasts and into eastcentral and northeast Arabian Sea during August 4 to 6 and into south and central Bay of Bengal and along and off Odisha and West Bengal coast Tuesday and Wednesday. Southwest monsoon currently is in active to vigorous phase over Konkan coast and adjoining area of west coasts including Mumbai and over east coast of India covering Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal. IMD has issued a red category warning for Konkan, Goa, Madhya Maharashtra, Gujarat, Saurashtra, Kutch on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday for heavy to extremely heavy rain and orange category warning for Kerala, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, east Madhya Pradesh for Tuesday and Wednesday. A red category warning implies that disaster management authorities should act immediately to control any heavy rain related disasters and an orange category warning indicates that they should be prepared to avert any rain related disasters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-intense-rain-likely-in-central-peninsular-regions/story-KRsTXcMwQrcwfhTPKTsnWK.html
05-08-2020||India||DU professor Apoorvanand questioned over Delhi riots, anti-CAA stir||Delhi University (DU) professor Apoorvanand was questioned by the Delhi Police’s special cell on Monday in connection with the ongoing probe into the north-east Delhi riots that took place in February. On Tuesday, Apoorvanand tweeted his statement that on Monday he was called by the special cell to appear for the investigation. He wrote, “I spent five hours there. The Delhi Police also considered it necessary to seize my phone for the purpose of investigation. While cooperating and respecting the rights of police to conduct a full, fair and thorough investigation, one can only hope that the probe would focus on the real instigators and perpetrators of the violence against a peaceful citizens’ protest and the people of north-east Delhi.”When contacted, the professor said Monday was the first time that he had been approached by the police.“ I am surprised if not shocked. I want to put it on record that I was not harassed.The interaction was very polite and courteous. But to even assume that I may have information about the murders and the robbery that took place as part of the riots is wrong. I have been a critic of the new citizenship law but, at the same time, I had also opposed the road blockade during anti-CAA (Citizenship (Amendment) Act) protests. Some of us went to Jafrabad, Khureji and other (protest) sites, asking people not to block roads. In Khureji, we succeeded in advising people to vacate the roads, but we failed in other places. It is on record (social media video recordings) that we had asked people not to block roads. That form of protest has exhausted its life. But it is equally erroneous to say that the protests were themselves a source of violence. In fact the violence was unleashed on them,” he said.Apoorvanand, a professor at DU’s department of Hindi, said an investigating agency is within its right to summon anyone for an investigation but it was “disturbing to see a theory emerging which treats the supporters of the protesters as the source of violence”. “I would urge and expect the police to be thorough, just and fair so that the truth prevails. The real perpetrators of the violence will be let off if one follows this narrative. Also, if police say the violence was planned at protest sites, then I would call it an abject failure of intelligence.”A Delhi Police spokesperson confirmed that the professor was summoned in a case relating to north-east riots and that he had arrived at the special cell office in Lodhi Colony on Monday. “As a part of the investigation, his mobile phone was taken into possession by the investigation team,” the spokesperson said, while refusing to comment on the ongoing investigation.On Saturday, the special cell had also questioned former JNU student Umar Khalid on his alleged role in the north-east riots in February, in which 53 persons were killed and over 400 injured. Police have alleged that Khalid, a prominent voice during the anti- CAA protests, was one of the main persons who orchestrated the riots along with local politicians and a few activists. Saturday was the first time that Khalid was questioned, though his name figures in multiple charge sheets filed in the riots cases.Apart from the 700 cases registered by the local police and the crime branch in the riots, the special cell (anti-terror unit) registered an FIR 59/2020 to probe the larger conspiracy behind the violence that raged from February 23 to 26. As part of the probe, police have arrested many who had led protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Some of these arrested persons, who were prominent faces of the protests, such as Jamia student Safoora Zargar, Sharjeel Imam, and Meeran Haider, among others, have accused the police of targeting anti-government voices under the garb of probing the riots. Police have said some leaders of the CAA protests had mobilised people, spread falsehood about the new law and orchestrated the riots. But Zargar, Imam and Haider have denied the police’s allegations and said they had only held peaceful demonstrations. Apoorvanand in his statement on Twitter also said the police investigation should not lead to further harassment and victimisation of the protesters who asserted their democratic right through constitutional means while expressing their dissent to the passage of CAA and the decision of the Union government to operationalise the National Population Register (NPR) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) all over the country.”“ They (police) haven’t placed any restriction on my travel or told me whether I would be called in again. I am ready to cooperate with the investigation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/du-professor-apoorvanand-questioned-over-delhi-riots-anti-caa-stir/story-eDEPCPgXUWXVEA64zmrLyI.html
05-08-2020||India||Sharjeel was in touch with Jamaat to mobilise anti-CAA protest: Police||JNU student, Sharjeel Imam was in touch with members of the Tablighi Jamaat and residents of Okhla to mobilise crowd for anti-CAA (Citizenship[Amendment] Act) protests outside Jamia Millia Islamia campus last year, Delhi police told a city court last Saturday. On December 15, violence had erupted following an anti-CAA protest outside Jamia campus with a mob torching vehicles and pelting stones at the police on the Jamia Road, near Friends Colony and on Mathura Road. Referring to the violence and road blockade of December 15 in the charge sheet against Imam, police have attached a WhatsApp message that they had allegedly retrieved from Imam’s cell phone. The message has been taken on record and verified by the Central Forensic Science Laboratory, according to the submission by the police. The police have filed a charge sheet against Imam in connection with making inflammatory speeches at Jamia and Aligarh Muslim University. Police have also booked Imam for sedition for a speech in which he had allegedly talked about cutting off the Northeastern states from India. Imam is currently lodged in a jail in Guwahati. In the charge sheet, the police have quoted the message which Imam purportedly posted on the WhatsApp group,Muslims of JNU, that was created by Imam on December 5, according to the police. The message sent at 9.57:15 am on December 15 reads....”Yesterday dozens of people from our group were present at Jamia...The following decisions were taken. 1) We will talk to various organisations of Jamia tomorrow and try to work for a joint plan of chakka jam.....Some important roads like Mathura road need to be blocked..2) The zuhar namaaz will be offered in Jamaat ki Markaz Masjid and there will be talk to Jamaat seniors about our plan. 3) We shall from groups of 10 or more than start touring Okhla using mike.....”When contacted, Imam’s lawyer, Ahmad Ibrahim said, “We do not have anything to say now. We would see everything at the stage of trial.” In the charge sheet, police have said that the message(WhatsApp) makes it clear about Imam’s intention to block the Mathura Road. “...Further during the day, the intention of the accused was implemented as well and a riot also took place there. Further, the accused has also mentioned that they will involve jamat ki markaz masjid’s seniors. This message makes it clear in advance about the future role of other characters, which materialised at a later stage,” police wrote in their charge sheet submitted to the court. The first time, police mentioned about Markaz in the context of the north-east riots was on June 3, in their charge sheet against a school principal, who was arrested for allegedly orchestrating violence in north-east Delhi. Police had then said that the man was in touch with members of Pinjra Tod (whose members have been arrested), Tablighi Jamaat and Popular Front of India (whose members have also been arrested). Senior Delhi police officers refused comment on Imam’s WhatsApp, messages saying that they have presented their case in the charge sheet before the court and the court has taken cognizance. Police also said the investigation into the conspiracy behind the riots is still on.The Tablighi Jamaat has rejected the police claims and denied any association with the riots. “It’s well known fact that the Tablighi Jamaat is an absolutely apolitical entity. Since the day of its inception in1926, it has not participated in any political movement, whatsoever. Therefore, all such allegations are wide of the mark,” said Fuzail Ayyubi, counsel for the Jamaat. Imam,31, a student of the Jawaharlal Nehru University was arrested on January 28 from his house in Bihar’s Jehanabad. After his arrest police had said that they would probe him for the violence in Jamia campus. A resident of Kako in Bihar, Imam was pursuing his PhD from the Centre for Historical Studies in JNU. Many activists such as Imam, Safoora Zargar and others arrested for their alleged involvement in the northeast Delhi riots, have accused Delhi police of launching a witchhunt against the anti-CAA voices. Police have denied the allegations and said that their cases are being heard in courts and that courts have denied bail because of the evidence against the arrested persons.The CAA was passed by Parliament last year and opened a fast-track to citizenship for Hindu, Sikh, Parsi, Buddhist, Christian and Jain refugees who fled religious persecution in Bangladesh, Pakistan or Afghanistan and entered India on or before December 31, 2014. Soon after, protests broke out across India, with activists and opposition parties saying the law violated constitutional provisions and was discriminatory towards Muslims. In response, the government said the law aimed to provide a safe haven for people fleeing persecution and was not meant to take away anyone’s rights or citizenship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharjeel-was-in-touch-with-jamaat-to-mobilise-anti-caa-protest-police/story-SvDCWFgQZsmqTTRVXg8mQJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Rashtrapati Bhavan I-Day guest list cut to 90 people||No spouses, no live food counters, no freedom fighters and no free interaction with VIPs. When Rashtrapati Bhavan hosts the At Home function on the evening of August 15, these are among the restrictions that will be in place in a new protocol-wrapped ceremony that is being held against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.The plan under consideration involved keeping the guest list to a maximum of 90 -- down from the normal gathering of 1,500 dignitaries. And the Independence Day event will last barely an hour; it usually lasts two-and-a-half hours.Also read: Rajasthan Guv cancels Independence Day event over Covid-19 situation“There will be minimum celebration for the sake of holding the event. We have applied a logic while selecting the limited number of guests, but as a large number of dignitaries cannot be called, the selection might still look like random, ” explained a Rashtrapati Bhavan official who asked not to be named.As a result, ministers of state are unlikely to be invited, and even all cabinet ministers may not get a chance to enjoy Rashtrapati Bhavan’s hospitality on August 15. “Apart from the Prime Minister, the members of the cabinet committee on security (defence, home, external affairs and finance) and a few senior cabinet ministers will be invited. The list of ministers may not go beyond 10,” added the official.Similarly, representatives from the judiciary may be limited to Chief Justice of India Sharad A Bobde, Delhi high court’s chief justice DN Patel and a few senior judges of the Supreme Court. In the past, all Supreme Court judges and many Delhi high court judges used to be invited to the event.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe list of bureaucrats may also to be pruned with only the cabinet secretary and a few senior secretaries being invited. “Last year, at least 70 secretaries with their spouses came for the event. This time no spouse will be invited,” said the official, adding that fewer than 10 key diplomats will be invited.While Rashtrapati Bhavan officials have almost finalised the guest list, the catering remains tricky. If live counters are involved, it would mean a lot of staff in the Rashtrapati Bhavan Convention Centre—the venue for the At Home—increasing the risk of infection.“We are still discussing how to serve food or if at all food should be served. Live food stations are risky affairs, so there is talk of simply placing food packets and water bottles at every seat for the guests,” said the official.The Union home ministry, responsible for the programme, plans to invite some doctors and nurses to stand in for their colleagues leading India’s fight against Covid-19. According to the official, they will be given special seats—close to the area for the VVIPS. A large area will be designated for President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former presidents Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil, former PMs Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda and Congress president Sonia Gandhi will also sit there, maintaining strict social distancing norms. Other guests will not be allowed to enter that area.Freedom fighters, another regular feature of the At Home function, are unlikely to be called as they are too old to be exposed to the threat of the virus.At the entrance, guests will be greeted with digital infrared thermometers, sanitisers, and even masks. If a guest’s mask looks inappropriate, he or she will be provided with N 95 masks. “A senior minister who came to meet the President recently, had to change his mask at Rashtrapati Bhavan,” said a second Rashtrapati Bhavan official who asked not to be named.Kovind’s secretariat is also bracing for the eventuality where at least some invitees express their inability to attend the function due to Covid-related issues. “Many of the dignitaries are senior citizens. We fear some may opt out, taking abundant precautions. We have no plan to fill up their seats with other guests,” said the second official.The convention centre has been chosen to avoid holding an outdoor event in the monsoon. It will be divided into various sections and guests will be requested to stick to their area. Usually, the president and the Prime Minister go around the venue to greet the guests. This time, they will perform their duties with a distant namaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rashtrapati-bhavan-i-day-guest-list-cut-to-90-people/story-wObkH5owzlYz9dmTBuakRN.html
05-08-2020||India||Economy recovering, rise in cases a risk: Report||India is on the path of economic recovery, but an increase in the number of Covid-19 infections and intermittent lockdowns imposed to curb the spread of the viral disease cloud its prospects, the finance ministry said in a report released on Tuesday.To be sure, the report, prepared by the department of economic affairs, is based on economic indicators until June. High-frequency indicators for July, such as the Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing and the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI), suggest that the nascent economic recovery has been interrupted -- a likelihood acknowledged by the report.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“With India unlocking, the worst seems to be over for the economy as high-frequency indicators recovered in June from unprecedented troughs in April; however, risks on account of rising Covid-19 cases and intermittent state lockdowns remain,” it said. India is expected to report its April-June GDP numbers by the end of this month. Economists expect its economy to contract by at least 5% this year (2020-21). The recovery until June was supported by proactive government and central bank policies, the report said. The government has unveiled a Rs. 20 lakh crore economic stimulus and relief package to cushion the impact of the coronavirus disease pandemic, and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has reduced its key interest rate by 115 basis points (one basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point) since March. How the Covid-19 infection curve evolves across the states of India will determine whether the recovery is sustainable, the report said, pointing to the emergence of new disease hotspots that has necessitated intermittent lockdowns. The 12 states that drive much of India’s economic growth account for 85% of the Covid-19 case load, with 40% of confirmed cases concentrated in the top two i.e. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, it added. The report also highlighted the impact of Covid-19 on crucial industrial pockets. It said the June year-on-year increase in E-Way bills, or Electronic Way bills, which are required for movement of goods by Goods and Services Tax (GST)-registered entities, was weak in Covid-19 hotspots such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Haryana.The report warned of a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and said urban India will continue to fight the pandemic that will impact both public health and the economy.“At this juncture, the economic and health risk posed by rising cases of Covid-19 in India calls for further prompt policy measures and continuous facilitation by the government and RBI to support businesses and the economy,” said DK Aggarwal, president of the PHD Chamber of Commerce & Industry.Exhaustion of pent-up demand created by strict lockdowns in April and May may have led to the weak July indicators, HT reported on Tuesday. The IHS Markit India Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing fell to 46 in July from 47.2 in June. A PMI value below 50 signals a contraction. GST collections fell to Rs.87,422 crore in July from Rs. 90,917 crore in June. The weekly Nomura India Business Resumption Index was flat between the week ended July 26 and August 2. A Reuters poll of economists suggested that the economy could contract by 20% in the June quarter and remain in negative territory until the December quarter. “The removal of the strict lockdown restrictions in the cities has slowed the contraction of the economy, but it will be a while before overall growth can return, which will entirely depend on the containment of the viral spread,” said Anupam Manur, assistant professor at the think tank Takshashila Institution, said.The agriculture sector, which contributes about 15% of the total gross value added, is the silver lining for the economy in 2020-21 with the forecast of a normal monsoon. “A record procurement of wheat has enabled a flow of around Rs 75,000 crore to the farmers which will boost private consumption in rural areas,”the finance ministry report said. It also pointed to the government’s recent moves to deregulate and liberalise agricultural markets.,“With lower density of population and relatively stable disposable income levels, rural India will be the source of growth until the pandemic recedes,” said Manur.“Agriculture was saved as it bypassed the brunt of the lockdown,” added DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor at consulting firm EY India. “ A better-than-normal monsoon and continuously improving terms of trade in favour of agriculture supported rural demand.” He said that positive impact of agriculture would be supplemented by public and defence services. The public and defence services sector in fact grows faster than even agriculture in a normal year. In 2020-21, its growth is likely to be much higher than normal because of heavy expenditure on health and defence. Srivastava predicted that agriculture could grow by about 5% and public and defence services expand by nearly 15% in 2020-21. “Much will also depend on further policy stimulus, both fiscal and monetary, during the remaining part of the financial year, and the speed with which an effective Covid-19 vaccine becomes available and is introduced in India,” he said. The finance ministry report said $11 trillion of fiscal and monetary stimulus measures unveiled by global economies appear to have arrested a free fall in global output and crude oil markets are re-balancing after an unprecedented fall in prices in March and early April.“However, downside risks to global recovery stem from an over-leverage in the non-financial sector including external debt financing risks, simmering trade and geo-political tensions, and unprecedented Covid-19 induced unemployment losses, amid fears of second major wave of infections,” it said.According to th World Bank, the global economy is expected to shrink by 3.2% this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-recovering-rise-in-cases-a-risk-report/story-wsK6gMG649BHSOO1Uv4pLL.html
05-08-2020||India||Outbreak may hit India’s poor enrolment numbers||UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres on Tuesday said getting students safely back to classrooms must be a top priority of the governments once local transmission of Covid-19 pandemic is under control. He said the world is facing a “generational catastrophe” that could waste untold human potential, undermine decades of progress, and exacerbate entrenched inequalities.India needs to be extra cautious in preventing its school enrolment rates from falling, particularly because many of those who stop going to school in the country do so because of financial reasons. A drop in school enrolment would not only cost the country in terms of upward mobility in education but also hit the nutrition levels of children who receive free mid-day meals in schools.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFindings from a National Statistical Office (NSO) survey on social consumption on education, conducted in 2017-18, show that India’s gross enrolment ratio (GER) was 99.2 between primary and middle school education level. GER is the ratio of the number of students currently enrolled in a particular level of education to the number of persons in the corresponding official age-group. For example, the ratio of 99.2 in primary to middle school level means for every 100 persons in the age group of 6 to 13 years, there are 99.2 students enrolled in classes 1st to 8th. To be sure, this does not mean nearly everyone in the age group of 6 to 13 is enrolled in schools because some of the students in classes 1st to 8th would be students from other age groups, particularly above the age of 13. The high enrolment ratio at primary to middle level is a promising figure, but it drops to only 78.8 at the secondary and higher secondary level.Also read: Brazil, hotbed for Covid-19 vaccine testing, may struggle to produce its ownA fall in GER from primary to higher levels of schooling means that students drop out. Nationally, 10% of students enrolled in primary school had dropped out, the survey found. A drop-out is defined as a person who did not complete the last level of education the person was enrolled in (for any reason other than completion of the desired level of education). The drop-out rate increases to 17.5% in upper-primary/middle school and to 19.8% in secondary school. This means nearly every fifth student was dropping out of secondary school in India.Among big states, the overall dropout rate from education institutions is the highest in West Bengal, 23.5%. Odisha, Assam, and Gujarat also have high dropout rates.Why do Indian students drop out? Financial constraints and engagement in economic and domestic activities were the leading reasons cited. Only 18.8% of men and 14.8% of women were not attending schools because of not being interested in education. As many as 61.2% of men cited financial constraints or engagement in economic activities as the reason for not attending schools while 47.9% of women blamed financial constraints or engagement in domestic activities.As India struggles to recover from the economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic, it would be a challenge to get people to prioritise education in times of financial difficulties and a need to engage in economic activities.In case there is a drop in school enrolment or an increase in the number of students dropping out, it would not only mean that India will suffer in terms of upward mobility in education, but also in terms of health. This is because India has a free mid-day meal scheme for school-going children. The NSO survey found that in government schools, nearly 97% of students attending primary level, nearly 87% attending upper-primary/middle level, and nearly 26% attending secondary level were receiving free mid-day meals. A majority of India’s students study in government schools – 74% of all primary school students, 76% of upper-primary/middle students and 68% of secondary and higher secondary level students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outbreak-may-hit-india-s-poor-enrolment-numbers/story-8gX5whFvNwSiS882UM5nAJ.html
05-08-2020||India||Vaccine candidates from India progressing well, says ICMR||India’s three Covid-19 vaccine candidates are progressing well, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director-general Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday. He added phase II/III clinical trials for the recombinant Oxford University vaccine candidate will begin within a week at 17 sites across India. Serum Institute of India, which is the local manufacturer of the vaccine, will conduct the trials.“Inactivated virus vaccine candidate by Bharat Biotech and the DNA vaccine by Zydus Cadila have completed phase I studies in 11 sites and started phase II trials. Phase I and II trials are for safety studies and very early efficacy studies,” said Bhargava.At least 141 vaccine candidates are being studied globally, of which 26 are in different phases of clinical trials.Bhargava said India is making all efforts to ensure a vaccine is available whenever it is ready. He added it includes prioritising and fair distribution, maintaining the cold chain, stockpiling and training of people to administer vaccines. “Availability of the vaccine is the key but what is more important in managing the disease is sustained behavioural change that includes wearing of masks, maintaining hand hygiene, and observing social distancing.”Dr GC Khilnani, a former pulmonology department head at New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said the vaccine will be the ultimate solution for curbing the outbreak. “Many vaccine candidates are showing promise in initial trials, but whichever makes it finally should reach masses in time.”Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan separately said India’s current case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.10% has been the lowest since the first phase of the lockdown (around 3.3%) that was imposed to check the Covid-19 spread from March 25.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“There has been a progressive decline in country’s CFR and it is now the lowest since lockdown began and also one of the lowest globally. The mortality analysis that we have done is broadly in line with the global scenario, although percentages may differ,” said Bhushan.The latest mortality analysis shows 68% of the Covid-19 deaths in the country are among men and 32% among women. Most deaths--50%- -are in the age group of 60 and above, followed by 37% among people between 45 and 60. About 11% of people, who succumbed to the disease, were between 26 and 44.“The death data tells us that not just the senior citizens, but also our population between 45-60 years is vulnerable and needs to take extra care,” said Bhushan.Jugal Kishore, who heads the community medicine department at Safdarjung Hospital, said elderly and those with co-morbidities are vulnerable and need special focus. “All our data points to that, and it is important for the country to achieve the target of CFR below 1%.”Increased testingBhargava said they have been doing intelligent and calibrated testing. He added remote areas with the inadequate testing facilities, or those districts with the high caseload, are being given priority. “We set up labs in areas where there were no labs or very few labs and deployed high throughput testing machines in special economic zones, where the public movement was higher and larger international airports. Our target is to go up to one million tests a day.” He added it is important for states to analyse the data well to deploy resources accordingly.”Homegrown ventilator industryEven though less than 1% of the country’s Covid-19 patients are on ventilator support at any given time, India has managed to establish full self-reliant ventilator manufacturing facilities and is even ready to export the machines. On Tuesday, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade issued a directive permitting the export of indigenously manufactured ventilators from the country.India has commissioned about 60,000 ventilators to some 20 odd domestic manufacturers.“There were just a few manufacturers of ventilators in India some four months ago and even those making them in India relied heavily on imported parts. When the outbreak started, many of those countries imposed restrictions for the export of ventilators and there was a surge in global demand. There was no option but to encourage domestic manufacturers to get into the fray, and we have managed it with great success,” said Bhushan.Public sector undertakings Bharat Electronics Limited and Andhra Med-Tech Zone are providing 43,500 ventilators. Maruti Suzuki opened its manufacturing lines and supported the production of about 10,000 ventilators.“From a price range of about Rs 10-20 lakh, the domestic manufacturers are selling a ventilator within Rs 1.5 and 4 lakh price range. Even the spare parts are being manufactured locally and it is a great achievement in four months,” said Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-candidates-from-india-progressing-well-says-icmr/story-MUdNYi6t6dgw0RhvrSgsiI.html
05-08-2020||India||BJP leader fired at in Kulgam as curbs announced in Valley||Authorities in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir imposed restrictions but removed curfew in Srinagar even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced celebrations marking the first anniversary of the nullification of Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state.In Srinagar, the government said there were apprehensions of protests and “subversive activities” on Wednesday. Groups of policemen and paramilitary personnel patrolled the main roads and made people stay indoors. Only government employees with valid curfew passes were only allowed on the roads.Later, the government removed the curfew but said restrictions on assembly and movement of people will continue. At many places, roads were blocked with barbed wires. “We aren’t been allowed to come on the main road. The policemen are imposing the strict curfew without any relaxation,’’ said Ali Mohammad who lives at Abi Guzar.Muzzuffar Shah, nephew of former chief minister Farooq Abdullah said the road leading to their house was blocked and alleged that the restrictions were aimed at thwarting a meeting of mainstream political leaders called by Abdullah on Wednesday. Peoples Conference chairman Sajjad Lone, who was released last week, also made a veiled attack on the Centre.In Jammu, BJP unit president Ravinder Raina announced celebrations to mark the event. He requested all party leaders to avoid gatherings and asked all workers to hoist the Tricolour on their roofs. He also appealed to the common people to light earthen lamps. The Congress said it will urge people to discuss the impact of the effective abrogation of Article 370. Meanwhile, police said terrorists shot at BJP sarpanch Arif Ahmad in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said: “He was shifted to emergency hospital Qazigund. He had firearm injury in neck and condition is critical.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-fired-at-in-kulgam-as-curbs-announced-in-valley/story-exFIGqpil6eRMMt9LZJOLI.html
05-08-2020||India||Elected legislature will happen at the right time: Murmu||On the eve of the first anniversary of the nullification of Article 370, the first lieutenant governor of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), Girish Chandra Murmu, spoke to Ramesh Vinayak over video conference from the Raj Bhavan in Srinagar. Edited excerpts: What has changed in J&K since the effective abrogation of Article 370? After this (scrapping of Article 370), Prime Minister Narendra Modi said there will be acceleration in development projects and overall growth. Our priority was to look into the deficiencies, particularly in road connectivity, electricity supply, drinking water and job opportunities. We concentrated our efforts on that and achieved tremendously. To illustrate, the Prime Minister’s Development Project was conceived in 2015 and it has big and small projects. Until a year-and-a-half ago, 27% of funds were spent and only seven projects were completed. Now, 17 projects stand commissioned and over 50% of funds have been used. These relate to hydro-electricity, highways, irrigation and power transmission. Similarly, we had 2,300 languishing projects since 2010. Of them, 606 have been completed in the past year. We have had a unique ‘back-to-village’ programme which, on the basis of the grassroots-level feedback, identified 20,000 small projects of which 7,000 have been executed. Under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana, an average of 1,600 km of road stretch is completed annually. J&K will do 5,000 km this year. All this is happening on the ground and is satisfying. Has the government been unable to meet its objective on the security front? I think it is the other way around. Militancy has two aspects. One is to prevent or pre-empt people supporting or joining militancy. That we are addressing by focusing on youngsters, their empowerment, job creation and sports to bring them into the mainstream. This has minimised the recruitment (to militant ranks). The second piece is anti-militancy operations that have become effective due to synergy among security forces. One good thing in all these operations is that there is hardly any civilian casualty. What is your reading on the mood on the street in Kashmir? Definitely people are enthusiastic and optimistic. They are looking forward to seeing development and creation of jobs in their areas. They want to prosper and have a better life. The political space in Kashmir remains in a freeze. What is the way forward to revive stalled politics? As there is President’s Rule and the legislative assembly is dissolved, obviously there is some pause…some disruption. The parties’ activity as elected representatives is not there. But it is not true that there is complete absence of political activity. At the grassroots level, democracy is thriving and kicking. We have empowered panchayats and municipal bodies in the real sense. Of course, an elected legislature has to be there. That would happen at the appropriate time. Why has the government not released all mainstream political leaders, including Mehbooba Mufti, who have participated in elections, peaceful politics and committed themselves to the Indian Constitution? All detentions are reviewed from time to time…now almost on weekly basis. The process looks into the circumstances under which people were detained. When the perception and situation changes, they are released. There is no discrimination. There appears to be a huge trust deficit between Kashmir’s mainstream politicians and the Centre. Well, I don’t sense that in my interactions with MLAs and MLCs. Though there is no elected legislature right now, we take their suggestions. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah has spoken of how he will not participate in elections till J&K remains a UT. Your view? This is his personal view and I won’t be able to comment. All I can say is that this UT has a legislature, unlike Ladakh, and will have an elected government. The view that only this (Article 370) would ensure political participation is a bit far-fetched.Both the Prime Minister and home minister have said J&K’s statehood would be restored. Is the government open to restoring statehood as a confidence-building step? Confidence building is already going on at levels of grassroots and public participation. Whatever the PM and HM have said, they mean it. I don’t subscribe that only this (restoring statehood) will bring confidence. Even a UT with a legislature can have confidence of the people. When will you be able to hold assembly elections? Right now we are addressing deficiencies in development works to see that people’s worries and woes are minimised and that they are empowered. On elections, a decision will come at an appropriate time. While the government spoke of how Kashmiris — after the constitutional changes — will enjoy the same rights as other Indians, there is a view that people in J&K actually now enjoy fewer rights. How would you respond to this? That is a misnomer and a wrong perception. Regardless of Article 370, people here enjoy the same rights and liberties as citizens elsewhere. The special status was a temporary provision and involved certain things at the local level. Any interpretation that J&K residents have fewer rights now is wrong both constitutionally and legally. It is a blatant lie. There is apprehension about the new domicile law which is seen as a precursor to changing the demographic profile of the Muslim-majority state.This again is a misleading narrative…a malicious propaganda. In Kashmir, a particular community is in the majority. How can such a huge population change take place? The domicile law is only empowering those deprived earlier and not recognised as equal citizens; like the displaced persons from West Pakistan, Valmikis who were brought here long back, and the Gurkhas who have been here since the Maharaja’s time. It is nothing like that there will be an influx of outsiders and the demography will change.The nullification of special status was expected to open up J&K to investments. How have things moved on this front?Article 370 was not a barrier for investments. That was a policy issue. We have identified 6,000 acres of government land to create industrial clusters. We are not going to touch agricultural land, which is scarce. Already, memoranda of understanding (MOUs) have been signed for investment worth R 20,000 crore. Once the coronavirus pandemic eases out, we shall hold the investment summit that was to happen in May.How has the coronavirus crisis impacted your plans?Our biggest recruitment drive for 10,000 jobs which was to happen in March-April has slowed down for the time being. Another 20,000 jobs are lined up. The infra projects have been hit in a substantive way as most labourers and contractors are outsiders and they moved out after the virus outbreak. Also, elections to the remaining panchayats have been delayed.You have been a bureaucrat and bring in a set of administrative skills. But do you think Kashmir is an issue that requires political outreach and has this happened?Well, I am giving my 100% to development and public outreach. I will try to strengthen the political institutions at every level and not leave any stone unturned to do what I am supposed to do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elected-legislature-will-happen-at-the-right-time-murmu/story-2P6eUdZPMg1vsBIWQrr0KK.html
05-08-2020||India||Decoding the J&K puzzle||New Delhi: A year ago, on the morning of August 5, when home minister Amit Shah walked into the Rajya Sabha with a pile of papers, the Opposition, the media, and most importantly, the Kashmiri street, did not know what to expect. There had, of course, been intense speculation in the run-up to Shah’s entry into the House. The security crackdown in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), abrupt cancellation of the Amarnath Yatra citing terror threats, the detention of Kashmiri leaders, restrictions on telecom connectivity, and an advisory to tourists and outsiders to leave the Valley all indicated that something big was in the offing.Also read: In Jammu and Kashmir, a year of loss and sufferingBut Shah surprised even the most astute of Kashmir-watchers in unveiling the entire political package of effectively nullifying Article 370 that conferred special status on J&K, removing Article 35A that enabled the state legislature to define permanent residents, dividing the state into two units of J&K and Ladakh, and converting both into Union Territories.The decision was met by contrasting responses. In Kashmir itself, there was, among political quarters, a sense of shock at the enormity of what had happened; there was apprehension about a possible demographic shift in the valley; there was resentment against what was seen as an effort to curtail the powers available to the political leaders of the erstwhile state; and there appeared to be sullen anger at the disruption this had caused to everyday lives, with education, health, mobility, connectivity and travel affected. In Ladakh, there was jubilation and pride at having finally got the Centre to concede what was a longstanding demand — a separate administrative territory which would not have to be under Srinagar’s control. In Jammu, where the desire for closer integration with the Indian Union is deep, the announcement was noted with relief and hope about a more equal and secure future where the subregion’s aspirations will be taken more seriously. But it was in the rest of India that the response was the most telling. There had been anger on the Indian street against what was widely perceived as the special treatment meted out to Kashmir; resentment against mainstream Kashmiri leaders for playing to both galleries and speaking a language of radicalism in Srinagar and of moderation in Delhi; hurt at the lives of soldiers lost and innocents killed due to terrorism. The decision, in this backdrop, was welcomed with applause by the masses — with the hope that this would, finally, resolve the “Kashmir question”, long seen as a problem created by Pakistan, with its use of terror and patronage of secessionists.Also read: Revoking Article 370 didn’t usher in any development in J&K: Farooq AbdullahAnd internationally, there was concern not at the decision itself — which was widely recognised as a sovereign right of Parliament — but at the restrictions which accompanied the decision, from arrests to suspension of the Internet, and at the implications of the move for the security situation in South Asia. A year later, it is in these contrasting responses that the puzzle of Kashmir can be reviewed, for the responses show the collision between nationalism and democracy, between the quest for sovereignty and international norms to which democratic countries are held, and between the aspirations of the people of India and the aspirations of the Indian citizens living in Kashmir.The nationalism puzzleThe central question in Kashmir is one of nationalism. And here two ideas collide — the notion of Kashmiri nationalism and the idea of Indian nationalism.The Indian State has for long recognised sub-national aspirations. Given India’s staggering diversity, the founders recognised that India was best served as a union of states. As regional aspirations grew, federalism became stronger and states articulated their own aspirations and resentments. But within this matrix, sub-nationalist aspirations — for the most part — did not clash with the idea of the Indian nation. As a model of dealing with diversity, India achieved what was considered impossible, with the coexistence of multiple political identities within a constitutional, federal system. You could be a proud Tamil, a proud Maratha, a proud Gujarati, a proud Assamese — and you could be a proud Indian. Kashmir, however, was unique, for here it was not just sub-nationalism. There was a strong strand of Kashmiri nationalism, which stood in contrast to Indian nationalism. This could be traced back to its religious complexion, the terms of accession, past agreements, the presence and role of Pakistan in its internal politics, the strong yearning for autonomy even among mainstream leaders, to a young generation radicalised by incessant anti-India propaganda, growing extreme Islamist influence, and excesses of the Indian State. You could be a proud Kashmiri without being a proud Indian. Also read: Curfew ordered in Jammu-Kashmir’s Srinagar till August 5 over intel reports of ‘violent protests’The Indian State recognised the uniqueness of Kashmir and accepted the idea of an asymmetric federal mechanism — where Kashmir had its own Constitution, its own flag, its own laws. To be sure, these special provisions were gradually whittled down. And New Delhi made its own share of mistakes, including by arresting popular leaders, managing elections, and giving security forces an excessively free hand. But the overall sentiment in Delhi, for long, was that it was only by allowing Kashmiri sub-nationalism within the Indian Union that Kashmiri nationalism could be defeated. Armed with a legislative mandate, and committed to its own core ideological beliefs, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) overturned this consensus. It believed that instruments which allowed Kashmir to be a unique case were the root of the problem, and the problem of Kashmiri nationalism had to be tackled with both a strong security offensive and a political re-imagination. Remove statehood — and send a message to those who wanted a separate country. Remove Article 370 in effect — and make it clear that J&K was just another Indian State. Remove Article 35A — and ensure that every Indian had the same rights in Kashmir that they had elsewhere. Remove Ladakh — and ensure Kashmir’s political leaders cannot speak for sub-regions with distinct identities. Ensure central control — and stop anyone from putting political obstacles in the manner in which security forces operated. In the quest to defeat Kashmiri nationalism, the Indian State — a year ago — decided it would not even leave the space available to other states and allow the conditions for sub-nationalism. Kashmir, the thinking went, had brought this on itself.The democracy puzzle This strategy — of integrating Kashmir with the rest of the country on the same terms — to defeat Kashmiri nationalism and the violence and terror that has often accompanied it, however, had one fallout , a democratic deficit. The government, to ensure peace and quell the possibility of protests which could turn violent and lead to an escalation from the security forces, detained political leaders, including those who had participated in elections and committed themselves to the Indian Constitution (a few prominent leaders continue to remain locked in). It curtailed civil liberties, restricting political activity and protests, enhancing surveillance, and depriving the Indian citizens in Kashmir of their right to connectivity (4G services have still not been restored). It held panchayat elections, but within a controlled environment where the space for open dissent was limited. It failed to hold elections to the assembly. And it enhanced control over the local media. The judiciary, too, was criticised for not being proactive enough in either judging the constitutionality of the Parliament’s decisions, or deciding on detentions and habeas corpus writ petitions. This had two implications. Domestically, Kashmiri separatists got ammunition to suggest that India could never be trusted, its claims of secularism were shallow, its democracy was selective, its institutions were not robust — and this view, it must be acknowledged, found a ready audience on the Kashmiri street. This view was encouraged by sustained Pakistani propaganda. Externally, it made western democracies, including Indian allies, worried about the erosion of rights and liberties. To be sure, what Pakistan does internally or what China has done consistently with its own people, is far worse than what India has ever done. But India was being held up to its own principles and record of being a proud multicultural, secular democracy. Resolving the puzzleA year later, therefore, India has to now resolve this fundamental puzzle. It must keep the national flag flying high in Kashmir. It must battle terrorism and the separatist infrastructure that has grown over decades. It must make it clear that separatism has no future. It must ensure that non-discriminatory legal provisions apply to J&K as much as it does to the rest of India. And it must defeat Pakistan’s designs. But this national project will not be complete without the democratic project, for it is true democracy in Kashmir that will restore India’s political currency both in the valley and internationally. It must release leaders committed to the peaceful path; it must lift restrictions on connectivity; it must allow peaceful protests; it must allow expressions of Kashmiri sub-nationalism (not to be mistaken with separatism) as it does elsewhere; it must initiate a political dialogue with all stakeholders; it must be open to restoring statehood in J&K, which may lead to mainstream parties returning to the democratic fold; and it must hold free and fair elections in J&K. It is only when both nationalism and democracy win that India will win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decoding-the-j-k-puzzle/story-GJbmFSANJkqR7wpierXU3I.html
05-08-2020||India||Alkazi revolutionised theatre, brought regional languages to NSD||“He was not merely a teacher, he was a life coach,” says Shabana Azmi, of the theatre legend Ebrahim Alkazi. Initially in Bombay and later in Delhi, Alkazi — who died in his Delhi home on Tuesday, aged 95 — developed a reputation as a director who brought a new sense of realism and modernism to Indian drama. As a teacher, he nurtured some of the leading talents of the age, including Naseeruddin Shah, Om Puri, Rohini Hattangadi and Manohar Singh, all of whom were students at the National School of Drama (NSD) when Alkazi served as director from 1962 to ’77. He was a truly exceptional teacher, says actor Neena Gupta, who joined the NSD to learn from him. “I was very unfortunate because Mr Alkazi left as I enrolled. But I remember watching Alkazisaab directing Satish Kaushik in a play and thinking to myself, I want to learn to act from this man someday.” Alkazi revolutionised theatre, bringing a visual approach to the form when most others were concerned with a literary approach. He dazzled with lavish productions and minute attention to detail. He brought regional languages to the NSD. In Bombay, Alkazi did powerful renditions of Greek tragedies, Shakespearean plays, works by Ibsen, Chekov and Strindberg, the global greats of theatre. When he moved to Delhi, he realized that the language of his presentations would have to change to Hindi. He began looking for contemporary Indian plays, and these were the grand spectacles that he would come to be known for. His most renowned of these productions included Girish Karnad’s Tughlaq, Ashadh Ka Ek Din and Dharamvir Bharati’s Andha Yug. For his contributions to the field, he was conferred a Padmashri, Padma Bhushan and Padma Vibhushan. Alkazi was also a painter and avid art collector and, at 50, he set up the Art Heritage gallery with his wife Roshan, focusing on building up his archive of art, photography and books. “What he taught me was to think trans-nationally,” says Rahaab Allana, Alkazi’s grandson and curator and publisher of what is now the Alkazi Foundation for the Arts. “When it came to curation, he was always looking for cross-cultural and interdisciplinary strains. I would say he represents that kind of trans-generation that went through analog and arrived at digital. And then also went back to analog after the digital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alkazi-revolutionised-theatre-brought-regional-languages-to-nsd/story-4aDM3F6xNaphcAvakmX12L.html
05-08-2020||India||Ram temple is for everyone: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been personally monitoring the arrangements for Wednesday’s foundation-laying ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. In a telephone interview to Sunita Aron, Adityanath said the ceremony is a “dream come true.” Edited excerptsHow do you feel on the eve of bhoomi pujan?I am overjoyed, our five-century-long struggle and wait is going to end --all because of the perseverance and reverence of the devotees. I am also elated, euphoric for tomorrow’s bhoomi pujan by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It’s a dream come true and an exceptionally emotional and exciting moment for us. Did you ever think your dream will become a reality and at that moment you will be at the helm of affairs in the state? From the very beginning, we were optimistic about the construction of the temple. The Prime Minister will do bhoomi pujan at the sanctum sanctorum where the deity has been worshipped since 1949 . It’s all because of the struggle of the saints and Ram bhakts [devotees]. But though I was involved in the Ram temple movement from my early days, I never ever thought I will be at the helm of affairs (when it is actually built). It is indeed a matter of pride for me. This is the first time when invites have been sent to Muslims also. Your comment.This is a beginning of a new ‘yug’ (epoch) -- Ram Rajya -- in which there will be no caste or community, something which the Prime Minister has displayed in his functioning during the last six years.Whosoever has faith in Ram will come and contribute. I don’t foresee any tension or disturbance. The people were misguided, but now with the installation of BJP {Bharatiya Janata Party} governments at the Centre and in the state, communal harmony prevails. This was clearly reflected at the time of the apex court judgement {in November 2019 in favour of a Ram temple) . Peace prevailed. Even the opposition has realised that the issue was resolved after years of litigation. Nonetheless, law and order has been my government’s priority and it will be maintained. If Muslims invite you for the construction of the mosque, will you or others in the BJP accept the invite?The trust is right now engaged in the construction of the Ram temple which they want to complete within the stipulated time period. Let me clarify. The state government has not organised tomorrow’s function. It has been organised under the aegis of the trust. They have sent the invites, made arrangements and are accepting donations in a fair and transparent manner. The state is only taking care of security and is engaged in developing the area as a modern and aspiring city while retaining its ancient glory and traditions. The local people know the resolve of both the Centre and state to transform the holy city as a unique pilgrim centre.Why are [BJP veterans] LK Advani and MM Joshi not coming for the event?Because of the pandemic and their age , they were advised to watch it live on the [television] channels. Was it necessary to hold the bhoomi pujan now?  According to the saints, this was the auspicious time. But we are abiding by the pandemic protocol from the very beginning, social distancing will be maintained and it will be followed in the future also.Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati has demanded an invite for a Dalit saint.Saints don’t have any caste or community. Once they wear the saffron robe, they sacrifice everything. Nonetheless, all saints mahamandleshwars {spiritual leaders} participated. Shri Kamleshwar Chaupal is a member of the Sri Ram Janmaboomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. He will be present at the bhoomi pujan. What about invites to the opposition? It is for the trust to decide.Why is the opposition in silent mode?After continuous and severe drubbing by the people, the opposition has perhaps woken up to the fact that remaining in conflict with the cause of a Ram temple in Ayodhya will further jeopardise their prospects in future polls. Hence, they are in a silent mode. Anyway, Ram temple is for all.PM Narendra Modi accompanied LK Advani on his “rath yatra” {journey by chariot} in the 1990s. Where were you? The three generations of Gorakhnath mutt have been associated with or spearheaded the temple movement since 1934, starting with Mahant Digvijaynath ji. The BJP-VHP {Vishwa Hindu Parishad} created an atmosphere in favour of liberation of Ram’s birthplace. I was always with my guruji , Mahant Avaidyanath, and watching their commitment and determination. I was always confident that their efforts would reach a logical conclusion. I remember, in 1989 when Rajiv Gandhi was Prime Minister and ND Tiwari chief minister, my guru had flown to Delhi by a chartered flight for discussions with the Union home minister and others. Congress leaders said PM will lay the shilanyas. But discussions failed as Mahant Avaidyanath insisted that the shilanyas of the proposed Ram temple will be held at the sanctum sanctorum and not 100 metres away,.After all, the entire struggle was for the birthplace of Ram. Later, saints did shilanyas. The first person to pick the axe was Mahant Kameshwar Chaupal. I was serving my guru, who was in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-is-for-everyone-yogi-adityanath/story-yhu9lXjYPLsoY5wczwJ7MI.html
05-08-2020||India||Struggle and violence: The chronicle of a 167-year-long saga||When tens of thousands of kar sevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers, packed trains, trucks and buses to descend on the Uttar Pradesh town of Ayodhya in 1990, few carried the conviction that their dream of a Ram temple rising from the sanctum sanctorum of the disputed 16th-century structure would ever translate into reality. The Ram Janmabhoomi movement was at its zenith and the lanes of Ayodhya rang with chants of “Mandir yahin banayenge” (the temple will be built here), but the contentious issue was caught in a legal tangle and a political consensus looked impossible. The country was vertically divided between maintaining status quo at the disputed site and the Hindutva demand for the “liberation of Ram Janmabhoomi.” Also read: 150 cops recovered from Covid-19 will be PM’s security ringAt a press conference, journalists even asked former Vishwa Hindu Parishad chief Ashok Singhal, who was leading the mass movement, if the temple would ever be built. The firebrand leader was not amused. Sitting in Karsewakpuram, the nerve centre of the temple movement in Ayodhya, he told them, “Yes, Ram temple here at the sanctum sanctorum will turn into a reality --(although) it may not happen in our lifetime.” Some others, including former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh, Ramchand Paramhans, the chief of the influential Digamber Akhara, and current UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, shared the conviction that a temple would arise at the spot. Despite the efforts of these leaders, enthusiasm around the movement cooled by the 2000s. The VHP and its rival group, the Babri Masjid Action Committee (BMAC), kept the issue simmering by marking December 6 as‘ “shaurya diwas” (day of valour) and day of mourning, respectively, after the Babri Masjid on the site was demolished on that date in 1992. Public attendance at Ayodhya events was thin. Also read: Vedic rituals set stage for Ayodhya ceremonyEven visits by senior leaders of the VHP and its parent organisation, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), dwindled and local firebrand voices fell silent after the death of Paramhans in 2003. Hindu seers continued to raise the emotive issue, especially before elections, but public gatherings were replaced by debates, discussions, negotiations and the legal case. The fight moved from the streets to the court, and in Ayodhya, life returned to normal. Over the years, common people also started doubting the effectiveness of the temple movement in extricating the issue from the legal web, as regional powerhouses, the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party, dominated state politics.All that changed with the rise of Narendra Modi to power at the Centre in 2014 and Yogi Adityanath becoming UP chief minister in 2017. The documented history of the dispute is 167 years old. It goes back to 1853, when the first report of communal violence at the site was recorded. In 1885, a local priest unsuccessfully petitioned a local court to start prayers at the site and in 1949, idols of Ram appeared under the central dome of the Babri Masjid, triggering one of the longest legal battles over land ownership, which finally concluded in November 2019 in the Supreme Court. There were three major turning points– appearance of idols of the deity in 1949, the order of the Faizabad sessions judge allowing “darshan” of the deity by unlocking the gates in February 1986, and the demolition of the disputed structure in December 1992. It was in 1983 when the RSS and the VHP first raised the emotive issue of Ram temple. At a public meeting in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar town, Dau Dayal Khanna, Dinesh Tyagi, Gulzari Lal Nanda and Rajju Bhaiyya  spoke about constructing a temple at the disputed site. Khanna, a former state minister, and Singhal later visited Ayodhya where they met Paramhans. At a meeting of 50 saints, a decision was taken to form the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Mukti Yojana Samiti under the chairmanship of Mahant Avaidyanath, a Lok Sabha member, the head of the Gorakhnath mutt and the spiritual guru of current UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. By October 1985, the VHP, which was constituted in 1964, launched its first formal “Rath Yatra” demanding the unlocking of the disputed structure, which had been out of bounds for the public since 1949. In February 1986, the Faizabad district court ordered the unlocking of the disputed structure on the petition of a 28-year-old local Hindu lawyer, pushing the dispute into the national spotlight and triggering communal tension across India. The BMAC, a key Muslim party in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case, was also born that year. Soon after the locking, the VHP and various Hindu groups intensified their public mobilization campaigns. The first big event was the “Ram Shila Puja” held in thousands of villages across the country. About 250,000 consecrated “shilas” or carved stones reached Ayodhya in a matter of months and were stored near the disputed structure. After lying idle for three decades, these will finally be used for the Ram temple, whose foundation laying ceremony is on Wednesday. In 1989, a shilanyas (foundation ceremony) was performed near the disputed structure, the permission for which was granted by the Congress government in the state. In a balancing act, a confused Congress wanted to win over Hindus without losing Muslims. Before the 1989 Lok Sabha election, then Union home minister Buta Singh flew to Lucknow in the early hours of the morning and drove straight to the chief minister’s residence at Mall Avenue in Lucknow. Senior VHP leaders were already present there. Then chief minister, ND Tiwari of the Congress, walked out in a huff after signing an agreement. The permission for shilanyas was conditional, binding the VHP to a court ruling, the leaders said. Weeks later, prime minister Rajiv Gandhi launched his election campaign from Faizabad, four kilometres away from the shilanayas site. He spoke about Ram Rajya and not Ram temple. But while the Congress attempted to maintain ambivalence, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) doubled down on Hindutva. When the results were announced, the Congress’s tally from Uttar Pradesh fell from 15 to five seats. The BJP won eight of the 85 seats and its tally in the Lower House soared from two to 85 seats. This momentous election marked the fall of Congress in UP politics, the rise of BJP and the dominance of two regional powerhouses who would go on to become multi-term chief ministers: Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati. SHOCK AND SILENCEAs the 90s dawned on India, the country was vertically divided on the issue politically. The shilanayas activated the opposition parties, which came together under the banner of Janata Dal before the 1989 polls. Former Prime Minister Vishwanath Pratap Singh along with leaders belonging to left parties gave a call for “ Ayodhya chalo.” Members of the National Integration Council, a body of politicians and intellectuals set up in 1961, went on an inspection that left them more confused as the disputed structure appeared like a mosque with an idol of Ram inside. Some members paid obeisance inside. Perplexed, some asked, “But where is the Babri mosque?” In December 1989, Mulayam Singh became the chief minister of UP for the first time, but he was dependent on the support of Congress, which was also backing the Chandrashekhar government at the Centre, albeit for few months. Mulayam’s relations with VP Singh had soured after a split in the Janata Dal as both wanted to be the messiah of Muslims in UP. In September 1990, BJP veteran LK Advani embarked on Somnath-Ayodhya yatra. In October 1990, he was arrested in Samastipur in Bihar by then chief minister Lalu Prasad. But kar sevaks had reached Ayodhya in millions by then and started gathering near the disputed structure. Such was the frenzy that despite heavy deployment of security forces, the crowds kept moving towards the site in great waves, with one group managing to reach the dome. The Mulayam Singh government ordered the police to fire at the crowd, resulting in a pitched battle, in which around 20 people were killed. The government fell. Assembly elections followed. The BJP grew from 57 to 221 members in the 425-member House in 1991. Kalyan Singh became chief minister. When the Lok Sabha election results were declared, no party was close to a majority but the BJP reaped rich dividends, bagging 51 Lok Sabha seats – its highest tally in the state until then. DEMOLITIONThe BJP government quickly changed the complexion of the disputed area. The government acquired 2.77 acres of land around the 0.313 acre disputed shrine through a notification, ostensibly to promote tourism and provide amenities to the pilgrims. The acquisition was challenged in the court that disallowed transfer of the land or construction of a permanent structure thereon. Next, the Kalyan Singh government demolished various temples and buildings - Sankat Mochan, Sakshi Gopal Mandir, Falahari Baba, Sumitra Bhawan notable among them - to level the ground as the court had not banned demolitions. The entire area was levelled. In early 1992, the government gave 42 acres of land to the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas, a key Hindu party in the case, on a 99-year lease on an annual rent of Rs 1 per year for the construction of Ram Katha Park. The trust also bought some additional six acres of land. It is in this 48 acres of land where kar sevaks congregated in December 1992 for roughly a week before marching towards the disputed site. On December 6, 1992, the disputed structure was demolished. PV Narasimha Rao, the then Prime Minister, dismissed the Kalyan Singh government. The Centre acquired 67 acres of land, including the one belonging to the trust. The demolition also pushed Congress to the margin of state politics as Mulayam Singh, supported by left parties and the Janata Dal, projected himself as the saviour of Muslims. Some senior BJP leaders feared losing a potent public issue in the political arena. Senior state minister Azam Khan, who was closely associated with BMAC, had then said: “The BJP’s deterioration started slowly after December 6, 1992 and that’s why LK Advani never wanted the mosque to go. They wanted to keep the issue alive.” For the next 25 years, the BJP came close to power but never won a majority in Uttar Pradesh. In the 1993 and 1996 state assembly elections, it won 177 and 174 seats, respectively. Its numbers sharply fell to 88 in 2002, and 51 in 2007. It only returned to power in 2017 with a thumping majority of 300-plus seats. The BJP continued to perform strongly in Lok Sabha elections from UP- from eight in 1989 to 51, 52 and 59 seats in 1991, 1996 and 1998 elections. But these number started slipping; in 1999, the party won just 29 seats, which plummeted to 10 in 2004, when the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government took power at the Centre. A NEW CHAPTER From August 5, a new chapter will start in Ayodhya. The city is geared up for the ground-breaking ceremony. Bhajans have replaced the frenzy; and reconciliation appears set to triumph over anger and agitation. Muslims are forming a trust to build a mosque five kilometers away from the disputed site. Religious sentiments are palpable but communal amity prevails with even firebrand BJP leaders talking about Muslim participation in the construction of the temple, reminding many of Kalyan Singh’s words, “Let Muslim brothers participate in building the Ram temple, I will lay the first brick of their mosque.” While thousands of kar sevaks who might have wanted to be there will be missing due to the raging pandemi, global celebrations are all set to mark the mega event. The temple city has been painted in saffron. Groups have surfaced in every corner to sing bhajans. The tone of the “Jai Shri Ram” slogans has changed from combative to celebratory. The streets are already reverberating with microphones playing Ram dhun or Akhand Path. In the words of a Ram devotee, “Ram’s vanvas [exile] was 14 years. But the fight for his temple at his birth place has been 572 years old.” The Babri Masjid was built in 1528. In 2020, the Ram temple is finally on its way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/struggle-and-violence-the-chronicle-of-a-167-yr-long-saga/story-82qVk1n1MacGMzgjIevTrK.html
05-08-2020||India||At mosque site, a hope for amity||Last weekend, days before the cornerstone- laying ceremony for a Ram temple, the administration of Ayodhya fulfilled another aspect of the November 2019 Supreme Court verdict that cleared the way for the shrine to be built. About 30 kilometres away from what was once a disputed site, five acres of land was handed over to the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation on Saturday for the construction of a mosque. Also Read: Ram temple is for everyone: Yogi AdityanathWhile the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust is preparing for the formal launch of construction of a grand Ram temple with Wednesday’s ceremony, members of the fledgeling foundation are yet to meet , leave alone draw up a plan for the kind of structure they want to build “Please don’t compare us to them,’’ said Athar Hussain, a spokesperson for the foundation. “They have had decades to plan for the temple and we were only informed that we would have to plan for an alternative site in November last year. By the time they identified the Dhanipur land for us, Covid hit us and so we haven’t even had a physical meeting just yet. ‘’The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, spearheaded by the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Waqf Board, may not have firmed up a plan for the construction of a mosque in lieu of the of the Babri Masjid that was demolished by Hindu activists in 1992 in an act that the Supreme Court termed as “illegal act,”’ but it does have some ideas .Also Read: At Bhumi Pujan, 150 cops recovered from Covid-19 will be PM’s security ring“The new mosque may be around the same size as the Babri masjid, but the land allotment is much larger and so we want to make sure that we play a much larger role in the community,”’ said Hussain. “We are planning to have a hospital to take care of the health needs and also, a museum and a research centre in the area.’’For the 9,000 odd residents of Rounahi town, the attention it is attracting is all very new. District officials say they were bound by the court order to allot land that would be within the Ayodhya city limits and would sit harmoniously with its surroundings. Rounahi fit the bill because of its predominantly Muslim population and its accessibility, just off the Lucknow-Faizabad highway.“Earlier we were famous for this mazaar which hosts a three-day mela every year in April,’’ said resident Sohrah Khan. “10,000 people would head here for the qawwalis, the horse racing and other festivities.’’ And now, Khan is hoping, Rounahi gets the same kind attention and development that Ayodhya does.That’s the best that most of its agrarian residents can hope for. The allotted land is now a lush green area, covered by rice paddy and come Wednesday, many of the farmer residents are hoping that the foundation-stone laying ceremony for the Ram temple means an end to communal bitterness. Being 30 kilometres away, there’s no one who has offered prayers at the original Babri masjid, but there are those who followed the legal dispute and came away disappointed.“I just hope they make a lasting structure now, taki masjid kayam rahe (so that the mosque lasts),’’ said one woman resident, refusing to be identified. ``We all know the reality of why this moque had to come here,’’ said farmer Naim Khan. “Now that the court has ordered it, so be it’’That’s a sentiment that many others echoed. Like Abdul Khaliq, a resident of Ayodhya who was also involved in the court case. Khaliq, unlike litigant Iqbal Ansari, refuses to accept the land swap for the mosque.“They took advantage of the fact that we in the Muslim side said we would accept whatever the Supreme Court said,’’ he said. “That’s fine. But I don’t have to accept this five acres. I don’t care what happens to that land.’’ Another litigant, Haji Meboob, too said that he wasn’t supportive of the decision to accept the land.These sentiments reflect the deep divide in the community over the resolution of the dispute. “`A new mosque was never asked from the Supreme Court,’’ said lawyer MR Shamshad. “A constitutional issue was finally decided by granting restitution. This is not justice, and hence the community had taken the stand to distance themselves from the land.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-mosque-site-a-hope-for-amity/story-4qHKmBZ1yquqOvRMXkyZ5O.html
05-08-2020||India||Dream big and train well-Alan Kapoor||Hailing from the city of Taj Mahal, actor Alan Kapoor feels that how much ever one plans life takes its own course and you’ll end up exactly where you’re suppose to be.“I remember I had come down to Mumbai for my summer training after completing mechanical engineering. I was putting up with a cousin who was interested in acting and was regularly auditioning for some project or the other. He just took me along one day and in fun I too auditioned for a few commercials and actually got selected. Then I realised ‘Arre yeh mazak toh serious ho gya!’ When I called my parents they were like are you sure this is what you want to do and I was like I want to give it a try,” said the UPite over the phone.Alan who has been part of films like ‘Rama Rama Kya hai yeh Drama,’ ‘Singh Saab the Great,’ shows such as ‘Palampur Express,’ ‘Diya Aur Baati Hum’ and ‘Sasural Simar Ka’, is currently essaying the lead role in a TV daily.“I’m the newest addition in the show ‘Pyar Ki Luka Chuppi.’ I play the role of a businessman, Angad, who is a loving son, a guy who has head over his shoulders and cares for relationships in life. At present I am happy to be part of the show that has already crossed hundred episode milestone. Also I am waiting for more good projects coming my way once things are in control.”Talking about how different it is to shoot in the current scenario, Alan admits that initially he was scared to start shooting for the show amid coronavirus crisis. “It is a totally different situation now. Social distancing has brought us mere ‘hi’, ‘hello’ and ‘namaste’ that too from one hand distance. During break time, the entire crew used to eat together, but now, we have quiet lonely lunches. As for me, I eat in my makeup room. There are only a handful of people on the sets now. One person has to take multiple responsibilities, unlike earlier times when we had multiple people around. It’s sad that many people have lost work, I wish all gets well soon.”Alan believes to dream big and train well. “When I joined the industry I tried hand in ads and got a film too but soon I realised that I need to work on myself and also train to sharpen my acting skills. So, I took a break and I worked on my personality. I also joined theatre and acting workshops. This did provide me the right balance that’s why I ask all youngsters coming from any small town to dream big yet brush up your skills because like all other professions here too you need to train yourself first,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dream-big-and-train-well-alan-kapoor/story-a73IvkfiBVU70G2OC5MmNI.html
05-08-2020||India||‘Political absurdity’: India roasts Imran Khan over Pakistan’s new ‘political map’||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Tuesday unveiled a new “political map of Pakistan” that counts Jammu and Kashmir and Junagadh in Gujarat as its territories. “This is the most historic day in Pakistan’s history,” Khan said at a news conference after getting cabinet approval for the map.India’s foreign ministry dissed Imran Khan’s Pakistan for its obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism.“This is an exercise in political absurdity, laying untenable claims to territories in the Indian State of Gujarat and our Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and of Ladakh. These ridiculous assertions have neither legal validity nor international credibility,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a brief statement.“In fact, this new effort only confirms reality of Pakistan’s obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism,” Srivastava said, referring to the ‘so-called political map’ released by Imran Khan.An Indian official had earlier described Islamabad’s effort to publish the document as a “cartographic hallucination”. Imran Khan’s move comes a day ahead of the first anniversary of the Indian government tabling in parliament the legislation to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and splitting the erstwhile state into two centrally-administered territories, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.Imran Khan’s government has already worked out a long list of programmes to commemorate the first anniversary, including requests to its partners such as China and Turkey to issue statements, or tweets that criticise India.Also Read: Pak’s troubled economy is hurting more than Imran Khan wants to believe | OpinionOver the last one year, Pakistan has made several attempts to raise the change in Jammu and Kashmir’s status from a state to a union territory at several international fora but hasn’t been able to get much traction. Khan’s government, nevertheless, counts its effort as a huge success. Imran Khan counted it as his government’s biggest success.A Pakistan watcher in New Delhi said Imran Khan’s decision to issue the map reflected a desperation at some level to show his constituency back home that he was making progress. It also suits Imran Khan’s ‘iron brother’ Xi Jinping’s China who feels that India is getting aggressive and the rise of India needs to be monitored and checked, he said.The new map also comes at a time the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor is coming under increasing pressure.Also Read: With CPEC in mind, China wants Pakistan to pitch Baloch outfit as terror group in UNThere are reports that Baloch and Sindhi separatist groups in Pakistan have announced they are forming an alliance to attack Chinese interests. On July 25, Baloch Raji Ajoi Sangar, or BRAS, a consortium of four Baloch separatist organizations, announced in a media release an alliance with the Sindudesh Revolutionary Army, or SRA, a little known separatist group operating in southeastern Sindh province. Balochistan is another province in the southwest. This development could increase security costs for Belt and Road Initiative projects in Pakistan.At his news briefing on Tuesday, PM Khan said the newly-launched map is backed by all political parties of the country which he said support the principled stance of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. “This map also opposes the Indian government’s illegal act of August 5 last year,” he added.Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi described the map as an “unprecedented step”.“For the first time in history, our government has openly presented its stance before the world,” he said.In the same vein, Qureshi informed that the Kashmir Highway in Islamabad is being named Srinagar Highway. Solidarity walks, photo exhibitions and seminars will be arranged with coronavirus related SOPs in consideration to raise voices against Indian atrocities in Jammu and Kashmir, said Qureshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cartographic-hallucination-pakistan-issues-a-new-political-map-to-needle-india/story-aPhCQ2HSkCaIB0uPucYHJL.html
05-08-2020||India||Double the size, 5 domes and 3 years to build: Here’s how Ram temple will look||Ahead of the ground-breaking ceremony of the foundation stone-laying of Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday, the temple trust, Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra on Tuesday shared images of the proposed model of the grand temple. In a Twitter post, the Trust described the temple as “a unique example of Indian architecture”. Chandrakant Sompura, the architect of the grand temple, had stated that the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya will be almost double the size of what was originally proposed after its design was modified following the Supreme Court verdict last year.“The design of the temple was modified after the Supreme Court verdict. Now it will be almost double the size of what was originally planned,” Sompura told news agency PTI. Also read: In PM Modi’s 3-hour Ayodhya visit, Hanuman Garhi darshan and tree plantation driveश्री राम जन्मभूमि मन्दिर विश्व में भारतीय स्थापत्य कला का अनुपम उदाहरण होगा। जन्मभूमि मन्दिर के प्रस्तावित मॉडल के कुछ चित्र।Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Mandir will be a unique example of Indian architecture. Here are some photos of the proposed model.जय श्री राम! Jai Shri Ram! pic.twitter.com/8kJ4qEYah2Sompura added that the temple will be constructed in Nagara style of architecture and will have five domes instead of two. The project is likely to be completed in the next three years once the construction work commences following the bhoomi pujan event on Wednesday.The prime minister is scheduled to be in the temple town for around three hours on Wednesday. According to the official itinerary released on Tuesday, PM Modi will start from Delhi at 9:35 am and will reach the Ram Janmabhoomi site at noon. The main programme of bhoomi pujan will begin at around 12:30 pm. After the ceremony, the prime minister will return to Lucknow at 2.20 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unique-example-of-indian-architecture-temple-trust-tweets-photos-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/story-Um6yPf2CZNaQAcyDwbYAOI.html
05-08-2020||Editorials||A ‘generational catastrophe’ | HT Editorial||On August 4, the United Nations (UN) released the secretary-general’s policy brief on the impact of Covid-19 on the world’s education system. The policy brief points to the fact that the closure of schools and other learning spaces have impacted 94% of the world’s student population (up to 99% in low and lower-middle income countries). It suggests that despite the delivery of lessons by radio, TV and online, and efforts of teachers and parents, many students still do not have access to education. It highlights how learners with disabilities, those from marginalised communities, displaced and refugee students, and those in remote areas are at highest risk of being left behind. And it warns that the knock-on effects on child nutrition, child marriage and gender equality could be enormous. The cumulative impact of all these on children may lead to a “generational catastrophe” that could waste human potential, undermine decades of progress, and exacerbate entrenched inequalities. This is not good news for any nation, more so for those in the low and lower-middle income segments such as India. According to Unesco, nearly 321 million Indian children have been at home since March-end. There is no clarity on when schools will reopen.In the last few decades, especially since the enactment of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, India has seen a surge in school enrolments and infrastructure development in the primary and secondary segments. But the learning outcomes have not kept pace. The pandemic has now exacerbated this existing challenge. In addition, the extended period of closure means students don’t have access to midday meals; and with parental incomes under strain, there could be a spike in drop-out rates, especially among girls.While the focus must be now be ensuring the safety of students, teachers and staff, and putting in place protocols for school reopening, there has to be an extensive assessment of the learning loss and well-thought-out plans to bridge the learning gap, and schemes to retain students. This entails tweaking the syllabus and changing pedagogy. This forced break must also be used to align the sector to the National Education Policy (NEP), which was released last week, especially to its foundational learning goals. Last but not least, governments will have to arrange for funds required for the sector. This will be a challenge post-Covid-19, but starving the education sector of finances will be irresponsible, for it is crucial to meeting India’s development goals and creating an inclusive society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-generational-catastrophe/story-0QXIZEfikMAuCGELucxocP.html
05-08-2020||Editorials||Pakistan’s cartographic absurdity | HT Editorial||The Imran Khan government has issued a map that shows the entirety of Jammu and Kashmir and the former Gujarati princely state of Junagadh as Pakistani territory. Such maps were common in the 1950s. Over time, Junagadh was largely dropped, but Survey of Pakistan maps have shown the border running south of Jammu.The map has kept the self-determination flag flying by printing across Kashmir that its future will be “decided” under the relevant United Nations resolutions. Curiously, the border between this fictional Greater Pakistan and China is a “frontier undefined” — something not reflected in Beijing’s maps.Ancient maps have some use in territorial disputes, overnight ones produced by a weak government have none. Mr Khan issued the map one year after the amendment of Article 370. One of the policy shifts explicit in India’s decision was that the future of this part of Kashmir would no longer be negotiated with Islamabad. Pakistan has spent the past year trying to argue it is essential to the issue. Initially, it turned to the international community to get some support. When that failed, it resumed shelling across the Line of Control and supporting terrorism. That Mr Khan’s government has now been reduced to printing pieces of coloured paper should be seen as further evidence that Pakistan has been reduced to a cipher as far as Kashmir is concerned. Nepal, Pakistan and others have recently turned to cartography to provoke the Indian government. But drawn ink lines are not even credible statements. They show shallowness of thought and, most crucially, weakness at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/pakistan-s-cartographic-absurdity/story-ujSgtqsPIHSx4rhI5bl6JI.html
